News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
When I think of Pakistan, the dust suffocates my memory. I remember how it rose up in the air, how it gathered in the streets. I remember how it stuck to the clothes of those shouting on the sides of the road, how it settled in the lines of my grandfather’s tombstone. I remember how my grandmother poured water over that stone and dirt—love, present even a decade after his passing.
When I think of Pakistan, the noise rises up too, all at once. I remember the rhythm of easy, rounded vowels hanging in lucid sunlight, as chai was poured and platters full of food were passed around. I remember the clamoring of rickshaws and shopkeepers in the bustling streets of Lahore. I remember the full houses of my aunts and uncles, the chaos of a seemingly never ending stream of family members. I remember my churiyan [bangles], purple and gold and jangling on my wrists.
My memories are blurry and faded. Because when I think of Pakistan, I remember one visit, when I was seven years old—and nothing since.
Today, 11 years later, I live in a quiet suburban neighborhood and drive on wide, clean roads. I’ve traded in my elaborate churiyan for bare wrists. I am a citizen by birth, English comes to me with familiar ease, and this country is all I’ve ever really known. My very personality has been shaped by living in this society and working to succeed in it.
But I don’t know how American I can ever be. And I don’t know how American I want to be. My first language was Urdu. My self has been shaped by the stares that I get, the inappropriate questions that new people who meet me ask about my religion or ethnicity. And I grew up wearing Pakistani clothes everyday, having Pakistani food at every meal, listening to Pakistani music during every car ride. I still maintain a standing addiction to mango juice (I have actual cartons of it in my dorm room—it’s a problem). This is my self too.
I know that I must recognize my American identity. Growing up in this country has afforded me privileges that I can’t ignore, whether they be as simple as having constant access to electricity or as large as being able to attend the best educational institutions in the world. And I can’t deny that I do love English and pasta and football. But I also can’t deny that my royal blue passport comes with strings attached—with foreign policy that seeks to protect me as a citizen, but considers those that look like me on the other side of the world dispensable, with social structures that force me to accommodate discrimination and marginalization.
And so, I have the choice and the power to reject this identity too. I do not need to enter a race to be the all-American girl. I can choose not to run entirely. I do not need to fit a space that already exists, and that may not be large enough for everything that is me. I can create my own.
In this space, I can speak Urdu. I can wear kurtas and shalwar kameez. In this space, I can read poetry written by people of color who aren’t Rupi Kaur. In this space, I can stuff myself with food that is spicy enough that, for once, I don’t need extra Sriracha. In this space, I can honor traditions of hospitality and selflessness. I can cherish a collectivist culture that ties individuals to family and to each other in a way that I have not found anywhere else.
I don’t know if I can exist in both spaces. I don’t really want to. Beyond cultural imagery lies very real political tension. Here, I am expected to support policies that repress people who in another life could have been me. Here, I am expected to support an imperialist agenda that harms the country my parents came from, a country that we’re all still rooting for. This dissonance frees me from any real desire to even be American. But when your Urdu isn’t quite smooth enough to fit in there, and the scarf on your head gives you away here, where do you go? What is home?
When I was seven, I knew what home was. It was the sound of churiyan. In my closet, I had a shoebox stuffed to the brim with all different kinds that my grandmother would bring for me from Pakistan. They were bright green, soft pink, sparkly gold. I loved when, during Eid prayer, the churiyan would clink together as I moved my hands in prostration.
When I got older, the sound of churiyan faded away. It was replaced by the noise of pop music and reality television, teachers and friends. Today, I’m not sure what or where home is, and I don’t know if I’ll ever know. But I know to find that home, I must honor the Pakistan within me. Because I’ve still never found anything quite as beautiful as churiyan. And that says more than my words ever could.
Shireen Younus ’20 is a Crimson Editorial editor in Pforzheimer House. Her column appears on alternate Thursdays.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Our campus, and our country, awoke Monday morning to news deeply shocking yet fundamentally unsurprising. A lone shooter in Las Vegas fired hundreds of rounds of ammunition from his 32nd floor hotel room into a concert below, killing 58 and wounding over 500 before taking his own life, in the deadliest mass shooting in the United States in recent history. As we struggle to come to grips with this absolutely heartbreaking tragedy, we, as Harvard students and as Americans, feel multiple reactions are appropriate and necessary.
In the aftermath of such a terrifyingly immoral and shameful act, we must actively demonstrate support and empathy for one another as we seek out this compassion in our own grief. No matter our background, we all experienced the same horrified reaction Monday morning, and we must channel this unity in anguish into helping one another cope with this news. On campus, we must actively encourage our communities, especially the Houses, to direct students’ attention to the resources our school offers, from formal counseling to simply caring for each other. Similarly, we must commend those who give this support in this trying time.
As we grieve together, however, we must also be outraged together. In the past 477 days, there have been 521 mass shootings in the United States—over which time Congress has done nothing. Barring any action on our part as a country, there is no reason to believe this horrific trend will abate. At first, we may feel helpless in the wake of such carnage, but, even as students, we can and must play a role in curtailing this country’s gun violence epidemic.
To do so, we must first not hesitate in naming the organization primarily culpable for perpetuating the status quo. The National Rifle Association funds politicians to further its agenda by blocking even the most basic legislation—supported by a majority of Americans—that enacts universal background checks, stopping the mentally ill from purchasing guns, and curtailing the type of weapons and ammunition that can be purchased. The NRA has even managed to block governmental research on the effects on gun control on public health. Its influence allowed the Las Vegas gunman to legally purchase the 23 guns he used, and legally modify 12 of of them into functionally automatic assault rifles. After the shooting, the NRA has gone totally silent, and the politicians it has put into office have Tweeted condolences in lieu of real action. On the other hand, in countries with no analogous pro-gun organization as powerful as the NRA, mass shootings have been followed by comprehensive, successful gun regulation.
Even as students with no direct role in American government besides voting, we can and should take concrete action against gun violence. Those of us who are represented in Congress by NRA-backed politicians should contact them to lobby for action on gun control, and should refuse to support them in future elections if they take no action. Given the repetitive nature of gun violence tragedies, we must also fight the pressure of desensitization to continue these conversations about the best ways to research and regulate American gun violence.
More Americans have died from gun violence in the U.S. since 1968 than in battle since this country was founded, and Las Vegas is merely the latest incident in this disgusting trend. We must address this at an interpersonal level by providing and accepting the emotional support for each other necessary during this time. We also must confront this as a campus by promoting our school’s resources for students and examining security measures to reduce the probability of this happening at Harvard. Finally, we must take on this issue as a country, by fighting the pervasive influence of the NRA and the politicians it has bullied into working against solutions to our gun violence epidemic. If we fail to do so, we have every reason to expect another Las Vegas.
This staff editorial solely represents the majority view of The Crimson Editorial Board. It is the product of discussions at regular Editorial Board meetings. In order to ensure the impartiality of our journalism, Crimson editors who choose to opine and vote at these meetings are not involved in the reporting of articles on similar topics.

Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
There’s something constantly in the news about the bumbling mistakes that President Donald Trump makes in his position as the leader of the free world. Every single day, Americans and global citizens alike prop themselves in front of their nightly news or social media outlets (especially Twitter) and watch glazed-eyed, popcorn in hand, waiting for the next morsel of idiocy to tumble out of his mouth. The entertainment factor of this presidency is almost unreal.
In this way, Trump has consistently misused social media to tweet his every fleeting thought and whim despite the advice of many, including his own staff, to do otherwise. This manipulation of public relations has severely stained not only his office but the reputation of America as a whole. Yet, we cannot expect him to change this antagonistic and frankly childish aspect of his personality. He was voted into office as this caricature and we can only expect for this to continue (while simultaneously hoping that this nightmare goes away painlessly).
We can fault him, however, for his prioritization. While he spends all of this time tweeting temper tantrums about the NFL, the people of Puerto Rico are being ignored, left alone in their suffering. Having endured both Hurricane Irma and the latest torments of Hurricane Maria, the island is blanketed in darkness. The electrical grid was wiped out for the entire country, and Public Affairs Secretary Ramon Rosario estimated that it will take months to fully restore power to the island. These natural disasters are the largest that the country has sustained in the last century, and the ripple effects show the dire position that Puerto Ricans are in. No power means a handicapped ability for business to continue functioning without interruption—which, for a territory like Puerto Rico that’s drowning in a $74 billion debt load, is absolutely devastating.
Governor Ricardo Rosselló is pleading for any tangible help from the federal government, and Trump pays the island little mind. People are navigating through the damage, struggling to overcome flooding and navigate weather-worn lands for food and water, and Trump is tweeting away, unaffected, oblivious—and when he does decide to pay attention, the response is quite horrendous.
Trump arrived in Puerto Rico this week and held a conference in a church in San Juan. He tossed rolls of paper towels at attendees like a basketball player or a cheerleader at a pep rally, as if that would solve the island’s problems. He grandstanded about the death toll of Hurricane Katrina in comparison to Maria, acting as though this hurricane wasn’t a catastrophe. Even worse, he proclaims to the country that Puerto Rico has thrown the U.S. budget “out of whack” and belittles the cries for help from San Juan Mayor Yulín Cruz, rendering them as little more than complaints.
Although the facts are that communication is generally non-existent on the island, and the death toll will likely rise as the information continues to arrive, that the U.S. has absolutely economically ravished Puerto Rico for centuries, none of this was mentioned. The Federal Emergency Management Agency still hasn’t authorized disaster help for the island. Yet, Trump thinks we “can really be very proud of what's taken place in Puerto Rico.”
As I nervously await phone calls relaying information about family members on the island, desperately wanting to hear if they are safe, if the floods had affected their houses and farms, if my grandmother’s house still stands, Trump continues to prioritize golfing and complaining. This is unacceptable. We deserve more from the President of the United States than to be treated as the rag he wipes his sniveling remarks on. Yulín Cruz put it best: This is about saving lives, not public relations or politics.
To my fellow boricuas: We can continue to help our country stand after this. There are a number of organizations—particularly Unidos por Puerto Rico, started by Puerto Rican governor’s wife Beatriz Rossello, and One American Appeal, created by all five former living Presidents—that we can concentrate our efforts in and contribute to in support our families and friends on the island. We must remain strong during these difficult times— and remember that el mundo unido esta contigo, whether it’s tweeted or not.
Jessenia N. Class ’20 is a Crimson Editorial editor in Quincy House.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
When I was four years old, I cracked Zachary’s head open on the stove. My mom had left the two of us downstairs while she went upstairs to take care of Noah, who was an infant at the time. I guess that’s what happens when you have three kids under the age of five.
Zachary and I were playing a game we had made up in which I would run and drag him on a blanket behind me along the hardwood floors through the kitchen into the dining room. After a couple of smooth loops, I whammed Zachary into a handle on the stove. Our game was cut short, and Zachary ended up being rushed to the emergency room for stitches.
Zachary forgave me, but I developed a fear of blood that still persists.
***
A few years later, I sat on the couch with my grandparents and my uncle, watching “Sister, Sister” (that Disney show with Tia and Tamera Mowry). We were waiting for a phone call. I hoped that when the phone rang, I would finally have my own little sister. A few hours later, that wish came true.
My siblings and I went about our childhoods, putting on shows together every night after dinner. I would dress Zachary up as a girl and we would perform dances. Once he became old enough, Noah became the lighting designer, and soon after that my sister Rebecca replaced Zachary and me as the lead actors.
Lately, people have been asking me how I like being the oldest of four children. “That’s a lot of pressure,” everyone says. “They must really look up to you.”
***
Sophomore year of high school, my family sat around the kitchen table, each in our implicitly assigned seats, for Mother’s Day dinner. We had eaten a late brunch at my grandparents’ house earlier that afternoon, so we kind of just sat there picking at our plates. It was that awkward time of year when the sun stays up until long after dinner, so it was late, but still felt like midday. At the end of our dinner, my dad asked if I had lied to him earlier that weekend.
“No,” I replied.
“I’m not going to ask you again, Rachel, did you lie?”
“No.”
But then the tears started running down my face.
Zachary took my younger brother and sister upstairs without batting an eye. I sat at the kitchen table with my parents as I continued to cry.
That was the first time I had lied to my parents since the eighth grade, when I went to my best friend’s house without any parents home. We told our parents it was just girls, despite the fact that three boys ended up riding their bikes over to hang out. But that’s a story for another time.
My mother looked at me, on the day that was supposed to be about her, and tears began to collect in her eyes as well. “You’re our first, Rachel,” she said, “Your siblings watch everything you do.”
When our conversation was over and I walked up the back staircase, my sister stared at me with wide eyes.
***
During the best night of my life (my Bat Mitzvah, obviously), my younger siblings stood up with a poster board and an acrostic poem of my name. Some of my notable traits, according to them, included “Responsible” and “Hair (tons of it).” My 12-year-old brother described my “narcissistic tendencies” under the letter “A,” which stood for “Attention-getting.”
Standing there in my bright yellow, floral-rhinestone-patterned dress, I acted like I didn’t want the attention and pretended to be embarrassed as my brothers and sister regaled the crowd with stories of my most annoying habits in a brutally honest tell-all. The worst offense? My nightly routine of walking into each of their rooms to say, “Goodnight, love you.”
Sections
Allen S. Olmsted, class of 1909, knew exactly what he was getting into when he wrote a series of inflammatory letters to then-President of Harvard Abbott Lawrence Lowell. Olmsted’s request: a lecture space for Emmeline Pankhurst, founder of the Women’s Social and Political Union of England and soon-to-be famous leader of the women’s suffrage movement.
The problem? It was 1911: Nine years before women gained the right to vote in the United States of America, 64 years before Harvard started admitting women in an equal access admissions process. When Olmsted petitioned Lowell, women were banned from giving lectures at Harvard.
Olmsted, then a student at the Law School, was one of many students who spoke out actively against the University’s discriminatory policy. In 1911, he and six other Harvard men founded The Harvard Men’s League for Woman Suffrage, an organization that sought to facilitate open lectures by suffragists throughout the year—in explicit violation of the University policy.
Also known as the Harvard Equal Suffrage League, the group’s membership eventually grew to 52 undergraduates.
Olmsted and his peers were following the lead of Radcliffe women down the street. Maud Wood Park, a Radcliffe alum, had founded the College Equal Suffrage League—a club that became a nationwide organization—at the women’s college a decade earlier. Its goal “was far more serious than merely winning assent to the desirability of enfranchisement,”  said Louise M. Young, a prominent New England suffragist.
Not long after the Radcliffe chapter was founded, college administrators withdrew it due to what Park called “the active opposition to woman suffrage” by Radcliffe administrators.
Olmsted’s group similarly met resistance. When members petitioned the Harvard Corporation to grant them use of a Harvard lecture hall to host Pankhurst, a student opponent named E. Kerper insisted that the League had not acted in “good faith” in affiliating itself with Harvard and that it should be denied the “greater privilege” of a College building. Denied it was.
That didn’t stop Olmsted: He took the battle all the way to the top of Harvard’s hierarchy. Many heated run-ins led President Lowell to call him “a well-intentioned fellow, but a natural mischief maker.”
Lowell and Olmsted kept a regular—if begrudging—correspondence. In a series of letters to Olmsted, Lowell and the Corporation insisted that they had no objections to the “subject” of suffrage, but they felt that “with Mrs. Pankhurst the thing was being carried a little too far.”
In letters to other faculty members, though, Lowell fully admitted that his grounds of refusal for the lecture hall for Pankhurst were as follows: “We do not think that the subject of women’s suffrage comes under the category of our subjects.”
Another University administrator put it more simply: “We did not want women lecturing in the hall.”
“We believe this privilege of the students to hear lecturers on all sides of every question...is an essential, though an unofficial, part of a Harvard education,” Olmsted wrote in a letter to the Corporation, advocating for the opportunity to hear women’s voices on a largely male campus.
Though the administration was unsupportive of Pankhurst’s appearance, students were ecstatic at the opportunity to hear her speak. More than 1500 students eventually poured into Brattle Hall, an off-campus lecture space just outside of Harvard’s administrative reach. Olmsted hadn’t won outright, but he and the League had accomplished more than many thought possible.
Sections
“I wasn’t able to have many friends over when I was young,” Allie M. Walsh ’18 writes on Facebook. She writes that her childhood in Danvers, Massachusetts was marked by widespread alcoholism and drug abuse. Drunk driving and neglected children were commonplace. A photograph of Walsh leaning against a graffiti-covered pole accompanies the text. “I slept with a baseball bat under my bed, which is still there,” she writes. The post has more than 700 likes.
Walsh is one of the dozens of students who have shared intimate stories on social media through The Unfiltered Network. Unfiltered is one of many photo-based campaigns that have sprung into existence on social media over the last few years. Participants often describe struggles with racial identity, sexual orientation, and mental health—topics they usually wouldn’t discuss publicly online.
Walsh was initially unsure how her story would be received or how this virtual-world decision might affect her real-world interactions. But, she says, it turned out to be the right choice. “It gave me the right platform and a very receptive audience to listen to what I had to say,” Walsh says.
Zena K. Edosomwan ’17 founded The Unfiltered Network last year and has been working on it full-time since he graduated from Harvard. Edosomwan, along with his friends Christopher E. Egi ’18 and Sydney C. Altschuler, decided to “build a community around the idea of being yourself” through social media.
Now supported by a team of 11, The Unfiltered Network spans the Ivy League. With more than 5,500 Facebook followers and 1,900 Instagram followers, it’s looking  to expand across the country and internationally––reaching out to schools in Kenya, India and the UK.
Posts like Walsh’s usually require a two-part process: a photography session and an interview, though the group also allows participants to submit their own pre-written text and photographs. For the project’s pictures, Altschuler, the project’s head of photography, says that the most important part of her job is to “get an honest portrait of someone.”
“I love to sit and talk to someone and understand how they are as a person and go from there,” she says. Staying true to the project’s name, Altschuler does not airbrush or Photoshop the images, although she does sometimes adjust the lighting. “Why would you be airbrushing a photo when it’s supposed to be about something that’s more than skin deep?”
Central to the project’s identity is the question of authenticity on social media. The project’s title makes a provocative promise, as any content posted on a social media account—even one that is purportedly “unfiltered”—involves some process of curation. For those at The Unfiltered Network, the campaign’s title speaks to a commitment to telling imperfect stories on platforms that often privilege “perfect” images.
“They’re letting people present a part of them that they wouldn’t normally feel comfortable sharing on their own platforms,” Walsh says.
Edosomwan says inclusivity is a primary goal of the campaign, which gives participants the opportunity to discuss marginalized identities and experiences. Eli J. Lieberman, a sophomore at Princeton who identifies as nonbinary, contributed to The Unfiltered Network with hopes of getting viewers to consider the complexities of gender.
“I think I just want people to see that nonbinary people exist,” Lieberman says.  “I want people to examine what lies they’ve been told about their own genders, and I want them really start thinking about what an authentic sense of gender might mean to them. It might be more complicated than you think.” After Lieberman’s post was published, friends and strangers at Princeton reached out with messages of support.
Still a fledgling project, the feel-good campaign is also expanding financially: Richard B. Cooperstein ’88, CEO at Media Investment Group, is a new investor in the project.
Edosomwan says he has a “vision for a global community of students.” How does an initiative that prides itself on intimacy go about expanding worldwide?  By “keeping the integrity of what it’s doing and maintaining trust,” he says. “That’s what makes it special.”
Sections
Computer Science 105: Privacy and Technology is a popular course among computer science concentrators and non-concentrators alike. The class, taught by Computer Science Professor James “Jim” H. Waldo, examines the ethical and political implications of technology through a series of case studies. FM sat down with Waldo to discuss privacy and technology in society today.
Editor’s note: This interview has been lightly edited for clarity and length.
FM: Is academic information really private?
JW: In class, we talked about all of the data we can get from HarvardX or Canvas. How can we use that? What are the students’ rights with respect to that? [Could we] actually find out everything about the student given all that information?
Some people say we can use that data to identify students at risk for mental health issues or low-performance in a course… But should we be using it for that or not? Harvard has strong regulations for how data should be used and what data we don’t share... But suppose we decided to just use whatever we could. What limits Google or Facebook in the research they can do around you? Harvard has much more stringent limits.
FM: What about privacy and tech in the news has surprised you lately?
JW: Last year, with the election going on, we spent a lot of time talking about big data. If big data tells you everything, how did the election turn out so different than expected? After the election, I walked into class and wrote “WTF?” on the board, and that was our discussion.
FM: How can we protect our online privacy?
JW: Two-factor authentication is a very good idea, even though HarvardKey might be a pain. You should encrypt your disk. Be careful about what you post on social media—just assume that it is going to be public. If you are going to be using your credit card for online purchases, make sure you are using https. Don’t have private chats when you are sitting in Starbucks.
FM:  What’s the future of virtual reality? Of artificial intelligence?
JW: Virtual reality has been around for a long time. The first VR headset was done at Harvard. Of course… we’re not going to be living in virtual worlds very soon. The possibilities are amazing but it's going to take a while.
Where will it end? I have no idea. Things travel really, really quickly. People are worried about AI machines being smarter than we are, [but] I think that’s overblown. It’s just as likely that machines will turn out to be benevolent, or that they won’t care about us.
Sections
I feel like a parent trying to keep tabs on her kid at a carnival. One second, I catch a glimpse of my mom crossing the pillow aisle. I blink, and she’s moved on to nightstands and ottomans. My mother has a vision for my room––she knows right away if something will work. “These throw pillows will clash with the duvet cover,” she says. “This coffee table would be useless in your room—a waste of money and space.”
“So,” she says, sensing me approach from behind, her nose one inch from a hanging wool rug she is examining for snags. “You want to write your thesis about what?!”
Freshman year, I was assigned to Hollis 11, a hallway double. Four white walls, a dusty wood floor, two bare mattresses on two black metal frames. Furniture shopping helped fill some of the empty space. But once the fitted sheet was on, the tapestry hung, and the closet packed with hangers, my parents kissed me goodbye and I was on my own. My roommate wouldn’t be moving in for a few days, so on the first night, the ghosts of Revolutionary soldiers and transcendentalist thinkers would be my only company.
Sitting on my bed that night, I opened up my.harvard and began perusing. Within a few minutes, my heart sped up and I was lost in a sea of endless clicks, jumping from course to course. Error message: Your shopping cart is full.
But I knew it wasn’t quite right. Why couldn’t I just envision it all laid out like my mom in the furniture store? I didn’t want to be the coffee table.
Sophomore year, I came to school with bedding, hangers and a coat rack, which my dad helped me disassemble and shove into the backseat of his crossover. After 40 minutes of packing, unpacking, rearranging and repacking the car, we finally manage to slam the trunk shut without the overflow luggage popping it back open.
“So,” my dad says, after a grunt of satisfaction. “What kind of job do you see yourself applying to after college?”
It’s junior year, and I finally have a room to myself. Even though I have my bedding, coat rack, hangers, and tapestry, the floor feels cold on my bare feet and the ottoman too small even for one friend to sit on.
As we walk around the furniture store, I tell my mom—only half joking—that I plan to become an erotic film director like Erika Lust in the Netflix documentary series “Hot Girls Wanted: Turned On.” Social Studies concentrators go on to do all kinds of things after they graduate, I tell her. I’m going to write my thesis on pornography and its impact on body politics in western societies. I see it starting to come together. Can she?
We fumble with shopping bags stuffed with pillows, boxes filled with picture frames, and work together to carry the wool rug. Slowly but surely, we make our way into the elevator and back up to my dorm room. She was right. The rug covered just the right amount of tile in front of the couch, and the orange hue of the throw pillows matched the quilt perfectly. My room is finally together.
“Can you call my Uber for me?” she asks.
She’s nervous because her flight leaves at 6:30 p.m. and it’s already five. I request the ride, tell her the vehicle’s license plate, give her a kiss goodbye and send her out the door, gently closing it behind her.
Back in my newly-furnished room, the feeling of emptiness lingers. I know that they’re proud of me and want what’s best for me. But I can’t help but wonder if they think I’m a coffee table.
Sections
Sections
When Andrew Perez ’20 questions why he came to Harvard, he looks at an old photograph.
In it are two of his nephews at ages 2 and 8, respectively. They’re sporting Harvard t-shirts and broad smiles. He says it reminds him that, while Harvard may be a daunting place for a first-generation college student like himself, he’s blazing a trail for the rest of his family members.
“I fell in love with Harvard when I saw a photo of my nephews wearing Harvard stuff, so… I walk around with that photo,” Perez says. “My nephews are going to grow up thinking not whether they can go to college, but which one.”
Perez’s parents—both immigrants from Mexico—did not attend college. He has cousins who have pursued education at local community colleges in California, but he’s the first in his family to earn a place at an Ivy League institution like Harvard. He hopes he won’t be the last.
First-generation students are navigating uncharted territory. As the first in their immediate families to pursue education at a four-year college or university, they have to surmount all the usual challenges of Harvard. But they face an additional hurdle: their parents can’t give them advice on surviving college.
A few decades ago, when Dean of Admissions and Financial Aid William F. Fitzsimmons ’67 attended the College, he says first-generation students were few and far between.
“It was a very, very different world,” Fitzsimmons recalls. “There were very few people from modest economic backgrounds.”
In the past 15 years, though, Harvard’s first-generation student population has soared with the launch of the College’s Financial Aid Initiative. Now, first-gens make up about 15 percent of the student body, according to Assistant Director of Financial Aid Charlie S. Kim. But the influx of first-gen students brings its own set of difficulties as the University grapples with how best to support their unique needs.
Harvard has already made strides in growing and developing these resources. At the administrative level, the past decade has given rise to the strengthening of supports like the Bureau of Study Counsel, the Office of Career Services, Counseling and Mental Health Services, and freshman advising networks. Harvard has also created new initiatives like the First Generation Program, which assists first-generation students as they apply.
Students and alumni have also worked to make Harvard more of a home for first-gen students. In 2012, Kevin B. Jennings ’85 started the First Generation Harvard Alumni group, which operates a one-on-one mentoring program for freshmen. About two years after that, undergraduates organized the First Generation Student Union to establish a support network for first-gen students and to lobby on their behalf.
Jasmine M. Waddell, a freshman dean, calls this network of advisors and resource offices a “high-touch” approach to helping first-generation students overcome barriers to their success at Harvard. But as peer institutions like Brown University pilot centralized procedures for helping students transition to college—such as a summer pre-orientation program and a center for first-generation college students—some are asking whether Harvard is doing enough to keep up.
“Harvard is way behind other universities. [It] has not been proactive, it’s been reactive,” says Jennings, who is currently working on a book about first-gen college students. “One thing that Harvard does not seem to understand is that access is not inclusion.”
Getting first-generation students to apply to Harvard, Jennings argues, is “half the battle.” Helping them thrive is the other.
Sufia Mehmood ’18 wasn’t planning on applying to Harvard, or any school.
A graduate of a public high school in a small town near Sacramento that she says had never sent students to the Ivy League, Mehmood had already set her sights on going straight into the workforce after she finished high school. She was the first in her family to graduate from high school, and she would also be the first to attend college.
“I already had a job, and most people go to college to get a job, so I didn’t think I needed to go,” she says.
The movie “Legally Blonde” changed her mind.
“My friend and I were watching ‘Legally Blonde’ over Thanksgiving break, and we thought, ‘That’s how easy it is to get into Harvard University,’” she says. “We thought it would be fun.”
The two of them decided to submit applications to Harvard, mostly as a joke. They spent hours researching the college application process and crafting the supplementary essays, but did not expect them to yield positive results. In fact, when the letters came from Harvard in March, Mehmood and her friend bought frames to display their rejections proudly.
“It was meant to be a bonding activity,” Mehmood says. She swapped letters with her friend. “I opened hers, and she opened mine. I saw a rejection letter so I started cheering…. She was silent.”
First-generation students often find the college application process cluttered with roadblocks. Many struggle alone along a strenuous path lined by application fees, standardized testing, and countless essays. Some—like those attending private institutions or those accepted into pre-college scholarship programs—are lucky to have guidance counselors to help them along. Regardless, without a parent who has already navigated the process, the statistics are against them.
Only 54 percent of students in the United States whose parents achieve at most a high school diploma end up enrolling in college, according to data from the Harvard Admissions Office. That number drops to 36 percent for students whose parents never attained a high school degree.
“You grew up without having parents give you specific instruction about how to prepare for college, and you figured it out yourself,” Anya B. Bassett, FGSU’s faculty advisor, says. “You were talented so you were identified, and then you helped people to help you and support you.”
Even after getting into Harvard, Mehmood still didn’t think she was going to enroll in college. That’s because, like many first-gen students, she worried the cost of attendance would be prohibitively high.
So Mehmood tucked the acceptance letter—and the idea of Harvard—into her back pocket, and she went on with her life.
One day, she was editing an essay with her English teacher when email correspondence from Harvard appeared on her computer screen and caught her teacher’s eye. “She said, ‘Why didn’t you tell anybody about this—what’s going on?’” Mehmood remembers. “I said, ‘I’m not going to college.’ She was the person who went through my admissions letter with me and was like, ‘You realize you have to pay nothing to go here. You have a full ride.’”
For many first-gen students, Harvard’s Financial Aid Initiative has been the key to accepting the University’s offer. HFAI was part of a push to make Harvard more affordable for low- and middle-income students. Buoyed by a record-breaking fundraising campaign, Harvard’s Admissions and Financial Aid Office set the bar for financial support across top universities in the United States. They’ve committed to a no-loan financial aid package that will meet the cost of attendance for students hailing from households with annual income under $65,000.
In Harvard’s most recent accepted class, 16.3 percent of respondents to a survey conducted by The Harvard Crimson said they were first-generation students. 94.3 percent of those first-gen students said they received some form of financial aid from the college.
Smaller grants can have a huge impact on first-gen students as well. The Winter Coat Fund offers up to $200 to low-income freshmen to purchase winterwear. The “start-up grant,” endowed by a $25 million donation from first-generation alumnus Timothy R. Barakett ’87, gives freshmen on full financial aid $2,000—disbursed over two semesters—to buy textbooks when they first arrive.
Today, Mehmood works as an admissions tour guide at Harvard. “We say a lot of shocking things on our tour, like the fact that there are freshmen living above the President’s office, or the fact that the Science Center is modeled after a polaroid camera, or the fact that Memorial Church can only be booked by current Harvard students for weddings and it has a four-year waiting list,” she jokes. “But by far, in my three years of doing tours, the most shocked expressions that I’ve gotten [from people are] when I talk about Harvard’s financial aid.”
Jennings has an impressive résumé: During President Barack Obama’s administration, he was named the Assistant Deputy Secretary for the Office of Safe and Drug-Free Schools in the Department of Education. He never forgets his humble beginnings, though. A first-generation alumnus, Jennings grew up what felt like worlds away from Harvard in a low-income single-parent household in rural North Carolina. When he arrived at Harvard, he felt isolated.
“It was very important to me that people not know where I came from,” he remembers. “That was something I carried through college—feeling embarrassed about my origins.”
During his freshman year, Jennings enrolled in a course on European history. When he went to Widener Library to find sources, he realized that most of the books on his topic were written in German or Danish. He went to his TF for advice.
“She looked at me in a completely deadpan manner and said, ‘You don’t speak Danish? How did you get into Harvard?’” he recalls. “I immediately thought, ‘Oh my God, I’ve been exposed.’ My eyes welled up with tears. She noticed that I was upset and said, ‘I’m joking, nobody speaks Danish!’”
Jennings says he suffered from this sensation—what he describes as “imposter syndrome”—throughout his entire undergraduate experience at Harvard.
“It was the feeling that people were going to find out that I was the admissions mistake and that I should never have been admitted,” he says. “I didn’t understand the terms of engagement in the new world I had landed in.”
For first-generation students who lack access to institutional and cultural knowledge—or what Fitzsimmons calls the “secret handshakes” of Harvard life—learning these “terms of engagement” is a difficult task, and one that they often face alone.
Over the years, Harvard has faced a growing call for a program that could address these concerns before students arrive on campus. Those efforts have seen some roadblocks: In January, Dean of the College Rakesh Khurana rejected an initial proposal to form a summer “bridge program” for first-generation and low-income students.
But efforts did not die down. When Perez  was elected president of the FGSU, he knew immediately that he would spend his tenure crafting a new proposal for a bridge program.
Perez, a freshman at the time, was startled that one did not already exist. Peer institutions like Princeton University have, since 2015, offered multi-week summer institutes to help first-generation students acclimate to the rigor of college life. Even Perez’s high school offered a bridge program for incoming first-generation students.
“I was like, ‘This is hilarious,’” Perez recalls. “I just did one at my high school, how is there not one here?”
Perez and the FGSU have met with College administrators for an average of 20 hours per week since last spring in an effort to construct such a program. The result: In late August, Khurana announced Harvard will pilot a pre-orientation program for students from “historically marginalized communities” starting in the summer of 2018.
Katie W. Steele—the program’s administrative liaison and an employee at the Freshman Dean’s Office—says the College is looking to model the new program on Harvard’s Freshman International Student Program.
Participants of FIP convene on campus a week before Opening Days to learn about navigating Harvard and life in America. The program uses a “family” structure, pairing a group of four or five students with two peer advisors. The new pre-orientation program might use a similar structure.
Currently, the program does not have a director. Steele expects that one will be chosen by November. In the meantime, Steele meets with Perez—the only student currently on its steering committee—to talk over ideas and reach out to other individuals who might want to get involved.
The pre-orientation program will aim to foster a community on campus before Opening Days and make accessible what Waddell described as a diffuse network of resources.
Additionally, the Freshman Dean’s Office created a new administrative position this year: the First-Generation and Low-Income Student Advocate. Sa-kiera T. J. Hudson, who was herself a low-income and first-generation student at Williams College, occupies the position. She’s also pursuing a PhD in social psychology at Harvard, researching social identities including first-generation and socioeconomic status.
Hudson emphasizes the last word in her title: “advocate.” “That’s really the crux of my job,” she says. “I am here to advocate for students both for themselves—thinking about how to empower students to feel a sense of ownership at Harvard and take advantage of the resources here—as well as advocate towards the administration.”
Given her own personal experience, as well as her academic research on identity, Hudson was elated when she was selected as the First-Generation and Low-Income Student Advocate. “I was like, ‘Yes, I remember what it was like, so let me give back if I can,’” she says.
There’s also an external advising resource available to first-generation students. First-gen freshmen at Harvard can opt into FGHA’s mentorship program, where they are paired with a first-gen alumni who can provide support and advice during the transition. According to Jennings, the program is in its sixth year and close to 1,000 students have participated. Jennings himself has personally mentored eight. “They’ve become like my kids,” he said. “I’m still in touch with them all.”
Bhekinkosi “Biquey” Sibanda ’16 peered at his name, scrawled in fancy cursive, on the envelope that was slipped under his door one night during his sophomore fall. Inside, he found a mysterious card listing a time, a date, and a location. He had been invited to punch one of Harvard’s final clubs.
Sibanda vividly remembers how disorienting his first punch event was. As is typical of first-gen students, Sibanda didn’t have older siblings or high school classmates who had already permeated that social network. That disconnect was magnified by the fact that he grew up in an entirely different culture in Zimbabwe.
He was interested in becoming a club member, but he had no idea how to navigate a process like punch. “How do I go in there and present myself? Which parts will they like and which will they not? I don’t know them culturally, so I don’t know what they would like—and if I present my genuine self, because I’m different, the guys might not like it,” Sibanda remembers thinking. He did not end up joining the club.
Sibanda’s concern is common among first-gen students. Jennings ascribes this shared discomfort to a lack of what he calls ‘cultural capital’ among first gen students. Cultural capital is knowledge of the “unwritten rules” of a social sphere. It is determined by social assets—including knowledge of academia, clothes, or mannerisms—that confer status. Many students have an automatic edge in the form of cultural capital from the day they set foot on campus during Opening Days. First-generation students often have to play a game of catch-up.
Hossam M. Mabed ’21 was similarly disconcerted by Harvard’s social scene, but his feelings were primarily directed towards Harvard’s exclusive extracurricular environment. Lots of students arrive at Harvard already accustomed to competitive high school clubs. But for Mabed, the concept of “comp culture,” in which students might have to compete for limited spots in extracurriculars, was alien.
“It felt like there was a lot of exclusivity surrounding Harvard, and I feared that being in that environment would force you to be competitive with everyone around you,” he says.
But it’s not just the transparently exclusive worlds of Harvard’s final clubs and comp processes that can alienate first-gen students. For first-gen students who are also low-income, many nominally inclusive college experiences or topics of conversation can feel equally out of reach.
Sophia L. Berg ’19, for example, felt isolated when her friends passed up Annenberg dining hall food for more expensive meals in Harvard Square. “I had friends that wanted to go out to eat many times a week, but I couldn’t afford to do that,” she says. “That ended up shifting my friend group a little bit.”
But in most cases, first-generation students are still able to find supportive networks and friendships on campus. Often, they are aided by the existence of on-campus affinity organizations—groups like Harvard Queer Students and Allies, the Black Men’s Forum, Fuerza Latina, or the FGSU.
James L. Walkingstick ’21 is part of the Native American, BGLTQ, and LatinX communities at Harvard. “That’s a wide network, and first-gen students come from a variety of backgrounds,” he says. “So it’s a lot of finding people with the same backgrounds you can relate to.”
But in adjusting to Harvard’s culture, some first-gen students also experience what Perez describes as the “emotional whiplash” of reconciling their Harvard experiences with their lifestyles back home.
When Perez  travels between California and Boston, he worries that describing opportunities like study abroad that his family members or friends may never experience might come off as “pretentious.”
“It’s a weird balance,” Perez says. “I don’t go home during the semesters, and my excuse to myself is the money, but I also think it’s emotionally exhausting, to go back home and really submerge yourself there, and then to have to get up and come back to Harvard and submerge yourself there.
“At times I feel like I’m a different person, a different Andrew when I’m in the gates of Harvard, and a certain Andrew when I’m at home,” he says. “I try to stay true to myself. I wear the same Vans, the same hoodies, the same jeans. My mom is like, ‘You should dress preppy,’ but that’s not me.”
Jeannie B. Regidor ‘20 worked a part-time job during her freshman year at Harvard. It was manageable at first, but as time went on and classes ramped up, the burden of working and studying became almost too much to bear.
“I was having a lot of trouble balancing my work life with my school life,” she says. “I went to my proctor for emotional support on this because I felt like work was taking up a lot of my time and I didn’t have enough time for school. My proctor helped me destress and create a schedule for myself, and she was very much a support system during freshman year.”
Walkingstick said his advisor, Stephanie H. Kenen, has been his “fairy godmother.” As Administrative Director of the College’s General Education Program, she’s able to give him invaluable advice on his schedule.
“I pop in once a week and she listens to what I say and she makes sure everything’s taken care of,” he says. “Two weeks in, I kind of wanted to go home and throw in the towel, but she told me, ‘We can walk through your classes, adjust your schedule.’”
But though the College assigns an entire network of advisors to every student, some first-generation students find they must rely on their peers for concrete advice.
“My advisor and I didn’t really kick it off,” Nicholas O. Santiago ’19 says. “The institutional systems didn’t help me out that much in the beginning of my freshman year.”
Santiago’s experience is not uncommon. Waddell says that, when it comes to supporting first-generation students, “peer support is the most effective, and we know that, and that’s why we have the PAF program.” This year, the Peer Advising Fellows program invited Hudson to talk to upperclassmen about how to advise first-gens.
Despite the academic resources and social support systems available, some first-gen students say they have a mentality that deters them from seeking help.
Tomasz P. Wojtasik ’21 struggled on his first physics problem set. A high-performer in high school STEM classes, he was determined to finish the assignment without going to office hours.
Wojtasik says that the hardest part of Harvard has been “getting help.”
“In Poland, office hours aren’t really a thing, and there aren’t tutoring resources provided by the university like you have here, so you’re kind of expected to figure it out on your own,” he says. “I had a hard time telling myself, ‘You can’t figure this out by yourself.’”
“If I could change one thing [about Harvard], it would be the ‘I’m fine’ culture,” Bassett reflects. She says that this mindset is particularly prevalent and damaging for first-generation students.
Sheila M. Reindl ’80 is the associate director of the BSC, which provides tutoring and counseling services for College students. While some programs at the BSC cost money, all are subsidized for students on financial aid in proportion to the package they receive from the College. The BSC co-hosts events with the FGSU.
Reindl, who was a first-gen student herself, says she has often witnessed first-generation students underuse BSC services.
“We are so self-reliant—and we’ve had to be—that it can feel unfamiliar to make use of a bounty of resources,” she observes. “You might feel strange, or even a little bit guilty. ‘How can I accept so much bounty that people back home don’t have?’ or: ‘I’ve already been given so much by Harvard, how can I accept even more?’”
Harvard prides itself on an abundance of mental health counseling services. It has two professional services, CAMHS and the BSC. There are also six peer counseling groups on campus, including Indigo, which specializes in addressing issues related to race, class, and first-generation status.
But students say that quantity doesn’t necessarily mean quality, especially when it comes to the specific mental health needs of first-gen students at Harvard.
“To be quite honest, CAMHS is not very diverse, and that’s not much of a secret,” Aakriti Prasai ’18, one of the co-directors of Indigo, says. “It’s very frustrating. One of the Indigo advisors is the only Latino on the CAMHS board. She’s always unavailable because her schedule is booked up months in advance.”
Senior Communications Officer for CAMHS Michael Perry acknowledged in a statement the “importance of offering a diverse counseling and mental health services staff” and said that the University Health Services will continue to recruit counselors from different backgrounds.
Prasai says her first-generation status has influenced her mental health while at Harvard.  She was supposed to stay for dorm crew after classes finished her freshman spring, but instead left campus early, thinking she never wanted to come back.
“I feel like part of that was because I was struggling with something that many other people weren’t,” she says. “These things have so shaped my experience at Harvard—having to find a job, being first gen, [grappling with] nationality and culture, not being able to go home for the holidays—and it’s a shame that there’s not enough help for these issues.”
Some first-generation students also come from communities where mental illness is perceived as a myth.
“The mentality is that immigrants worked so hard to get here, and should be able to handle this thing that is happening,” Mehmood said. “So people don’t talk to their families about mental health issues–that support system isn’t there. And people are afraid to talk to mental health services for fear of getting the same reaction as their family, which is that they’re crazy. It’s even harder when counselors aren’t minority.”
Perez is just beginning his second year at Harvard, but as president of the FGSU and a vocal proponent of the emerging summer pre-orientation program, he’s already been at the epicenter of tremendous change for many first-gen students.
Harvard, he says, has given him so much. He’s traveled across the country, he’s studied abroad, he’s rubbed elbows with household names like Joe Biden, and he’s found his calling in Harvard’s Sociology department. He worries, however, that urging the College to do more on behalf of first-gen students might jeopardize his ability to succeed on campus.
“It’s a little daunting to think about, because I’m first-gen. At times it feels like a power imbalance,” he says. “If I go to University Hall and complain, I think, ‘They can just rescind my application.’”
But he recalls a piece of advice that an upperclassman gave him when Perez was a freshman:
“He told me if you love something, be critical of it. Harvard is giving me a lot, and it’s going to give me so much more when I graduate, but it doesn’t mean I can’t be critical of it.”
Perez presses the power button on his iPhone, and the image of his nephews disappears.
“That’s why I’m critical, that’s why I’m pushing for these changes.”
Sections
Eyeing the security guard on the second-floor balcony and the Secret Service agents a couple yards away, Harvard graduate student Avriel Epps reached under her shirt and pulled a large banner reading “WHITE SUPREMACIST” from the waistband of her jeans.
In front of Epps, Education Secretary Betsy DeVos—wearing a cornflower-blue dress and gripping a lectern in the center of the Institute of Politics’ John F. Kennedy Jr. Forum—had just launched into a speech arguing for “school choice.” Behind Epps, more than a dozen journalists crammed into a press pen clattered away on laptops or clutched cameras.
Epps fought down terror, forced her brain to “empt[y] out.” Then she stood up. She faced the press and unfurled the banner.
“I was calculated about it, I wanted to make sure I was in an area where the photographers who were behind me in the press pit could get a shot of [DeVos’s] face with that sign,” Epps remembers.
Epps was one of roughly two dozen protesters, all smuggling concealed banners, who infiltrated the forum Thursday, Sept. 28, the night DeVos visited Harvard’s campus. Epps was the first to rise from her seat—but her lone stand kicked off a timed sequence of demonstrations, the culmination of a week of meticulous plotting.
Organizers assembled their protest limb by limb: They recruited students, scored almost two dozen tickets to the restricted speech, researched past protests, consulted Graduate School of Education administrators, held group-wide votes to determine the best plan of action, and stayed up until 2:30 a.m. the night before the event finalizing tiny details.
On Sept. 28, the planning paid off: Harvard students seeded around the room hoisted banners at regular intervals in total silence, stunning Kennedy School officials and drawing immediate national media attention. Demonstrators spoke up only as DeVos left the forum, pointing at the secretary and calling out, “That’s what white supremacy looks like!” The protest remained peaceful throughout: Not one student was escorted from the room by police.
Kennedy School Dean of Academic Affairs Archon Fung, who moderated Thursday’s discussion, says he has attended maybe three dozen forum discussions since he took a job at the University in 2000. But in nearly two decades at Harvard, Fung says he has never seen a protest “anything like that” before.
If the protest is unusual in Harvard history, it also breaks from a recent media narrative of protests at American universities: Students, sometimes violently, seek to prevent controversial right-wing speakers from setting foot on campus. In February, the University of California at Berkeley cancelled a scheduled speech by far-right provocateur Milo Yiannopoulos after protesters threw Molotov cocktails and caused $100,000 in damage; in March, demonstrators at Middlebury College prevented controversial theorist Charles A. Murray ’65 from speaking and injured a professor in the process.
DeVos, a President Donald Trump appointee, checks both boxes: conservative and controversial. She has long drawn fire for her advocacy for the school choice movement, which seeks to offer alternatives to traditional public schools. More recently, she earned widespread criticism for her decision to rescind Obama-era Title IX guidance that required schools to use a lower standard of proof when judging whether an accused student is guilty of sexual assault.
“People have been shutting down conservative speakers across the country and one side effect of that is that it’s enabled the conservative right [to] claim their free speech is being suppressed,” says Kennedy School student Jeff Rousset, who helped organize the protest against DeVos.
Demonstrators hoped to decry DeVos’s policies and highlight what they saw as Harvard’s complicity in legitimizing them—but they also wanted to “reclaim the narrative” of peaceful protest in the United States, according to  organizer and Education School student Natasha Daniella Rivera. She and Rousset attribute the success of the event to preparation, careful planning, and to demonstrators’ status as Harvard students—which, the two say, offered a national stage and ensured protection by University police.
By design, all protesters donned Harvard sweatshirts, T-shirts, or wore the color red that Thursday. “We used the privilege of the H,” Rivera says.
It started with a text.
Sophia Perlaza, a student in the Graduate School of Education, was scrolling through Facebook when she saw it: Hundreds had signed up to attend a protest against Education Secretary Betsy DeVos the next week on Sept. 28.
Perlaza screenshotted the event, titled “Stand for All Students: #StopDeVos,” and sent the picture to a new friend she’d met a few weeks ago, fellow Education School student Rivera.
“Protest or nah?” Perlaza texted.
Rivera was enthusiastic. She reached out to a third friend, Education School student Andrew Greenia, who replied: “Let’s do this.” None of the three had any experience organizing protests or belong to activist groups on campus—but in just a few days, relying on relationships forged swiftly through Facebook and email, the trio connected with dozens of other students around the University to forge one of the most unusual demonstrations in recent Kennedy School history.
Sprawled on a picnic blanket in Cambridge Commons the Sunday afternoon after the protest, five of the event’s main organizers—Rivera, Perlaza, Greenia, Rousset, and College student Amelia Y. Goldberg ’19—recall the week leading up to DeVos’s speech, occasionally pausing to snack on oranges and granola.
Rivera, Perlaza, and Greenia agreed to meet at 8 a.m. in the Monroe C. Gutman library Thursday Sept. 21, one week before DeVos was slated to visit campus. That morning, the three immediately began emailing and messaging people they “thought would be potentially interested” in helping, Rivera recalls. The trio also created a private Facebook event and invited friends—and then friends of friends.
A former summer student of Rivera’s connected her via email with Goldberg, who organizes for anti-sexual assault advocacy group Our Harvard Can Do Better. Goldberg put Rivera in touch with members of the Harvard Graduate Students Union and the Harassment/Assault Law-Student Team; both groups had already been meeting separately.
A few days later Rousset, who had already been trying to organize students to protest Harvard’s decision to rescind Chelsea Manning’s IOP Visiting Fellowship, joined, too.
“It was this sort of natural way our energies found each other,” Rivera says. “Literally through email, email and texting.”
The numbers slowly grew. Roughly 15 people attended the informal group’s second meeting, held Sunday Sept. 23 at 4 o’clock in Cambridge Commons. More than 20 came to the third meeting, a “poster-making” session held Tuesday Sept. 26 in a Harvard Law School lounge.
The planners decided early on to focus on disrupting DeVos’s speech from the inside—they felt the extant protest outside the IOP, organized by larger local groups including the Massachusetts Education Justice Alliance, had enough steam on its own. (By Sept. 26, more than 1,000 Facebook users had indicated they were interested in attending.)
Seats inside the DeVos event, though, were available almost exclusively to Harvard students, who had to lottery to earn a spot. The protesters and their friends lotteried for as many seats as they could, ending up with 23.
The plan for Thursday slowly took shape across the in-person meetings and in online discussions—students voted on some decisions, but “largely operated by consensus,” Goldberg says. Meanwhile, Rivera and others did background research, talking to Education School administrators and alumni about past protests: what worked, what didn’t, what to expect.
Students spent their fourth and final meeting—held the day before DeVos’s speech in an off-campus apartment—finalizing details and banners, scrawling slogans in red paint on white bedsheets and pillowcases. Some stayed until 2:30 a.m., fueled by Twizzlers and Veggie Straws.
By the next morning, everything was ready. In total, protesters had spent less than 30 dollars preparing: buying poster materials, paint, and snacks.
Epps did not want to hold the “WHITE SUPREMACIST” sign. She wanted to raise a different banner, a larger one reading in part, “HARVARD LEGITIMIZES WHITE SUPREMACY.”
But Epps is tall—five foot ten (she once worked as a runway model). Rivera asked if Epps would stand up first, with the smaller sign, on the ground floor of the Kennedy School’s JFK Jr. Forum, close to the press.
“We were starting to think about what kinds of folks would be easily visible and cause the most disruption by standing,” Epps says. “So Natasha asked me to do it because I’m tall and have big hair.”
She laughs. “I think that is essentially what it came down to.”
A couple minutes after Epps stood up, another protester hoisted a different sign, “RECLAIMING MY DEMOCRACY.” Then, a couple minutes later, another: “OUR STUDENTS ARE NOT 4 SALE.”
The JFK Jr. Forum is a large split-level space with multiple layers of balconies. Over the next half hour, protesters unfurled ever-larger banners from ever-higher floors at regular intervals.
Rivera, Perlaza, Greenia, Rousset, and Goldberg call this the “tiered” approach: a way to prevent police from escorting protesters outside the building the minute they raised their posters.
“I didn’t want everything to happen in one go and then it was over in five minutes,” Rivera says. “I wanted a sustained way of protesting, of having groups stand up and deliver their messaging… The tiered approach [also] had the greatest visual impact.”
Goldberg adds the method was meant to simulate dialogue between protesters and DeVos. Though never interrupting the secretary verbally, the protesters—by revealing a new banner every five minutes or so—still created “something like an exchange,” Goldberg says.
Goldberg says protesters’ decision to remain silent was twofold. On one hand, it reflected their belief that DeVos’s agenda and policies—particularly her recent decision to cancel the Obama-era Title IX guidance—will prevent students who suffered sexual assault from speaking out.
On the other hand, demonstrators wanted to applaud DeVos for choosing to take questions, many of them antagonistic, from a crowd that sometimes sided with the anti-DeVos demonstrators.
“We wanted to acknowledge that the JFK Forum was in some ways dedicated to be a place for free speech,” Goldberg says. “And that providing students an opportunity to ask unwelcome, uncensored questions is not something that education careerists and particularly Secretary DeVos often agrees to.”
Rousset says he thinks the visual protest sent a loud message nonetheless.
“I think it was a beautiful symphony orchestra where everybody was playing a role, playing an instrument,” he says. “It built up to this crescendo. There was a rhythm to it.”
Afterwards, jubilant, the students headed en masse to popular Harvard Square restaurant Felipe’s to feast on margaritas and burritos. Rivera, Perlaza, Greenia, Rousset, and Goldberg recall an outpouring of congratulations from friends and family. Goldberg particularly remembers receiving an email from her nonagenarian great aunt.
On Sunday, three days removed from those celebrations, the five organizers seem relaxed and unfocused, chatting and laughing. But asked what they’re planning next, everyone sits up a little straighter.
“We’ll see,” Rivera says.
“[Harvard] will be hearing from us,” Goldberg says.
Sections

News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
When Stephanie Dufresne ’20 was in Venice, Italy this summer on one of Harvard’s study abroad programs, she did her best to blend in with Italian locals around her. Not only did she not want to look like a tourist, she also didn’t want people to realize that she is an American.
Never the most popular on the European continent, Americans have, in the last year, faced additional stigma in their travels abroad: Donald Trump is the president of their country. Trump is widely disliked across the globe, a fact of life that Dufresne frequently confronted.
“They thought he was ignorant and saw his presidency as somewhat of a joke,” Dufresne said. “Even before Trump was president, there were already negative stereotypes that made Americans seem rude and cocky, so now I think you can see more of these stereotypes playing out with Trump actually as president.”
Still, Dufresne said that many of the Italians she met this summer understood that the president doesn’t necessarily represent the whole country.
“It did seem like a lot of Italians have similar feelings with people in the North or even most people here at Harvard about Trump, but they still felt bad for Americans like me because Trump is our president,” she said.
Dufresne is one of many Harvard students who have studied abroad in the Trump era, navigating a particularly fraught moment for America’s standing in the world. Trump has enacted a number of policies that Harvard students said prompted questioning and confusion from people they met in countries around the world.
Julia Englebert ’20 studied abroad in Peru, where she immersed herself in archaeological fieldwork. During her free time, Englebert visited various places around Peru, at one point encountering a 9-year old girl at a museum.
“We went from talking about Taylor Swift to politics and she asked me about the president and what I thought about him… She later asked if the US is going to bomb Peru just like it had bombed Syria,” she said.
Englebert said she was baffled by the question.
“I found myself in a very awkward and terrifying situation,” Englebert said. “Honestly, I didn’t know what to say.”
The discussion made Englebert realize that the Trump presidency was shaping how young people all over the world viewed the United States. Still, Englebert said studying abroad has made her appreciate America’s political system despite the negative feelings she has towards its current leader.
“[Studying abroad] made me realize that we are not the only country that struggles with leadership. At the time I was in Peru, the former president of Peru, who was in jail, was getting interviewed for his charges,” Englebert said. “It made me think about how countries all over the world are entrenched in political drama.”
Ryan Lawton ’18, who studied abroad in South Korea this past summer, said South Koreans’ response to Trump was mocking at best. In between conversations, South Korean students passed offhand comments and jokes about not only Trump, but also American politics more generally.
Lawton said he traveled to Korea during a time when South Korea’s political climate was especially contentious after the impeachment of former President Park Geun-hye. However, South Korean students did not shy away from talking about both Korean and American politics.
“They were disillusioned with their government and they seemed to have a fatalist way of talking about politics in general,” Lawton said. “But the Korean students definitely did not judge us [Americans] by our political views and instead seemed to want to engage in a conversation about current events.”
Englebert said the complexity of politics and the anti-American sentiments that various international communities may have should not deter students from studying abroad.
Michelle Kim ’18 echoed this thought. She said studying abroad during term-time in the Netherlands provided her with incredible opportunities and also helped her to better appreciate Harvard when she came back to campus.
“Locals in the Netherlands did not hold Americans responsible for Trump’s actions.” Kim said. “In fact, whatever negative feelings they had seemed to be directed towards Trump himself and not towards the general American people.”
—Staff writer Sonia Kim can be reached at sonia.kim@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Massachusetts State Police are actively investigating the assault of a Harvard College student that occurred late Tuesday night on Memorial Drive near Western Avenue.
The incident occurred just before midnight as the victim, a female undergraduate, was running along the Charles River from Leverett House and was grabbed from behind by the attacker, according to an advisory email disseminated to University affiliates by the Harvard University Police Department Wednesday afternoon. The assailant has only been identified to the Mass. State Police as a male with a “strong grip.”
The victim released pepper spray towards the attacker and was able to break free.
“She was carrying pepper spray, which is a smart thing to do,” David Procopio, a spokesperson for the State Police, said. “She discharged it in the direction of the person—she doesn’t know if she sprayed him accurately, if it came in contact with him, but the suspect let go and she was able to get away from him.”
Due to the victim’s “strong response” response to the attack, nothing was stolen and no medical attention was required, Procopio said.
The police reported that the victim did not know the assailant and the attack was unprovoked. Currently, no suspects have been identified and no arrests have been made.
The State Police are currently investigating the incident, calling upon any witnesses for assistance and asking anyone with information to reach out. Additionally, as a “standard practice,” the police are looking in the area to find any security camera footage that may shed any light on the attack, according to Procopio.
In the advisory message, HUPD advised students to avoid distractions and “walking too close to persons unnecessarily.” However, in the case, Procopio said there was no indication that the victim was distracted, and the incident appeared “unavoidable” as the victim was grabbed from behind.
This incident comes a month after two victims, a Harvard Business School doctoral student and a local restaurant employee, were stabbed near John F. Kennedy Park.
—Staff writer Michael E. Xie can be reached at michael.xie@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @MichaelEXie1.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
UPDATED: October 10, 2017 at 7:30 p.m. 
Speakers at Harvard Medical School’s first-ever symposium on the opioid crisis discussed the challenges of opioid addiction and strongly urged medical students to learn about how to prevent opioid dependency.
The symposium, named “The Opioid Crisis: HMS Responds with Education,” featured Medical School professors who presented on national trends and causes of opioid addiction. Introductory speakers included Medical School Dean George Q. Daley ’82 and Massachusetts Governor Charlie D. Baker ’79.
Daley said that the opioid crisis was the “greatest public health crisis faced by our nation.”
“The need for action has never been more acute, and one of the fronts of the struggle is without a doubt, education and training,” he said. “As we work to save lives and alleviate suffering, it is our duty to address this issue.”
Praising the expertise of the speakers, Daley said that he hoped the symposium would generate “effective and actionable policies” and that the medical school’s efforts will “create a body of best practices and teaching strategies that will serve as a resource for the world.”
In March, the Medical School launched OpioidX, an online course which focuses on opioid abuse treatment and prevention. Thousands of people from over 100 countries enrolled in the course within a month of its creation.
Baker, who is on the President’s Commission on Combating Drug Addiction and the Opioid Crisis, said that he became aware of the extent of the opioid crisis during his gubernatorial campaign in 2014.
“This was a really big fire burning that wasn’t necessarily getting the time or attention or the focus it deserved,” he said.
In 2015, Baker created an opioid addiction working group which called for mandatory pain management and substance use disorder education for every medical student and resident in Massachusetts. In August, a quarterly report from the Massachusetts Department of Health showed that opioid overdose deaths fell by 5 percent in the first half of 2017 compared to the same period in 2016.
Baker said that while he believed that the state is “headed the right way,” the looming dangers of inadequate medical education and higher use of fentanyl—an especially potent opioid—meant that the crisis was far from over.
“It’s going to be especially important in the pharmaceutical, dental, medical, and nursing communities to grab the ball and run with it with respect to ensuring that we use this stuff in the most efficacious and safest way possible,” he said.
Psychobiology professor Bertha K. Madras, who also sits in the Opioid Committee alongside Baker, read a passage citing inadequate education as the chief cause of widespread addiction. Madras then revealed that the passage was written in 1875, pointing out that a lack of medical and patient education continues to plague the country.
“We must also remember the patients. We must remember the consequences of stigma to the individual. And we must remember patient education,” she said.
Psychiatry professor Todd R. Griswold echoed a similar sentiment and urged medical schools to expose students to opioid treatment in clinical settings.
“It’s really important students don’t just see patients when they are in the midst of their worst struggles in addiction, but that they see people when they are doing well,” Griswold said.
—Staff writer William L. Wang can be reached at william.wang@thecrimson.com.
This article has been revised to reflect the following corrections: 
CORRECTION: October 6, 2017
A previous version of this story misspelled Psychiatry professor Todd R. Griswold's name. 
CORRECTION: October 10, 2017
A previous version of this story incorrectly indicated that Charlie Baker was the chair of the President’s Commission on Combating Drug Addiction and the Opioid Crisis. In fact, he is a member of the commission, not the chair. 
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
UPDATED: October 5, 2017 at 1:25 p.m.
After their arrival this summer, two new sets of Faculty Deans in Dunster and Mather Houses say they are delighted with their homes and are enjoying a transition to House life.
In April, Dean of the College Rakesh Khurana announced both Houses would soon have new leaders—Applied Mathematics professor L. “Maha” Mahadevan and oceanographer Amala Mahadevan in Mather, and Philosophy professors Sean D. Kelly and Cheryl Chen in Dunster.
Both couples say they have adjusted well to the new living environment with help from students.
“In the short time that we have been here, the warmth and friendliness of the students, staff and tutors at Mather have made us feel very much at home,” the Mahadevans wrote in an email.
Chen echoed these sentiments: “We’re just so happy with how welcoming everybody is,” she said.
“It’s just a spectacular place to be in. We pinch ourselves every day,” Kelly agreed.
Dunster House tutor Jordan Anderson commended Chen and Kelly for what he called respecting “a lot of the traditions that exist within Dunster House,” while also ensuring that a “very warm environment for students and for tutors” exists in the House.
Students have said they are pleased with the deans’ presence in the House.
"I think Mather’s been very welcoming to them. They’re very enthusiastic to be working with students and trying to get to know everyone,” said Kristiana I. Deleo ’19.
While both sets of Faculty Deans said they have enjoyed getting to know their Houses’ traditions, they also have new ideas in mind.
Chen’s freshman seminar, called “Death and Immortality,” meets weekly in Dunster, and Kelly is piloting an “Existential Cafe”—aligning with his academic interests in existentialism—that operates out of Dunster Grille.
Mather House’s Faculty Deans said they also plan to incorporate academic events into House programming, such as designated “evenings for collective studying and tutoring in the [dining hall], particularly for pset based courses.”
Chen and Kelly now live in Dunster with their two sons, 13-year-old Ben and seven-year-old Nathaniel. They praised Dunster residents for being “amazing with our kids.” Nathaniel now has “a captive audience of 400-plus students and staff to show off his magic tricks.”
The Mahadevans also have two children; their daughter graduated from the College this spring, and their son is a sophomore.
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction:
CORRECTION: October 5, 2017 
A previous version of this story misstated the name of the seven year-old son of Philosophy professors Sean D. Kelly and Cheryl Chen. His name is Nathaniel, not Michael. 
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Following a year-long hiatus, Indigo Peer Counseling reopened its doors last month.
Launched in spring 2016, Indigo specializes in counseling on issues related to race, class, and first-generation status. Shortly after its start, Indigo took a year-long break from holding regular drop-in hours to focus on increasing its numbers of trained staff and to work more closely with other cultural affinity groups.
Indigo has since reopened in Adams H Entryway, where it hosts drop-in hours Monday, Tuesday, and Thursday; on Wednesdays, Indigo hosts QuadTalk, a service that allows students to see peer counselors at the Radcliffe Quad. Students can also call the phone line, which is open Monday through Thursday.
According to co-director of Indigo Aakriti Prasai ’18, the group struggled to schedule training times last semester, leading to a shortage in trained staff.
“This semester, we were able to frontload all of the trainings right before shopping week, so everyone was good to go,” Prasai said.
Indigo’s training focused on incorporating a wide variety of perspectives. The group reached out to cultural affinity organizations like the Harvard Black Students Association and Harvard Fuerza Latina to gain a better understanding of the particular issues some students face.
“Each of the different issues we're trying to grapple with—race, class, immigration status, etc.—could all be their own peer counseling group as a whole if need to be,” Prasai said. “So there is a lot of training that we have to do just to make sure that as peer counselors, we're literate in the sort of things that are going on in these different communities.”
Prasai and co-director of Indigo Kay A. McGarrell ’18 said that training will likely continue throughout the semester because many of the students Indigo hopes to serve are affected by current events, such as changes in immigration policy. According to McGarrell, “just being aware of what’s going on in the world” is a part of their counseling strategy.
McGarrell said Indigo has faced several challenges as a relatively new peer counseling group.
“I feel like other clubs, they have things to fall back on,” McGarrell said. “We don’t have institutional records, institutional knowledge. So a lot of what we've been doing is starting from scratch.”
Prasai also added because Indigo is just starting up again, turnout “hasn’t been as high as we would’ve wanted right now.” However, she said she hopes this number will increase as Indigo continues to publicize their group.
“More and more people know about us now, which I think is amazing,” Prasai said.
Going forward, McGarrell said she hoped Indigo would be utilized not just as a counseling group, but also as “a part of a lot of the different cultural groups around campus.”
“I think we have the potential to be something this campus needs, especially right now,” McGarrell said.
—Staff writer Angela N. Fu can be reached at angela.fu@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @angelanfu.
.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
American public approval of nuclear weapons use remains strong despite equal diplomatic alternatives, Stanford political scientist Scott D. Sagan argued at the Kennedy School on Wednesday morning.
To a crowded room with over 40 attendees, Sagan described the results of an August 2017 study analyzing American willingness to use nuclear weapons against Iran today. While many scholars have suggested the presence of a “nuclear taboo” among the general public, Sagan’s findings indicate otherwise.
“The basic finding was that 60 percent of the public supported the decision to use atomic bombs on 100,000 [Iranian civilians],” rather than sacrificing 20,000 American soldiers in a ground attack, Sagan said. “When two million Iranian civilians are killed for 20,000, still almost 60 percent of the respondents approved of using a nuclear air strike. It’s statistically insignificant, but politically, I think, very significant that people didn’t drop off, even at killing two million people.”
The study included an additional scenario, in which an equally effective diplomatic option was added as a third course of action.
“The good news is that just over 40 percent supports the diplomatic option. The bad news is that 40 percent of the public still wants to drop [nuclear] bombs,” Sagan said.
Sagan’s study also found that Republicans, older people, and those in favor of the domestic death penalty were the most “hawkish.” Surprisingly, Sagan said, there was no significant difference between women and men.
“There’s a theory, we think, but we don’t know, that women are in almost all polls more dove-ish than men. And the reason, we think, is that the reason why women are more dove-ish is that they want to protect their loved ones,” Sagan said. “When it came to a trade-off, when it came to protecting U.S. GIs and innocent people, the protection of U.S. GIs overwhelmed their other views.”
Martin B. Malin, event organizer and executive director for the Kennedy School’s Project on Managing the Atom, emphasized the unique role that public opinion plays at the intersection of nuclear weapons and national security.
“Public opinion on the use of nuclear weapons is essential to understand, more so today than it ever has as the world becomes more conflictual and we have crises, for instance, in the Korean peninsula and more states that are closer to the use of nuclear weapons,” Malin said.
Harvard Kennedy School Professor Matthew Bunn expressed alarm at Sagan’s findings and their possible implications on decision making at the national level.
“Nuclear warfare is a really fundamental issue and trying to understand what people think about that is very important,” Bunn said. “To me, it is shocking that people are so willing even when it is not essential to do so.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Several student groups—including the Harvard Republican Club—are lobbying professors to support a Faculty motion designed to kill the College’s proposed regulations of undergraduate social life.
Harvard’s current social group policy, announced May 2016 and now in effect for the Class of 2021, bars members of single-gender final clubs and Greek organizations from campus leadership positions, varsity team captaincies, and certain fellowships.
But the policy may be under threat: In August 2017, Computer Science professor and former Dean of the College Harry R. Lewis ’68 filed a Faculty motion declaring the College shall not “discipline, penalize, or otherwise sanction students” for joining “any lawful organization.” The motion is slated for a Faculty-wide vote in November; if passed, it would contradict and cancel out the College’s sanctions.
Roughly a month ahead of the vote, at least six undergraduate organizations are hoping to sway the outcome in favor of the Lewis motion. The Republican Club on Tuesday sent an email to members asking them to sign up to talk with professors—“preferably ones you know well”—about why they should vote for the resolution.
Kent Haeffner ’18, the president of the Republican Club, said the group decided Tuesday at a club-wide meeting to help organize the lobbying effort, and has yet to contact any professors. He added club members oppose Harvard’s social penalties because they see the sanctions as “an attack on the freedom of association.”
“The ultimate outcome we’d like to have is we’d like to have this motion passed, and we’d like to see a return to respecting students’ basic rights,” he said.
The Republican Club is the latest group to join a broader, months-old movement launched in part by Conor Healy ’19. Healy said he began discussing the idea of lobbying professors with other students in July 2017.
He said six groups, including the Republican Club, have signed on to help to date. Healy declined to name the other five groups, claiming the organizations “don’t want to be in public speaking about it.” Healy is also the leader of the Open Campus Initiative, a group that has invited a number of controversial speakers to campus in the name of free speech, though he said the organization is not participating in the lobbying campaign.
“We’ve tried to facilitate a degree of coherent strategy among students that are interested in this and that includes the Harvard Republican Club and a few others,” he said. “We’re basically trying to understand who is talking to who, which students have a rapport with which professors, that kind of thing.”
Healy said he is unsure how many professors the six groups have reached to date, and that no one—as far as he knows—is keeping track of the exact number.
Questioned about the effort Wednesday night, Dean of the College Rakesh Khurana wrote in emailed statement to The Crimson that he believes a “diversity of perspectives and voices” is vital to the mission of Harvard College. He did not answer a question asking whether he was aware of the students’ lobbying.
“This is one example of why inclusion and belonging is so important to our institution,” he wrote.
Lewis, a long-time and vocal critic of the College’s sanctions, wrote in an email Wednesday morning that he was previously aware of the lobbying campaign and that he is “glad” students and faculty are engaging in conversations about his motion.
“I heard about it, but I actually didn’t realize it was being done by any particular group,” he wrote. “I figured it was the members of the affected organizations.”
The Lewis motion is not the only factor complicating the fate of the sanctions. Last month, a committee charged with reviewing the College’s social group policy recommended Harvard instead consider the sanctions as one of three potential paths forward for undergraduate social life. The other two choices involve completely banning membership in unrecognized single-gender social groups or a vague set of “some other possible solutions.”
University President Drew G. Faust will decide which option to pursue in the next few months.
—Staff writer Hannah Natanson can be reached at hannah.natanson@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @hannah_natanson.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Amid tense relations between the United States, China, and North Korea, Kennedy School professor and former Assistant Secretary of Defense Graham T. Allison ’62 argued that tension between superpowers like the U.S. and China is a pattern the world has seen before.
In a lecture at the Institute of Politics Wednesday, Allison said that when a rising power such as China tries to displace a ruling power like the U.S., “poop happens.” He referenced his book, “Destined for War,” which examines case studies of feuding international powers beginning with ancient Greece and Sparta.
Because past conflicts between world powers have resulted in war, Allison said, the United States and China ought to learn from the past and avoid this fate.
“To claim that war is inevitable would be wrong. But to claim that the odds are not good would be right,” he said.
The event, called “The Korean Peninsula and U.S.-China Relations: Lessons from Thucydides and the Cuban Missile Crisis,” was moderated by former Australian Prime Minister Kevin Rudd.
Allison also discussed China’s decision to agree to the latest round of United Nations sanctions on North Korea, which forces the Chinese government to shut down North Korean-owned businesses in the country. Experts say that China—North Korea’s main trading partner and diplomatic protector—agreed to the sanctions after frustration from escalating nuclear threats from the reclusive nation.
But on Wednesday, Allison raised the possibility of another motive: The Chinese might believe that the UN sanctions are “not likely to have a significant effect on North Korea,” and will not make the east Asian region less stable. If the sanctions were significant enough, Allison said, China would not have agreed because they “would run the risk of instability, which they like less than the alternative.”
Allison speculated that China’s hope in the region is to lessen American influence, arguing that Chinese President Xi Jinping regards American interference in east Asia the same way that former President Theodore Roosevelt, Class of 1908, looked at the Caribbean.
“‘What are the Spanish doing in Cuba?’ That’s like, ‘What are the Americans doing in Korea?’” he said. “They should not be here.”
In the future, Allison said he hopes American and Chinese diplomats can work together to prevent the possibility of a North Korean nuclear attack.
“My first and best hope would be that [President Donald] Trump and Xi would each appoint a couple of people who they trust and say, ‘You guys go off for a couple of days and come back with ugly options. Things that both of us are gonna hate, but that will be better than an attack on the North Koreans that risks a war between the U.S. and China,’” he said.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
A widely-publicized incident last year at Harvard Athletics has become a subject of study for the department’s neighbors at Harvard Business School.
Last week, all 928 first-year M.B.A. students discussed a Business School case study on the Athletic Department’s response to the revelation that the varsity men’s soccer team had, as recently as 2016, produced sexually explicit “scouting reports” on their female counterparts.
The case study, which employs published materials from The Crimson, the Boston Globe, and others, also discusses the responses of the men’s and women’s soccer teams, referencing Crimson op-eds from members of the 2012 women’s team and 2016 men’s team.
The case also briefly mentions similar events surrounding the men’s cross country team and their production of sexually explicit spreadsheets that also came to light last fall.
The case study formed part of this year’s Field Immersion Experiences for Leadership Development program, a required full-year course for first-year M.B.A. students. Students read the case for a session on “community values, culture, and communication,” according to Business School professor Katherine B. Coffman.
Coffman produced the case with fellow professor Alison Wood Brooks after Economics professor and Chairman of the Standing Committee on Athletics Jerry R. Green proposed the idea. Green explained that he pitched the case to colleagues in the Business School after a Standing Committee meeting with Athletics Director Bob Scalise in May.
“There are a lot of teachable moments coming out of this,” Green said. “One that I was interested in was bystander intervention, but there are a lot of other things that you could discuss as well.”
While the idea came from a meeting with Athletics administrators, Harvard was not involved in the creation of the case. At the request of administrators, according to Green, the case relies only on publicly available information, making it a “library case” in Business School parlance.
“That’s the ground rules that they asked for. They didn’t want confidential information to be used, and [Coffman] and [Brooks] stuck with that as a ground rule,” Green said.
Athletics spokesperson Timothy J. Williamson wrote in an email incidents that “others can learn from” the department’s response to last fall’s incidents.
“Our Athletics community has learned a great deal about these difficult issues, and we have sought to move forward by developing new trainings and support resources in partnership with OSAPR and the University’s Title IX office,” he added.
Coffman and Green said they hope the case will foster constructive conversation around issues of gender in environments beyond athletics. Green said instructors taught the men’s soccer case alongside a recent case about gender discrimination in the tech industry.
“The reality is these issues come up. They come up at work. They come up at school, and we need to be able to talk about them with each other in a constructive way where we can learn from each other and share perspectives,” Coffman said.
The case study follows the decisions of the Athletics Department and University administration after reporting from The Crimson revealed that a member of the 2012 men’s soccer team produced and circulated a document containing sexually explicit comments about incoming freshman on the women’s soccer team. Harvard cancelled the remainder of the 2016 men’s team season after an Office of General Counsel review revealed that the practice had continued up until and including in the 2016 season.
The professors suggested that instructors ask students how they would have acted if they had been the athletic director or about their involvement in similar situations where people were talking about or rating others’ perceived attractiveness.
“We felt that it was a situation that a lot of people probably would have encountered in one form or another during some of their school years, athletics experience, work experience,” Coffman said.
Following the events involving the cross country and soccer teams, the Athletics department undertook a cultural review of the department. In a September email to athletes, Scalise wrote that the department was implementing a series of new trainings for students and staff as well as a new protocol for reporting gender-based discrimination.
—Staff writer Brittany N. Ellis can be reached at brittany.ellis@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @britt_ellis10.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The College used input from undergraduate focus groups to update its sexual assault prevention training modules for 2017, according to Title IX Coordinator Emily J. Miller.
Miller, who helped roll out Harvard’s first-ever online module last year, said feedback from three different focus groups helped her office determine how to best update the modules.
For example, the module now includes a scenario about sexual assault instead of in-class sexual harassment, following feedback from students.
Two Title IX training modules were offered this year—one for returning and one for incoming students—though Miller said that it was “possible” that her office would develop class-specific modules in the future.
The College initially set a Sept. 7 deadline to complete the module, but extended that date until Sept. 15 for students who had not yet finished. There is currently no penalty for failing to complete the module, and returning students may opt out and choose to attend an in-person training instead.
In March 2016, a University-wide task force released a series of recommendations for overhauling sexual assault prevention efforts and charged individual schools with developing specific implementation plans by the fall. The recommendations called on schools to augment sexual assault education and prevention training, with an emphasis on mandatory annual training for all students, interactive sessions in small groups, and online modules. In line with the task force’s suggestions, the College rolled the first iteration of the online training module to all undergraduates in September 2016.
Miller said almost every incoming student completed the modules year, because it was sent out before the academic year began. In addition to the online training, incoming students must attend in-person trainings with their entryways and attend a performance on sexual assault prevention.
Miller estimated the incoming student training completion rate to be 100 percent, but said she did not have an estimate for the completion rate for returning students.
“It’s always tougher to get returning students on board to complete trainings like this,” Miller said. “I do imagine that we’ll have our work cut out for us in getting returning students to complete online trainings from year to year.”
In interviews with three returning students, two said they did not complete the module.
Ify Ogu ’20 said she would rather have attended a group in-person session, similar to the entryway meetings freshmen must attend.
“I don’t feel like I ever have enough free time to sit down and do the whole thing,” Ogu said. “Maybe an entryway meeting in one of the first days of school is a better way to get a lot of people to complete it.”
—Staff writer Anna M. Kuritzkes can be reached at anna.kuritzkes@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @AnnaKuritzkes.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
As the calendar flips to October in Boston, thankfully we still have some of the vestiges of summer—the leaves have not begun to fall, the sun continues to shine, and temperatures still allow for t-shirts and shorts.
Though the climate is relatively similar across the New England and Mid-Atlantic region, I will likely pack my winter coat as I depart for Ithaca, N.Y., this weekend to cover the Harvard-Cornell game. The barren land around the Finger Lakes just screams “frozen tundra,” even well before the onset of winter. But more on Cornell later.
We’re heading into Week 4 of the 2017 football season, and there is just about no separation between any of the Ivy League contenders. Perennial favorites like Harvard, Penn, and Princeton have all suffered losses, while upstarts Yale, Dartmouth, and Columbia show no signs of slowing down. Folks, I haven’t seen this much parity since I watched Blazing Saddles.
One inevitable consequence of the quality football being played by so many Ivy League programs is that my expert opinions could backfire on me at any moment. After many hours of studying and deliberation to avoid ruining my reputation, here are my picks for this week.
BROWN AT STETSON
Brown is playing Stetson University. Stetson University is in DeLand, Fla. DeLand sounds similar to the land. “The Land” is one of Cleveland’s nicknames. The Cleveland Browns play in The Land.
If you’re wondering where I’m going with this, basically Brown is the Ivy equivalent of the Cleveland Browns. Get it? Because of the name. But also because of their records. All these similarities are making my job here pretty easy.
While non-conference games are always hard to project, Stetson is not looking so hot to begin 2017. The Hatters have a sterling 0-5 record, and for some Ancient Eight perspective, they lost to Dartmouth, 38-7. Brown’s defense has been its issue so far, but Stetson does not have a formidable offense, scoring a paltry 12 points per game.
When two struggling teams collide, at least one has to earn a win somehow. The Browns are currently 0-4, but Brown University will look to break away from its Cleveland counterpart this weekend.
Pick: Brown 24, Stetson 17
YALE AT DARTMOUTH
In The Doors’ song “Peace Frog,” Jim Morrison sings of “blood in the streets in the town of New Haven.” Luckily for Yale, this portentous lyric holds no weight this week, as the Bulldogs are on the road in Hanover, N.H.
Yale has apparently decided to become the Wilt Chamberlain of Ivy League football, thus far posting nearly 50 points per contest. Will it go for 100 in a game this season? Only time will tell.
The Bulldogs’ Chamberlain-esque offense is powered by an explosive running game anchored by a senior-freshman duo. Deshawn Salter and Zane Dudek have combined for 663 yards in just three games, each averaging over 100 per game.
Following a dead-last finish in the Ivy League last year, Dartmouth has rebounded early on in 2017. The potent Big Green defense halted 2016 co-champion Penn at just 13 points last week. More notably, Dartmouth has limited its opponents to under 100 rushing yards per game—unstoppable forces Salter and Dudek, meet your immovable object.
If you are a dedicated reader of this column, you know that we love to pile on Yale and New Haven in general, but there really isn’t anything to critique as long as Yale remains unbeaten. As Morrison would say, Strange Days indeed.
Pick: Yale 30, Dartmouth 27
COLUMBIA AT MARIST
Legendary Columbia coach Al Bagnoli has finally returned to his former glory. Bagnoli came out of retirement in 2014 to retake the reins at Columbia, and the Lions returned the favor by going a perfect 0-10. They earned two victories in 2015 and bumped their win mark up to three in 2016. This week, they have a chance to eclipse three wins, and we just finished up September.
The Lions have gotten off to an unexpected 3-0 start, including a 28-24 upset victory over Ancient Eight co-favorite Princeton. The matchup with the Tigers went down to the wire, as Anders Hill connected with Ronald Smith for the go-ahead touchdown with just 1:12 left to play.
Not only will Columbia look forward to extending its winning streak this weekend, but the Lions will also relish a chance to get out of New York City. It’s a given that Ithaca, New Haven, and the like will draw our ire, but for one of the world’s premier cities, New York is very underwhelming. It’s packed. There are rats. Seas of garbage dot the sidewalks. You get the picture.
Away from the smog of the city, the Lions should devour the Red Foxes with ease.
Pick: Columbia 41, Marist 17
PENN AT CENTRAL CONNECTICUT STATE
How’s this for hard-hitting journalism? The Daily Pennsylvanian reported on a Wharton class in which students designed Buzzfeed quizzes—and some went viral! The most popular quiz asked readers to choose from a list of fall things, and it promised to determine which version of Taylor Swift the reader is most like. Just a hunch, but I don’t think Quakers football was on the list of fall favorites.
In the Buzzfeed spirit, here are three reasons why Penn won’t beat Central Connecticut State on Saturday. You won’t believe No. 3!
First, Central Connecticut thinks it can hang with the best of them. It actually can’t, as evidenced by a 50-7 loss to Syracuse and a 59-9 defeat at Youngstown State, but the confidence is what really matters.
Second, Penn has shown a tendency for barn-burners in 2017, but over the last two weeks, Central Connecticut has outscored its opponents, 83-21.
Third (and most importantly), Penn doesn’t get to play in its winter-weather terrordome. When the Quakers beat Harvard last year at Franklin Field, I nearly froze to death in the outdoor press box, which was actually just two rows of bleachers with caution tape around them.
Pick: Central Connecticut 30, Penn 24
GEORGETOWN AT PRINCETON
This one is a clash of royalty. A college with “prince” in its title takes on another with King George II as its speculated namesake. Here’s where I would make some kind of Game of Thrones reference, but apparently I am the last person on planet Earth who hasn’t watched the series yet.
I have a suggestion for the Hoyas: stop scheduling Ivy League opponents. Just stop it. I’m not saying by any means that the Ancient Eight is some sort of bastion of elite football, but for whatever reason Georgetown struggles mightily against Ivy opponents. This year, the Hoyas have already lost to Columbia, and Harvard strolled into RFK Stadium to deliver a 41-2 trouncing.
Georgetown has one more Ivy League team left on its schedule—like the other games, this one does not look promising. Princeton senior quarterback Chad Kanoff has a completion percentage over 70, and he has thrown for 920 yards in three games. Kanoff also has a multitude of receiving options to target. Last week, we saw the Hoyas struggle to defend Harvard’s passing attack, and the Crimson’s quarterback situation is not as established as the Tigers’.
However, Georgetown is still counting its blessings that it escaped RFK Stadium last week without the building suffering a massive structural failure. I’m sure a loss won’t weigh too heavily on the Hoyas’ minds.
Pick: Princeton 48, Georgetown 7
HARVARD AT CORNELL
Cornell, Cornell, Cornell.
When preparing to write this column, I thought: could Harvard Club Flag Football beat the Big Red? It sounds ludicrous, but people ponder whether Alabama could beat the NFL’s worst team all the time. All the flag football team would need is a few uniforms and sets of pads, and it would be good to go.
Speaking of uniforms, in my opinion Harvard’s evoke a sense of tradition and pride—the multitude of combinations of crimson, black, white, and gold blend perfectly to form the epitome of a quality football uniform. Cornell’s, on the other hand, fall flat. In the words of Boston Globe columnist Dan Shaughnessy, Cornell is the “tomato can” of the Ivy League, and the garish Big Red jerseys only serve to strengthen this metaphor.
The Big Red is a punching bag this year for a variety of reasons. The scoring has not worked out. Cornell is averaging 15 points per game, and its top rusher has posted just 39 yards a contest. The defense has not worked out either. The Big Red has only forced three turnovers in three weeks.
It’s bad enough that Cornell is facing another letdown of a season. It’s even worse that the Big Red has to swallow this letdown in desolate Ithaca. I feel like the only pastime there would be walking around the woods in search of wild Cornell students.
For example, it’s really telling that that tripadvisor places the Cornell Lab of Ornithology fourth on its “Things to do in Ithaca” list. On the bright side, Big Red fans have an opportunity to put their bird knowledge to good use: they can identify birds around Schoellkopf Field instead of having to watch the Crimson run up the score on Saturday.
Pick: Harvard 44, Cornell 13
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Ben Abercrombie, the freshman defensive back who sustained a major cervical injury in a football game at Rhode Island, has regained partial feeling in his arms and legs.
On Sept. 16, Abercrombie suffered paralysis after colliding with a Rams wide receiver near the sideline. Medics sped Abercrombie to a Rhode Island hospital, where he remains in intensive care.
In the last two-and-a-half weeks, Abercrombie has undergone several rounds of surgery. His parents have flown from Hoover, Ala., to support the freshman. According to Harvard coach Tim Murphy, Abercrombie is fighting a number of pulmonary battles, including post-operative pneumonia. The injury affected not only his nervous system but also respiratory processes.
The next step for Abercrombie is to transfer from the hospital to a rehabilitation facility. He likely will move to the Atlanta-based Shepherd Center, which specializes in spinal injuries.
Abercombie’s long-term prognosis remains uncertain. Doctors maintain hope that he can regain full mobility, but this outcome is far from certain. Even the best-case scenario would involve extensive rehabilitation.
The partial recovery of feeling is a positive sign, however.
“Doctors certainly hope for the best,” Murphy said. “They have thousands of examples of people regaining full recovery. But the statistics are daunting as well.”
Accompanying the medical news was the announcement of the Benson M. Abercrombie ’21 Fund. Established by the Harvard Varsity Club, the initiative will offer financial assistance to the Abercrombie family and any future student-athlete who suffers a “severe or catastrophic” injury.
The fund was unveiled early Wednesday. Harvard Athletics and Friends of Harvard Football also provided support.
“There’s not one time in my 24 years at Harvard, and there’s not one time in my 31 years as a head coach, where I’ve been so overwhelmed with people [reaching out],” Murphy said. “I think that it speaks well of Harvard and people in general that so many people want to help in any way they can.”
Through the Catastrophic Injury Insurance Program, the NCAA provides assistance to student-athletes such as Abercrombie. Backed by the Mutual of Omaha Insurance Company, the program bankrolls medical care for individuals who have suffered major injuries while playing college sports.
Several caveats apply, though. The policy carries a $90,000 deductible. NCAA regulations require athletes to have proof of insurance that covers this dollar amount. In other words, preexisting policies must pay out close to $100,000 before the NCAA program kicks in.
“The policy is designed to pay after all other sources of insurance and benefits have been exhausted,” states a document with frequently asked questions.
Previously, the NCAA policy has come under fire because of the major deductible and lack of scholarship safeguards. Kyle Hardrick, a forward for the University of Oklahoma basketball team, became a poster child for this debate in 2011, when a knee injury derailed his career.
The Sooners revoked Hardrick’s scholarship, saddling him with unexpected tuition bills. Simultaneously, Oklahoma did not sign a medical hardship waiver that would have allowed Hardrick to transfer to another Division I program. The forward enrolled at a junior college.
Harvard does not offer athletic scholarships, so the question of tuition is not at play. The $90,000 deductible is. The Benson M. Abercrombie ’21 Fund will work in conjunction with the NCAA program. For injured athletes, the Harvard initiative may cover the deductible or fund expenses beyond the scope of the Catastrophic Injury Insurance Program.
“There’s not a typical procedure because these situations are so atypical,” Murphy said. “The bottom line is that until you go through a situation like this, with a catastrophically injured player, you don’t realize the enormous emotional, spiritual, and certainly financial costs on the family.”
As Abercrombie continues his recovery, Harvard football is three games into the season. The Crimson dropped the season opener at Rhode Island but reeled off two straight wins. Abercrombie remains at the front of many minds.
Last week, he received a call from Nick Saban, the football coach at the University of Alabama. Harvard players wore “BA” stickers during the Crimson’s home opener versus Brown, and several coaches sported patches with Abercrombie’s number.
“He’s really shown some great strength, and we’re all playing for him and for each other, so I think that’s really united our team,” said junior defensive tackle Richie Ryan.
“I can say for me, and I know a few other guys, it’s just really taking advantage of each day and each moment that you have on the field, realizing that at any point it can be all taken away from you,” added junior wide receiver Justice Shelton-Mosley. “Just giving 100 to everything I do.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections

Two Flyby staff writers weigh in on Harvard's unseasonably warm fall thus far. 
Love It: “Why Are You Complaining? Winter is Terrible” by Stuti Telidevara
To say the warm weather is too warm is shortsighted. In a few months it’ll be so cold that your knuckles will hurt from the force of the blistering winds. Your lips will be permanently chapped. Your face will go numb ducking between Sever and Emerson. Do you enjoy the ten minutes of thawing you’ll have to do when entering a heated building in the winter (and the indoor overheating)? That’s what’s ahead of us. The Farmer’s Almanac says this winter is going to be much colder than last year’s, and super “wet and snowy.” No, thank you.
Compare that to the current blessed weather-utopia we’re living in. It’s pleasantly warm for your morning commute, hot in the afternoon (when, let’s be honest, everyone is usually in a building anyway), and it cools down pretty dramatically when the sun sets. That means shorts! Skirts! Birks without socks! Flip flops! Crocs, if you’re one of those people! Even more importantly: when you go out at night in ~revealing~ clothes, you don’t have to tote your monstrosity of a winter coat and worry about someone stealing it at a party. And you can actually wear aforementioned ~revealing~ clothes without losing sensation in your limbs. You want to wear sweaters? By March, you’ll be sick of them, because they’re going to be all you’re wearing.
Clothes aside, it’s so great to actually be able to feel sunlight on my face. The sun sets by 4 p.m. in the winter, and I basically have the productivity of a sloth after that. I walk out of afternoon section and into some kind of dark underworld. None of that now, though. I can actually see the colors of the sunset on the way to the dining hall. #instadaily
Speaking of the good ol’ outdoors, the warmth makes them actually survivable. I find myself wanting to take walks or sit on the lawn. And this is from someone with no desire to move whatsoever on a normal day. Do you know what it’s like to feel yourself falling asleep in a deck chair? Heaven. That’s what it feels like.
I know that Harvard’s population has a disproportionate number of Northeasterners. That, combined with the average student’s masochistic tendencies, makes some of you guys think the weather always has to be life-threatening. I’m here to tell you that’s not the case. Weather can be your friend too, if you just let it love you.
Hate It: “Sweater Weather is Just Objectively Better” by Trula Rael
Following a recent trek back from Central Square, I looked like I had just taken a dip in a swimming pool of sweat. And while I could attribute this excessive perspiration to my below-average fitness level, I choose instead to blame the merciless sun on that 86-degree day. I made a beeline for the lone window fan in my stuffy room, but alas, the air it was blowing in from outside was too hot to provide any respite. As I hugged the fan, visions of DeWolfe air conditioning danced in my heat-delirious head.
According to my Google calendar (which I live by) summer has come and gone. But my weather app tells another story. I enjoy summer as much as the next person, but now that the calendars are firmly turned to fall, how am I supposed to mentally (and physically) prepare myself when thermometers rocket to 85 degrees?
It’s hard enough to look semi-put together on any given day, but achieving any look is exponentially more difficult as the heat rages on. I find myself trying in vain to pull a nonrepetitive outfit out of the mere two-week supply of summer clothes I came to school with. I’ve got a giant box of sweaters gifted from my mom, her friends, and everyone’s second cousin twice-removed who was convinced that I would freeze to death. Not one well-wisher thought tank tops were in order.
One would think that in such unbearable heat, these sweaters would go sad and unused, but I’ve made that mistake once, and I won’t make it again. One minute outside renders anything long sleeve incredibly uncomfortable, but ten minutes into an air conditioned lecture in Sanders, and I deeply regret my clothing choices. When it’s cold outside, I can simply take off layers once I get inside. When it’s hot, however, the burden of lugging around layers to handle freezing cold buildings outweighs the joy of a breezy, light sundress.
So bring on the sweater weather. Bring on the boots, the leggings, the blankets and pumpkin spice flavored everything. I’m ready for the days when “warm” means cozy, not sweaty.
