News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Every morning, I wrap my hijab—the headscarf worn by Muslim women—around my head. Just as my skin tone and features mark my ethnic origin as Pakistani, my headscarf marks my religious identity as Muslim. Combined, they make me other in the landscape of America.
Though I’ve always been proud of my identity and its visibility, there’s no denying how scary it can be. Two years ago, terror overtook Muslim communities after the horrific shooting in North Carolina. Last year, an attacker repeatedly struck two Muslim women who were simply pushing their children in strollers on the streets of New York City. This summer, a 17 year old Muslim girl was assaulted and killed after leaving her mosque during the holy month of Ramadan.
Being other means being inundated with these news stories, even as the media hesitates to label them as hate crimes. It also means having your own experiences to supplement the narrative.
I was lucky to be in an accepting community, but I still experienced my fair share of the casual racism that comes with being a person of color in America. It would range from friends telling me, “You don’t even look brown!”, because of my fairer skin (like that was supposed to be a compliment) to total strangers saying that I would end up joining the Islamic State after high school (sorry to disappoint, but I ended up at Harvard instead).
I often felt like all people saw was a brown girl with a scarf on her head. I was tired of small talk revolving around President Donald Trump’s planned ban of Muslims or my opinion on Malala Yousafzai. I hated being on edge, always afraid that my actions would lend support to a Muslim stereotype, tired of having to navigate an identity defined by others.
It seemed like all my otherness brought me was microaggressions and stereotyping. It wasn’t until I came to Harvard, over a year ago now, that I started to realize how much joy it brought me too.
It happened on a Thursday, first semester of freshman year. I was on my way to office hours, when, in the quest for directions, I came across a security guard. We exchanged pleasantries, but then he said something that stopped me.
“Aap kahaan se hain?”
The words, which translate to, “Where are you from?”, were spoken in Urdu, the native language of my parents. Since Urdu was the first language I learned (I couldn’t even speak English until I was three years old), I was thrilled to hear it so unexpectedly.
We had a short conversation—three, maybe four minutes, all in Urdu. I told him about my background and asked about his, and that one interaction made me feel more at home at Harvard than I had felt so far.
I walked into office hours with the most ridiculous smile on my face. And as I giddily related the incident to my parents that night, I started to wonder: How many times has my visible identity brought me in contact with more than casual racism and cringe worthy encounters?
How many times has it brought me joy?
And I realized then how much the little things matter. When I started to wear hijab, I received so many compliments on my colorful scarves—compliments that meant the world to me back then and that still brighten my day now. Walking down the streets of Harvard Square, I’ve had countless strangers say “salaam,” the Islamic greeting, to me—a single word that brings me so much peace. And whenever I have a happenstance conversation in Urdu, whether in a lecture hall or a restaurant, I feel lighter.
Every single one of these interactions was and is joyful. Every single one of them makes me feel a little less other, a little more at home in my surroundings and in my own skin.
The thing is, I’ve never been allowed to see my identity in that way. The discourse is always defensive—dominated by stories of discrimination and feelings of fear. With the rise of post-9/11 Islamophobia, I understand why. The fear and the worry and the pain is real, and so I put my fists up too. After all, in these very pages, I’ve spent the last semester exploring the nuances of my experience, the difficulties of expressing my identity, and the constant shrinking that is forced upon me. I know the weight of being other all too well.
But even as I become more and more wary, constantly aware of the racist remarks around the corner, I know that I must continue to cherish the vibrant beauty that is my identity. These sudden moments of softness, moments that I’ve rediscovered here at Harvard, have reminded me to do that again. These moments show me that maybe I’m not always as other as I feel. That I am not so alone. These moments make my hijab home.
So here’s to honoring my otherness in all its complexity, joy included. And here’s to spending the following days and months and years finding and cherishing those moments of beauty.
Shireen Younus ’20 is a Crimson Editorial editor in Pforzheimer House. Her column appears on alternate Thursdays.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The sanctions against the final clubs and the subsequent developments caused a stir on Harvard’s campus. Cries of joy for the demise of privilege and classism have once more been met with arguments for freedom of association. Still, the administration refuses to provide all of the College’s undergraduate students with the social spaces they so desperately crave.
The key issue at stake in this entire quagmire is, of course, money. Harvard, as a four-year American residential college, is informally expected to provide its pupils with more than a world-class education. In the best American way, it is a business providing a paid service. We, as its clients, feel entitled to a college “experience” that students in other countries do not have—a college experience that is all about partying and meeting people who will be our best friends for the rest of our lives. To provide that experience and meet those expectations, Harvard must apportion the money it makes accordingly, benefiting every student-client proportionally to what they pay. But that’s not what it is doing.
Think of Harvard like you’d think of an airplane. Everyone is flying in the same direction—the name opens doors, after all—and everyone has paid the same base fare (literally, if you are not on financial aid, or metaphorically, if you are). Yet some of us are lucky enough to be sitting in business class, with better, larger seats that recline more, a larger screen, and real food. Those people are there because, prior to getting into the plane, they had advantages that allowed them to buy a better place to sit. Meanwhile, most of us are sitting in economy, with cramps, oily faces, and no free booze.
Harvard’s new policy seeks to upend the plane’s traditional configuration by razing business class and turning the whole thing into coach. It knows it doesn’t have the money to turn the entire airplane into business, so leveling everyone down seems the way to go. Shutting down final clubs, the administration believes, will force those who were ejected from business class to rejoin the plebeians in economy.
Of course, that’s not going to happen: They will find a way to hold on to their privileges (maybe by renting a proverbial private jet we’ve never seen or heard of) and we’ll just continue to suck on our thumbs as we eat bad airplane food. (Before a war starts in the comments below: This is not a joke about Harvard University Dining Services, but instead part of the metaphor.)
Here’s another idea, though: Why not upgrade all of campus to economy plus? Why not have College-funded house parties more often? Why not create more party spaces in the renewed Houses, which feel like they’ve just gotten more cramped and antiseptic?
The problem here might seem to be one of budget apportionment rather than resource scarcity. The real issue, however, is that we might not actually be flying on the same plane.
The Houses have varying budgets because of alumni donations. An Eliotite and a Matherite pay the same tuition, yet only one gets to go to the famous Eliot Fête dance. Likewise, certain concentrations, like Classics and History of Art and Architecture, have classes offering fully paid excursions to Europe to their students. Classics even has free monthly student-faculty lunches at the Faculty Club. So even though we are all literally or metaphorically paying $70,000 a year for our education, we are most certainly not getting the same service out of that money.
Harvard always claims it has its hands tied when it comes to budget. Indeed, it’s very easy to claim you have no more funds and then go after outside institutions like final clubs, where it is the very consequences of a fractured University environment that causes social malaise. Yet very few are willing to recognize that the “inequality” and “exclusivity” of the final clubs are embedded in Harvard’s own operational structure.
As much as I eschew final club culture—I have yet to set foot on a so-called exclusive social space during my time here—Harvard cannot pelt stones at those Mount Auburn St. mansions when its own house is made of glass. Why can’t the University start by reviewing its own endowment policies instead?
Maybe that will involve saying no to some wealthy donors when they knock on Massachusetts Hall’s door with a check that will not benefit all students equally. But it is my hope that if the administration is going to question final club values, it won’t hop off its moral high horse when offered a targeted investment that will not benefit the majority of the student body.
If you’re going to raze the plane, Harvard, do it by upgrading us all to economy plus—but, most importantly, get us all on the same plane in the first place. Raze to raise, and stick to the principles you say you so proudly espouse.
Arthur S. Lopes ’19 is a History concentrator in Eliot House.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
All is not well in Cambridge. Internally, Harvard faces uncertainty over a controversial social group policy, questions of gender equity in both the Mathematics and Athletics Departments, disappointing endowment returns, and a recent National Labor Relations Board ruling mandating a new graduate student unionization election.
Nationally, the federal government is taking increasingly aggressive stances to challenge longstanding norms in higher education. For starters, the Department of Justice is considering a lawsuit against Harvard as part of a probe of its admissions practices. Congress is also contemplating an unprecedented 1.4 percent tax on Harvard’s endowment.
Many of these issues are Harvard-specific. Others, though impacting other peer institutions, end up being litigated by Harvard. The prominence, wealth, and prestige of the University make it a clear bellwether—and a target for those who would wish to make waves in higher education.
The stakes are rarely higher. At their core, these issues could force a re-examination of the relationship between the student and the University as well as the diverse makeup of the College.
In our view, these are must-win fights. Affirmative action has helped build a more diverse institution over the past several decades and must be preserved. The social group sanctions are the most concrete action in years to take action against bastions of exclusion that have tainted broader campus culture. The ongoing restructuring of Harvard Management Company must succeed to put the University on a more stable financial foundation and make all else possible in the future.
Unfortunately, at the same time as the University faces these important challenges, Harvard is undergoing a leadership transition. University President Drew G. Faust has announced that she will step down in June 2018. The presidential search committee—consisting of members of the Harvard Corporation and the Board of Overseers, the University’s highest and second-highest governing bodies, respectively—has been meeting over the past couple months to build a short list for Faust’s replacement.
Given the potential risks to Harvard, it is imperative that Faust’s successor be prepared to tackle these problems on day one. No time can be lost in the transition. It is possible that this means that an internal candidate, someone already familiar with the conflicts that Harvard faces, may be preferable. Alternatively, the search committee must be especially confident that an external choice could transition into the role without a ramp up period that might risk damage to the institution. It is heartening to see that care has been taken in the past to manage these risks.
Similar considerations should impact the credentials sought for the job. For example, the academic obligations of the university presidency may necessitate someone who has performed research at the highest level in their field, presumably denoted via a Ph.D. Experience with raising funds, overseeing investments, and shepherding a major institution through a time of belt tightening may also aid the transition of the job’s management responsibilities.
Though we know relatively little about the candidate pool so far, we are excited to hear that the search committee has begun to narrow the field along some of these criteria. It is critical that the student body should keep up with the pace of the presidential search and offer suggestions as potential issues arise. The stakes are too high for any alternative.
This staff editorial solely represents the majority view of The Crimson Editorial Board. It is the product of discussions at regular Editorial Board meetings. In order to ensure the impartiality of our journalism, Crimson editors who choose to opine and vote at these meetings are not involved in the reporting of articles on similar topics.

Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
“Well, when I perform naked comedy for example—”
Solange N. Azor ’18 casually drops in this detail mid-sentence, entirely unselfconscious.
She is explaining her penchant for “breaking norms”; nude stand-up is an example.
Given that imagining the audience naked is an antidote prescribed for performers stricken with stage fright, this role reversal sounds like a special kind of torture—some sort of barbaric, mandated discipline that the Romans might inflict on miscreants too unathletic to participate in the normal fight-till-death bloodshed.
Azor signs up for this activity voluntarily (on a monthly basis, no less) but the hyperbolic battlefield intensity thing might not be too far off. Although she infuses every other sentence with an affable levity, when it comes to the performance of humor—clothed or otherwise—Azor is soberly contemplative.
Her senior year of high school, Azor was involved in a serious car crash. At her first-ever stand-up performance later that year, Azor decided on a whim to bail on the story she had planned. Instead, she talked about the crash. The event was doubly successful: laughter from the audience,  and catharsis for her: “It helped me sort through all the weird emotions from crashing your car,” Azor says.
Since then, she says, performing comedy has become a “coping mechanism.” But she also champions its potential salutary effects on society at large.
A self-described natural storyteller, Azor says most of her humor derives from her own experiences—“but I’m also a black woman, so a lot of that experience is inherently political.” She says she made the conscious decision to intentionally lean into that politicization with her jokes, especially when an audience member might not share her identities. “I like to try to get people to laugh at themselves,” she says.
This summer, Azor worked at a comedy group called Lady Parts Justice, a program that combines abortion activism and stand-up. She is currently writing a thesis on “comedy as a form of cultural activism in destigmatization work in abortion,” based on her experience as well as historical examples of cultural activism that used comedy to grapple with difficult subjects like HIV/AIDS and sex work.
Though it might seem surprising to join such solemn justice work with uproarious hilarity, Azor says, the combination is natural—even necessary. “I need the balance of feeling like I’m fighting, or doing anti-oppression work, to feel truly fulfilled,” she says. 
But her relationship with performance activism is, at times, complicated. Azor says comedy notoriously excludes marginalized groups. Azor struggled to feel comfortable in Harvard’s comedy scene—even as president of the Harvard College Stand-Up Comic Society—and worries about potentially compromising her identity in performance.
Like all her postulations regarding comedy, she approaches this problem thoughtfully. She worries about “people consuming me without really, really understanding where the pain behind the humor is coming from.”
Her solution for now is to attempt to include her audience in the fun without letting viewers off the hook. She tries to make comedy that reverses power dynamics inherent in humor; comedy that says “you’re not laughing at us any more. You can laugh about how sad our experience has been, at your roles as oppressors, but you’re not going to use laughter as a tool of oppression anymore.”
Azor smiles. “And that’s where I find a lot of my power.”
Sections
As he enters the subterranean murk of the Harvard Square T stop, Wyatt M. Robertson ’18 isn’t hard to identify: Part of it is the way he bounds down the steps, but most of it is the name tag still clinging to his shirt. It’s a vestige of the dinner he’s just left, a Senior Class Committee event at the Faculty Club. He unclips the tag, shamefaced, as we board the Red Line, and unzips his backpack to tuck it inside. His jacket is also in there—he’s wearing only a t-shirt in the 35-degree chill—but that’s not the strangest part. Nestled toward the back of the bag, where you might expect to see a laptop, is a wire clothes hanger.
The clothes hanger emerges again once he’s led me up several flights of stairs in a Boston building. He pulls it out of his backpack after we catch our breath in a top-floor room with oily, sloping ceilings. That distinctive clothes hanger shape melts and morphs as he fashions the wire with deft hands, talking all the while.
“I met a group of friends from around Boston, teenagers who had been to this building before and we’re all into photography.” Robertson pauses to slide the coat hanger along the crack of the door to his right with an expression of intense concentration. “They challenged me to get to the roof, and then they—I guess they initiated me.” A slow exhale as he contemplates the lock from above. “They kind of initiated me into this cool world of finding alternative places to take some of my favorite photos of Boston.”
That “cool world” wasn’t on his radar until Robertson’s freshman year, when the record-breaking snowfall weighed down fire escapes around the city and turned them into “actual ladders. We would see those and be like, ‘Whoa, that would be cool to go on top of!’”
Things progressed from there. Sophomore year, he started learning how to pick locks, mostly from the internet. For him, it’s “comparable to why people like crossword puzzles and Sudoku,” but ultimately it’s a means to an end; lock-picking is, and always has been, about his photography. “It didn’t really start with locks. I started just getting to places that seemed really cool so I could document them, and upon doing that, discovered that a lot of those places were locked.”
His specific skillset, he says, gives him a unique perspective on life at Harvard and beyond. Having spent his junior year studying abroad in Sydney, Amsterdam, and Morocco, he had to get comfortable with combination locks, “because that’s the kind of lock people use” throughout Sydney—whereas Harvard, he tells me without a trace of irony, is strictly a Yale lock campus. The combination lock was the second type that he learned to pick; his tone turns nostalgic as he explains, step by step, how to fiddle it open.
“You can pick a combo lock with a Coke can as long as you have scissors or a knife,” he begins, launching into detailed instructions.
It’s important to Robertson that he pass through Harvard’s gates every once in awhile in search of adventure. That’s how the photogenic trips downtown began: They were a way to “clear [his] head, to explore new places, to maintain good mental health.”
Robertson gives me two pieces of wisdom: The first is to try everything. “In fact,” he clarifies, “try it multiple times, because oftentimes you’ll do stuff wrong.”
For example: Robertson initially tried being a Physics concentrator and a “heinous” Harvard Student Agencies model. These days he’s a Psychology concentrator, the second marshal to the Class of 2018, and an ordained minister—“it might come in handy some day”—and he’s still trying new things. He’s undergoing medical screening to donate a kidney.
The second piece of advice? Listen to more of Dexys Midnight Runners.
“I firmly believe that ‘Come On Eileen’ is the last song that should be played at any party,” he says. “Those times when people can feel like they aren’t concerned about anything and can just let loose and have a good time—I think they’re so important.”
Not that Robertson will have the opportunity to blast ‘80’s pop on Harvard’s campus for much longer. He hasn’t “exactly reached any conclusions” about what he’ll do next: He mentions returning to the West Coast or even to Australia. He might even stay in Boston for a bit—as long as there are still roofs to explore, sunsets to document, and maybe, eventually, friends’ weddings to officiate.
Sections
When Justus E. Uwayesu ’18 was about nine years old, he dreamed of going to school. He had never been to school, but every day Uwayesu watched schoolchildren in Kigali, the capital city of Rwanda, laugh and play as he scavenged for food. “What I saw was a symbol of happiness and freedom,” Uwayesu says. “There’s a happiness that has to do with students anywhere.”
Now a senior at Harvard, Uwayesu says he is dedicated to giving the gift of education to as many people as possible. School gives kids “a sense of purpose and something to live for as they grow up,” Uwayesu says. So he started a foundation called Seven United, which recently purchased five acres of land in his home village to build a school. The group has given dozens of children access to formal education, especially focusing on the homeless or those coming from impoverished families.
Without a similar organization’s help, Uwayesu says that he may never have made it off the streets. He and his brother had walked to Kigali to escape a famine that had devastated their home. There, they lived in a garbage dump on the edge of the city, and had to beg for food during the day. A few years earlier, the boys’ parents had been murdered in the 1994 Rwandan genocide.
“It was a place that no human being alive should ever be,” Uwayesu says. When an aid worker came to the dump, he says he told her he wanted to go to school.
Shortly after Uwayesu began his formal education, it became clear he was a gifted student. He picked up three languages in about a year and eventually won a spot in the prestigious Bridge2Rwanda gap year program, which prepares students for college abroad. His college years have been equally successful—Uwayesu recently won the Schwarzman scholarship for postgraduate study in China.
But Uwayesu says he has never forgotten his roots. He uses his story to help inspire those he mentors. “What I teach young people is perseverance, working hard, and having faith in the world, even though sometimes it’s hard,” he says. Uwayesu says he learned these lessons through fishing. He recalls casting lines and waiting for hours, sometimes without a single catch.
“Every young person is going to school for some reason that has to do with their future,” Uwayesu says. “But if you are on the street, it is about now and the present. It is about what you can eat now and how you can survive the danger you are facing.”
Uwayesu had never studied economics before coming to Harvard—he focused on science in high school. But he wanted to understand how to develop a country in ways that “lift millions out of poverty.”
Now Uwayesu is constantly preparing for the future. He plants fruit trees throughout Rwanda, particularly in the region around his home village, in case there is another famine. Seven United has provided health insurance to dozens of impoverished families throughout the country. He imagines a developed Rwanda “free of socioeconomic inequality.”
Uwayesu keeps a bright blue fish in a Poland Spring jug on his windowsill, where it competes with piles of economics textbooks for precious real estate. Fishing, he says, is about “faith” that something will bite, casting a line even after things haven’t worked out.
“I don’t think there is anything that makes me or anyone special in the way we succeed, except having that spirit that tells us to keep going.”
Sections
At a club in Milan in the summer of 2016, Paulo J. Pinto ’18 was surprised to hear an Italian DJ spinning some familiar sounds.
“It was crazy, because they were playing Jersey Club music,” he recalls. The genre, which originated in the late 1990’s, has its roots in Newark, New Jersey, where Pinto grew up. It’s a cousin of Philly Club and Baltimore Club, he explains. A Jersey Club track usually features chopped R&B vocals, breakneck tempos that fall between 135 and 145 BPM, and a sample of a squeaky bed spring popularized by Atlanta hip hop trio Trillville’s “Some Cut.”
We’re sitting in the basement headquarters of WHRB, where Pinto hosts Saturday night radio shows. He plays me a few seconds of a Jersey Club remix of Lady Gaga’s “LoveGame.” In Newark, “everyone just knows the songs,” but the memory of the club in Milan still sticks with him.
That Pinto found himself in Italy at all that summer was, in some ways, exceptional. Pinto is undocumented. He was born in  Portugal and moved to the U.S. at the age of five. He is one of nearly 800,000 immigrants protected by Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals—an Obama-era program that President Donald Trump has started to dismantle.
Pinto’s trip to Milan—a weekend excursion during a two-month study abroad program in Venice—was largely possible because of DACA. DACA recipients, who comprise just a fraction of the 11 million undocumented immigrants in the U.S., are eligible for travel permits called advance parole. Since Sept. 5, 2017, when the Trump administration announced that DACA would be phased out, the Department of Homeland Security has not approved any advance parole applications for DACA beneficiaries.
During that summer abroad, Pinto returned to Oliveira do Hospital, where he was born, for the first time in 15 years. He says he was surprised by how much he remembered about his early life there. “I can’t really give you an overview, like ‘A Day in the Life of Paulo in Portugal,’ but I have vivid memories of small tidbits,” he says. “My house, my grandparents’ house, random fields that I would walk through, schools, parks.”
It turns out that Pinto’s two hometowns—Oliveira do Hospital and Newark—sit on the same latitude. “It’s really weird,” he says. “My parents just went directly across the ocean.”
Issues of migration have been central to Pinto’s life at Harvard since he arrived on campus. As a freshman, he joined Act on a Dream, an immigration advocacy organization. He went on to become the group’s director. In the last few years, Act on a Dream has grown tremendously: The board has tripled in size, Pinto says, and the group’s funds have increased 500 percent.
Back in the WHRB basement, we talk about movies. “Fire at Sea,” an Italian documentary about the European migrant crisis, is a recent favorite of his. “It’s striking to see how the issues of borders and migration are never really limited to your situation, or the U.S.,” Pinto says.
Sections
11:04 a.m.
Hi Todd! This is Jeffrey. Thank you so much for agreeing to put me up tonight! I'll be at Yale soon. Where should we meet up?11:32 a.m.
Hey! Just got to the bag drop, meet me here? I'm in Bean boots and a Crimson H sweater. Sorry, I know that's not specific, but if it helps, the sweater is Australian merino wool. Oh, and the boots are shearling-lined. See you soon!
11:55 a.m.
Met up with some friends at the tailgate and I am in awe. It’s like Dionysus has descended from Mount Olympus to shower us mortals in an endless fountain of the good nectar of Miller High Life, the Champagne of Beers.
1:06 p.m.
Hiiii Todddd :) :) :) where are u? u need to pee where is the bathroom around here??
1:07 p.m.
*I
1:43 p.m.
Made it to the game!!!
r u even getting these
2:15 p.m.
Ayyy half-time!!! Wya? I’m standing in tunnel three next to the pile of puke. Find me? 
2:47 p.m.
Just so uk I'm at 19% battery I'll try to conserve tho
2:51 p.m.
Yoo todddd which pic of me at the tailgate should I rinsta4:02 p.m.
game over whatever that was sad but we’re still better than u. gonna get on a shuttle back to yale, meet me there?
4:17 p.m.
It is pouring and I can’t find the shuttles and there is mud everywhere and merino wool does NOT appreciate the rain
4:32 p.m.
Todd this isn't funny where r u I’m lost. I think imma call HUPDI mean YUPDlol yupd4:37 p.m.
omg the call isn’t going through YUUUPPPPPPDDDDDDDDDwait! I see the shuttle we’re good5:02 p.m.
oh no I just realized my huid won’t work on your building. u have to let me inI am freaking out where r u please respond5:47 p.m.
toddddd
6:11 p.m.
Hey! I think all of your texts just came through. Hope you’re okay.
I can meet you outside Commons in 5.
Sections
This morning, Dennis Zhang ’18 overslept. He missed a voice lesson and half a class. Tomorrow, though, he’ll have to wake up early: Fabricating parts for his latest project will take the whole morning.
The project––his thesis––uses polyurethane foam to mimic bird bones, creating a cylindrical object that’s denser on the outside than the inside. He isn’t sure what the material could be used for—aircraft, perhaps—but he knows it will be efficient.
At Harvard, Zhang chose to study Mechanical Engineering because it blends two passions: art and science. “I like creating things, building physical things,” Zhang says.
Zhang’s tendency to create has helped open doors at Harvard—literally. Zhang’s Harvard University ID photo, the picture that both identifies him and allows him access into buildings, isn’t a photograph. It’s a self-portrait, drawn free-hand using computer software and so realistic it’s almost alarming to look at closely. If administrators know Zhang’s photo is a fabrication, they haven’t said anything.
Zhang also co-founded the student-run science and art magazine “Ecdysis,” a publication named after the molting process of arthropods.
“We were thinking of insects and how they molt and show a new version of themselves,” Zhang says. “Ecdysis” similarly aims to “peel away the cold exterior of science and make it more accessible to people who enjoy arts.”
If insects inspired the name of Zhang’s magazine, that inspiration came from close to home. A lifelong insect fanatic, Zhang began to collect and display insects in high school when a friend gifted him a dead monarch butterfly she’d found in her driveway.
The insect preservation process follows roughly these steps: Step one, carry a net and plastic bag while hiking. Step two, capture an insect that appears interesting. Step three, place in freezer until dead. Step four, remove and thaw. Step five, pin the insect to styrofoam, taking care to uncurl legs and display interesting wing patterns. Step six, let dry.
Zhang estimates he’s collected around 500 bugs, most of which are stored at his home in New Jersey. Some, especially recent finds, reside in his Currier dorm room. His favorite of the collection? The Madagascar sunset moth, a rainbow-winged rarity.
“It’s really strange because they’re a moth, which people usually associate with dull colors. But quite the contrary! I think this species is probably more aesthetically pleasing than any butterfly,” Zhang says.
Zhang describes his a capella pursuits with similar affection. With the Harvard Glee Club and Glee Club Lite, an a capella subset, Zhang has dedicated much of his time outside the classroom to practicing and performing.
He especially likes performing choral music—renaissance polyphony and madrigals, to be specific.
He’ll have to find a new group to sing with when he graduates and moves to Arizona next year. Zhang will work for Axon, a company producing tasers and body cameras for law enforcement. He’s upset to leave friends and singing groups behind.
At the same time, Arizona is promising. The weather is warm. The hiking opportunities are plentiful. And the bugs?“There are different insects there, ones that I would never find here,” Zhang says.
Sections
If you were to walk into the dorm room of Aron I. Szanto ’18 (“The Z is silent.”), you would see a neat trapezoid: one wall covered in a composite image of the earth at night, and on another an old map of Hungary, his father’s homeland. On your left would be a giant whiteboard covered in puzzling diagrams, like something off a poster for “A Beautiful Mind.” These equations are called “belief propagation algorithms,” and they constitute the basis of Szanto’s thesis: devising an algorithm to identify fake news based on social media sharing patterns.
“Say I have a secret,” says Szanto, an Applied Mathematics concentrator in Mather House and a Masters candidate in Computer Science. “I tell you the secret, and you tell someone else, [and] they tell someone else. If you were to track that little bit of information as it spreads, it would kind of look like a line that goes from me to you and me to your friend. You would see little nodes in a network light up.”
The propagation pattern of a secret, he says, is different from, say, the announcement of a friend’s engagement on Facebook, and radically different from a bombshell political allegation. A fake news story as incredulous as Pizzagate—the viral conspiracy alleging Hillary Clinton’s involvement in a human-trafficking ring—would not be merely seen and liked among a small circle. “You’re gonna share it,” Szanto says. “The fact that you can deduce some of the underlying information from just the shape of the information diffusion means that we might be able to tell what’s real and what’s fake before it’s widely fact checked.”
The idea for his thesis emerged in the days after the 2016 election. The very next morning, he made a list of his skills that could be put to use in the Trump era. “The things that immediately came to mind,” he says, were, “I can code and I know how to organize people who code.” In the days that followed, he organized computer science students at Harvard and MIT in teams to work on various projects, which included analyzing the provenance of fake news stories that influenced the election.
But Szanto has many talents besides coding: He is a classically trained cellist, avid chef, and frisbee-player on the Harvard men’s team.
He also serves as president of the Applied Math Society at a time when the number of concentrators is particularly high. “We immediately had all these questions and problems to deal with, like how to increase the number of underrepresented students in this department, how do we protect against the huge number and proportion of students that drop out of [Math] 21a,” Szanto says.
His various research interests across security, political science, and artificial intelligence mirror those of one of his idols, early computer scientist and Turing Test inventor Alan Turing. “He operated in areas of computer science that are so widely different as we see it now,” Szanto says. “To him, they were all part of the same cohesive whole.”
Szanto’s interest in artificial intelligence intensified after he took CS 285: “Multi-Agent Systems,” a class about computerized environments comprised of multiple intelligent agents. He says it was one of the most memorable experiences he’s had at Harvard: “It was philosophy I had never been exposed to, computer science I had never been exposed to, math I had never been exposed to.” He hopes to start his career in machine learning and AI in the private sector, before deciding whether to return to academia.
For now, his eyes are trained on his dizzying network of lights. “Everyday I’m reading things like Breitbart and The Daily Stormer, because this is what the thesis involves,” he says. “It’s getting me fired up to fight hard in the next election and make technology that will help us out in the next election.”
He worries, though, that technology will not be enough to sway opinion. A Yale University study released in September found that there was only a 3.7 percent difference in the perceived accuracy of news stories tagged as disputed by fact-checkers. “Even if we can build a magical machine intelligence that could deduce whether a story was real or fake,” Szanto says, “it doesn’t mean anything unless you can communicate the information to people in a relevant way.”
Sections
Harry T. Newman-Plotnick ’18 spends "egregious amounts of time in the Kirkland dining hall." The warm fluorescent light of the Monday evening dinner rush does, in fact, seem to be his element. He points out the table—two away from the servery, against the wall—that he considers the best location. His record for time spent in the dining hall stands at just over 12 hours. To his knowledge, it has yet to be beaten.
"I like doing that, just holding court, people cycle through," he says. "I do that for—that sounds really lame to say I do that for fun. Wow, okay, I don’t do that for—yeah, I do that for fun."
While Newman-Plotnick is a "very big proponent of just sitting around doing absolutely nothing for extended periods of time," this philosophy does not accurately reflect his time on campus.
Newman-Plotnick almost compulsively picks up talents—"weird, dextrous quirks"—to stave off boredom, whenever sitting in the Kirkland dining hall becomes too monotonous.
"I get bored very easily, so I always try to learn new things," Newman-Plotnick says. As a result, he’s become a multi-hyphenate: musician-magician-juggler-comedian.
"I very much embrace jack of all trades, master of none," he says. A self-described dabbler, Newman-Plotnick began playing piano at an early age (which, he’s quick to note, "does not accurately reflect my quality of piano,") picked up violin in elementary school, and has accrued an assortment of other musical talents in the years since.
The most recent acquisition? This semester, he joined the Harvard University Band, playing trumpet. "If I just say that without a qualification, everyone in band will be mad," he adds. "I have yet to show up to anything, but… I’m still learning."
Aside from technically being involved with the band, Newman-Plotnick most often puts his musical talents to use in pit orchestras. He performs with the Harvard-Radcliffe Gilbert & Sullivan Players and in friends’ shows.
He may spend considerable time tucked away in an orchestra pit, but Newman-Plotnick’s other interests put him directly onstage.
Around age nine, Newman-Plotnick received a magic kit. He got hooked, "mainly because my parents didn’t know how I did the stuff I did, and that just made me really happy." He largely stopped studying magic until his sophomore year of high school, when he began practicing more regularly.
In college, Newman-Plotnick kept the magic alive as a member of the Harvard Magician’s Society, a group so relaxed that he was the only official member during his sophomore fall, and thus president by default.
His need to collect "slightly less common talents" also led Newman-Plotnick to comedy via the Harvard College Stand-Up Comics Society. He says he’s always enjoyed making people laugh, even if he didn’t formally pursue comedy in high school. "I wasn’t the class clown, [but] I always tried to be funny, I suppose," he says. "Once you do [stand-up] once and someone laughs, it’s kind of hard to not come back."
The theatrical nature of his hobbies aside, Newman-Plotnick is also a neurobiology concentrator and is currently applying to MD/PhD programs.  "People are surprised when I say I’m neuro. They normally think I’m VES or something, which I think is a compliment, maybe?" he says. "I think it’s the glasses and the hair."
Or is it the socks? Newman-Plotnick boasts what he believes to be the best sock collection on campus—over 50 pairs, "only fun ones," he says as he shows off off his Grumpy Cat socks for reference.
"For a while, I pitched my interest in magic as the way it interacts with the brain," Newman-Plotnick says. He even toyed with the idea of writing his thesis about the relationship between the two. That "didn’t end up happening, so take that as you will." He is instead writing his thesis on how non-invasive electrical currents applied to people’s brains affect their visual memory.
Amidst the anticipated insanity of medical school, Newman-Plotnick says he doesn’t think he will give up his hobbies. "If I didn’t have some other non-academic release, I’d go crazy," he says. "I don’t want to be a professional stand-up comedian, but I don’t want to stop doing comedy. I hope."
Sections
Raahil M. Sha ’18 observed quietly as the doctor he was shadowing carefully inserted a needle into his patient’s exposed abdomen. Watching as the doctor removed the needle and readjusted the angle, he envisioned a tumor ablation procedure that was both safer and more efficient.
“We thought that it would be cool if they were able to just see the tumor inside of the person, stick the needle in, hit the tumor, and ablate it,” Sha says, using hand motions to demonstrate the approach. “Without having to wait forever for the scan to go in and out of the room.”
Together, Sha, Grigory Khimulya ’18, and Jose M. Amich ’18 have a startup called Z Imaging, which aims to cut the time it takes to do this procedure in half. Through the use of augmented reality headsets that superimpose digital images onto the real world, their system will allow doctors to see MRI scans overlaid onto the patient’s body.
“So what essentially happens is the surgeon puts on the headset, and they’re able to see the person’s liver and see where the tumor is within the liver,” Sha says. “As the needle is going through the body, they’re not able to see it in real life. But with the augmented reality overlay, they’re able to say, ‘Oh the needle is exactly 5 millimeters towards the target.’ Then the little simulated needle turns green and flashes whenever they’re on actual target, and they’re able to click their button and do the actual ablation from there.”
By shortening surgery time, Sha explains, these headsets allow the procedures to be done more safely and with less anesthesia, resulting in quicker recoveries, and limiting potential complications. He knows this because he’s seen it work.
“We already did tests on blocks of fake flesh,” he says. “There’s recipes you can find online for ‘Combine these things together in a pot and then put it into a bowl. Then it’ll have the same consistency as an abdomen,’ for example. So we made those and tested.”
This “home-cooked” flesh is soon to be replaced with professional dummies and eventually cadaver models. Then, they’ll work on getting FDA approval before taking their headsets into real-life operating rooms. The only thing holding them back? Existing tech.
“HoloLens,” Sha says, referring to the headset the company uses, “is limiting because your field of view is small and it doesn’t track your head as well. So if I turn my head 5.6 degrees, the Hololens might say that was 5.65 degrees or something inaccurate. So we had to make our own tracking system that was more accurate than the built-in one in the headset.”
Sha and his friends work in eight-hour blocks, two to three days per week, developing their technology at Harvard’s Innovation Lab. When he’s not working, he’s spending time with friends in his “deep underwater themed” room or visiting the tallest buildings and monuments in Boston to get the best views of the city skyline.
“We usually have tea parties by the full moon,” Sha says. “Whenever there’s a full moon and it’s not cloudy, we go out to the Science Center observation deck and drink tea and, after a while, come back in, open up the telescope and look at the moon.”
Immersed in a virtual world, Sha draws a flower pattern in three-dimensional space. This VR headset, he explains, is no longer useful to their project so it has been repurposed as a gaming device. Sha reaches into his backpack and pulls out the HoloLens. After waiting a few seconds for it to turn on, he places it over his head and adjusts the machine’s position over his eyes.
“If you put it on, you can kind of put a cat in the middle of the room,” Sha says, as he extends his arm and flicks open his fist. “It won’t be a real cat, it’ll be like a virtual cat and it’ll just walk around or whatever.” He then hands me the headset. “Wanna try?”
I place the device over my eyes and look around, but nothing abnormal seems to be within my field of view. Confused, I look over at Sha, who smiles and points at the ground underneath my feet. As I glance down, suddenly, a small cat comes into focus, tail wagging and sitting attentively.
As I pet its soft-looking orange fur, Sha says, “But instead of just placing things in the room, we decided to place them inside the person’s body.”
Sections
Eden H. Girma ’18 has mixed feelings about the 1 Bus to Boston.
As a student in the dual-degree program sponsored by Harvard and the New England Conservatory, Girma relies on the bus to commute between the two campuses, a time-split that Girma says comes with many difficulties.
“The 1 Bus takes you straight there, but I really have a love-hate relationship with it,” Girma says, laughing. “Every trip is a journey.”
Girma’s own musical journey has been going on for a long time, beginning with singing at home in the shower as a kid and culminating most recently with a performance at the Smithsonian National Museum for African American History and Culture in November. But it wasn’t until senior year of high school that Girma considered studying music seriously.
“There was a concentrated amount of crazy, serendipitous events that led to various artistic opportunities [for me]” Girma says. “That was when I thought, ‘Not only is this something I am good at, but something I can get better in and do something with.’”
That realization prompted Girma to transfer into the dual-degree program with NEC during freshman year to study vocal jazz performance. Girma says one of the best parts of the program has been the like-minded community Girma has found there.
“They have actively decided, ‘Despite what the world tells me, I’m going to spend my time and effort pursuing a music career,’” Girma says.
Girma has found the culture surrounding art and music at Harvard, on the other hand, to be challenging.
“When you’re a student here, you’re really pressured to find ‘your thing’” Girma says. “Artistically, there are so many hoops you have to jump through to prove yourself to be a part of different organizations or magazines. I think that’s intimidating and frustrating.”
But Girma also credits the artistic community at Harvard, particularly the Kuumba Singers, with broadening Girma’s perspective on the role and impact of music-making. For Girma, singing is a means for self-expression, yes, but also an intellectual and interpersonal challenge.
“Singing and music is about more than just the sound or the personal construction,” Girma says. “We use music as a factor through which to communicate with and impact other people.”
When not singing at the NEC, Girma is pursuing a joint concentration in Mathematics and Astrophysics back on this side of the river. In January, Girma presented original research on black holes to the American Astronomical Society: simulations that suggested the regions of space known for sucking objects in could also be spitting some out, leaving them free-floating around the galaxy. The research was featured in National Geographic and then picked up by dozens of other publications.
Girma’s fascination with space stretches back to childhood, too, which Girma credits partially to pure interest and partially to Girma’s parents’ preference for hard science.
“They were like, ‘Yes, this is good! We approve of this!’” Girma jokes.
Now, Girma is working on a new senior thesis research project: trying to devise a new observational technique for detecting as-of-yet unobserved black holes in the Milky Way Galaxy. When I confess total ignorance of black holes, observing them, and astronomy in general, Girma is quick to teach me, interrupting our interview for a mini-lesson on telescopes and how they’re used to monitor activity in space.
Girma’s penchant for teaching science extends far beyond our 9:30 a.m. conversation in J.P. Licks.
“One thing that has been really amazing to see is the amount of people I’ve interacted with who in some way have a connection to space, whether that’s a mutual fascination, or a television show that they watched, or a museum or planetarium they visited,” Girma says. “Out of all the sciences that I’ve spent time in—astronomy, physics, and pure math—astronomy has always been the most accessible to the public imagination. I really enjoy facilitating that.”
Girma thinks this sort of accessibility is vital to any field of academic study—whether that’s music or astronomy—and that taking an academic-only approach ignores the concrete realities of social issues in the real world. When I ask if Girma sees music, astronomy, and social justice as connected, Girma laughs and responds simply.
“I see everything as connected.”
Sections
When Archana Somasegar ’18 was younger, she wanted to become the President. Now, she wants to tell stories. “Storytelling and story-sharing is something that I try to weave into everything that I do,” Somasegar says. “Sometimes it’s moral, sometimes it’s not. Sometimes it’s nonsense. There is a power to nonsense.”
Somasegar’s home is in Seattle, but spending four months in India every year, she says, allowed her to see how different life would have been if she had grown up there instead. That perspective has fueled her work in women’s advocacy and global leadership.
It all started with one idea: building a sewing studio in a computer lab for an orphanage in India. Somasegar oversaw the whole process, from fundraising to seeing the studio built and opened.
“I’m currently in the process of trying to get it incorporated into the government school system as an after-school program for women, so that when they get turned out of the orphanage at age 18, they’ll have the skills to be financially independent,” Somasegar says. “Which I think is usually a huge barrier to them being able to follow their dreams and live the productive life independent of others that they would want.”
In 2015, Somasegar was selected to be the American delegate for the G(irls) 20 Summit, a global program that brings together one delegate from each G20 country. In October of that year, she traveled to Turkey and, with the rest of the delegation, presented a policy brief to G20 leaders outlining recommendations for how to increase female labor force participation.
“What’s really special about the communiqué is that because we’re presenting to G20 leaders, everything in there needs to be absolutely unanimous—which I think definitely brings out your talent to be able to compromise and work with people,” she says.
Somasegar was the only representative from the U.S. “This was the first time for me where I was in a room and everyone else was from a different background,” she says. “You’re uncomfortable at first, because you don’t know where your perspective fits in here, like when you need to take a step back and listen, and when you need to assert what you believe to be true.”
Finding this sense of balance has been a common theme in her advocacy work: growing up in two countries, Somasegar says she has juggled multiple sets of values while forging her own—especially when it comes to views on traditional gender roles, motherhood, and women in the workplace.
Currently, Somasegar is writing a thesis on the impact of gender quotas in government. She is specifically looking at villages in India and how female representation in government roles can influence female labor force participation.
Somasegar points to her family as her main source of support. “Focusing my energy and understanding the importance of giving back to my community come from my mom and dad together, in a weird mish-mash kind of way. My mom is a huge philanthropist. She really taught me that it’s my responsibility to leave a place better than you found it, in a way that’s more than throwing money at a problem and giving lip service,” she says. “My dad came from a really poor family in India, and has worked very hard to be where he is today, which is luckily a better position than he grew up in. It revives my belief in the American Dream, where hard work and network and a bit of luck can cause really great things can happen.”
Sections
During her freshman year at Harvard, Karen M. Maldonado ’18 decided she wanted to get strong. A former track and field athlete from Houston, Texas, Maldonado had always “hated running,” but competed in high school for the sake of her teammates and to stay in shape. She started powerlifting when she arrived at Harvard because it seemed like “the opposite of running.”
Powerlifting is a strength-focused sport that is traditionally comprised of three lifts: the squat, the bench press, and the deadlift. Although her form in all three lifts has come a long way since Maldonado filmed herself freshman year in Hemenway gym, the deadlift will always be her favorite.
With a strong grip, a straight back, and her eyes locked on the wall in front of her, Maldonado “can move the most weight and that feels really good.”
What started as an extracurricular activity eventually became the focus of her Sociology thesis: “I dove into it and realized that there is a lot of cool theory about weightlifting and men in prison yards and how it builds bodily autonomy and masculinity and empowerment,” Maldonado says. She is studying the role of women in strength-based sports, like powerlifting and olympic weightlifting.
“There is not much there on women,” she says. “There is a little bit on bodybuilding, on women’s body building, but mostly as like a freak show perspective. Like ‘Why would they do this? It’s so masculine.’”
Maldonado spends most of her days reading about improving mental and physical health for her thesis, and applying what she’s learned both in the gym and in her work with the student group Eating Concerns Hotline and Outreach.
Maldonado has served as a member of ECHO since her freshman year, and recently ended her term as co-director of the organization. The work is extremely taxing, she says, but it’s also provided Maldonado with invaluable listening skills.
“The hardest part is that it is emotionally exhausting work, it’s incredibly rewarding,” she says.
“Especially while I was co-directing, knowing that my staff was ready to support and listen, and that they are ready to pick up the phone at 2 a.m.. I know how wonderful the feeling is to help someone, but also how draining it is to have to go to class the next day and not be able to tell anyone because it’s confidential, it’s a lot to be a person who listens.”
Mental health and self-care are important to Maldonado, who also works as a campus representative for a company called “Wear Your Label.” “They have a bunch of t-shirts that say ‘anxious and courageous’ or ‘stigma is a social construct,’” she says. Maldonado was attracted to the brand because, she says, they strive to create a sense of community among a group of individuals who might otherwise feel isolated or alone.
Maldonado incorporates the message behind wearing her label into her off-campus life as well. Two summers ago, Maldonado studied abroad in Copenhagen. There, she worked as a community facilitator at a music festival.
In addition to the photos in her suitcase, Maldonado brought home a geometric bumblebee surrounded by flowers on the left side of her ribs. It is her first tattoo, but she predicts it will not be her last.
“There’s something about being able to put art on my body and make my body what I want it to be that kind of aligns with the rest of my value system,” she says. “And that feels really fantastic and underrated.”
Sections
“I am a book today. Smart, with information in my pages. Look me up, I’ll have it. Pages and pages of information, non-fiction and biographies and history. I know it all, I know it all.”
“Think about how many phone numbers you know by heart,” says Samuel J. Gershman, assistant professor and neurological researcher in the Department of Psychology. “People who are old enough to remember the days before cell phones can remember that they used to know a lot more phone numbers. Why is it that when you retrieve a memory, it seems to become malleable in a certain kind of way? It seems to become open to modification.”
Gershman thinks that the development of writing allowed for the creation of new kinds of narrative structures that changed our conceptual organization throughout human history. “Epics like the ‘Iliad’ and the ‘Odyssey’—people were reciting these epics long before they were written down. So how do they remember these huge amounts of verbal material?”
“When I’m in my shelf, I’m off to sleep.”
***
“I knew that it was a home away from home. An aroma of turkey filled the air. With my fingers indulged in the dog’s soft, warm fur, I felt grand. There, stroking this beautiful animal, I felt like I was on top of the world.”
Exactly 10 years later, my uncle resurfaces from his drink—a small bottle of whiskey that he insists sounds a lot better as “aged four years” than “from 2014”—and, with a sideways glance, remarks that this is the last year the dog is going to make an appearance; both the dog and my uncle have been howling in pain for the past 30 minutes. The two of them, much like the mashed potatoes and my family’s attempt to revitalize a pleasanter past, are overcooked.
“I heard light chuckling from the kitchen. I tiptoed down the hallway only to notice that it was my mom and my aunt talking. They prepared knives, forks, spoons, bowls, and plates and placed them gently on the tablecloth and straightened the cushions on the chairs. They set the silverware on the table in a symmetrical pattern.”
Several familiar faces have disappeared from the table since then, some succumbing to the sweet embrace of death, some to celibacy. But much like how the intruding tongue fills the gap of a lost tooth, new replacements find their way in, as if my determined family just couldn’t tolerate even the slightest shrinkage in size. I like to imagine that everyone at the table is desperately waiting to be replaced, waiting to find a more fulfilling job at some other company.
“After a wave of ‘Hi, hello,’ they came to the room where I was sitting. My cousin looked at me like he hadn’t seen me in a decade.”
My cousin extends his hand across the table, his jacket sleeve nearly swimming in a gravy boat. “I don’t think I’ve spoken to you yet today. I’ve read your articles in The Crimson,” he says.
“Well thank you, I think you’re just about the only one,” I say.
“I’ve been following that introspective, retrospective thing you’ve been writing. I think it’s important to think that way. I appreciate that.”
“The food was extraordinary. The dinner was peaceful and humorous at the same time. We all shared our laughs, and then we went home. I just lay there in my bed and close my eyes. What a day that was.”
***
“Getting my bass: a timeline”
With each new school year, the teachers always seemed to conjure some unique approach that aimed to simplify any writing assignment under the sun into a set list of tasks. No assignment—from essays to journal entries, reading responses to papers—was spared this fate of refinement and reduction. In fourth grade, that solution was “dots”. Step one—write an entire journal entry (preferably poorly):
“When I walked into the building, it was a nice, refreshing place. There were broken violins, trumpets, and trombones hanging on the wall. A nice man walked over to us and showed us all the parts of the bass, what they do, and how to fix them if they ever become broken.”
Step two—chop that journal entry into parsed morsels that sound like a linguist’s case study of a parrot:
“I went into the car (a dot). I was all excited (a dot). We parked in the parking lot (a dot). I walked to the place (a dot). I went inside (a dot). A man walked over (a dot). He explained the parts (a dot). We…”
Step three—elaborate each dot in its own designated segment:
“Once I got home, I went upstairs, bursting with excitement. I was so eager to play the bass. Here it goes—beereeekooraah. I… sounded… awful. But that’s why I have to practice.”
My writer’s notebook from fourth grade is filled with other cheap schematics that sound like they were gleaned from 900-numbers; one page is filled with a “Writer’s Web”, a pedigree chart of the attendees of the Senzer Thanksgiving Extravaganza 2007, extending all the way from my late grandfather down to my uncle’s not-late-enough dog. Another page contains an “Essay Sandwich” constructed from intro/conclusion buns and a mystery meat of thesis statements and evidence. My journal entries from this period of my life, much like my memories of the events that begot them, are written and unwritten several times through, jigsawed into interlocking pieces in a puzzle that the reader, 10 years later, never asked to solve. The rationale behind chunking our thoughts and memories, I’m sure, was to make our writing more coherent and allow our thoughts to flow more easily. The result, however, is that I can’t think of the past in any way other than the schematics lend. My memories are themselves dots, some pointillist fantasy designed to look like something only from five-and-a-half feet away.
***
When I read these old entries—tales from the dinner table, essays on graphite, letters about math tests, trips into the imagination, and indeed, the very first time I wrote the letter ‘A’—what’s funny is that I remember the physical act of writing these stories down more than the memories the stories are meant to portray. I remember where my desk was situated in the classroom every year of elementary school. I remember how the rubber grip felt in between my thumb and forefinger when I was learning how to hold a pencil. I remember the buzz that travelled up my spine when I came up with what I thought was a really great metaphor at the time. But I can only remember my life insofar as my past self decides to open a notebook and write about it. I am a book today.
“It’s not so much that writing per se affects memory,” Gershman says, “although in a simple way, you don’t remember things that you don’t need to remember because you’ve written them down.”
“Writing is whatever you want: the shape, the color, the size the font. Your writing will sing a joyous song; the words you hire, the words you admire and desire, are never wrong. Now you have a perfect piece, so sing it to the stars, your dog—everything, at the least. Soon your talent will roam free, a famous writer you have come to be.”
Sections
Charity E. Barros ’18, a Sociology concentrator in Dunster House, is trying to build a bridge for first-generation and low-income students at Harvard.
Currently the vice president of the First Generation Student Union, Barros was one of the driving forces behind the First-Gen Trailblazers Symposium, a conference for first-generation and low-income college students which met for the first time in October.
Barros first became interested in tackling these issues in high school. “I went to a very under-resourced high school, and most of my extracurricular activities were in tutoring, because there weren’t a lot of other activities offered at my school,” she says. “In that sense, educational inequality was always one of my interests, even when I didn’t have the words for it.”
Barros continued to follow her interest in educational equality at Harvard, joining the FGSU once she arrived.
Still, Barros found that trying to navigate Harvard was frustrating at times. “Harvard is full of resources, but there doesn’t seem to be a very coherent way to learn how to access them,” she says. “A lot of how I learned about resources were through my connections with upperclassmen when I was a freshman, and I was lucky that I had an older sister who was a senior when I started.”
During her freshman year, she realized that the problems she was facing, as a first-gen and low-income student, were part of a larger institutional issue.
“I did [the First Year Urban Program] as a freshman, and even though it was a foundational experience for the rest of my college years, I knew it wasn’t exactly for me,” Barros says. “I knew that even the people I was friends with in FUP, we didn’t connect on that level of being first-gen or being low-income.”
Barros decided to tackle the problem head on by working with administrators and her peers to establish a first-gen and low-income pre-orientation program. “I think the pre-orientation program is important not only because of its administrative support, but because it gives students an opportunity to connect with older students, and understand at least a little of what they’re going through,” Barros says.
Because of her efforts, a new pre-orientation program called the Bridge Program will debut next year.
Though Barros has made meaningful change during her time at Harvard, she’s not done yet. After graduation, Barros hopes to follow her passions for educational inequality and work in education or public service. In five years, Barros envisions a Harvard office dedicated to supporting first-gen and low-income students.
“It’s difficult to talk about class and money, especially in a college setting,” she says. “To do it in a space that’s welcoming, to have already had these conversations rather than try to decode the very cryptic language around class, or the silence around it at Harvard is something that would have been very supportive for me, freshman year.”
Sections
No sooner had I sat down with Madison Johnson ’18 than a yellow and orange cat leapt onto Johnson’s lap and began pacing across my computer keyboard. “Her name is Mrs. Jones,” Johnson tells me. Johnson is allowed to have a pet because they no longer live in Pforzheimer house—they and a group of housemates now live in an apartment in Central Square.
Before Cambridge, Pforzheimer, and the apartment in Central, Johnson spent their childhood in Georgia.
“I grew up in the same house in Columbus, Georgia for my whole life. I grew up figuring out a lot of parts of my identity, just like any other human being,” Johnson says. That’s when they started writing poetry.
“Poetry is where I spend a lot of time thinking through my family and the place that I’m from,” they say. “I identify really closely with the sense of being queer and black in the South, so what I’m writing through is that experience, period.”
At Harvard, Johnson started out performing slam poetry—they were involved in Brave New Voices and spent time as a member of the slam poetry group Speak Out Loud—before transitioning to page poetry. Johnson says that their most meaningful experiences in college, however, have been in an art that they didn’t explore in high school: theater.
“I got into doing theater on campus [because I was] looking for a community. I found all these art spaces with queer people and people of color making art,” they explain.
Johnson’s first foray into theater was a success: along with a team of student artists, they worked on “Black Magic,” a play about the experience of being black on Harvard’s campus.  “I had never done theater, but someone asked if I wanted to work on ‘Black Magic,’ and I said ‘sure,’” they say.
Johnson designed the set and co-wrote the show, primarily writing for the character CJ, a gender-nonconforming black comedian. Johnson says that CJ was the first transmasculine black character using they/them pronouns that they had ever seen on stage.
“In many ways, the play came out of the feeling of being alienated—having queer identities and feeling alienated from the black community, and in many ways being alienated from the Harvard community,” Johnson says.
Performances of the show at the Loeb Mainstage were packed; Johnson says they were struck by the number of black undergraduates in the audience. “I think it was special to share love for each other in a room full of black people, and that was all I could have asked for from our play,” they say.
Since then, Johnson has continued to pursue theater. Their favorite project was arranging and directing a boundary-pushing play called “love conjure/blues” written by Sharon Bridgforth. After Johnson read the piece, which explores themes of race and sexuality in the South, for their junior tutorial, they knew they wanted to put it up at Harvard.
“I had never read anything like it before and it fully changed my life. It was the most seen that I’d ever felt by a piece of writing,” Johnson says. “I got to build this intentional group of black people making this intentional text together. It was the most meaningful experience I had at Harvard.”
Johnson, who was a columnist for the Crimson, has also been involved in “Renegade,” an on-campus artists’ collective and magazine that aims to provide an outlet for students of color. During Johnson’s junior fall, they held workshops for friends to come together and write, draw, and collage. For Johnson, it was an important space of creativity during the election season. “I was holding the space that I knew that I needed and making art that I knew that I needed,” they say.
Beyond their artistic endeavors, Johnson has also served as a Contact peer counselor and as a QuIntern at the BGLTQ Office of Student Life. They assisted in redesigning the campus allyship training into a “Thinking Queerly” workshop that aims to teach students and organizations about queer theory. For fun, Johnson enjoys watching their friends perform. They also love talking about astrology because of its focus on emotions and the human experience (they’re a Pisces).
As for the future? “I just want to see how long I can get away with writing and making art and living off of it,” Johnson says. “I’m trying to figure out how I can continue being in the communities that I’ve been so blessed to be in during college [when I am] in the real world.”
Sections
UPDATED: November 30, 2017 at 12:32 p.m.
Priscilla Guo ’18 has a motto: “Give flavor to life.”
“My blockmates make fun of me a lot, all in good fun, because I really like to keep busy,” Guo says. “I like to keep busy because I’m young. I have so much energy to give.”
For Guo, a full slate of tasks and quirky projects mimics the pace of New York City, her hometown, and has been business as usual since middle school.
As a high school student, Guo worked on a team of 21 teen advisors in the Girls Up United Nations Foundation to pass a bill in the U.S. Senate. “[Lack of] birth certificates, a very basic thing, blocks a lot of women and girls from getting access to education, healthcare, etc. It was about the United States recognizing that that was a priority,” Guo says. In 2013, Guo was appointed to the New York City Youth Board, where she advised the city on youth programming. She was one of the youngest people on the board.
While pursuing community service, Guo became interested in computer science. “I realized that technology was revolutionizing the way we were interacting with each other,” Guo says, “and I knew nothing about it.”
Guo got her first real experience with computer science when she was selected to participate in the Women’s Technology Program at MIT, which works to introduce young women who have no formal computer science or engineering training to STEM fields like computer science and physics. Now, Guo includes computer science, something she once viewed as a “black hole,” in her academic life and beyond.
“It was really helpful that my first experience learning technology and how to use it was in this very supportive space of women” Guo says, referencing the MIT Women’s Technology Program.
She was also dismayed by the lack of representation in the industry. “I didn’t know why most of the people who were coming up in technology didn’t look like me,” she says. “It just felt like the right moment to take it upon my own hands and learn it.”
During Guo’s freshman fall, she took CS50: Introduction to Computer Science. “My problem was that it was not enough for me, at an intellectual level, to just learn how to code and not learn all the implications and the history,” Guo says.
So, she formed her own special concentration: Technology, Policy, and Society.
“One of the first things that was told to me in pursuing this is that: ‘You’ll probably be alone and singular in your endeavor,’” Guo says, “And I’ve actually found the opposite. I understand where they are coming from, but for me it was about creating my own community.”
Because she knew other students who were interested in interdisciplinary pursuits but lacked an outlet, Guo helped create a student policy program called the Science, Technology, Engineering, Arts, and Mathematics Initiative at the IOP.
“About 33 percent of concentrators in the IOP study technology-related topics or arts and humanities, as opposed to government,” Guo says. “The IOP is a large organization and [STEAM] was about catering to the needs of people who are interested in this intersection between politics and STEAM.”
Additionally, Guo has served as co-president of Harvard Women in Computer Science and co-president of Harvard Women in Business.
What’s next? Guo is writing a novel, which uses magical realism to explore memorialization. After that, the possibilities are endless.
“There are so many experiences that are still out there in terms of learning and helping people,” Guo says. “A lot of people think that doors close, but I always see the doors that open.”
This story has been revised to reflect the following correction:
CORRECTION: November 30, 2017
A previous version of this story incorrectly indicated that Guo worked with10 other girls in the Girls Up United Nations Foundation. In fact, there are 21 members of that group.
Sections
Yasmin Siraj ’18 is leaving for Shanghai at 8 a.m. tomorrow, but not for a vacation: She’s going to an international synchronized skating competition.
Siraj began figure skating one week before she turned three, following in the footsteps of her originally “pretty clumsy” older sister, Layla Siraj ’16. “I would throw fits when they wouldn’t let me on the ice because I was so small,” Siraj says. “They finally caved and let me on the ice, and I’ve loved it ever since.”
Before Harvard, Siraj competed for five years on the United States singles team for ladies’ figure skating. But after nearly qualifying for the 2014 Winter Olympics in Sochi, Siraj decided to retire from skating.
“I felt like my passion wasn’t 120 percent there for the sport,” she says. “I thought it was time to focus on the other opportunities I couldn’t get again at Harvard.”
Siraj became an executive director for Women in Business, and co-founded a WIB innovation competition at the Harvard Innovation Lab. She danced for Expressions and works at Harvard Medical School, helping to develop a drug involved with the immune system for her Molecular and Cellular Biology senior thesis. She will perform in Eleganza later this year.
Siraj was unwilling to give up figure skating entirely, though, and became president of Harvard’s club team. “For those couple years when I retired, being able to still teach and do shows and a little bit of judging every once in a while allowed me to interact with the sport while I was here, as well as be a part of the club figure skating community,” she says.
Now, she is  a member of the Haydenettes, a synchronized skating team that has won 25 U.S. national championships. She travels often and practices four to six hours each day at a rink in Marlboro, Mass., an hour from campus. Sirajsays she  enjoys her new position competing on a team, rather than as an individual.
“It’s so nice to be sharing a sport that I love...” she says.
“Figure skating is interesting because it’s a sport in which you fail every day until you, one day, get it right,” Siraj says. “You fall so many times; you do it incorrectly so many times, until that one time when you finally start to switch to the other side. It really teaches you how to deal with failure, which is something that I had to learn from a young age. It’s really helped me.”
Sections

Dear Readers,
This year, we asked you who the most interesting seniors on campus are, and you delivered. We received literally hundreds of nominations; narrowing the list to the fifteen you’ll find in these pages wasn’t easy. From the absolute sea of talented seniors you introduced us to, we narrowed the field to a short(ish) list, then a shorter(ish) list, and finally solicited votes from two Crimson committees. The seniors you see in this issue are the final results of that process.
To be honest, it’s probably not accurate to call them the “most” interesting. At the risk of being maudlin, sorting through your thoughtful and many, many nominations made us wonder if every senior couldn’t be somewhere on this list. It seems like just about everyone on campus has a secret talent, or has noticed and tried to fix injustices in our world, or has achieved creative and academic heights. We think you might all actually be interesting. Well, not AMD. He hasn’t seen the sun in six months. He does feature heavily in LEH’s thesis, though, so he’ll get his fifteen minutes that way.
But Fifteen Most Interesting Seniors is more than just an annual issue: It’s also our last issue. After a full calendar year of steadfast love, FM has kicked us to the curb. We were fired yesterday. Just kidding. We did our time. Every week for the last year, we’ve wracked our brains for story titles, argued endlessly in maestro, and battled the CTP machine. Together, we and our radiant crew of writers, editors, designers, and photographers produced 21 gorgeous magazines. (Also, Val proofed the Tables of Contents.)
It’s been swell, readers. Look for our names in lights.
LEH & EKT
Sections
The first time The Crimson’s presses broke down, I was excited. Around 1 a.m. on April 13, 2017, the computer we rely on to transform PDF files into print-ready pages of The Crimson died—along with all of the essential (and expensive) software on it. For the next several hours, we huddled under the eerie fluorescent lights in the basement of 14 Plympton St., carefully analyzing just how screwed we really were. Could we run the software on another computer? No. Could we hook up this computer to a functioning hard drive? No. Could we print at an outside press facility? Yeah, but 1,000 copies of The Crimson wouldn’t be ready until 10 a.m. We would have to pick it up.
On the road to Palmer, Mass. with Derek K Choi ’18, the president of The Crimson, the occasion felt momentous. This was the Doomsday Situation, one of the overwrought scenarios passed down through decades of Crimson lore as a “What if?” meant to test the freshest batch of editors—and we were nailing it. Here we were, unstoppable in the face of adversity and mechanical difficulty, driving across the state on 90 minutes of sleep. No managing editor or president in the 144-year history of the paper, we mused, had gone to such great lengths for The Crimson—a full 70 miles! We were shining knights of student journalism, barrelling through the wilderness of central Massachusetts to bring the paper to press. (Nevermind that Derek doesn’t drive faster than 60 m.p.h on highways). We were avatars of the First Amendment, marching through Harvard Yard to deliver the truth to our readers. (Nevermind that our print readership is only shrinking). We were, surely, entering Crimson lore ourselves, having successfully handled a veritable, blue-chip (dare I say historic?) crisis. Here was a story about leading The Crimson—about the sacrifice and commitment and grit and willpower needed to succeed. My endpaper would write itself.
The second time The Crimson’s presses broke down, I was asleep. By the time I did wake up on September 27, 2017—to 11 missed calls, placed between 5 a.m. and 7 a.m.—it was already too late. Another essential machine involved in our printing process had suddenly malfunctioned. We could not print the paper off-site and have it ready in any timely way; there would be no return trip across the Commonwealth. Derek called me and let me know: There would not be a print edition of The Crimson that day.
I wish I could say I had protested—that I had gone out and fixed The Crimson’s ECRM CTP machine with my own two hands. That I had seized the nearest barrels of ink and rolls of broadsheet newspaper and willed The Crimson into existence that day. That I had listened to the nagging, spectral voice of 143 years of my predecessors whispering that it was my duty to print the paper everyday, that I was a negligent, irresponsible managing editor if I let this happen.
Instead, I got off the phone with Derek and went about my day. We would post a reader’s note in the next issue. Most of our readers are online, anyway.
*****
The ECRM CTP machine—the one that spectacularly failed in September—occupies a squat, low-ceilinged room in the basement of The Crimson. In the press room, jaundiced yellow lighting distorts your color perceptions—greens and blues fade into each other, purples becomes nearly indistinguishable from browns.
It’s tradition that, on a guard’s final press run in December, every outgoing editor writes their initials on the wall of the press room alongside the number of their guard. I’ve become familiar with many of the signatures and messages; my favorite, from the 137th guard, asks: “OK, so, say a comper throws a baby out the window...”
Finishing the paper every night the last few months, it’s been easy to wonder where on the wall my guard—and my name—will fit. I’ve pondered pithy in-jokes, clever designs, whatever we could leave for posterity—some permanent way to make the 144th guard stand out. (Real estate on the wall is running out, and seeing we are the 144, we’ll probably have to squeeze in somewhere).
Whatever we leave on the walls on December 12 will only last for a few years, though. Once the wall fills up with signatures, as it has several times over, our press operators will paint it white again.
Sections
Laura E. Hatt '18, Chair

It’s morning again at 14 Plympton Street. (Laura and I are taking a class on America in the 1980’s together. Will I be able to make Reagan references for 200 words straight? Let’s find out.) Tuesday’s raucous production night has trickled down to an early Wednesday deadlock. (Yeah, this bit is already exhausting.)
Sitting across from me in the News Conference Room, Laura asks, quite reasonably, if I have finally finished the mammoth article that was supposed to be done days ago. I respond, “Government’s first duty is to protect the people, not run their lives.” My cursor agonizes on the same paragraph for what seems like hours. Around us, the Newsroom empties, as do the moral faculties of our nation’s children.
On a more sincere note, I would like to thank Laura for her unsinkable patience and boundless wit. The magazine has thrived under her leadership. (This is how you know the Reagan conceit is over.) For the last year, Laura has edited scrupulously, cheered on cranky execs, and wrangled together a delightful magazine week after week. And isn’t that what the American (Laura is from Canada) dream is all about?
--Marella A. Gayla ’19
Emma K. Talkoff ’18, Chair
Emma K. Talkoff is the kind of person your parents warn you about. She has an edgy haircut, and works it. She edited my (singular) scrut in the Quad because the FM office was too conventional.
Many things are similar about us. We both live in the Quad, both study History and Literature, and both have killer fashion sense. She complimented my glasses the one time I wore them, further cementing our unbreakable bond.
Over the course of our whirlwind friendship, I’ve gotten the sense that she has sound judgment. Aside from that one time she advised Marella and I to walk home in torrential downpour, she makes the tough calls, and makes them well.
Most importantly, she’s incredibly welcoming. I had an unconventional route to FM, but Emma embraced the new kid on the block with open arms. I only wish I’d joined the board sooner, so I could have experienced more of her fearsome leadership.
--Leah S. Yared '19
Marella A. Gayla ’19, Chair
On January 21, 2017, I messaged the FM GroupMe. “Happy birthday, Marella!” I wrote. “May you grow ever more powerful.” The messages earned a measly six and four likes, respectively.
They were ahead of their time. In the year that followed, you wrote two more solid scrutinies and many thorough, well-reported stories. You led two comp classes of smart, passionate writers. You may have grown taller. Also, you worked at the Marshall Project, which is v. cool.
I’ll leave FM with many anxieties. Will I ever touch another glossy issue? Will our effervescent comp children stick around? Did I leave the oven on? One thing I won’t have to worry about, though, is the quality of this magazine. For real, you and LSY are going to shake this building to its core. And if Fifteen Minutes Magazine becomes a stormy hand-drawn commie zine, then so be it. I can’t wait to pick it up in a dining hall near me.
--Laura E. Hatt '18
Leah S. Yared '19, Chair
LSY has spent the last three years roving the mean streets of Harvard, searching out leads and tracking down shadowy sources, all in the pursuit of that elusive high: the truth. She wears a low-slung hat, a conspicuous card reading PRESS tucked into the brim. She talks in a kind of rapid, 1940s-esque radio voice, ending every sentence with “y’see?”
Ok, so the realities of the news board may be something of a mystery to me, but I do know that Leah is as intrepid as any scrappy cartoon journalist (and she has better taste in hats, probably). I know that she’s a talented writer and a dedicated reporter, and that she knocked it out of the park on her scrut this semester. I also know that she’s kind, and funny, and slightly mean at certain appropriate moments.
Luckily, all of these things are excellent and necessary qualities for FM chair-dom and all the messy, stressful, awesome, rewarding, ridiculous tasks that come with it. She may be an interloper, but she’s just about the best interloper we could have hoped for. As I ride off into my own crimson sunset, I leave with the knowledge that you’ll be here kicking ass and helping make this mag the very best it can be. Good luck out there—but I don’t think you need it.
--Emma K. Talkoff '18
Andrew W. Badinelli ’18, Editor-at-Large
Andrew was the first person I met in FM. He was wearing that Olaf sweater that he’s so fond of—you know the one—and for some reason that impressed me at the time. I went home that night and told my roommates that there’s this really nice guy who writes for the magazine, he has really cool hair, and his name is Andy! (Readers: His name is not Andy.)
My first impression wasn’t wrong. Andrew is fearsome in his dedication: Whether to causes (our endpapers) or to celebrities (word on the street is Scarlett Johansson is obsessed with him), he gives his all to the things he cares about. These have included our professor from last spring, which was weird, and my family, which is weirder—but I’m willing to overlook these quirks, because the truth is, I need Andrew like Andrew needs Sam Smith. That is to say: ardently, all-consumingly, unhealthily.
But Andrew’s so much more than just a pretty face and an addictive personality. He writes some of the liveliest prose, schedules some of the least-attended dinners (that’s our fault, Andrew, not yours), and has some of the best headbands around. He’s the heart, soul, and amazing hair of the magazine. He’s leaving me to fill some—well, the shoes are decently big, but more importantly, they were purchased at the Lucky Brand store in Somerville when he should have been at champagne showers. Hypothetically speaking, that is.
Thanks for being the best EAL we could have asked for, ABadz, and for opening all those champagne bottles. May your GroupMe presence always be so hilarious and your lands always so wet. (NOT an innuendo.)
--Katie C. Berry '19
Katie C. Berry ’19, Editor-at-Large
When I first realized I’d have to write a parting shot without BGC due to his illness, my first thought was “Wow, I finally have to be solely responsible for a piece of FM levity?” My second thought was “Katie who?”
I kid, I kid. I know who Katie is: She’s a remarkably-talented writer (her prose is breath-taking), a show-stopping fashion icon (I wish her shoes fit me), and dedicated berry enthusiast (she once handed me a plastic lemon in the Yard, which isn’t a berry, but still). And despite my frequent mistreatment of Katie, I can always count on her as a hilarious production night presence.
But before I really knew Katie, she was tasked with writing a roast of me as part of an annual FM tradition. The night before she delivered it, I contacted her over Facebook, partly for friendly encouragement and partly for friendly intimidation. Just now, I looked back through our message history to that very first one, which read, fittingly:
“Expectations are high, Ms. Berry.”
As I think about the next year of FM, I have no doubt Katie will meet them. She’s poised to be three times the EAL that the 144s were.
--Andrew W. Badinelli '18
Drew C. Pendergrass ’20 and Norah M. Murphy ’20, Co-Comp Directors
Drew and Norah: your names have become synonymous with strong writing, unwavering optimism, and dedication to our magazine. You consistently produce quality content and share ideas in writers’ meeting that are so ingenious they end up writing themselves.
As you prepare to lead our second group of compers through your first Grand Elections, keep in mind that this experience is meant to be both rewarding and challenging. You’ll encounter problems you never could have imagined and feel gratified in ways you didn’t know were possible. I have the utmost faith that you will embrace it all with humor, poise, and tact each and every time.
All of your peers on the magazine already look up to you (because of your height), but nothing quite compares to the admiration of your own group of compers. I can’t wait to see where your journey (as Jack Kerouac on the late night shuttle) takes you!
All of our love (and worksheets),
-- Katie A. Cronin '19 and Marella A. Gayla ’19
Sections
Deep in CGIS North lies the Winter Garden. It’s a  slice of the outdoors nestled within the Fung Library, with fresh air, cool stone, softly running water, and leafy green plants. The room is almost solely lit by a skylight, meaning that there is barely any light by the time Birdie Park ’18 and I arrive for our interview.
“I named myself,” Park tells me with a smile as we settle in by the shallow pool. “Senior year of high school I watched a movie on Netflix called ‘A Case of You’ and the main character’s name was also Birdie. Her parents were hippies in the ’70s and they felt constrained by worldly barriers. They wanted their daughter to fly away from all that. So they named her Birdie. I felt like that resonated so much with my life, so I decided to rename myself.”
You might know Park from her fashion blog, “Birdie In The Park.” She describes her personal style as eccentric. In college, she says she has felt more comfortable letting that eccentricity show. “I like the idea of being different, so I think I’ve gotten a little wilder with it,” she says.
For Park, fashion is also a way to explore her identity as a first generation Korean American. Hoping to challenge perceptions of Korean clothing that she says don’t reflect modern style,  she takes inspiration from Korean TV dramas, specifically citing the show “20th Century Boy and Girl,” for some of her own style. “It’s not what you would normally think of as Korean,” Park says. “It’s not these old traditions. It’s jeans, sneakers, shirts. It’s the way that they put everything together that makes it Korean.”
“I think my real interest in the future is learning how Korean Americans trace notions of ethnic authenticity through their sartorial expressions, especially as the world becomes more and more globalized,”she says.
Park also uses fashion to challenge assumptions about femininity. “I think what I’m trying to do, in my humble way, is to play a game,” she explains. “It’s a game of allowing other people to see how complex women are. I think a lot of the times by the way that I dress, people think that I am a flamboyant, very extroverted and easygoing person, which in many ways I am, but I’m not limited to that. You can’t judge who I am, or encompass me by the way that I dress.”
A less public part of Park’s life is her relationship to the Christian faith, which hasn’t always been straightforward. “I wouldn’t necessarily call myself a religious person, but I would say that I’m very spiritual,” Park says. “When it gets to more political issues, and more personal battles, like the ways in which white missionaries went to Korea and used it as a form of soft power and grappling with that history and how I fit into that, it can make me doubt a lot of my faith and makes me want to turn away.”
Yet Park says that the “worldly” elements of faith brought her back to the church. After she felt suddenly overwhelmed by the sense that she didn’t belong at Harvard during a freshman bible study, for example, an upperclassman in the Harvard-Radcliffe Asian-American Christian Fellowship visited her dorm and brought her snacks and kind words.
“I barely knew her name at that point,” Park says. “That’s so much of what AACF has been for me. Even when I haven’t been ready to receive love, I’ve been loved on. And I feel like it was such a selfless love, and a love that didn’t make me do anything in return, that makes me in moments of doubt believe in a higher power that makes this possible.”
I ask Park if she has any advice for incoming freshman. “I don’t want to say anything cliche,” she jokes. “Follow your heart!”
Park tells me how lost she felt arriving at Harvard as a first-generation student. In high school, she felt as if she always had a clear path to success, predetermined steps that would lead her to be valedictorian and get into a good college. As a freshman here, there were no more obvious steps to take.
“It took me awhile to feel comfortable in that unknowingness,” she says. “The only thing that I could listen to was what I liked to do. Looking back at my transcript, it follows a whole story, but not a story that I had to outline. It just came into being, because I followed what my heart was called to do.”
So… follow your heart, after all. It’s a cliche for a reason: it’s not bad advice. Park tells me that her longshot goal is to be a talk show host, like Oprah. After our conversation, I wouldn’t be surprised if a few years down the road I find myself shopping from a list of Birdie’s Favorite Things.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
UPDATED: November 29, 2017 at 9:40 p.m.
The 135th meeting of the Harvard Crimson and the Yale Bulldogs will be played at Boston’s Fenway Park  instead of Harvard Stadium, Fenway Sports Management announced Wednesday morning.
The annual football match has not been played at a location other than Harvard Stadium or the Yale Bowl since 1912, according to a press release from the Harvard Athletics Department.
The home field of the Boston Red Sox, Fenway Park is located in the Kenmore Square neighborhood of Boston, roughly three miles from Harvard Stadium. It is the oldest park in major league baseball.
“We are very excited to face our historic rivals at Fenway Park, a landmark for New England sports,” Athletics Director Robert L. Scalise said in the press release. “This will be a special experience for our student-athletes, student body, alumni, and fans.”
Ahead of Wednesday’s public announcement, Harvard football head coach Timothy L. Murphy wrote an email to Harvard football team boosters notifying them of the shift in venue.
“Due to the potential restoration work on Harvard Stadium, we will be hosting the 2018 Harvard-Yale game at Fenway Park,” Murphy wrote in the email.
The Athletics Department announced in September that the Stadium would undergo design and engineering studies in fall 2017 “to help inform future stadium improvements.” The Stadium’s renovation and addition also features in the University’s Institution Master Plan for Allston: Harvard plans to repair areas of deterioration, increase accessibility, and construct new locker room and office spaces.
Ticket prices for The Game, scheduled for Nov. 17, 2018, will be announced at a later date, according to the press release.
“To me, Fenway is a super fan experience,” Harvard football head coach Timothy L. Murphy said in the press release. “I know our student-athletes will be very excited about playing our biggest rival at a sold out Fenway Park.”
Harvard Stadium opened in 1903 and predates the construction of Fenway Park, completed in 1912. All other Harvard football home games will be played at Harvard Stadium in 2018, according to the Athletics Department.
Just over a week ago at the Yale Bowl, the Bulldogs defeated the Crimson for the second year in a row, 24–3.
—Staff writer Kenton K. Shimozaki can be reached at kenton.shimozaki@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @KentonShimozaki.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Climate change researchers, professors, and journalists debated how best to present the severity of climate change to the public Wednesday evening at an event hosted by the Harvard University Center for the Environment.
The discussion, titled “Hope and Despair: Communicating an Uncertain Future,” was held in the Geological Lecture Hall.  Elizabeth M. Wolkovich, an assistant professor in the Department of Organismic and Evolutionary Biology, moderated a discussion about how to best motivate the public to take action on climate change.
David Wallace-Wells, who is the deputy editor of the New York Magazine and wrote the article "The Uninhabitable Earth” this year, advocated the use of fear about the planet’s future as a way to inspire more people to become “climate agents.”
“I think that there is real value in scaring people,” Wallace-Wells said. “When I talk to colleagues it just seems so obvious to me that when you think about the relatively well-off Western world, that complacency about climate is just a much bigger problem than fatalism about climate.”
Nancy Knowlton, chair for Marine Science at the Smithsonian Institution, said she thinks it is more effective to be optimistic about humanity’s ability to stave off disaster.
“I’ve had many, many students come up to me after talks about optimism or the Earth Optimism Summit that we ran in Washington saying ‘you know, this was incredibly empowering, I now really want to go out and work on solving this problem. I almost left the field of conservation because I thought there was nothing I could do,’” Knowlton said. “I do feel that it is absolutely essential to talk about what’s working, why it’s working, in addition to providing this very scary context.”
While the question of mitigating climate change is a regular topic of concern for individuals in scientific circles, Wolkovich said that climate change is rarely the highest priority in politics.
“It’s not the number one political issue and until it becomes the number one political issue, we’re not in the position I think we need to be if we want to change the scenarios,” she said.
Henry G. Scott ’18, who attended the event and is writing a thesis on how humans have historically impacted the environment, said that he enjoyed the panel but was bothered by how few undergraduates attended the event.
“When I first sat down, I was kind of looking around and noticing how few undergrads were present, which kind of built into my preconceived idea that this isn’t something that we’re aware of or we’re concerned enough about as a student body,” he said.
Wolkovitch remained optimistic about Harvard’s potential to make an impact. “There’s lots we can do, and Harvard is such an amazingly large voice in the world still to this day that it has a lot of opportunities,” she said.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Extending its reach to new Cambridge neighborhoods, Target plans to take over a long-vacant space at the Porter Square Galleria less than one mile from the Quad.
This is Target’s second foray into Cambridge, and one of several stores the chain has opened in the greater Boston area. The signature red bullseye hit Central Square this past March to the excitement of some students and Cantabrigians.
According to Cambridge Day, Target signed a ten-year lease for the property, which is located directly across the street from the Porter MBTA station and has been vacant since Walgreens left the space in  summer 2015. The store will be two stories high and almost 8,000 square feet larger than the Central Square location.
A spokesperson for Target declined to comment on the new property. An opening date has yet to be announced.
Tess Saperstein ’18, who described herself as a "Target enthusiast," said this news was “very exciting” and that she was “intrigued” by the possibility of a larger Target in Porter Square.
“It’s a large space, so that makes me inclined to think that it will have all of the amenities of a Super Target, which is the alpha of the Targets,” Saperstein said. “I’ve visited many of the Targets that are in the general vicinity, and because of space restrictions, none of them have really been able to carry all of the food options and clothing options and all the many things that Target generally has in one space.”
“I think that this Target has a lot of potential,” she added.
Other students, especially those from Quad Houses, said they were very excited about the larger and more conveniently-located Target.
Currier House resident Brandon N. Wachs ’18 said he looked forward to shopping at a Target near the Quad because of the wide selection and affordability the store offers.
“Being in the Quad, it’s huge in the sense that you get more general of a store that you wish there was something like in the Square,” Wachs said. “While maybe looking forward as an adult, I wouldn’t necessarily get that excited for a Target. As a college kid, it’s definitely the perfect kind of store that you’d want near you.”
Naomi G. Asimow ’18, who lives in Cabot House, said she has shopped at Target for her entire life and is “thrilled” about one coming to nearby Porter Square.
“I really like the range of products you can get there, and I also feel good supporting Target as a company because they’ve often taken stances publicly on social issues I care about,” Asimow said.
Before the Central Square branch opened, some students used to make the roughly 1.5-mile trek to the Somerville Target. Several students remarked on Target’s grocery selection, saying that they could get fresh and affordable groceries at Target that were harder to find elsewhere near campus.
According to the U.S. Department of Agriculture, Harvard Square is considered a “low access zone” due to a lack of affordable groceries.
“It’s incredibly unfortunate that I will be graduating this year, because that means that I won’t be able to reap the benefits of this new Target as much,” Saperstein said.
–Staff writer Alison W. Steinbach can be reached at alison.steinbach@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @alisteinbach.
—Staff writer Katherine E. Wang can be reached at katie.wang@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @katiewang29.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
More than two dozen graduate students gathered in the Yard Wednesday to protest a Republican tax proposal that could slash their earnings and cut into the University’s endowment.
Speakers at the rally asked students to call their congressional representatives and urge them not to support a proposed tax plan that the House of Representatives has already approved and the Senate Budget Committee signed off on this week.
The House’s version of the bill includes a tax on the “qualified tuition reduction,” which is tuition the University reduces for its workers and paid graduate students. While it remains unclear whether this provision will be interpreted to extend to the tuition waivers that Harvard grants to many of its graduate students, if these tuition reductions are taxed, it could be costly: One tax expert estimated that a graduate student who receives a $35,000 stipend could pay $12,000 of it in taxes under the proposal.
Though the “qualified tuition reduction” provision is not currently in the bill before the Senate, it could still end up there, according to some political analysts.
Organizers for Harvard Graduate Students Union-United Auto Workers said graduate students should oppose the plan even though it is unclear whether qualified tuition reductions will be classified as taxable income.
“There’s some indication that it might not affect us but we still don’t know,” said Joe Cronin, a graduate student and union organizer.
Speakers also warned students that the tax would make graduate school too expensive for many potential students.
“We just can’t afford to pay thousands more in taxes,” said Erin M. Hutchinson, a graduate student. “Paying taxes on our tuition waivers would make graduate school simply a privilege for the wealthy and I think we all know that’s not the direction we want to be going in.”
After the rally, graduate students called their congressional representatives, making nearly 200 calls during the phone bank.
Jack M. Nicoludis, a graduate student and union organizer, said it was important for graduate students to advocate against the bill.
“We need to make sure our voices are heard so the Senate doesn’t pass this bill and if they do pass this bill when they go to reconcile the differences between the tax plans that they make sure the interests of graduate students are being heard,” he said.
While speakers at the rally said they were alarmed by the increased tax burdens the plan could place on graduate students, they also decried the bill because it would tax university endowments for schools like Harvard. Both the Senate and House plans propose a 1.4 percent excise tax on university endowments, which would have cost Harvard $43 million last year, according to an email to students from University Provost Alan M. Garber ’76.
“Even if the Senate version wins out, even if the University manages its accounting in a way or provides extra aid to manage the increased tax burden we still need to be concerned about this bill because the endowment tax and other things will have serious restructuring effects on the university,” Cronin said. “We do know that collectively we have to stand together to fight it.”
As the union opposes the bill, University President Drew G. Faust is also lobbying against it. On a recent trip to Washington, D.C., she met with representatives and urged them not to support it. In recent weeks, she has spoken to Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell and Senate Minority Leader Charles E. Schumer '71.
According to Garber, other Harvard affiliates are also advocating against the bill.
“Members of the University’s Governing Boards and friends of the University have also expressed their concerns to policymakers, and our federal affairs team in Washington is working around the clock with peers and others to advance our case,” he wrote.
HGSU-UAW’s rally comes as the fate of student unionization at Harvard remains unclear. The University has filed a brief with the federal National Labor Relations Board, but it is unclear whether the board will take the case and, if so, when it will release a decision.
—Staff writer Caroline S. Engelmayer can be reached at caroline.engelmayer@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @cengelmayer13.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
A labor attorney representing Harvard’s graduate student unionization effort denounced the University’s appeal of a federal ruling to invalidate a November 2016 unionization election during an event at the Law School on Wednesday.
Over the course of the event, Shelley B. Kroll, one of the unionization effort’s attorneys, criticized the voting list Harvard created before the still-contested 2016 election. In that election, a preliminary count showed more students voting against unionization than in support of it.
Per National Labor Relations Board precedent, employers are required to provide complete and accurate voter lists—called Excelsior lists—to unions before an election. Union organizers and their attorneys have argued for the last year that Harvard excluded potentially eligible voters from the list, skewing the results of the election. Harvard has maintained it provided adequate voter lists.
The question of the voter list is at the center of a year-long legal dispute between the student unionization effort and Harvard. After a regional NLRB official ruled that Harvard’s voting list had “interfered with the employees’ exercise of a free and reasoned choice” this summer, the University appealed the decision to the NLRB in Washington, D.C., where it remains.
At stake is whether or not eligible undergraduate and graduate students at Harvard can collectively bargain with the University—and whether Harvard will have to host a re-vote. Some labor law experts have said that if  the NLRB hears Harvard’s appeal, the board’s Republican majority would likely side with the University.
During the talk, which was hosted by the Law School’s Labor and Employment Action Project, Kroll criticized the University’s legal arguments. In particular, she discussed the precedent set by a 1966 case that requires the Excelsior voting lists.
“So what was really interesting about the Excelsior case was how far-sighted the NLRB was. Almost every argument that Harvard has raised was answered by the Board in 1966,” Kroll said. “They are trying to change the Excelsior rule.”
Harvard lawyers, however, have argued in their appeal that technological breakthroughs like social media have reduced the importance of formal voter lists for informing employees about unionization elections. They have asserted that Excelsior lists were more important in the 1960s, when the NLRB first ruled that voting lists should be mandatory.
“It is important to consider the limited forms of communication available at the time that Excelsior was decided,” lawyers representing the University wrote in a brief filed with the federal NLRB.
University lawyers have also sought to subpoena communications between union organizers and eligible voters. They have argued that the communications could demonstrate the union was able to inform students about the election, despite what Harvard says are minor issues with the voter list.
Kroll, however, criticized this approach, stating that the University’s arguments—if adopted as precedent—could have significant consequences for unions and employees.
“There’s no precedent–none–in all of the years of elections and cases before the Board to allow this to happen,” Kroll said. “It would also, as all of you can understand, deeply chill the exercise of employee rights if they knew that their communications with the union over the course of an election campaign could then be reviewed by their employers.”
This event comes weeks after HGSU-UAW held a rally to urge Harvard to drop its appeal to the federal NLRB.
—Staff writer Caroline S. Engelmayer can be reached at caroline.engelmayer@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @cengelmayer13.
—Staff writer Phelan Yu can be reached at phelan.yu@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @phelanyu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Standing in front of a packed room of faculty, students, and public officials, documentary filmmaker Greg Barker told the crowd that, for the next 90 minutes, Donald Trump would not be president.
Barker was speaking at an advance screening of his documentary “The Final Year"—which chronicles foreign policy initiatives in the last year of Barack Obama’s presidential administration—at the Harvard Art Museums on Wednesday night. The screening was followed by a question-and-answer session with Barker and former United Nations ambassador Samantha J. Power.
The documentary, set to be released on Jan. 19, 2018, follows Obama and several of his senior officials, including Power, who is currently a professor of global leadership and public policy at the Harvard Kennedy School and professor of practice at the Harvard Law School.
The film also relates the day-to-day lives and dealings of former Secretary of State John F. Kerry and Obama’s speechwriter and advisor Benjamin J. Rhodes as they attempt to implement lasting change in the final year of Obama’s tenure as president, following them from United Nations summits and White House meetings to field work in Syria and Cameroon. The movie also touches upon the tumultuous 2016 presidential election.
“For me, watching this film is more about seeing what happens inside the White House and seeing how day-to-day tasks are being affected at such a high level and it was truly inspirational,” Harvard Extension School student Kumail Ali said. “After watching this film I’m continuing to be more inspired to do the work that I’m doing, to be a young and aspiring politician.”
Though Barker joked that the audience could ignore the Trump presidency during the documentary screening, a significant portion of the subsequent question-and-answer session focused on the current president. In its foreshadowing of the 2016 election, Power described the film as “a horror movie where the audience knows that a massacre is going to happen.”
In addition to Power, other Obama-era officials that attended the film included Obama’s Secretary of Energy Ernest Moniz, former ambassador to Cuba Jeffrey DeLaurentis, and Kennedy School professor and chair of Obama’s Council of Economic Advisers Jason Furman.
Both Barker and Power said they hope the film will not just evoke nostalgia for Obama’s presidency, but also fuel activism.
“We need to draw people into public service and government,” Power said. She also encouraged young people and Harvard students to consider entering the foreign service.
Some audience members, such as Radcliffe Fellow Zia Haider Rahman, said they felt the film achieved these goals.
“I thought it was fantastic. I think this movie is a rousing call to arms; it’s an invitation to do something, it’s a reassurance that something can be done,” Haider Rahman said.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Representatives from Harvard proposed developing a 14-acre plot of its now-empty land in Allston, prompting concern from some Allston residents at a community forum Wednesday night.
Harvard spokespeople Kevin Casey and Harris Band presented an initial development plan for the land, a portion of the University’s “Enterprise Research Campus”—a loosely-defined 36-acre area on which Harvard proposed a center for entrepreneurship in Allston.
Covering a total of 900,000 square feet, the initial plan includes 400,000 square feet for offices and labs, 250,000 square feet for a hotel and conference center, and 250,000 square feet for a residential building.
If approved by a group of Allston residents, plans for the 14-acre space will fall under the Planned Development Area Master Plan, which states that Harvard may develop the land under a broad set of guidelines, even if the University does not adhere strictly to the “initial plans” presented Wednesday night.
Band said the land’s proximity to Harvard Business School and the current “innovation cluster”—encompassing Harvard’s Innovation Lab, Life Lab, and the planned ArtLab—makes Allston ideal for the development of the Enterprise Research Campus.
“What we want to do is to foster connections between these entities to foster a network of innovation,” Band said.
He and Casey sought approval from the Harvard Enterprise Research Campus Impact Advisory Group, a group of residents who will help guide the University’s plans for the 14-acre plot. The Impact Advisory Group functions similarly to the Harvard-Allston Task Force that oversees plans for Harvard’s Science and Engineering Complex in Allston.
At the meeting, Impact Advisory Group member Ed A. Kotomori said he was initially unconvinced by the presentation and is hesitant to approve the Planned Development Area Master Plan.
“We’ll be greatly impacted by all of this, greatly. My intention is to protect my neighborhood and all my neighbors,” Kotomori said, to cheers from other Allstonians who attended the forum.
Alana Olsen, another Allston resident, said she was concerned by Harvard’s plan to build residential units on the Enterprise Research Campus land. She noted that under the plans presented Wednesday, a residential building would not have access to major roads or green space, and would be located next to a parking lot and construction area.
“It feels like an afterthought that was just thrown there,” Olsen said. “If you are going to build residential, let’s make it part of the neighborhood.”
Others said they were frustrated that Harvard representatives did not discuss another construction project, a billion-dollar plan to renovate the Massachusetts Turnpike, at the meeting. Some residents expressed concern that Harvard is not sufficiently addressing the Turnpike renovation project, and instead diverting attention to other areas in Allston.
“To say that they’re bringing this on...at the same time the [Department of Transportation] process is going on, shows a lack of understanding of what should be expected of the neighbors who live here,” said Allston resident Bruce E. Houghton.
In response, Casey said it is difficult for the University to control the timeline of the Massachusetts Turnpike project, because it falls under purview of the Mass. Department of Transportation.
Following discussion, Harvard officials and Allston residents said they would meet to further discuss the  Planned Development Area Master Plan at a later date to be decided.
—Staff writer Lucy Wang can be reached at lucy.wang@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Former Dean of the College Harry R. Lewis ’68—a longtime, vocal opponent of Harvard’s penalties on members of single-gender social groups—said he is unsure if he will continue the fight after the Faculty of Arts and Sciences voted down his motion designed to nullify the sanctions earlier this month.
“I am going to wait and see what happens before I decide what to do,” Lewis said in an interview Tuesday. “I’m trying to get some other things done that I’ve been trying to get done during what was supposed to be a sabbatical.”
Lewis said he hopes the administration will take “significant Faculty concerns into account” in deciding how to proceed with the sanctions. The College’s roughly year-old social group policy, which took effect with the Class of 2021, bars members of single-gender final clubs and Greek organizations from campus leadership positions, varsity athletic team captaincies, and certain prestigious fellowships.
At their monthly Faculty meeting on Nov. 7, professors voted by paper ballot on a motion introduced by Lewis stating that the College shall not “discipline, penalize, or otherwise sanction students” for joining “any lawful organization.” 130 professors voted against the motion, while 90 supported it.
The vote marked a major victory for administrators who have defended the policy against criticism from faculty and students for almost two years.
“I was disappointed, but we had 90 colleagues who through their votes expressed strong skepticism because it was a very strong motion,” Lewis said of the vote. “I hope that will give the administration some pause as they consider how they will move forward.”
The sanctions could change. University President Drew G. Faust is currently considering a set of three recommendations: maintain current penalties for members of single-gender social organizations, ban membership in unrecognized groups outright, or consider “some other possible solutions.” Faust has said she will make a decision on the social group policy before she steps down in June 2018.
Lewis said he thinks his efforts to combat the policy sparked a needed debate over what Harvard’s role should be in regulating undergraduate social life. He said he has been fighting to minimize administrative oversight since he was an undergraduate.
“That was our battle that we fought in ’68 and ’69, to get the University to stop thinking that it was the parent that managed the social life, the private lives of its students,” he said. “So, it’s a little bit of a time warp to have younger Faculty stand up and say, we are the parents, we, Harvard, are the students’ parents while they’re here, and we have to make sure that they do things the right way.”
In an interview earlier this month, Harvard Corporation senior fellow William F. Lee ’72 said he thinks Faust’s replacement will likely keep the College’s current sanctions largely unaltered. Lee is the chair of the search committee tasked with selecting Harvard’s next president. “It’s very unlikely that they’re going to have a radically different view than we have on things like the single-gender organizations,” Lee said of the University’s 29th president.
Looking ahead, Lewis said he hopes the Faculty and Harvard’s next president will be able to quickly settle the fate of the College’s social group policy. Lewis said he would like to see the Faculty focus on more academic matters.
“We haven’t talked at all about anything intellectual, so I would like to see us follow through on the promise from two or three years ago that we are actually going to look at the quality of the undergraduate intellectual and undergraduate experience, the quality of teaching, the quality of attention that we give undergraduates in various degree programs,” Lewis said.
—Staff writer Kristine E. Guillaume can be reached at kristine.guillaume@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @krisguillaume.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Three and a half years ago, high school junior sprinter Gabby Thomas didn’t think she was going to make it as a college athlete. Two wildly successful NCAA seasons and an impressive array of records later, the Thomas now has her sights set on loftier goals: a NCAA national title and the 2020 Olympics.
“In high school, I didn’t really think that I was going to do a sport in college, up until the end of my junior year when I started getting recruited for track,” Thomas said. “I thought, ‘okay, I’ll go run track at school and I’ll get some good opportunities from that.’ When I got here, it was still just a fun thing for me, and it wasn’t until the end of my freshman year that I saw how far I could really go with it.”
There seems to be no limit for how far she can go. In her first two years running for Harvard, Thomas has already amassed enough accolades for four years.
During her freshman year, Thomas didn’t wait long to start etching her name into the history books, setting school and Ivy League records in the outdoor 100-meter, 200-meter and indoor 60-meter. She was also part of the team which set school 4x100-meter and 4x400-meter relay records.
She went on to finish the season as the Ivy League Champion in the 100-meter, 200-meter and 4x100-meter relay in the outdoor events, and 60-meter, 200-meter, long jump and 4x400-meter relay in the indoor events.
This stunning performance sent her to the NCAA Outdoor National Championships, where she finished third in the 200-meter with a personal best time of 22.47 seconds and was named an All-American for the outdoor 200-meter.
Thomas finished her rookie season with a chance to turn heads at more than just the collegiate level, too. Her performance at the NCAA Championships was enough to book her a spot at the U.S.A. Track & Field (USATF) Olympic Trials, where she competed in the 100-meter and 200-meter dashes, finishing sixth overall in the latter—below the threshold to secure a spot at the Olympics.
Thomas continued to show her prowess in her sophomore year, setting personal bests in the 100-meter dash and the long jump, with a time of 11.24 seconds and a distance of a 6.27 meters, respectively.
She again finished third at NCAA Championships, receiving first team All-American honors in the 200-meter, and an All-American Honorable Mention for the 100-meter.
The U.S. Track & Field and Cross Country Coaches Association (USTFCCCA) subsequently declared her the Northeast Region Women’s Track Athlete of the Year.
The Florence, Mass., native still isn’t close to done. With two years of eligibility remaining, Thomas approaches track with intentionality and a determination to improve upon her results of the last two years.
“I’m thinking more seriously about what I want to get out of track,” Thomas said. “This upcoming season, my goal is to win a national championship at NCAAs. Moving forward, I’m thinking more along the lines of training post-collegiately, for one extra year, just to try to go to the Olympics one more time, and then see where we go from there.”
With every passing day, and every record that she breaks, the Olympics look more and more like a real possibility for Thomas.
In addition to making waves in the track community, Thomas manages to balance an impressive academic workload.
A neurobiology concentrator, the Florence, Mass., native takes her education just as seriously, if not more, than her athletic endeavors. Despite the amount of time which both school and track take up, she stresses that the formula for balancing these two things is fairly simple.
“It’s 100 percent time management and discipline,” Thomas said. “When you know that you have to be at practice all afternoon, you structure your day accordingly. In a way, it almost makes it easier to do school at Harvard, because you have that structure that other people who aren’t athletes don’t have. You can’t do the same things your friends do, whenever they feel like it. You have to prioritize.”
As a student taking some of the hardest courses offered at the university, Thomas insists that surrounding oneself with like-minded people is a key to both academic success and success in general.
In athletics, her coach, Kebba Tolbert, filled that roll.
“Coach Tolbert is just one of a kind,” Thomas said. “He changed the mindset of the sport completely for me. He showed me how to love the process of competition, how to be competitive, and I definitely wouldn’t be where I am right now without him.”
In academics, the sprinter’s friends are those like-minded people.
“Academics was more of a struggle here for me at first,” Thomas said. “I’m a neurobio concentrator—all my friends are pre-med and seeing them work really hard really motivates me. I live with people who are really on top of their stuff. It’s important to surround yourself to people who hold you accountable.”
Of the four athletes who represented the Crimson at the NCAA Indoor Championships last spring, just two remain on the Harvard women’s track and field roster. Thomas, entering her third year, and sophomore distance runner Zoe Hughes will be hoping to return to the biggest stage in collegiate track and field this upcoming March. Thrower Nikki Okwelogu graduated and sophomore pentathlete Judy Pendergast transferred to Oregon just before the start of the school year.
The road back to the top begins this coming Saturday.
In a trip across the Charles River, Thomas and her teammates will compete on Dec. 2 at Boston University before taking a month off and resuming in January. The rest of the schedule spans 14 more events during January, February, and March.
The 2018 NCAA Indoor Championships will be held Mar. 9-10, 2018, on the campus of Texas A&M University, in College Station, TX.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections

As the end of the semester looms, many of us are starting to seriously consider what we want to do next semester. If being involved in too many extracurriculars made your life this semester a living hell, worry not! With these viable excuses, you can make some room in your schedule so that you can finally have more time for filling your evenings with Netflix, not strategy meetings.
The excuse to use when...you decide to be blatantly obvious about the fatal flaw shared by most Harvard freshmen. 
“It’s not you, it’s me...and my prior inability to restrain my inherent need to be an overachiever by getting involved in every club ever.”
The excuse to use when...you thought that you could revamp your wardrobe at no extra cost.
“Sorry, I thought that there would be free swag, but it’s been a semester, and my wardrobe is still as lame as ever.”
The excuse to use when…you originally had time for this club, but you got into a better club.
“While I genuinely would love to stay involved in [insert name of club], I am afraid that I have overextended myself this past semester, and rather than give this club anything but my utmost best, I have decided to comp [insert name of club] at another time.”
The excuse to use when...the free snacks stopped flowing.
“I’m very sorry, but once the Doritos and apple cider disappeared, so did my desire to come to these club meetings. I hope that you understand.”
The excuse to use when…the line between academics and extracurriculars blurs (from tears). 
“I really did finish the poster, but my tears from my pset ended up soaking the poster. Can I join this club again when I am in less emotional turmoil?”
With these excuses in your arsenal, you’ll have no problem making your schedule more manageable...at least until comping for spring semester rolls around.
Sections
Whatever your religious beliefs, there’s one thing we all can have faith in: School is hard. Finals period can be harder, or it can be easier...it all depends on your attitude. We’ve got some predictions for what’s in store for the next three weeks.
Dec 1: Leave Ec1010a and pledge never to take a MWF 10 a.m. again (read: bring back Thirsty Thursday).
Dec 2: Find your Santa hat and ugly Christmas sweater strewn across the floor of the room you ended up in after first night of reading period festivities.
Dec 3: Partying on a Sunday? Why not, there’s gotta be some time that you can live a normal college kid lifestyle.
Dec 4: Your Google Calendar says: “I’m going to do a full six-hour school day studying in Lamont on Monday.” You say: “I’m going to do a full six-hour Stranger Things binge in my bed on Monday.”
Dec 5: Scramble to get an invite to the last of the final club holiday dinners. Maybe plan to “study” with that cute kid in the Owl from math class.
Dec 6: Deliver generic candle or Starbucks gift card to that TF who you absolutely need to bump up your grade.
Dec 7: 15-page paper due tomorrow? We thought you said 15-day bender starting tomorrow.
Dec 8: Primal scream. Enough said.
Dec 9: Saturday morning final, or your average weekend class schedule at prep school.
Dec 10: Reading period part two, LFG. Warning: The respite is short lived.
Dec 11: Fill out the Q-Guide to procrastinate and roast that teacher who made your life miserable all semester.
Dec 12: Cry because all your friends had early finals and left you alone in this barren wasteland of academic expectations.
Dec 13: Cry because you’re alone in your room and you somehow miss the incredibly annoying sound of your roommate’s microwave/alarm/Doo-Hickey that you have no clue what it does.
Dec 14: Get your ish together because you believe in yourself now that you did well on a Gen-Ed gem final. Hooray!
Dec 15: Cry again because you realize you can’t do anything and you’re a failure.
Dec 16: Take a break and watch the new Star Wars movie. Hey, you’ve done a lot of crying in the past 72 hours. You deserve this.
Dec 17: Book your tickets outta Cambridge for the 21st of December. We’re leavin’, baby!
Dec 18: Realize winter housing actually closes on the 20th. Buy a gift hamper to bribe your House administrator or the FDO with. (It’s between the two of you, you promise!)
Dec 19: You knew the Q-Guide was lying when it gave a math class a 4.9. Joe Blitzstein is life, but that 9 a.m. final on the last day was not cool.
Dec 20: Cry to your mom and make her promise that she won’t make you do a pset ever again.
Dec 21: Go shopping for presents and pick up your favorite book from philosophy class to impress your intellectual friend. Who said your fancy humanities education wouldn’t be practical?
Dec 22: Remember that your grades might be posted and choose not to look until after Christmas—it might just be a Christmas miracle.
Dec 23: Check the Cambridge weather forecast and feel nostalgia for the sub-freezing weather that you know is your fate when you return.
Dec 24: Hardest “would you rather” ever: Eat HUDS food on Christmas Eve, or have your aunt interrogate you on when you’ll find a nice Harvard boy?
 Dec 25: Proclaim, after a bit too much (rum-infused) eggnog, that you’ll be better next semester.
Ho ho ho, merry Harvard-mas!

