News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard students, to put it mildly, love to party. And yet increasingly, it has become ever harder to do so, on a campus with limited social spaces run by an administration which has increasingly restricted the presence of alcohol and attempted to deter students from associating with groups that do. It is little short of a wonder that it’s hard out here for us to find a way to safely enjoy ourselves on a Saturday night among friends, in an attempt to relieve the stresses of the past week.
If this sorry (and dry) state of affairs weren’t enough, Adams House has enacted a temporary policy banning alcohol from its two newest social spaces, the “Molotov” and the “K-Space” for this term. The House claimed that cleanliness issues and a lack of understanding of House expectations with the use of rooms led to the alcohol ban. And, to no one’s surprise, these social spaces have seen a noticeable decline in users this term, while Adams attempts to find a better policy regarding the use of these spaces.
Adams House administration must repeal this ban as soon as  possible. Social spaces are scarce on campus, and in the wake of the College’s attempt to center student life away from social organizations into the Houses, it appears they have shot themselves in the foot with this drastic policy. If Harvard wants its students to enjoy themselves safely on campus, they must give us more control over what we can do in the Houses we live in.
In regards to the circumstances that led to the ban, there are many solutions that can be implemented if cleanliness is an issue. Certain Houses (like Adams’ eternal enemy, Pforzheimer House) have deposit requirements to ensure their social spaces aren’t entirely destroyed by the end of a particularly crazy night. In addition, Houses could opt to simply ban students who disregard their policy and lay waste to common spaces. Adams House should not punish the whole student body for the sins of a few students. The House administration ought to consult with the other Houses that have open party spaces frequented by undergraduates; this is a problem that has been already been solved.
We hope administrators in Adams House implement an alcohol policy soon—one that is realistic in allowing students to enjoy themselves, and that can renew the life in the House’s common spaces. Concerns about cleanliness can easily be waved away with a few well-implemented policies, and it can contribute to an atmosphere more respectful of the House spaces. After all, we’re not trying to bring Molotov cocktails into Adams—but we’d sure like to enjoy cocktails in the Molotov.
This staff editorial solely represents the majority view of The Crimson Editorial Board. It is the product of discussions at regular Editorial Board meetings. In order to ensure the impartiality of our journalism, Crimson editors who choose to opine and vote at these meetings are not involved in the reporting of articles on similar topics.

Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
This Saturday, you could go apple-picking, enjoy the last days of the fall foliage, catch some art at the Museum of Fine Arts, or binge something on Netflix. But, please, I urge you, don’t watch the Harvard-Yale football game.
I’m not saying this as someone who doesn’t appreciate football. I used to be a huge fan and I know how much fun it is. Throughout much of my life, each autumn brought the same pattern—college football on Saturday and the National Football League every Sunday. The mornings consisted of pre-game shows with predictions for the day, then the glorious hours of the games themselves, and then the night-cap on SportsCenter.
Fantasy football made it even better. League drafts in the summer. Hours of predictions and analysis. Watching every score to see if the right receiver caught the touchdown. Checking who you were playing to root against those guys. Counting up points—it made the return to school almost bearable. It was a blast.
But a study published this past summer changed my opinion. Neuroscientists from Boston University found chronic traumatic encephalopathy in 110 of 111 brains of former NFL players. Chronic Traumatic Encephalopathy is a progressive, degenerative brain disorder caused by repeated brain trauma. It can change someone’s mood and behavior, and cause memory loss, confusion, impaired judgment, and eventually progressive dementia.
The study also found that the prevalence of CTE varied by the amount of football played; 48 of 53 college players had it (91 percent), while only three of 14 high school players (21 percent). The most severe forms were found in the professional players. The researchers therefore concluded that, “there is very likely a relationship between exposure to football and risk of developing the disease.”
The study was not perfect. The researchers relied on donated brains, which means that the samples weren’t random, and there was no control group, so we don’t know how the rates of CTE in football players compare to non-football players. Moreover, there may have been confounding factors such as alcohol or drug abuse and genetic predisposition. These caveats are important to note and will surely spur further research. But the conclusion of the study is still damning: Football players are very likely to have an increased risk of developing CTE.
From this conclusion, several arguments can be made against watching football. One is the safety of current players—their health may be in jeopardy during every snap. Another argument is preventative—we need to prevent the children of today from developing problems in the future. There is also possibly a moral argument that football is a sordid sport that we shouldn’t spend an afternoon watching. These arguments all have merits. But none of them get at why Harvard students shouldn’t watch.
We now know that football players very likely have increased risk of developing a debilitating brain disease. What will we do with that information? Something needs to be done. As ostensibly the premier University in the world, we must show that new research matters in society, and that we can adapt and change because of it. I urge the Harvard student body not to watch the Game to show that evidence has power, that data and facts matter and can change behavior. So, take football off this Saturday and do something else.
I know that changing is difficult. It sucks when something that you think you know so well turns out to be something different. I knew football well. My good friends played and I used to watch their games. But when I was a kid, no one articulated the health risks that we are now aware of.
My future kids will know these risks and, whether we like it or not, football is no longer as safe as we thought. Things will need to change and as Harvard students, we should lead that change from the vanguard. If not us, then who? Yale? We need to beat them at something.
Eric M. Coles is a graduate student at the Harvard School of Public Health in the Doctor of Public Health program.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
If I was white, I would be able to breathe. It would come easy, absent of so much stress and so much weight. I would live in blissful ignorance, forever unaware of the minutiae that occupy my life today.
I imagine I would feel light. Because if I was white, I would be granted the right to be an individual. A daughter, intent on making my parents proud. A big sister, both cheerleader and annoyance to my three younger siblings. A writer, always getting started on her pieces too late. A Harvard student and Government concentrator, thinking about law school.
Free from being an amalgamation of millions or even billions of identities, I would live easily, unaware of how crippling the weight of those identities is, not knowing how they sink on your chest and pull down, always dragging and forever present.
I would not know what it is like when someone you’ve just met asks you if “Muslims really think that.” I would not know what it is like when strangers assume that your (brown) parents aren’t supportive of your ambitions. I would not know what it is like to constantly have to explain where I’m from or what makes me foreign—because I’d be from here and of here and at home. I would never have to experience that panic when your throat closes up and your heart starts pounding because someone has just implied that you are (just a little) less human.
If I was white, I would have walked into Harvard Yard at Visitas and not thought twice. I would have had the guarantee that Harvard was mine. These brick walls and ancient broken streets would be normal, mundane. Maybe even a little—dare I say it—underwhelming. (If I was white, I would dare to say anything. I wouldn’t be worried about being ungrateful for the bounty of Harvard.) Just like I do now, I would stumble through the wet leaves stuck to the paths that run through Tercentenary Theater. But the paths would be mine and the space would be too. I would know that people like me built Harvard, populated it, made it excellent for centuries and centuries.
I would know that I deserved to have a place in the Yard, on the steps of Widener Library, and in the gold stained common rooms in Adams House. Harvard wouldn’t be a pipe dream or a twist of fate. It would be a possibility that came true as the result of my hard work. I wouldn’t be a “diversity admit,” I’d be a strong candidate. And I would know that my being here wasn’t contingent on time or place—that it was just as much of a possibility 50 years ago as it is today.
I wouldn’t have to rewrite the rules or challenge the status quo to make room for myself. In my Government classes, I would still read theories about how only the West is capable of creating functioning political systems, how Islam is an inherently violent and dictatorial religion, and how the rest of the world is in shambles because of their “culture” (not because of the centuries of colonialism and imperialism that has been imposed upon it). But if I was white, it would be so easy to dismiss those words as no longer relevant, as ancient history. Either way, I would still be  the civilized West, the democratic West, the intellectual West.
Instead of spending time trying to change the rules, I would get on with the game. I would save hours in pointless, dehumanizing day to day interactions. I’d save energy without the daily stress of microaggressions. I’d be able to utilize my intellect to explore my own interests,  instead of constantly challenging the assumptions of centuries old political philosophers and modern day politicians. I would be able to let go of fear—fear for my family, for my friends, for myself. And I would be free of the burden of constantly being on the defensive and working to make my humanity realized and recognized.
If I was white, I would be allowed to belong. I wouldn’t be a person stretched across oceans. I wouldn’t be a person stretched across ideas. I would be able to claim this country and its politics. Maybe I would even affiliate with a political party. I would be able to engage, because I would have hope that things would get better and that they could change. And that’s because I would have been granted legitimacy in the founding documents of this nation, the laws of it, and the structure of it.
If I was white, I wouldn’t be other at all and I wouldn’t be writing this column. I would not even be aware of the nuances that I have written thousands of words about now. And I would have no need to speak, because my voice would already be respected and amplified and replayed, hundreds and thousands and millions of times.
I wonder if I’d feel lighter and if I’d be freer. But I can’t even imagine it and I would never want it. This weight, this fear, this confusion—it’s made me who I am and it’s shaped every part of me. And so, if I was white, I wouldn’t be myself either.
Shireen Younus ’20 is a Crimson Editorial editor in Pforzheimer House. Her column appears on alternate Thursdays.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
The Harkness Tower bells of New Haven are a-ringing, and the 134th Game is fast approaching, but don’t worry: You still have time to buy an infamous H sweater. “But!” you say. “They’re extra, expensive, and basic. I don’t need that!” You’re right. No one needs an H sweater. But Harvard students can shit on these sweaters all they want, because when they flock to the stadium, they’ll all end up wearing some variation on the H sweater, anyway. Choose yours wisely: The Game is one of the most widely-attended social events of the year, and new cover photos WILL be taken. Read on for our guide to this year’s 15 Hottest But Not Necessarily Warmest H Sweaters.
15. The Classic Harvard Letter Sweater: The Classic H sweater pairs perfectly with Uggs and a pumpkin spice latte; after all, basic rhymes with classic. (Very, very nearly.) Upgrade to 19-micron count Australian Merino wool if cotton doesn’t cut it for you.
14. The Classic Harvard Letter Sweater in Cream: If you want the traditional look but crimson is a bad color on you, opt for the more ~sophisticated~ “creme” in the same design. Creme, not cream. Cream is for coffee, and creme is for sweaters, duh.
13. Tommy Hilfiger H Sweater: If you grew up being taught that A is for Armani, B is for Barneys, and H is for Hilfiger, well—first, your parents must be strange. Second, you might enjoy this patriotic take on the H sweater. Yes, it’s authentic Tommy Hilfiger; yes, we know you’re in a final club.
12. Tailgating Sweatshirt: The homey knit of this sweater makes us remember going to Grandma’s house for home-cooked dinners. And that sloppy cursive—does anyone else smell freshly baked cookies? There’s no way your grandmother didn’t knit this wholesome sweater. She just hasn’t broken the news to you that she’s working for the Hillflint factory, that’s all.
11. Colorfield Sweater: Wow, this one could go in so many directions. It’s minimalist and therefore perfect for your friend on The Advocate’s Design board or for VES concentrators. On the other hand, it’s hard to miss that li’l registered trademark symbol—maybe buy this one for your favorite Ec pal. Sssss.
10. Retro Stadium Sweater: That artfully distressed denim jacket, that tastefully ironic t-shirt, those authentically lived-in mom jeans—boy, do we have the sweater for you! Once you’ve run it over a few times and left it with your teething puppy for a couple of days, it’ll be the perfect addition to your look.
9. Cashmere Crewneck:   If cotton gives you hives and you get a fraud alert from your credit card company for purchases under $200, here’s a crewneck, but in cashmere. It’ll pill quickly and can’t be machine-washed, but you can afford to replace it.
8. Ladies Retro Stripe Sweater: This is the perfect sweater to wear when you’re having a girls’ night and you’re just not ready for any of that toxic masculinity. Think of this as the pink Gillette razor of sweaters, but, you know, cozier. And less likely to make you bleed when accidentally step on it in the shower.
7. Quilted Crew Harvard Sweater: Harvard is a brand, and the sweater is branded, and honestly, why even fight it any more?
6. Classic Crewneck: Fun DIY project: Go to Michael’s, buy some iron-on letters and a red sweatshirt, and charge $65 for it. You’re welcome. All we’re asking for is 15 percent of the profits.
5. Varsity Script Sweater: Was your second grade brother practicing his cursive for your birthday card? He should work on his lowercase R’s. Then again, they do scream, “We’re not a multi-million dollar corporation! We’re just like you!” Harvard spelled out in wobbly loops has never looked less intimidating.
4. Harvard Letter V-Neck Sweater: The classic, in V-neck form to keep it sultry. We guarantee you: That sliver of collarbone is your ticket to the Delphic pregame.
3. Terry Crew: According to the Harvard Shop, it’s “perfect for studying inside or for a night out.” The towel-like fabric looks like it might be good for soaking up the inevitable spilled drinks at the tailgate, too.
2. Illustrated Harvard Sweater: This might be the closest you ever get to a football player touching your chest.
1. H for Harry Sweater: Knit by Molly Weasley herself, this is the hottest H sweater. Its insulating properties are magical. It’s bewitchingly flattering. And so what if the H doesn’t necessarily stand for Harvard? No one has to know… if you hit them with a quick obliviate.
This Saturday, you’ll see your friends in all of these H sweaters and more, freezing on those hideous stone bleachers, hoping to catch a glimpse of some Yale Boy Butts. Maybe the knowledge that Harvard has more Hillflint designs than Yale can keep you warm; no matter what the final score is, we’re better at being the worst.
Sections
Every morning, I walk into the dining hall ready for the most important meal of the day, and every morning, I am disappointed by the generically labeled cereals waiting for me around the corner. Mini Spooners? Isn’t that what you would call a freshman couple, not a delicious breakfast staple?
To find out what’s behind this cereal conspiracy, I contacted Crista Martin, Director for Strategic Initiatives & Communications at Harvard University Dining Services.
According to Martin, most cereals in Harvard’s dining halls are supplied by a company called Malt-O-Meal, the taste of which students could not distinguish from their Kellog’s counterparts during product tests. “The marshmallows might look different, you might not have the leprechaun’s rainbow in your Marshmallow Mateys, but if you weren’t looking at it you wouldn’t taste the difference,” Martin says.
When asked why HUDS still supplies some familiar cereal brands like Special K and name-brand soft drinks like Coca-Cola and Florida’s Natural, Martin is evasive. “We buy more than 5,000 different ingredients in a year, so you can imagine it’s a very complicated set of dynamics. There are lots of things behind it that are not necessarily obvious to someone who is just familiar with buying things in the grocery store.” HUDS has to keep the mystery alive, after all.
Sections
I knew I was headed in the right direction when the familiar hoodies and North Face jackets of the Boston University campus gave way to something new. As I entered the vendor room of the Boston Anarchist Bookfair, there was a palpable shift toward torn leather jackets with esoteric patches, brightly-colored and wildly-styled hair, and an unwritten dress code: All black everything.
Flags hung from the ceilings bearing images of AK-47s and the insignia of the Women’s Protection Units—more commonly known as the YPJ, a socialist, all-female military organization fighting ISIS in Syria. There were buttons and bumper stickers for sale: “Eat the Rich,” “This Machine Kills Fascists,” and the like. Tables groaned under books and ’zines, covering everything from trans liberation to socialist economic theory. I grabbed one, titled “You Can’t Punch Every Nazi,” for myself during an event called “How to Talk to a Nazi,” in which I learned methods for engaging with and “deprogramming” fascists.
In another talk, called “Abriendo Caminos,” three Puerto Rican activists provided an anarchist perspective on post-hurricane Puerto Rico, arguing that the roots of this crisis go back to the island’s colonization.
Among the topics covered in other presentations were environmental racism, trans rights in psychiatric facilities, prison abolition, and graduate student unionization. There were also workshops on preventing domestic abuse, self-defense, and street medic basics.
One of the final talks of the night was given by Patrick D. Berkman. In “Lessons from the Russian Revolution,” Berkman discussed the promises of the 1917 October Revolution and the staggering betrayal of its ideals by the Bolsheviks under Lenin. In the conclusion of the talk, Berkman noted, not without sadness, “They killed an incredible global revolution and we’re left with the consequences.”
Dressed in a collared shirt, he stands out from the attending anarchist crowd. Berkman has helped to organize the Boston Anarchist Bookfair for the last several years, as part of an “all-volunteer organizing committee” in collaboration with the Center for Gender, Sexuality and Activism at Boston University.
“The goals of book fairs, I think, are largely two-fold,” Berkman says. “First off, they serve as a space for people who believe in organizing for a world beyond capitalism and the state to get together. The idea is to help build a community of radicals. The second goal is then to put these ideas forward to the public.”
Anarchists and book fairs seem like an odd pairing: Traditionally, book fairs are crowded events in junior high libraries, not platforms for people struggling to overthrow the capitalist state. But the book fair, it turns out, is a long-held anarchist tradition.
“Anarchism has never had a heavy foothold in the academy,” Berkman explains. “From the very start, and to this day, we want to prioritize getting our ideas and strategies and tactics in front of a general public. So we don’t like to hide our theories and our ideas behind academic jargon. We want our ideas and agenda to be clear and open to the public.
“Even if one person changes their mind and decides to join the fight against exploitation and oppression,” he says, “I think that makes the book fair worth it.”
Sections
Friend, grocer, supplier. Of joy.
It’s days like these I miss you most. I wander aimlessly through the Square, craving stale sushi. I am itching to spend a small fortune on a single banana, but my money lies in my pocket, unspent. Money cannot buy back a friend subsumed by the Big Man, Himself.
Middlesex County Sheriff, why did you seize our friend?

They say grief never really goes away. Healing is indefinite. I mourn you, Market, from my core; the pain your loss has left me with is so massive as to be almost impossible to contemplate; I–oh, sorry haha my bad, that’s just my crushing fear of inadequacy and premature guilt at disappointing my family, thereby confirming everyone’s predictions that I would burn out by age 25 and never contribute anything more meaningful to society than that killer speech I wrote when I ran for student council president in middle school.
But also grief. The mourning. We suffer.
We miss you, Market. Where else will we go to order a tomato, basil, mozzarella sandwich that comes with spinach leaves instead of basil? How will we go on absent the strangely resonant cafe area which allowed us eavesdroppings into conversations we most definitely did not want to hear? Whence will the hordes of famished theatre kids receive the requisite sustenance to feed their tech-week gossip about the wildly incompetent leading lady who stepped in after the first actress suffered a fracture in her femur due to a rogue set piece shaped like a narwhal which may or may not have been deliberately planted by the replacement leading lady herself???
Even the name–Market! So historic. So dignified. This noble antiquity, too, we will miss. Paul Revere trotted in, parked his horse by the gourmet chip bar, ordered a dragon roll. Benedict Arnold slid through in a trench coat and shades, perused the world’s largest selection of seltzer waters, went with raspberry. The entire British army in their cute red blazers plodded in after a big L jonesing for that good fried tofu, and the checkout folks didn’t bat an eye. All were welcome here.
This place eked out history with an authenticity that no building in Cambridge could possibly match.
O, Middlesex County Sheriff. You know not what you do.
“Seized.” What a terrible way to go. No one deserves such a violent, public demise. Years from now, long after Goldman internships have robbed us of our abilities to access emotion, we will pass each other in the halls of the prisons the robots have built for us, and we will accidentally make eye contact. And for a brief, shining moment, the memory of a tragedy so acute, so collective, so unfair, will surge through the haze of unfeeling and we will remember what it feels like to feel. We will remember.
We will never forget you, Market.
Middlesex County Sheriff, you knave. Why? Why?? Also, did you have to slap that six-pointed star on the sign? Leave the Jews out of this one, please. We really don’t need the blame for anything else.
And so, we suffer. We mourn. There is wailing and gnashing of teeth. Scratch that second one–we have nothing left to gnash.
Friends, family, passing tourists who are maybe speaking Dutch: Together we grieve. Thank you.
Sections
“You’re always being pulled into another story.” Joseph L. Koerner, Interim Chair and Professor of History of Art and Architecture, strolls through the gallery, pointing out intricate scenes showcased in The Fogg’s “The Art of Drawing in the Dutch Golden Age” exhibit.
While Harvard has served as center for the study of master drawings for years, a recent gift of 330 Dutch, Flemish, and Netherlandish drawings from the collection of Maida and George S. Abrams ’54 has transformed Harvard’s holdings of 17th-century Dutch drawings into the most comprehensive outside of Europe. Including works from over 125 artists ranging from Rembrandt to Marrel, the gift––according to Susan Anderson, a curatorial research associate and the Abrams’ private curator—allows parts of the existing collection to “grow in leaps and bounds.”
“These aren’t just preliminary sketches or objects of old historical value, and they are not only beautiful things, the drawings that George Abrams assembled are, each of them, a kind of little world that you can spend a huge amount of time looking at,” Koerner says.
According to Koerner, drawings of this type are unique in their ability to showcase an artist’s individuality and provide viewers with a glimpse into the artist’s spontaneous creative process in a way that completed paintings cannot. Featuring topics ranging from landscapes and scientific diagrams to depictions of societal outcasts, the drawings each tell a story and provide important historical context.
“The Dutch tradition and the drawings are especially apt to open up immediately and viscerally this relationship between the observer and the observed, and opens itself to life, the social order, and the natural order at precisely a time when Holland was at the forefront of the Enlightenment,” Koerner says.
Having spent time in Holland while an undergraduate at Harvard, George Abrams began collecting Dutch drawings in the mid-1900s with his wife Maida and soon became entranced by the medium.
“The finest drawings appeared to exist on two levels, the one material, the other spiritual, a peculiar unity between the expression of something eternal and the fragile being of a small piece of paper,” Abrams wrote in an essay featured in a catalog of his collection.
On November 4th, George Abrams was knighted by the Kingdom of the Netherlands for his contribution to the global study of Dutch art. Having previously donated 140 drawings to the Harvard Art Museums, the Abrams were cognizant of how they might inspire future generations to embrace the magic of drawings.
“The works would inevitably pass on to another life. We began thinking of what shape that next life might take,” Abrams wrote in a 2002 essay.
The shape of this next life is coming into focus as the Harvard Art Museums creates new institutional collaborations and builds upon its status as a research mecca to promote the study of these works. The additions to the collection provide “huge corpus of drawings for scholars to really puzzle over,” according to Anderson.
A new golden age for research of Dutch art at Harvard might be just on the horizon. Koerner looks forward to the possibilities for the expanded collection and the ways it can be utilized as a resource in the classroom.
“It’s a great opportunity for Harvard, it’s a great opportunity for future students, and I think it’s a great place for such drawings to be,” he says. “They were made to be studied [...] and they will be studied at Harvard.”
Sections
Most Harvard students use Instagram to document quintessential Harvard student experiences: sweaty dorm room parties, the Harvard-Yale Game, and candid laughter in the leaf-flooded Yard. But for some individuals on campus, Instagram takes on a whole other dimension.
“I’m not trying to be an ‘Instagram influencer,’” says Nian Hu ’18, an inactive Crimson editorial writer and travel blogger who has accumulated a following of over 15,000 on Instagram and worked with brands like Daniel Wellington, NA-KD, and Windsor Store, “I probably need a day job.”
But that’s exactly what brands call her, and other students with comparable followings —influencers. They partner with brands, advertising the sponsor’s products on their Instagrams in order to score some free stuff and, in the case of Sabrina Xiong ’19, to make some extra cash.
“This was more of just, ‘It’ll be a fun way to get some money and also work with my friends,’” Xiong says, one of the campus ambassadors for LaCroix Water, a sparkling water brand based out of La Crosse, Wisconsin. She started working with the company when one of her friends became an ambassador and put her in touch with the program.
For most, becoming an influencer wasn’t their goal when they got on Instagram. Xiong’s Instagram account, which she started early on in high school, was private before she became a brand ambassador.
“I never really posted that much on Instagram. I would post only when there was a special occasion or something like that, but because of this program, I was required to make a post every single week,” Xiong says. “That was a change.”
In addition to the sponsored Instagram picture, Xiong is also required to post one sponsored Instagram story every week. She is also expected to advertise for LaCroix on other social media platforms and speak to 40 people every week about the brand.
Sanoah LaRocque ’19, a Bumble Honey and nuyu clothing ambassador, has a similar story. Her Instagram account was always private, followed only by her friends and family, until she began working with Bumble Honey.
Although the perks are enticing, being a social media influencer comes with challenges, too.
“On the one hand, it’s so great because I’ve met so many people through Instagram. This is something I did not realize until I got more into it—it’s a whole community out there,” Hu says. “But on the other hand, I struggle sometimes to think about what kind of social good I'm doing. Ideally, what I want to do with my following is to talk about what matters to me and what matters to me is feminism, but I don't know how to work it in there."
Grappling with the impact of becoming an online pseudo-celebrity isn’t the only challenge. Social media is already deceptive in that it only reveals carefully curated snapshots. With the added element of company sponsorships, that image is even more blurred.
“I wouldn't show this Instagram to people and be, like, ‘This is me in a nutshell.’ I'm more than just these pretty photos, but I'm also less, in that when I meet up with people in real life, they're a little disappointed, just because, like, I'm a real person,” Hu says.
Sections
When asked if any specific childhood memories inspire his work, Harvard Muslim chaplain Khalil Abdur-Rashid cites a story passed down to him from his father.
In college, Abdur-Rashid’s father was the victim of a racially-motivated attack on his way to a Bible study taught by Martin Luther King Jr.
King could tell that Abdur-Rashid’s father had been in a fight, Abdur-Rashid says —“It was obvious.” He responded with a lesson on non-violence. “Dr. King had told my father that as long as you respond in kind to violence and other people's hatred... you'll always be a slave,” Abdur-Rashid says.
Abdur-Rashid’s parents taught him similar lessons. As the first black mayor of Stone Mountain, Georgia, his father had to combat issues of racial hatred and violence. His mother confronted the fundamental meanings of black identity and representation as an artist and educator.
“I came through chaplaincy from those two inspirations,” Abdur-Rashid says.
The uptick of discrimination against Muslim-Americans after 9/11 motivated him to pursue a career in the profession. “I got into chaplaincy with the desire to try to combat a lot of negative stereotypes and support students in understanding their role, particularly as Muslims, in America,” he says.
Today, Abdur-Rashid is the only full-time Muslim chaplain at Harvard. In the wake of a January executive order barring immigration from several Muslim-majority countries, University President Drew G. Faust instituted a search for a full-time Muslim chaplain.
For many, though, the exact role of a chaplain is not clear. “Folks don’t know what that means,” Abdur-Rashid says. “You had to Google it, right?”
Abdur-Rashid works with students in a variety of different contexts. Some duties are tied directly to religion—he counsels individual students and delivers the sermon for the Harvard Islamic Society’s Friday prayers. Others are more informal, like when he frequents House dining halls, or introduced himself to freshmen and their families on move-in day.
His work is also academic—he often guest lectures and hosts informal, seminar-style classes. Along with other chaplains at the University, he plans to hold a program in the spring on the intersection of food with spirituality and mental health.
Instead of being associated with the Divinity School or a local mosque, Abdur-Rashid’s  position was attached to the Office of the President, a move he feels gives the role a special significance.
“It centralizes the role of faith and spirituality, across the University as a whole,” he says. “This is a resource that the University [offers], in the same way they offer the resource of counseling services, or the Bureau of Study Counsel offers academic guidance.”
Sections
Picture a comic-book hero. He’s certainly over six feet tall. Some kind of aggressively masculine instrument is clutched in his disproportionately large hands. It’s likely his pecs are bulging through that thin, garish lycra suit. And without a doubt he’s brooding, eyebrows knit tight, caught in completely self-unaware contemplation of his own importance.
You probably didn’t picture a young woman in a backwards baseball cap and purple overalls holding a wrench in one hand and a jarred penis in the other. That’s understandable. Hothead Paisan, Homicidal Lesbian Terrorist, isn’t your everyday comic-book hero. And “Altered Gazes,” the Schlesinger Library exhibition in which this 1991 comic is featured, is not your everyday collection.
But then again, the Arthur and Elizabeth Schlesinger Library is not your everyday library. Founded in 1879 as an archive for Radcliffe College, Schlesinger has transcended its origins, becoming what Jane Kamensky, Director of the Schlesinger Library and Professor of History at Harvard, calls “a library of women’s history.”
Schlesinger, which celebrates its 75th anniversary next year, hasn’t always been so colorful. “For much of the last three-quarters of a century, we have been white, middle-class, and quite New England-centric,” Kamensky says, referring to demographics of the first women at Radcliffe. These days, the library’s challenge has been building on that legacy while attempting to capture the more complete history of North American women.
“Altered Gazes” is certainly a step—or rather a punk-rock strut—in this direction.
For Kamensky, the exhibit looks at “women as culture creators” in order to “tilt the sort of sex, drugs, rock-and-roll frame” that people traditionally place on women’s history. Exhibited materials range from lesbian pornographic magazines to marijuana cookbooks and zines discussing race and abortion. The objects in the collection are created by women, for women.
“Altered Gazes” draws chiefly on materials from the Ludlow-Santo Domingo Library, the world’s largest private collection documenting psychoactive drugs and their physical and social effects, with over 50,000 items from the collection on permanent loan to Harvard libraries. In addition to Schlesinger’s “Altered Gazes,” items from the Ludlow-Santo Domingo Library are currently on display in “Altered States,” a sister exhibition on sex and drug culture at Houghton Library.
Despite the clear progressive bent of the “Altered Gazes” collection, Schlesinger is by no means exclusively a feminist library. Though Schlesinger has collected “women’s radicalism” from the 19th century onward, Kamensky is wary to let that label define her work. “We collect the full spectrum of the history of American women and thought and activism around sex, gender, sexuality, and ordinary life,” Kamensky says.
This means seeking to acquire materials from ideologically diverse people and organizations, including those from across the political scale.
“Politically conservative women have been hugely important to especially the structure of post-Goldwater conservatism,” Kamensky says. “Those organizations and leaders are quite under-represented in our collections and in most public collections.”
Kamensky calls this myopia a “crisis.” She argues that “gender is at the heart of the way that American political parties have realigned in the last two generations,” and so without considering alternative angles and ideas, “historians really can’t understand the making of modern politics… I want researchers to be able to understand that story at Schlesinger.”
To Kamensky, this exhibition is a piece of a “broad diversity strategy that speaks to the whole University effort to move from being a homogenous space to a more pluralist space—to a place of real inclusion and belonging.”
Schlesinger is also attempting to carve out a greater role for itself in Cambridge. Among Harvard’s special collections, Schlesinger is unique in that it requires neither a Harvard ID nor letter of endorsement for access to materials. Additionally, Kamensky works with faculty at the Cambridge Rindge and Latin School, the only public high school in Cambridge, to bring students into the library and make the “treasures that live here feel like common property.”
So don’t be surprised if next Halloween, among the inevitable Batmen and Spidermen, you encounter a Hothead Paisan or two. When she gets into a scuffle with an entitled Superman over rightful ownership of a full-size Milky Way, my money’s on her.
Sections
“Spring forward, fall back.” If that strange mnemonic sounds familiar, then you probably grew up in a place that observed Daylight Savings Time. If not, maybe you experienced the impacts of DST for the first time this fall when you gained a precious hour of sleep on November 5th. Have you noticed that it’s starting to get dark around 5 p.m.? That’s DST at work––these days, the sun both rises and sets earlier on Harvard’s campus.
Massachusetts observes DST, meaning that Bostonians are used to the twice-annual scramble of changing all the clocks around their houses. But this could soon change.
Recently, a commission established by the MA state legislature voted 9:1 to approve a report that weighs the benefits and drawbacks of DST. Their report recommends that Mass. switches to the Atlantic Standard Time zone, meaning that Mass. would effectively keep DST all-year round. In other words, Mass. would permanently spring forward and never fall back. However, the report also presents certain conditions: that a majority of other Northeast states make a similar decision, that school start times are pushed back, and that educational initiatives are instituted to create public awareness around the change.
The push started with a single man, Tom Emswiler. Emswiler grew up in the DC area and moved from Virginia to Mass. in 2011.
“I knew I was moving north, but I had no idea how far north I was going to be,” he says. “So you can imagine my horror when, during my first December here, the sun set at 4:11 p.m. I thought, ‘There has to be a better way.’”
When Emswiler began investigating DST more thoroughly, he noticed that it had many drawbacks––in particular, a notable increase in strokes and heart attacks following the time switch (Emswiler works in health administration). In 2014, he wrote an op-ed arguing that Massachusetts should stick with DST year-round and submitted it to the Boston Globe for publication. “I didn’t think much would come of it,” he says, “but then it sort of went viral.”
Emswiler didn’t stop there. Previously, he had worked for members of Congress, and wanted to pursue change at a civic level. So, the following summer, he phoned his state senator’s office. Several conversations later, his senator introduced Tom’s Bill, which requested a commission to study DST. Although Tom’s Bill never passed on its own, its language was integrated into a larger economic development bill which passed through the Senate and the House.
“In August of last year, 2016, my little bill became law,” Emswiler says. “It was surprising. Then they reached out to me to be a member of the commission. They wanted me to be involved, which was flattering.”
The rest of the commission membership was composed of various politicians and experts. Over the course of several meetings, this group heard testimony about the various implications––both positive and negative––of DST.
Dr. Judith Owens, Director of the Center for Pediatric Sleep Disorders at Boston Children’s Hospital and a neurology professor at Harvard Medical School,  joined the commission to advocate for later school start times.
“Early start times have many health repercussions, like increased risk of depression, increased risk of obesity and type II diabetes,” Owens says. “By waking up early, they are fighting their natural circadian rhythms.” She expects that a later winter sunrise will incentivize schools to start later.
Acadia Center senior attorney Amy Boyd joined the commission as an energy and climate change expert. “Having that additional hour of daylight at the end of the day would help to save energy, possibly.” Boyd explains. “Winter electric peaks tend to be later in the afternoon, which makes sense if you think about it. People leave work and come home, while some people are still at work, so lots of lights and heat are on, driving that peak.” Year-round DST could lead to reductions in energy cost and greenhouse gas emissions.
The report also discusses a number of other findings about the impacts of year-round DST. For example, an increased hour of evening daylight could result in reduced crime rates during evening commutes, an increase in physical activity after work, and more consumer spending and hence a healthier economy.
Owens and Boyd both voted to support the final report, agreeing that the benefits of Atlantic Standard Time outweigh the drawbacks.
However, not everyone shares this perspective. David Prerau coauthored three US Government reports to Congress on DST and also helped to orchestrate the largest technical study to measure its effects. He testified before the commission about his research.
“I think the cons probably outweigh the pros,” Prerau says, citing prospective time differences between Mass. and economic hubs like New York and DC. “A nonuniform time distance causes not only problems in business, but problems in transportation,” he explains. Finally, “Things like sports games, the Oscar Awards, and the Emmys would start an hour later and end an hour later… That would be an inconvenience to a lot of people and historically that has also proven unpopular in areas where DST was changed.”
Yet the report was approved. Now, it’s on Mass. state legislators to write and pass a bill that would switch the Commonwealth to Atlantic Standard Time, in addition to securing other conditions like delayed school start times and regional agreement.
In the meantime, as the debate over the merits of DST continues, Mass. clocks continue to spring forward and fall back.
Sections
When Eli Troen ’20 found out he’d be living in Kirkland House, the House’s ancient library was one of the first things that came to mind.
“I was thinking about the different spots in Kirkland I could go and explore,” Troen says, “And definitely Hicks House was the first one that popped into my mind.”
Hicks House is a cozy three-story library limited to Kirkland residents. Now eerily quiet, the building was once punctuated by the voices of revolutionaries, scholars, artists, and monks.
“In the hundred and seventy years since its construction, only once has [it] known the peaceful existence of long continued ownership,” Stevens Fraser, a later resident, wrote in the Journal of the Cambridge Historical Society.
Hicks House was built in 1762 by John Hicks, a local carpenter, on the edge of what was then called Water Street.  An influential man in Cambridge, Hicks sent one of his sons to Harvard (Jonathan Hicks, Class of 1770) and was elected tax collector in 1771―a job he was notably awful at, as he was a staunch supporter of the growing push for independence from Britain.
Hicks’ distaste for the Crown got him in trouble at home as well as at work: Politics fueled a rift between John and his two sons, both staunch loyalists. This might explain why, on December 15, 1773, he crept out of bed without telling anyone where he was going. When he returned, Hicks tried to sneak back to his upstairs bedroom silently, leaving his boots by the door. According to “The Library of Kirkland––the John Hicks House” by Mason Hammond ’25, his wife later found them stuffed with British tea. Hicks had snuck off to participate in the Boston Tea Party.
Violence erupted two years later, when the British passed through Cambridge in retreat after the Battle of Lexington and Concord. On the heels of the Brits, Generals Washington and Putnam commandeered Hicks House. The building functioned as housing for junior officers until 1777; General Israel Putnam, of Bunker Hill fame, used it as his office.
Hicks House passed through many hands in the following decades, finally ending up with John A. Fulton, a painter who held onto the place for over sixty years until his death in 1900.
Fulton’s widow rented the house to students before officially selling to the Harvard Riverside Trust. The Harvard Riverside Trust, an organization developed by alumni to buy up property, scooped up the house in 1903 in a bid to seize land south of Mt. Auburn Street. They rented it to students for years before opening a lease with the Episcopal Order of St John the Evangelist. The Cowley Brothers, a community of monks, used it as extra housing for the novitiate for five years.
Finally, Harvard University bought it and lent it a young couple, the Frasers, in 1922.
Cecil and Esther Fraser had a passion for antique houses. According to an article from the time, in 1928, they launched a campaign to prevent the University from tearing the structure down to make room for a new gym.  Through the combined efforts of the Cambridge Historical Society and the Fraser family, the House was moved in 1928 to its current location on the corner of Boylston and South St. In 1931, it was finally connected to the C Entry of Kirkland.
In part because of its history, Hicks House is among Kirkland House’s most prized possessions. “I think because it's such an old historic building, It’s one of those elements of Kirkland people are proud of,” Kirkland resident Harry T. Newman-Plotnick ’18 says.
Sections
Harvard Jeans USA had a wide target audience. Who wouldn’t want a pair of jeans sold by America’s premier institute of higher learning? But Harvard Jeans USA, which produced apparel featuring phrases such as “Harvard” and “Cambridge, MA,” is located in the Philippines, and has nothing to do with the school.
Harvard’s brand has long drawn worldwide acclaim. No matter where you travel, you may come across the crimson color coupled with the distinctive Veritas crest. In some places, the Harvard brand is a fashion symbol, its reputation largely divorced from its role as an educational institution.
But who has the right to use Harvard’s name? Over the years, University officials have committed  legal resources toward maintaining control over the Harvard trademark. In doing so, they have amassed a small army of lawyers, even establishing an office called the Harvard Trademark Program. The Program’s stated purpose is to find, dissuade, and even litigate against those seeking to unlawfully profit from the Harvard name.
These lawyers find themselves quite busy. There are seemingly no creative limits to the products and services to which people are willing to attach the name “Harvard.” In 2008, a Chinese company invented a fictitious Harvard President named “Bell Johnson” to advertise water heaters. According to Crimson reporting from 1992, the University once even rejected an attempt to create a Harvard-themed condom, fearing repercussions if it was defective.
For the University, trademark infringement lawsuits are less about money and more about reputation. Harvard rarely seeks damages; its motivation is protecting the brand, not extracting money from usually small-time businesses and entrepreneurs.
While the Harvard name has been for years one of the most recognizable in higher education, the University’s effort to aggressively protect its trademark is relatively recent. In 2000, Harvard launched a suit against a life science research company called Harvard Bioscience, which had recently rebranded itself from Harvard Apparatus. Founded by a Harvard professor, the company had been using the name “Harvard” for nearly 100 years.
It wasn’t until 2000, though, that the University  mounted a legal case. According to a New York Times article on the case, Harvard argued that “the new name sound[ed] too confusingly like the name of a college department.” The issue was resolved in 2003, when Harvard reached a licensing agreement with the firm and allowed it to continue using “Harvard” in its name.
Harvard Bioscience, though, was a special case. Around the turn of the century, Harvard adopted a no-nonsense stance towards unauthorized use of its trademark, and it has not relented since. In 1999, Harvard sued the Canadian company Harvard Negotiations International, which purported itself to be a Harvard affiliate. In 2000, Harvard sued the online education website NotHarvard.com, forcing a name change.
These cases are the rare few to come under the public eye, as most trademark infringers reach settlements with the University before ever even making the news. Licensing agreements, like the one afforded to Harvard Bioscience, are reserved only for the select companies which Harvard deems worthy of representing its brand.
The Harvard Trademark Program, the office tasked with protecting the University’s brand, states on its website that it “annually handles hundreds of cases involving the unauthorized use of the Harvard name and other University trademarks.”
In the future, as the Harvard brand extends its reach across the globe, this number seems likely to grow. In an increasingly globalized and brand-centric world, maintaining the integrity of the Harvard name has become core to the University’s strategy. So next time you’re in the market for a new pair of Harvard-themed jeans, you’ll have to buy them from one of the University’s officially-licensed retailers.
Sections
Armed with over a decade of teaching experience and a desire to teach a variety of subjects, Dominique Padurano ’93 faced one last challenge—what to name her new tutoring company.
“I wanted to clearly capitalize on my connection with my alma mater,” Padurano says. She had once heard Sara Blakely, the founder of Spanx, say that companies with a hard “C” sound in their names tended to do well. Padurano settled on “Crimson Coaching.”
From the start, that nod to Harvard helped draw in clients. “I think that was what got me in the proverbial door,” Padurano says.
Indeed, the Harvard brand has overwhelming power—Padurano is not alone in trying to monetize its influence. Wander through Harvard Square and you’ll see dozens of businesses that deploy the University’s name. Crimson hoodies and t-shirts dominate storefronts. At the very heart of the Square, Harvard gear peeks out from the windows of Out of Town News. Across the street, a bold crimson sign indicates the Coop.
And rights to the name don’t come cheap: Companies pay through the nose for licenses to sell Harvard-branded clothing at stores like Forever 21 and Vineyard Vines.
Consumer goods aren’t the only products that benefit from being Harvard-branded. Crimson Coaching is one of many education-focused businesses that seek to take advantage of the unique power of the Harvard name. These organizations tend to offer similar services: international conferences, tutoring, or college application consulting.
The profits derived from the name can be huge. In a “non-exhaustive” list published by the University, Harvard has registered over 150 trademarks on everything from the Veritas shield to CS50.  Royalties from Harvard-branded merchandise sales amount to around $500,000 a year.
As a result, the University carefully polices its brand. The Harvard Trademark Program licenses the University’s trademarks and investigates unauthorized use of the Harvard name. Within the College, the Office of Student Life places careful restrictions on how a student group can claim Harvard affiliation. Similar bodies exist for the University’s other schools.
“The law here is actually a little murky because in general, you do have the right to say true things,” says Rebecca L. Tushnet ’95, a Law School professor who specializes in trademark law. “But Harvard can get around your right to say true things by making it part of the deal—that if you want to be recognized by the University, and if you want access to these other campus resources, you have to agree to their guidelines for using the Harvard name.”

The result is a complicated relationship between organizations seeking Harvard affiliation and administrators seeking to protect the brand. Inside the University, groups acquiesce to Harvard’s demands in order to maintain access to the name. Outside, businesses toe the line, choosing words and imagery that evoke Harvard and the Ivy League without misusing the university’s numerous trademarks.
Regardless of official affiliation to the University, organizations ranging from nonprofit workshops to lucrative college consulting businesses leverage—and sometimes exploit—the Harvard brand to advance their interests.
Houman D. Harouni, a lecturer at the Graduate School of Education, has received numerous invitations to speak at conferences around the world. He considers his popularity a testament to the power of the Harvard brand on the global stage.
“A lot of people, especially from international contexts, want to really get close to this name in one way or the other,” Harouni says. “If you’re Harvard faculty, you are constantly receiving invitations to come and speak or to come and teach or to come and do a project, and these rarely have much to do with your qualifications.”
The Harvard brand is especially valuable in Asia, where student groups find a lucrative market among high school students. Nearly a dozen student groups at Harvard offer educational conferences and workshops in China, Korea, Taiwan, Japan, and India, sometimes making hundreds of thousands of dollars a year. Bolstered by their affiliation to the University, many of these groups attract a sizeable client base from day one.
Harvard Model United Nations, for example, runs four-day United Nations conference simulations for high school students. While the main conference is hosted in Boston in January of each year, HMUN also hosts two international conferences annually in China and India.
This Harvard affiliation “100 percent” plays a role in drawing high school student participants to HMUN conferences, John D. Bowers ’18, Secretary-General of HMUN China, says. “The Harvard name is a huge part of why the conferences are so successful, at least initially.”
“The Harvard name has massive cachet internationally, probably even more than it does in the United States, so running a Harvard-sponsored conference kind of gives you a leg up over a lot of the competition because the name draws people in,” Bowers adds.
Qe Ti describes the Harvard name as a “quality warranty.” Ti is the chief operating officer and cofounder of Alpha Partners Education, the Beijing-based organization that helps organize HMUN China’s conference.
“In the eyes of Chinese parents and Chinese students, Harvard is the mecca of college, is the mecca of education, so the conference absolutely benefits from the name of Harvard,” Ti says.
Other organizations seek to emulate Harvard’s academic model, sustaining their conferences with their continued use of the Harvard brand. Groups such as the Harvard Vietnam International Educational Teach-In and the Harvard College Japan Initiative send dozens of undergraduates abroad to lead workshops and seminars.
“I think that overall, they all essentially stand for the main idea: bringing liberal arts to places that are not very familiar with the American model,” former HCJI president Deriam Chirinos ’17 says. “I think in that sense, all these programs are not really that different.”
Of these organizations, Harvard Summit for Young Leaders in China is one of the largest and most established. Run by the Harvard Association for U.S.-China Relations, HSYLC operates three nine-day conferences each summer in Beijing, Shanghai, and Hangzhou. Chinese high school students attend courses taught by Harvard undergraduates while participating in various extracurricular activities such as dance and sports.
HSYLC’s promotional materials heavily emphasize its connection to Harvard. In particular, it designs its services to resemble key aspects of student life at the College. The student seminars are “structured after Harvard College’s own Freshman Seminar Program,” the website boasts. The housing system is “modeled after Harvard College’s 12 world-renowned residential Houses,” offering students the “opportunity to experience what Harvard residential life is like.”
Many former participants say that HSYLC’s affiliation to Harvard drew their attention.
“I think that Harvard is one of the reasons I thought it was really interesting,” says Zhiye Yang ’21, a 2014 participant and contributing news writer to The Crimson. “The name Harvard is really influential in China.”
Hehe “Hannah” Shen ’19, a current HAUSCR board member who participated in HSYLC as a high school student, agrees. “The Harvard name definitely weighs a lot in this decision,” she says.
The trust in the Harvard name has translated to success for HSYLC. In 2017, more than 1000 Chinese high school students attended classes taught by about 100 Harvard undergraduates. HSYLC received more than $280,000 in revenue during the 2015 fiscal year, the most recent year for which public records are available.
HSYLC has also seen its own reputation and brand power grow over the past few years. “HSYLC was the first conference of its kind to hit China. That means it has the traction and the reputation of over a decade’s operation in China,” co-director of HAUSCR Melissa Li ’19 says. “We like to say more people in China know about HSYLC than they know about Yale.”
Bowers says the same trend held for HMUN. While the Harvard name may have helped establish HMUN initially, its continued success drew mainly on the reputation the conference had built up over the years. In fiscal year 2015, Harvard Model United Nations programs made $760,043 in revenue.
On the global stage, Harvard’s presence is overwhelming, competing with only the largest universities such as Cambridge or Oxford for name recognition. Domestically, Harvard faces more competition from regional powerhouses and nationally-ranked schools like University of Southern California and Cornell.
Yet Harvard remains one of the most powerful brands in the nation. The Harvard Crimson, for example, runs several journalism conferences on campus, including the Summer Journalism Academy, promoting them as “a chance for students to work and learn alongside editors at The Crimson.”
According to Derek K. Choi ’18, the president of The Crimson, the newspaper is “committed to ensuring that all interested students can participate” and is consequently “proud to offer generous financial aid to students for whom the cost of attendance poses a financial challenge.”
The self-described “largest student-run company in the world,” Harvard Student Agencies, is another prime example of the Harvard brand’s power in the United States. HSA contains 14 agencies, which sell products and services from custom apparel to dry cleaning to translation.
One of these agencies benefits particularly from Harvard’s association with high-quality education: HSA Tutoring, which offers a constellation of services like test preparation, academic workshops, and the Summer Business Academy, a week-long entrepreneurship course for high school students.
Each of these educational services touts a Harvard affiliation.
“Having a staff of tutors who are all Harvard students is definitely attractive to parents and high school students,” HSA president Angelina R. Massa ’18 says. “They’re looking to fill the same shoes Harvard students who are tutoring them have done.”
Andrew Fu, a sophomore at Babson College who participated in HSA’s Summer Business Academy in 2015, says the Harvard brand drew him to the program. “Everything with Harvard on it, it has a standard of quality that I expect,” Fu says, “So I expected it to be pretty good, pretty well-run just because there’s the Harvard brand on it. So that drew me and I applied.”

However, Massa also says that HSA tries “not to push the Harvard name too much or at least too aggressively throughout the tutoring process.”
According to the HSA Tutoring website, private tutoring packages vary in price: The one-hour 1636 package costs $75, while the 20-hour Veritas package costs $995. Over the summer, HSA tutors were paid $20/hour, according to job postings publicized in College Facebook groups and over mailing lists. Harvard Student Agencies, a registered non-profit 501(c)(3) organization, made $1,870,888 total revenue in fiscal year 2016.
In its Form 990 from fiscal year 2016, HSA states that its mission is “to conduct business enterprises for the benefit of students of Harvard University who are in need of financial assistance to defray the the expenses of their education.” HSA aims to provide job opportunities for College students.
To become an HSA tutor, one simply has to fill out an online form that asks for a resume and relevant standardized test scores. According to Massa, HSA looks for “people who have tutored previously or at least done very well on their standardized tests.”
Beth A. Simpson ’99, a lecturer at the Graduate School of Education, challenges the idea that students who have done well on their own standardized tests are prepared to tutor others.  “Just because you experienced an assessment doesn’t mean you know how to compose one,” Simpson says.
“I think that undermines everything about effective teaching,” Simpson says, “Which is that effective teaching involves a certain set of technical skills.”
According to Massa, after tutors have been selected, they undergo training. However, several HSA tutors say the training may not be sufficient. Based on her experience, Grace C. Eysenbach ’20, a former HSA tutor who taught 9th grade physics and computer skills part-time over the summer, said that HSA’s training process for tutors was only about an hour long. The trainings focused more on HSA tutoring policies rather than instruction on how to teach specific subjects.
“I’d say there’s definitely a lot of trust put in you as a tutor in that all they give you is an hour training, so they’re counting on you to be prepared when you show up to tutor this person,” Eysenbach says. “I think on the other end, there’s the risk of people half-assing it, but through the process, maybe using the Harvard name for the wrong reasons to validate something they’re not exactly backing up with their own actions.”
Joan Rooney, Vice President for Tutor Management and Support at The Princeton Review, emphasizes the importance of making sure tutors are trained to teach. She says that applicants for Princeton’s On Demand Tutoring, a 24/7 online homework help service, complete a one-hour mock teaching session and a qualifications check.
After tutors are selected, they remain on probation for up to 60 days, during which time they are assigned a mentor who has “expertise in online tutoring” with The Princeton Review who observes their work and provides feedback. Even after the probationary period, mentors continue to check in with tutors, only less frequently.
“It’s important to make sure that people delivering the tutoring are using some pedagogical skills and techniques,” Rooney says.
While Massa says she couldn’t disclose specific details on HSA’s training process because “tutoring is such a competitive business,” she describes it as “rigorous.”
“We do have many different services, and we have set ways that we’ve worked with advisors to develop to make sure that all of our tutors are up to par,” Massa says. She adds that after each program they run, HSA collects feedback to pass on to their tutors.
According to Rameen A. Rana ’20, Managing Director of HSA Tutoring, the company’s  main competitors include Kaplan, Signet Education, Cambridge Coaching, and The Princeton Review.
“To come up with the pricing for our tutoring packages, we make sure we can cover our costs and then always assure that they are significantly lower than our main competitors,” Rana writes in an emailed statement. “We often also provide free trials to customers who would like to learn more about HSA Tutoring before they purchase a package.”
According to Rooney, The Princeton Review charges $39.99 for its one-hour On Demand Tutoring package, which focuses on general academic help. The Princeton Review does charge higher prices for its standardized testing tutoring packages.
Compared to some other student-run tutoring agencies, HSA charges more for its services. Student Tutor, a company that hires college students and recent graduates as tutors, charges up to $55 an hour for academic tutoring and up to $60 an hour for standardized test prep, compared to HSA’s $75 one-hour tutoring package.
Rooney says she thinks Ivy League branding “definitely” helps tutoring companies attract business.
“The Harvard brand is certainly a powerful brand as is The Princeton Review brand,” Rooney says. “I think those are helpful brands for families when they’re thinking about what kind of tutor they would like to hire.”
Various companies attract customers not only with the possibility of Ivy League grades, but also with admission into Ivy League schools.
The Crimson, for example, sells a college essay book entitled, “50 Successful Harvard Application Essays: What Worked for Them Can Help You Get into the College of Your Choice.”
In an emailed statement, Choi writes, “The Crimson’s Journalism Conferences and books are designed to serve our educational mission of helping to train the next generation of student journalists.”
Those who are admitted to Harvard often feel the pull of the brand first-hand.
For Jordan O. Johnson ’21, getting into Harvard didn’t just mean an acceptance letter in the mail and a free t-shirt from the Coop. Her acceptance also brought 400 new Instagram followers.
“People who would never be interested in meeting with me, learning more about me, are suddenly very, very interested,” Johnson says. “And I’m telling you it’s just because I got into Harvard.”
Inspired by the college admissions frenzy, Johnson started her own college consulting company, Ivy Grad Consulting, based in her hometown of Bethesda, Maryland.
“I was like, ‘What can I sell that’s cheap, and I can sell for a lot?’ and in my area, that ended up being college consulting,” Johnson says.
Johnson is not alone. The global fixation on admission into Harvard—and, more broadly, elite universities—inspires many entrepreneurs to launch college consulting companies for eager high school students engaged in the race for admission to selective colleges.
The result is a growing number of college consulting firms that reference elite schools in their titles. They boast names such as “Crimson Education,” “Harvard Square Consulting,” and “Ivy Coach.” Their websites often reference the Ivy League specifically. Words such as “selective” and “elite” are a common refrain. Some companies introduce prospective customers to their consultants, emphasizing their alma maters—a mix of the most selective universities in the world.
Pricing plans range from hundreds to thousands of dollars. One such college consulting firm, Ivy Edge, a North Carolina-based company founded by a Yale graduate, charges clients $10,000 for “The Comprehensive Plan.”
Johnson’s company, Ivy Grad Consulting, seeks to provide specific advice for students at select college preparatory schools. An hour’s worth of consultation costs $95. Johnson says she chose the name to highlight her qualifications and to strategically better reach her “target markets”: communities that have a culture focused on selective college admissions.
“Ivy and Harvard is a huge plus, and anything that has that attached to it is just automatically seen as better, even if it’s not necessarily so,” Johnson says. “So we just wanted to make sure we incorporated that into the core of our brand so that people in our area would definitely see it.”
Shortly after she launched Ivy Grad Consulting, other recent high school graduates reached out to Johnson, offering to consult for the company. Kahlil Greene, then a Yale-bound senior, sent his resume to Johnson. One reason she chose to hire him was that he attended a competitive, predominantly wealthy high school.
“We look at the school, the demographics of the school. Will the demographics of the school be able to support a service that averages $295 to $395 total?” Johnson says. “[Greene] came from a magnet school from a pretty affluent area that we felt like would be able to meet that demand.”
Ivy Grad Consulting includes specific packages that cater to students at Walt Whitman High School and Poolesville High School, two nationally ranked Maryland schools—and the schools that Johnson and Greene attended. According to Johnson, the culture at both Walt Whitman and Poolesville  is highly centered on gaining admission to a selective college.
“Having that Ivy league cachet attached to you in any way is seen as successful, smart, pretty much unanimously positive attributes,” Johnson says. “So parents generally see it as a sign that you have made it.”
The company’s website claims it exclusively employs recent high school graduates who attend Ivy League schools because they “understand the intricacies of today’s admission game.”
Some criticize this logic.
“I don’t think that having attended an Ivy League makes you qualified to tell others how to apply to an Ivy League school or be accepted by an Ivy League school,” says Ann Rossbach, president of the Independent Educational Consultants Association, a professional organization which represents over 1700 independent educational consultants. “So I feel that potential students or applicants are misled in a way if they’re brought in by a student who says they have the inside track on that process.”
Jeff Levy, a member of IECA, agrees. “Any educational consultants who say ‘I know the formula to get your child into Stanford or Harvard,’ anyone who says that is a huckster. They’re a used car salesman,” Levy says. “They’re not an educational consultant in the true sense of the word, and they certainly don’t have the student’s best interest at heart.”
Levy says that most consultants believe their industry should focus on matching students to the school that best fits their needs. Consequently, they regard companies invoking the Ivy League in their names as unethical.
“There’s a concerted effort to prevent consultants from using those types of names—Ivy this or Harvard that or Princeton this—in the name of their firms because it’s conveying absolutely the wrong message,” Levy says.
The IECA closely scrutinizes consultants who use the Ivy brand, according to Rossbach.
“If [the Ivy brand] pops up, we have a conversation with the person asking them why that’s there and asking them to remove it because it’s not really the focus we have in our organization at all,” Rossbach says.
Ivy Grad Consulting is not affiliated with the IECA.
Johnson thinks that her qualifications justify her business model. “I would say saying you got into multiple selective schools just speaks to the merit, in this case, of what we’re doing,” she says. “When you say you got into multiple schools with a sub 6 or 5 percent acceptance rate, I think that does encourage people to buy your service.”
She admits that her company may contribute to the culture of obsession over Ivy League admissions “to a certain extent,” but that larger companies deserve a greater portion of the blame.
“I think that even if it weren’t my company, it would be pretty much any other company,” Johnson says. “I’m definitely not the only one. So it’s the big companies that I think are really contributing to it.”
Henry Moodie knows a thing or two about branding.
A few years ago, the Extension School student launched Harvard HELLO (Harvard Extension Leadership Learning Organization), a student club that sold leadership workshops held in various campus facilities.
Seeking recognition as an approved student organization, Moodie sent administrators an email with the link to his new club. However, according to Moodie, Extension School administrators clicked and approved the wrong link. Believing that they had been approved, Harvard HELLO continued its operations. Then, Moodie was confronted by the Trademark Program. “Harvard was coming down on us like a ton of bricks,” Moodie says. “We were totally blindsided by this.”
When asked about the incident, the Trademark Program said that it did not comment on individual cases.
Moodie and collaborators were told to suspend club activities. They decided to drop the venture.
Undeterred, Moodie launched Data Grad, a service that connected data science students with employers.  Unfortunately, he reflects, the organization “didn’t really gain very much traction.”
Finally, Moodie turned his focus back to Ivy League schools and other elite colleges.
His newest venture, Ivy Grad, connects student “consultants” at elite universities with short-term job opportunities offered by various employers, Moodie’s “clients.” Moodie says he selected Ivy League students as his consultant base because their alma mater “prequalified” them.
“The advantage with the Ivy League schools is that the student body has been verified through the admissions process that they are skilled, competent, they work hard,” Moodie says. He named his business Ivy Grad in order to take advantage of the “preconceived ideas that people have of what it means to be in the Ivy League.”
“We run a business and we try to obviously leverage as much of the advantages that we can leverage,” he says. “If a client is sitting where the decision is two candidates on their desk, you know, they most probably would take more interest... in the Ivy Grad.”
According to Moodie, Ivy Grad currently has about 20 clients, most of whom are hiring managers he knows personally. According to anonymous testimonials visible on Ivy Grad’s website as of October 25, these clients are satisfied with the service, calling the company their “Consulting Uber.”
Ivy Grad’s website featured images of four people labeled with what Moodie says are the names of his student consultants. When asked about the images, he clarified that although the names were correct, the pictures were stock images because the consultants wished to remain anonymous. Later, the names were removed.
Still in its beginning stages, Ivy Grad capitalizes on the power of the Ivy League brand like many of its more established peers. Drawing on the academic legacy provoked by the name, these education-related organizations leverage the Harvard brand in order to achieve their goals, whether those be to host international conferences, promote tutoring or college consulting practices, or to connect college students with career opportunities.
Moodie defends his use of the Ivy League brand5t. “I don’t think that focusing on the Ivy Grad brand is a problem,” he says. “It’s my unique, you know, selling point.”
If Ivy Grad does well, Moodie says, he will expand.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard awarded students a total of nearly $414 million in financial aid in fiscal year 2017, a roughly 4 percent increase from the previous year.
According to the University’s annual financial reports, this rise in financial aid spending continues a pattern of sustained growth over the past decade. Since fiscal year 2008, the amount committed to financial aid has increased by over 64 percent.
The University’s reported spending includes financial aid given to students at the College and Harvard's other eleven degree-granting schools. According to Sally C. Donahue, director of financial aid at the College, the College alone also saw an increase in financial aid spending comparable to the University as a whole.  Including Pell Grants and federal funding, the College gave students roughly $179 million, marking a 4 percent increase from the previous year.
For the College in particular, Donahue credits the rise in financial aid spending to increasing costs of attendance and more effective outreach to low-income applicants through the Harvard Financial Aid Initiative. Though admission to the College is need-blind, financial aid awards are need-based.
“It takes a long time for change to happen,” Donahue said. “Even though we launched our Harvard Financial Aid Initiative over a decade ago, there are some pockets in the country who are just hearing about it for the first time.”
“I think that’s definitely had an effect on the students who apply to Harvard and ultimately therefore the students who are admitted,” she added.
According to the College financial aid office’s website, over half of undergraduates receive some form of need-based aid from Harvard. In a survey of the Class of 2021, The Crimson reported that roughly 26 percent of the freshman class come from households with an annual income of less than $80,000. The University provides full financial aid to undergraduates from families that make less than $65,000 a year.
In addition, Donahue said she believes University President Drew G. Faust’s commitment to financial aid through the capital campaign is key to expanding funds for financial aid. According to Donahue, the campaign aims to raise $600 million for financial aid at the College before the campaign ends in June 2018. While other buckets in the capital campaign reached their stated goals years ago, financial aid still lags behind.
“We are very hopeful that we’ll make it, and we’re not quite there yet,” Donahue said. “A number of us have been working really hard trying to make sure that happens.”
While undergraduates receive the plurality of Harvard’s financial aid, some of Harvard’s professional schools have also grappled with increasing demand for student financial aid.
Last month, more than 175 Harvard Law School alumni and students wrote an open letter to Law School Dean John F. Manning asking the school to strengthen the Low Income Protection Program, which covers a portion of law school debt for students who pursue careers in public service.
In September, Harvard Business School launched several scholarships for students who had been the first in their families to attend college, following a $12.5 million donation from Jonathan S. Lavine and Jeannie B. Lavine ’88, the largest-ever gift for scholarships at the Business school. The school had previously announced a scholarship program for students from low-income backgrounds in July.
—Staff writer William S. Flanagan can be reached at will.flanagan@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @willflan21.
—Staff writer Michael E. Xie can be reached at michael.xie@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @MichaelEXie1.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The project to redesign the Massachusetts Turnpike in Allston may cost upwards of $1.2 billion and will likely break ground in 2020, state transportation officials announced at a public meeting on Monday.
The crumbling Allston viaduct—an elevated highway built in the 1960s—currently costs $800,000 annually to maintain, and would cost $425 million to replace, according to the Massachusetts Department of Transportation.
The three proposals on the table are to replace the viaduct completely for $1 billion, to remove the viaduct and rebuild the turnpike at ground level and add commuter rail tracks elevated above the highway for $1.2 billion, or to build both the highway and the rails at ground level for $983 million. The latter two options would allow for a new commuter rail stop, which officials and residents call “West Station.”
On Monday, the Boston Globe reported that some state officials have suggested Harvard as a prospective funder of the project.
Brian Lang, who is a member of the MBTA’s Fiscal and Management Control Board, said in the article that Harvard would benefit greatly from this project.
Harvard spokesperson Kevin Casey wrote in an emailed statement that the Allston interchange project “will yield significant public benefits” and that the proposed project will build upon Harvard’s land “at no cost.”
In 2000 and 2003, Harvard spent $226.7 million on purchasing the underlying rights to the real estate. According to Casey, the University cleared the land, which was formerly used for operations of railroad company CSX Transportation, for MassDOT to build on.
“Harvard has also paid to secure the removal of the rail spur servicing Houghton Chemical that was a significant challenge to the project and agreed to contribute to the eventual costs of West Station,” Casey wrote.
Harry E. Mattison, an Allston resident serving on a neighborhood advisory group for the project, said he thought the presentation at Monday’s public meeting signalled a “de-prioritization” of West Station. MassDOT has placed West Station in Phase 3 of the project, without a set construction date.
Mattison said Allston is “a very pro-growth neighborhood,” but emphasized that creating better transportation options is crucial for growth in the area. “You have one choice—you have to drive. That’s why rush hour in Allston is such a disaster,” Mattison said.
“It would be great for Harvard and partners to build housing and research space, but that’s not going to work with the transportation system we have that was designed in the 1960s,” he said.
Brent C. Whelan ’73, who also serves as a member of a neighborhood advisory group for this project, said that Monday’s meeting focused on choosing an engineering design, but that residents want to hear more about street orientation and commuter rail plans.
“Whether they do a good job and whether the urban design elements are as important as the highway-train business, that’s really going to be something to see. It’s too soon to tell,” Whelan said.
Some residents expressed concern about the uncertainty in the project.
“We’re unclear where the money’s coming from, and we’re unclear what it will be spent on,” Allston resident Bruce E. Houghton said.
—Staff writer Lucy Wang can be reached at lucy.wang@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @lucyyloo22.
—Staff writer Sarah Wu can be reached at sarah.wu@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @sarah_wu_.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Despite growing tensions between Cuba and the United States under the Trump administration, Harvard will continue to support students in their academic endeavors in the country.
Last week, the White House announced new restrictions on travel and trade with Cuba, barring most individual visits to the country and prohibiting U.S. travellers from visiting a list of restricted entities affiliated with the Cuban government, including several hotels and businesses.
Erin E. Goodman, Associate Director of Academic Programs at the David Rockefeller Center for Latin American Studies, said students who intend to travel to Cuba for their theses and dissertations must follow all government regulations and secure necessary paperwork for their trips.
According to Goodman, these students must have letters vouching that they are partaking in academic research in order to obtain licenses from the Rockefeller Center, which manages all University ravel to Cuba. During their time in Cuba, students must also keep a log of their academic work, she said.
However, in spite of the new government rules, Goodman said the Center still intends to run semester-length study abroad programs at the University of Havana, “assuming that a critical mass of students is interested.”
“We continue to be committed to academic partnerships and research endeavors between our two countries,” Goodman added.
Liz Marr, the communications and training development manager at Harvard Global Support Services—a group that serves as a first point of contact for international travel challenges—agreed.
“We’re committed to supporting Harvard’s travelers and helping to ensure that they travel abroad safely and in accordance with federal regulations,” she said.
Marr said several of the University’s offices are currently reviewing the new travel regulations to determine how they may affect student, faculty and staff travel to Cuba under Harvard’s general license for educational travel.
According to Marr, Global Support Services will communicate new guidance regarding travel to Cuba in the next few weeks.
.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Former Time Magazine Managing Editor Nancy R. Gibbs warned that social media and foreign influence forever changed US politics in the aftermath of the 2016 presidential election in a discussion at the Institute of Politics on Wednesday night.
“Make no mistake,” Gibbs said. “The foundations of democracy are cracked by what happened and what continues to happen on our social platforms, and with the way the technologies have been weaponized against us.”
Gibbs, who has written more than 100 cover stories for Time including the 9/11 special edition, also claimed that journalism may be biased towards an overly critical angle, which may lead to apathy and cynicism in politics if readers never hear about positive actions.
“I think journalists are attracted to this profession because we believe in its accountability,” she said, “but I think that attitude may foster a bias against the positive.”
Gibbs encouraged journalists to reorient their focus to the positive elements of democracy, even as reporters continue to produce hard-hitting journalism. She also criticized a lack of willingness to engage deeply in difficult issues on university campuses.
“If we don’t show how democracy can work, and we don’t model what civil discourse looks like, then it’s hardly surprising that people’s faith in both starts to diminish,” Gibbs said. “Even at a great university like this, how regularly do you get to encounter people of high intellect and goodwill who will ardently disagree about an issue without the debate descending into a challenge of motives, or privilege?”
Discussing Trump's use of the media, Gibbs concluded that he made a key insight on the role of ratings over polls in the modern "attention economy."
“This is what he said: ‘It’s ratings - I go on one of these shows and the ratings double, they triple. That gives you power. It’s not the polls, it’s the ratings.’ This was the insight. In an attention economy, ratings are power,” Gibbs said, “Conflict commands attention, attention equals influence.”
She encouraged students in the audience to get involved in politics and mending what she viewed as damaged civil discourse.
“You’ll be the ones who to restore to American politics that spirit... as our binding secular faith and our noblest art.”
—Staff writer Lucas Ward can be reached at lucas.ward@thecrimson.com. Follow him on twitter at @LucaspfWard.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Economics retained its position as the most popular concentration at the College this fall, with 671 undergraduates—a slight increase from last year, according to Dean of Undergraduate Education Jay M. Harris.
Computer Science, meanwhile, continued its meteoric growth, increasing its rolls from 363 in 2016 to 500 in 2017—In 2008, the discipline had only 86 concentrators.
The popularity of Economics and Computer Science aligns with the annual competition between the two departments for the most undergraduate students among the introductory courses in the two disciplines, Economics 10a: “Principles of Economics” and Computer Science 50: “Introduction to Computer Science I”. This year, Economics 10a slightly edged out Computer Science with 627 undergraduates compared to 606 undergraduates in CS50.
Members of the Class of 2020 were required to formally submit their concentrations by Nov. 9.
Government ranked as the third largest concentration with 367 College students in a rebound from its years of shrinkage. The concentration has faced a steady decline in concentrators over much of the past decade.
Applied Mathematics, the fourth most popular concentration, continued its growth as well, drawing 310 students compared to its 279 concentrators in 2016.
Rounding out the top five concentrations is Psychology with 250 concentrators, a small decrease from 255 in 2016.
Theater, Dance and Media—the College’s newest concentration—has seen increased popularity in its three-year existence. The concentration emerged as an option for the Class of 2018 with an initial class of 12 concentrators. This year, 34 students are concentrators in Theater, Dance, and Media.
Although the deadline to declare a concentration already passed, Harris said that there may have been sophomores who failed to submit a petition in order to join a concentration.
—Staff writer Edith M. Herwitz can be reached at edith.herwitz@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @edith_herwitz.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Catherine L. Zhang ’19 and Nicholas D. Boucher ’19 are the likely winners of this year’s UC presidential election, if the results of the Harvard Open Data Project’s election analysis are to be believed.
This is the second time the Open Data Project—a student and faculty initiative founded two years ago by UC Finance Committee Chair Neel Mehta ’18—has attempted to predict the results of the UC presidential election. Last year, the group successfully predicted that Yasmin Z. Sachee ’18 and running mate Cameron K. Khansarinia ’18 would win.
This year, three tickets are vying for the UC presidency and vice presidency: Zhang and Boucher are running against Victor C. Agbfafe ’19 and Michael K. Bervell ’19, as well as Conor Healy ’19 and Parth C. Thakker ’18-19.
This year, Stephen Moon ’20, who took a leading role in organizing the analysis, said he hoped to repeat last year’s correct prediction of the election results.
As part of their analysis, the Open Data Project polled students over the course of two days on their voting intentions, and received 373 responses with a roughly equal distribution of respondents from each class year.
Of those who responded, 66.2 percent said they would vote for Zhang and Boucher, 20.6 percent said they would vote for Agbafe and Bervell, and 13.1 percent said they would vote for Healy and Thakker. The Open Data Project also conducted an analysis of each ticket’s social media presence by counting Facebook likes on the candidates’ official pages as well as posts made by their supporters. In this part of the analysis, Zhang and Boucher also took the lead.
However, some raised concerns about whether the Open Data Project releasing the results of their analysis on Wednesday—more than a day before polls close—might influence student voters’ decisions on who to support. In contrast, last year, the group didn’t release the results of their analysis until right after voting had ended.
“I fear that some people may read this and that would impact their vote and I don’t think that’s correct,” Khansarinia said. “I think the candidates should be out there trying to get every vote they can, as opposed to trying to just read this poll and say ‘this is what’s going to happen.’”
“So I think their goal is admirable and laudable, certainly, but they should stick, in my opinion, with how they went about it last year,” he added.
Moon recognized the concerns, but said that the group waited until most of the voting period had passed, and intentionally did not publicize the article after it was published.
Mehta also said the group consulted with a senior writer at polling website FiveThirtyEight before publishing its analysis.
“He said that the way the election works is with single-transferable voting, so there’s not potential for strategic voting,” Mehta said. “So if the poll somehow tells you that your candidate is losing, that doesn’t really affect your strategy at all, because you’ve ranked your candidates. So according to the political experts, the poll we do should have no impact on the outcome.”
In future elections, Moon said he would like to collect more demographic data in the group’s surveys.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard’s presidential search committee has met with hundreds of people and received about 1,500 emailed submissions in its outreach efforts thus far, Senior Fellow of the Harvard Corporation William F. Lee ’72 said in an interview with the University-owned Harvard Gazette Wednesday.
Since University President Drew G. Faust announced she will step down in June 2018, members of the search committee have met with 200 people individually to solicit input on the search, Lee said. The committee—composed of the entire Harvard Corporation and three members of the Board of Overseers—has also met with several hundred people for group discussions.
“The Harvard community has many members, and they have different perspectives and different views,” Lee told the Gazette. “It is really important to hear from all of them as best we can.”
But Lee conceded that finding someone who can satisfy all of Harvard’s constituencies is an impossible task. “If you consider all of the things that every member of the Harvard community would like to see in the president, there is no one person who can satisfy all of those desires,” he said.
The committee, then, will look for a person with “the fundamental human characteristics” to lead Harvard. In doing so, they’ll also consult affiliates of other universities for guidance, Lee said.
The committee’s broad outreach, secrecy, and closed-door meetings with stakeholders in Cambridge and other cities follow patterns of past searches. As they did in the 2006 search that culminated in Faust’s selection, the committee also convened several advisory groups to formally provide input from various campus constituencies throughout the process.
In the Gazette interview, however, Lee emphasized that “each process is different, and there’s no template for a process that gets to the right result.”
Higher education has evolved and confronted new challenges in the ten years since Faust took office, Lee said, and the committee’s considerations have changed with it.
“I’d say it’s not so much that the search process is different. The context is different,” he said.
Over the past decade, the University has expanded its global footprint, Washington presence, and STEM offerings. Fundraising has become a central preoccupation of the University president, as Faust has successfully steered a record-setting capital campaign. And the University president more frequently navigates issues of diversity and inclusion.
Lee told the Gazette that these priorities will likely continue under Faust’s successor, though he or she will add their own to the mix as well. “We will have a new president, with new perspectives and new priorities, to guide us forward and, I hope, to strike the right balance between continuity and change,” he said.
The committee is choosing Harvard’s 29th president as the University—and higher education more broadly—faces what Lee called “a time of challenge.” Most recently, a Republican tax bill would tax university endowments and increase the financial burden on graduate students. This, combined with threats to research funding and poor endowment returns, puts the University on shaky financial ground.
“Dealing with these larger challenges will be crucial to our ability to remain the pre-eminent academic institution in the country and the world,” Lee said.
While search committee members told alumni last month that the search remains in information-gathering mode, sources close to the committee said they have begun narrowing a list. Faculty, alumni, and donors have pointed to four likely internal candidates: Business School Dean Nitin Nohria, Government Professor Danielle Allen, FAS Dean Michael D. Smith, and University Provost Alan Garber ’76. Lee declined to comment about the progress of the search or specific candidates.
—Staff writer Claire E. Parker can be reached at claire.parker@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @ClaireParkerDC.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
For the first time in a long time, Harvard enters The Game as the underdog.
From 2007 to 2015, Crimson football ended its season on a positive note. The Yale matchup traditionally closes out each year, and during that nine-year period, Harvard prevailed in every single contest.
In 2016, however, the Bulldogs marched into Harvard Stadium and shocked the Crimson, 21-14. The upset snapped that nine-year winning run, and also denied the Crimson a chance to claim its fourth straight Ivy League title.
This year, there are much fewer implications. In effect, Yale (8-1, 5-1 Ivy)  has already won the conference—another win, and it clinches the outright championship. Even with a loss, the Bulldogs still tie for the crown.
“It’s the best Yale team that we’ve seen in my 24 years, no question about it,” Harvard coach Tim Murphy said. “They’re one play away from being undefeated. They don’t appear to have any weaknesses on film.”
Back in late August, the Crimson (5-4, 3-3) and Princeton were picked as the league’s frontrunners. Early losses against Rhode Island and Cornell tempered expectations around Cambridge, but Harvard was still very much in the hunt for end-of-season glory.
The 52-17 shellacking against the Tigers was the turning point in the Crimson’s season. That loss seemed to demoralize the ranks, and it dropped the team to 1-2 in league competition. No team has won the conference with two or more losses since 1982.
However, with the possibility of a seven-way tie for first place still in play, Harvard had hope. Until Penn visited, that is. Last week, the Quakers dispatched the Crimson on its home turf, 23-6.
This set of nine games in 2017 has been a rollercoaster for Harvard football, to say the least. It began with losing on the road to Rhode Island, and more importantly, losing freshman Ben Abercrombie to a serious neck injury in that game. It saw the emergence of a potential star quarterback in a win over Dartmouth, and it overcame four interceptions to roar back against the Columbia Lions. However, it also enters The Game with an uncertain quarterback situation and the still-healing wounds of the Penn loss.
“When it’s the Yale game, it’s pretty easy [to rebound] just because one, you want to get the negative out and the positive in,” Murphy said. “Two, there’s no other game on our schedule that takes such complete focus or is as big a game.”
The two signal callers, senior Joe Viviano and freshman Jake Smith, have been a microcosm of the Crimson’s triumphs and struggles this season. The two have displayed flashes of brilliance—Viviano’s 11-for-13 performance against Brown comes to mind, as does Smith’s three-touchdown effort against Dartmouth. However, they have both faltered, with Viviano losing his starting job after just the first game of the season and with Smith trying to overcome expected rookie mistakes.
That is not to say that the fate of the 2017 Crimson rests upon the shoulders of just two of its players, however. Some of Harvard’s inconsistencies can be blamed on a rash of injuries that decimated the defensive starters, their backups, and the backups after them.
The Crimson remained in contention for as long as it did thanks to a lengthy list of contributors. Harvard’s pass rush has been effective all season long, despite losing D.J. Bailey to an injury. Juniors Richie Ryan and Bailey and seniors Alex White and Stone Hart jointly put up 15.5 sacks. The secondary appeared to improve on last year’s unit, and senior Tanner Lee paced that group with three interceptions. Captain Luke Hutton posted 73 tackles.
On the offensive end, Charlie Booker and Aaron Shampklin anchored the running game, combining for 1059 yards and nine touchdowns. Junior Justice Shelton-Mosley established himself as one of the premier returners in the FCS, racking up 557 yards on kick and punt returns.
In the air, the quarterbacks have spread their passes around to a slew of targets. Shelton-Mosley paces the team in receptions (29) and yards (388), while senior halfback Ryan Antonellis and junior wideout Adam Scott have each hauled in over 200 yards worth of catches. Perhaps most surprising is the breakout season of Henry Taylor—the junior leads the team in receiving touchdowns with three, including a clutch 65-yard grab at Columbia.
On Saturday, Harvard has one last chance to put all these pieces together in New Haven. However, Yale will be hungry.
The last time the Bulldogs planted their flag on the peak of the Ivy League football mountaintop was 1980. Admittedly, Yale claimed shares of the championship in 1989 and 2006, but to reach the summit alone is a much sweeter accomplishment.
The Bulldogs’ only setback this season came in a 28-27 loss to Dartmouth, in which the Big Green took its first lead with under a minute left to play. However, Yale proved its ability to bounce back, in more ways than one, when it pulled off a come-from-behind win last week over Princeton, 35-31. The victory gave the team sole possession of first place.
Sophomore quarterback Kurt Rawlings has guided the offense by tossing 18 touchdowns and accumulating 2,143 yards in the air. His primary target, junior Christopher Williams-Lopez, averages 64.0 receiving yards per game.
“I see young talent,” junior linebacker Charlie Walker said. “I respect his game. He knows how to throw the ball, but I treat him like any other quarterback—with respect, but with the mentality that we’re going to crush him.”
However, much of the Bulldogs’ scoring success can be attributed to its fearsome offensive line.
“Once they grab onto you and start pushing, it’s over,” Walker said. “It’ll be the challenge of the year.”
The line has paved a wide path for running back Zane Dudek, and the rookie has obliged by tallying 1,069 rushing yards and 14 touchdowns. He leads the Ivy League in both categories, and his 179 receiving yards also give him the most all-purpose yards in the conference.
“It’s a combination of him being a really good athlete behind a really good offensive line, and on a team that also can throw,” Murphy said. “He has a great feel for where the hole’s going to be, he’s got great cutting ability, and he’s got great lower-body strength.”
Yale’s defensive front does a good job of terrorizing opponents as well. It has allowed just 78.3 rushing yards per contest, often flattening rushers as soon as they reach the line of scrimmage. The Bulldogs also lead the league with 33 sacks, 9.5 of which came from senior linebacker Matthew Oplinger.
Though technically this game does not mean as much as it usually does for Harvard, it is still The Game. And the team’s record will be the last thing on its mind as it heads into New Haven.“I think in the Harvard-Yale game, you don’t leave anything on the table,” Murphy said. “Let’s put it that way.”
—Staff writer Jack Stockless can be reached at jack.stockless@thecrimson.com.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
There is no Ivy League match up bigger than Harvard-Yale.
And big games for the Crimson football team are infrequent. Games with title implications happen almost every week, but playing under the gaze of the 50,000 viewers is a rarity for the players of the Ancient Eight. Well, most players.
For the athletes from Texas, playing in big high school games is the norm.
“Football in Texas is a tradition,” senior linebacker Chase Guillory said. “Basically all your buddies and all your friends grow up together playing the game. You grow into the sport and get to participate in something that brings the entire community together and that’s why it’s so special to all of the Texas guys.”
Throughout the past few years, playing in an Ancient Eight divisional matchup with 15,000 attendees is a novelty. For Harvard-Yale, of course, that number shoots up.
Most years, Harvard Stadium brings in just over 30,000 viewers to The Game—31,662 spectators made the trek in 2016. The Yale Bowl is bigger and can host just over 50,000, making it the most attended Ivy League matchup of the year.
“This is definitely a true division one college football atmosphere,” junior wide receiver Adam Scott said. “You see college football, SEC football. When you go into the stadium, it feels like one of those games. It’s just really one of those games where you just feel like the hard work you put in is coming to fruition.”
But 50,000 spectators is nothing new for junior running back Charlie Booker. The Houston, Texas, native has played in big games before, specifically the 2014 Texas 6A Division I State Title.
During his senior year at Cypress Ranch High School, his team took on Allen high school in front of 52,308 fans. While Cypress Ranch did not win, there is no bigger game in the state of Texas than the State Championship for the state’s largest division. That specific game ranks as the second most attended high school matchup in the state.
Booker isn’t the only Crimson player to compete in Texas’ playoffs. Two of Harvard’s current athletes’ high schools actually met that same year, in the same region.
Lamar, where now-freshman quarterback Owen Holt attended as a sophomore, came across Cy-Fair, where now-sophomore receiver Cody Chrest attended as a junior. Cy-Fair carried the Area Championship before falling in the next game, one round before meeting Booker’s squad in the State Quarterfinals.
Yet, big games and crowds aren’t the only unique experience Texas football players have come across prior to their tenure on the Crimson. The state championship, and many playoff games, are held in domed professional football stadiums. The most significant contest, the title game, is hosted in the Dallas Cowboys’ $1.2 billion AT&T Stadium.
The year prior to Booker’s championship run, another current Harvard junior was playing under the billion-dollar dome. Scott’s high school, Denton Guyer, also made a run to the title game, and captured the elusive Texas State Championship in the 4A D1 Division.
“It’s surreal,” Scott said. “All eyes are on the two teams. We were in the Dallas Cowboys’ stadium and it’s a dome so … you feel like you’re a celebrity. The experience I had in Texas playing football is something I’ll never forget and I’ll cherish forever.”
The title win was Denton Guyer’s second in a row. Now-senior safety Zach Miller’s Stratford was one game away from that championship matchup against Guyer, but fell short in the semifinals.
“We used to fill up the Cowboys’ stadium for state championships,” Scott said. “So it’s a bit of a change coming here when sometimes you may just have your parents or a few students.”
The one thing that the folks from Texas have been less prepared for in Crimson football is the New England weather. Obviously there’s the warmer climate in Texas, but couple that with the large, covered venues, and players rarely compete in weather similar to that of the Northeast.
“In Texas, once it hits 50, everybody's like 'oh my gosh it's freezing,'” Booker said. “But by that time playoffs have started and then we're playing in domes.”
This season, in this respect, has been kind to the Harvard football team. No game has dropped below freezing, so far, save the most recent matchup against Penn. In years past, players have had to fight the elements for the latter half of the season, but a late-arriving winter this year has spared the team.
In 2011, the Crimson played in a snow storm against Dartmouth. The weather, and particularly the temperature, represents a hindrance specifically to those players that have never encountered it—those from the South and parts of California.
This may become particularly relevant for the team in the upcoming matchup against Yale, which is forecasted for rain accompanied by temperatures in the low 40s.
“You could wear whatever [in Texas],” Scott said. “You didn’t have to worry about rain or even the cold. It’s a pretty big adjustment, but you kind of get used to it.”
Aside from the preparation that competitive Texas football inevitably brings, there is also a certain camaraderie that comes with being from the Lone Star state.
“We have Texas Tuesday music—it's country music on in the locker room. Some of the guys don't like [it] but we don't care,” said linebacker and captain Luke Hutton.
On the team, the two most represented states are, unsurprisingly, California and Texas, with 17 and 14 players, respectively. The members of the team will tell you the style of the player changes across state lines.
“In terms of skill players, they’re pretty equal,” Scott said. “I think for mid-skill players, linebackers, we’ve got them on that. In terms of physicality, I think we’ve definitely got them on that.”
The discrepancy shows. Each of the three starting linebackers in last week’s game against Penn—Hutton, Guillory, and Charlie Walker—are all graduates of Texas high schools.
“In Texas we have a culture that perpetuates grit and toughness,” Guillory said. “A lot of guys from Texas take pride in the fact that we’re not afraid of physicality and just playing the game of football. After playing for so many years and being around that type of culture, it basically transcends into the game. You have a bunch of linebackers who love contact, who love getting in there, and getting dirty and just hitting and that culture just perpetuates in Texas.”
There a reason that culture permeates among the players.
“You have your religion, your family, and football if you play in Texas,” Guillory said. “There’s nothing better.”
—Staff writer Cade Palmer can be reached at cade.palmer@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Walk by Harvard Stadium any given fall afternoon and you’ll see a well-oiled machine. Groups of players clash and separate at orderly intervals, running through defensive drills and offensive schemes over and over again. One unit wears crimson practice jerseys, while the other dons white. The meticulousness of practice extends to the division of time itself—25 periods, five minutes apiece.
Three rogue crimson jerseys, however, move opposite the current. They weave across the field, appearing intent upon achieving some goal, but at the same time entirely relaxed, unbothered by the commotion of the rest of practice.
This trio is made up of senior Zach Schmid (punter), senior Kenny Smart (kickoff specialist), and sophomore Jake McIntyre (placekicker). While others toil under the close watch of head coach Tim Murphy’s legion of assistants, the kickers send balls across the field at will, diligently repeating and tweaking their mechanics.
“We’ve got a tight-knit group,” Smart said. “It’s usually a small group, so we’re always close.”
One may think their radically different purpose on the team may set them apart from the other units. But besides the self-coached practice routine, the kicking group meshes with the rest of the team both on and off the field.
“All my roommates are on the football team,” Smart said. “All my best friends are on the team, so I definitely don’t feel like an outsider or anything. We’re with the corners doing all the sprints and stuff [during winter workouts], so that’s always fun.”
“I think the guys on the team really embrace us, especially when we’re doing well,” added Schmid with a laugh. “They encourage us to do well, and I feel like we’re any other part of the team.”
Whether or not they are doing well, the kickers’ role is integral to the Crimson’s success.
Placekickers are generally responsible for scoring the most points of any player on the team—this year, McIntyre paces Harvard with 47. Punters are relied upon to pin the opposing offense deep in its own end. Kickoff specialists must ensure that returners are in the worst position possible to break off a long run.
The on-field importance of the kickers and punters cannot be overstated, but their contributions to the team dynamic continue long after the pads come off. For instance, the uncontested best nickname on the team is “Fat Punter”—Schmid clocks in at 6’0” and 230 pounds.
“This summer was incredibly difficult,” Schmid said. “I did investment banking, so I gained about 15 pounds just sitting at a desk. It was a little bit difficult to keep the weight off, so I really have epitomized the Fat Punter thing this year.”
Another unique aspect of being a collegiate kicker is the recruiting process. While scouts and coaches travel thousands of miles to see high school quarterbacks and wide receivers, they do not log the same legwork for kickers. Instead, prospective kickers send in game and practice film early on, and schools will hold kicking camps over the summer.
The camp is a testing ground not only of the kickers’ physical abilities, but also of their mental makeups and personalities. Schmid had to tough his out while dealing with a 103-degree fever.
“At any position, and certainly at the kicking specialist position, a lot of it, quite frankly, is between the ears,” Murphy said. “You try to get them to our kicking camp as an opportunity to see who they are as people, to try to put a little pressure on them.”
The mental strength of kickers is oft-discussed, from the youth leagues on up to the NFL. Playing these positions takes intense focus in high-stress situations, so the Crimson’s kicking group opts for a calm, relaxed approach.
“I’m certainly not listening to heavy metal or hardcore EDM,” Schmid said. “I try to get the energy of the team within myself, but I try not to let it go too much into my head. That’s when I’m hitting my best punts. I do a lot of yoga in the offseason, so I try to keep that sort of stuff in my punting.”
Before getting an initial taste of this pressure at a kicking camp, these three had to get their start in football somewhere else. Each of them began as soccer players and gradually switched over to football.
“In high school I’d come over at the end of soccer practice and kick a couple field goals,” Smart said. “I was trying to go to college for both, and football just gave me a lot better opportunities, so I switched over and stuck with that.”
Schmid has a similar story. He initially took after his father, who played college soccer, but as he continued to grow, he developed an appetite for contact. However, concussions eventually precluded him from smash-mouth play at defensive end and linebacker, so as a former soccer player he made the natural transition to punting.
Unable to practice kicking daily due to soccer commitments or without specialized coaches on their high school teams’ coaching staffs, the three turned to outside instruction. High school kickers often enlist the services of kicking specialists to learn and practice skills they could not acquire on their own.
Smart trained with Michael Husted, a kicker who spent nine seasons in the NFL as a member of the Buccaneers, Raiders, Redskins, and Chiefs. McIntyre worked with fellow Central Florida native Nick Fleming, a former University of Florida kicker.
“There’s a couple big names in the nation who go around and host all these camps and hire coaches, so usually you go through them to get yourself exposure,” Smart said. “But from a coaching standpoint to get technical skills, it’s usually trying to find somebody local.”
The lack of a coach extends even to Harvard’s staff.
“We spend a lot of time together, kind of leading ourselves,” Schmid said. “It’s one of the most technical and precise movements on the team, and we have to get better every week.”
Once it’s game time, the kickers do not always draw much notice. Kids who battle for position in the concrete bleachers to snag one of McIntyre’s extra points or field goals are probably pretending to be Justice Shelton-Mosley leaping for a high pass, not feigning McIntyre himself. However, despite their behind-the-scenes role, the kickers are crucial to both the team’s success and its camaraderie year after year.
—Staff writer Jack Stockless can be reached at jack.stockless@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered

Looking to avoid its worst start since the 2011-12 season, the Harvard women’s basketball team returned home to the Lavietes Pavilion in search of its first win of the year against visiting Siena. For much of the first quarter, however, it looked as if the Crimson was headed for its third loss in a row.
Much like in its first two games, the home team found itself in a big hole early on. Against the Saints, this hole amounted to a 14-point deficit just 9:34 into the contest. However, with the backing of the crowd, Harvard (1-2, 0-0 Ivy) came back and notched its first win of the year, 75-67. Siena (1-2, 0-0 MAAC), after faltering in the second and third quarters, fell back to under .500.
“It was tricky, because we started so badly,” coach Kathy Delaney-Smith said. “But it feels great.”
The opening quarter was all Saints. After trading a few baskets, the visitors put together an impressive 13-0 run. Delaney-Smith called a timeout midway through in an attempt to stop the bleeding, but Siena managed to extend the lead to 21-7 just before the end of the quarter.
“In the first quarter, it was clear that our intensity just wasn’t there and they just wanted the ball more,” sophomore guard Katie Benzan said.
With a few ticks on the clock in the first quarter, junior guard Sydney Skinner knocked down a three-pointer from the right wing to make the score 21-10. From there, Siena was unable to carry its momentum into the second quarter.
The Crimson jumped out of the gate strong, going on a run of its own. A three-pointer by Benzan made the game 21-15, extending Harvard’s run to eight straight points. Benzan would finish the night with a team-high 22.
“We changed some of our defense [in the second quarter],” Delaney-Smith said. “We did a little zone action, and they didn’t seem to like the zone, and that pumped us up.”
The Saints called a timeout to try to prevent the run from getting out of hand, but Harvard forced a quick turnover and layup. By the time Siena was finally able to end the run, the score was 21-19.
After the two teams traded free throws, Crimson senior guard Taylor Rooks dove for a loose ball in the paint and poked it away from a crowd of Saints players to captain Madeline Raster. Raster grabbed the ball and fired a pass right back to Rooks, who finished the play with a layup to tie up the score at 22.
Just like that, Harvard and Siena were back at square one, and the game would stay close for the rest of the second quarter.
Both sides found any semblance of momentum slowed to a halt by a controversial turn of events at the 3:46 mark of the quarter. The Saints attempted a three as the shot clock was expiring, and the shot missed the rim, falling into the hands of Rooks. After the referee took the ball from her due to confusion as to whether a shot clock violation had occurred, the referees finally ruled that Rooks had caught the ball before the buzzer sounded, returning possession to Siena.
A couple baskets later, the two teams went into intermission separated by just one point, with the Saints holding a 29-28 lead.
“During halftime, Kathy really emphasized defense,” Benzan said. “In the beginning of the third quarter, we just got three stops in a row, we just went out and scored and we just got our momentum from that. We were just grooving.”
A few minutes later, back-to-back threes by Raster and Benzan put the Crimson up 41-33, its largest lead at the time. The pair of guards were an offensive force on the night, combining for 37 points.
With less than three seconds left in the third quarter, Benzan was fouled under the basket. After hitting the first free-throw, freshman forward Jadyn Bush grabbed the rebound and put it in at the buzzer. The three-point swing gave Harvard the lead 52-43 heading into the final period.
The Crimson held its lead for most of the final frame, but with just over one minute to go in the game, Siena threatened Harvard’s lead by hitting back-to-back three-pointers to pull within four. A technical foul on the Saints’ coach allowed the Crimson to regain control, however, as Benzan hit one of two technical free-throws.
Siena still refused to go down quietly, quickly knocking down another three on its next trip down the court to make it a one-possession game at 67-64. In the ensuing possessions, Harvard was able to make its free-throws under pressure and prevent the Saints from cutting into the lead any further, sealing the final score of 75-67.
“If we execute our system, we’re way better,” Delaney-Smith said. “And that’s what we’re going to do going forward.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Scott Larkee ‘99, the defensive coordinator of Harvard football, has a large family.
He’s married to Judy Collins, a legend of Crimson field hockey. The couple has six children who range in age from one to 10. The Larkee kids frequently watch Harvard football and sometimes tail the team on road trips.
In terms of sheer numbers, though, Larkee’s largest parenting role occurs on the field. That’s where the former linebacker ministers to 50-plus defensive players. He creates schemes and also demonstrates tackling. He spends hours talking with head coach Tim Murphy and also discusses technique with freshman linebackers.
In other words, Larkee manages the defense with a mix of efficiency and collegiality. He operates both as authority figure and playmate—not unlike a parent managing his children.
“He’s almost like a father figure,” senior safety Tanner Lee said. “He’s always trying to get the best out of you no matter what.”
Larkee, though, noted certain differences between running a family and running a defense.
“I yell at the players, and they usually do what I tell them to do,” he said, laughing. “If I yell at my kids, they don’t.”
Larkee has certainly gotten a lot out of his players in the nine years that he has served as defensive coordinator. The 2014 Crimson ranked first in the FCS with 12.3 points allowed per game. In 2012, Harvard held opponents to 69.4 rushing yards per game while racking up 4.2 sacks, again tops in the FCS.
This year has presented new challenges, as the 2017 defense has faced a plague of injuries. Only five defensive starters remain from the week one lineup. The Crimson lost several more in preseason, including a handful of linebackers.
These challenges have tested Larkee, Murphy, and the whole program, but Harvard has responded with familiar tactics. Work out early in the morning. Focus on tackling form. Avoid shortcuts.
“Hopefully [our identity] is always that we hustle and hit hard—that we show great effort,” Larkee said. “Hopefully, when any other coaches throw in the film…they see good, base fundamentals.”
Historically, this approach has propelled Harvard to success. Larkee knows this especially well, since he once played under it.
In the fall of 1994, Larkee was a high school linebacker in Wisconsin. Murphy noticed something in the hard-nosed kid and persuaded Larkee to join the coach’s second recruiting class.
The partnership proved fruitful. Larkee developed into a cornerstone of the Harvard defense. He finished his career with 243 tackles, then the third-most in program history.
“Scotty was a tough Wisconsin kid,” Murphy said. “As a player, he epitomized the type of kid we want to recruit here—that is, someone who’s very tough and resilient.”
Aside from the Wisconsin part, a similar description applies to Hutton, the captain of the 2017 team. Like Larkee, Hutton is a no-nonsense linebacker who anchors the defense. The Austin, Texas, native dons the same No. 35 jersey that Larkee wore. And last year, Hutton made the All-Ivy second team, an award that Larkee also received.
These likenesses have established Larkee as a natural mentor. Hutton, who is weighing the possibility of coaching football, has observed Larkee closely.
“He’s played the position at the University, so his opinions [and] his critique of our game are very credible,” the captain said. “He’s been there, he’s done it, and he was a really good football player here.”
Larkee returned the admiration. Although the defensive coordinator saw himself as most similar to sophomore linebacker Joey Goodman—”We both had to work hard at it,” Larkee said—he reserved high praise for Hutton.
“He’s a way brighter football player than I ever was,” Larkee said. “I wish I had his way of seeing the game as a player. I would’ve been so much better if it moved as slow as it does for him.”
At Harvard, Larkee stayed busy off the field. He earned in a degree in Anthropology and met an athletic classmate named Judy Collins. The two formed an epic power couple, with Larkee leading Harvard football and Collins leading field hockey.
Two decades later, the pair is still together. As Murphy pointed out, though, only one of them has a spot in the Harvard Varsity Club Hall of Fame. That’s Collins, who graduated with program records for most career goals and points. (Marissa Balleza ’17 broke both marks last year.)
After graduation, Larkee moved through a series of coaching jobs. His resume reads like the itinerary of a prep school student visiting colleges. Bowdoin College (graduate assistant) from 1999 to 2001. Bates College (special teams coordinator and linebackers coach) from 2002 to 2004. Columbia University (defensive assistant) shortly after.
The lone exception came in 2001, when Larkee relocated to France to play for a year with Les Cougars de St. Ouen l'Aumône, a football club team. He still holds the team record for tackles in a game (14) and a season (85).
“If you’ve been in our program for four years, you need to go out and learn from some other people,” Murphy said. “I think his parents still hold it against me that he’s a college football coach after paying to go to Harvard.”
But Larkee could escape Cambridge for only so long. In 2001, he returned for a brief stint as an assistant coach. That season, the Crimson went 9-0 for the first time since 1913.
Six years later, having completed his tour of the Northeast, Larkee came back to Harvard again—this time as running backs coach and a recruiting coordinator. By 2009, he had taken over as defensive coordinator.
On the sideline during a game, Murphy and Larkee hardly communicate. They don’t have much reason to talk. The head coach, who works with tight ends during the week, relays plays to the quarterback.
As for the defense—well, Larkee controls that fiefdom. Between series, he gives instructions and builds up motivation. Harvard players listen.
“I think he’s the best defensive coordinator in the country,” Lee said. “He’s a great guy to learn from, a great guy to play for, and a great guy to have as a role model.”
—Staff writer Sam Danello can be reached at sam.danello@thecrimson.com.
Sections
Every August, at the first team meeting of Harvard football, head coach Tim Murphy gives a speech.
Rows of face hover in front of him. Some are new. Some are sunburnt. All glow with early-season health. Murphy surveys the scene. He can feel the collective hope; everyone can. Then the coach launches into a strange topic—adversity.
“We talk about it before it ever happens so that seed is planted in their mind,” Murphy said. “The most important thing we do, among many relatively important things we teach, is that there are going to be setbacks in life.”
As Murphy likes to say, Harvard football functions as “a school within a school.” Certain teachings structure the program. “Resiliency training” stands above all others.
When Murphy recruits a player, he leans on a stock saying: “Harvard isn’t a four-year investment. It’s a 40-year investment.” It’s a nice turn of phrase, and players often parrot the words when asked why they chose the Crimson. However, the true meaning of the phrase remains obscure until you ask Murphy about adversity. Learning how to overcome setbacks—this is what Murphy really means.
“Life can be very, very tough,” Murphy said. “You can either embrace that, or you can wilt under those conditions. We choose to be able to conquer adversity.”
As much as Murphy talks about adversity—and he talks about it a lot—the best way to understand the resiliency of Harvard football is to observe players. All have faced challenges. All have formulated solutions.
College athletes are strong. By definition, they are strong. What makes Crimson football players especially strong is their engagement with adversity. By late November, the turf at Harvard Stadium is cold and hard. Harvard veterans are used to getting up.
“Adversity is battling with the guys that you have and getting the job done when people think that you won’t,” safety Tanner Lee said. “[It’s] just this season as a whole.”
‘NOTHING AT ALL EVER CAME EASY’
Most Division I programs boast over 100 players. Such enormous size presents practical challenges. Tweaking schemes means printing thousands of pages of paper. Resetting priorities means renting an auditorium.
The most successful teams thrive off continuity—not only in Saturday performance but also in the vocabulary and rules of the team. Coaches must tread carefully when defining values.
There’s a reason, in other words, that Harvard football focuses on adversity. Head coach Tim Murphy is that reason.
“Someday I’m going to write a book, and the title is going to be, ‘Life is a Comeback,’” Murphy said. “There’s always something in your life. The people who can develop that resiliency to fight…are most successful.”
Raised in Kingston, Mass., Murphy summarized his childhood in one adjective: “blue-collar.” He went to Silver Lake Regional High School, a place that experienced overcrowding difficulties in the mid-1970s. No one in his family had gone to college.
“Nothing at all ever came easy,” Murphy said. “My mom had to do most of the heavy lifting.”
In seventh grade, Murphy found a friend and role model in Buddy Teevens. Now the head coach at Dartmouth, Teevens started at quarterback for Silver Lake while Murphy started at linebacker. Both played in college—Teevens at Dartmouth and Murphy at Springfield.
College football transformed Murphy, physically and otherwise. He added 45 pounds to his 175-pound frame and befriended Pete Watson. In college, Watson ran the Pride offense as quarterback. Now he runs Greif, Inc., a packaging company that rakes in over four billion dollars of revenue each year.
“Pretty simply, I hung around with the right kids,” Murphy said. “They were ambitious, no-nonsense, incredibly hard-working people. I knew that’s who I wanted to be.”
Murphy, of course, runs something as well—the Crimson football program. He took over the job in Dec. 1993 after a rapid ascent through Brown, Maine, and Cincinnati.
Murphy’s job has taken him across the country, to stadiums in all sorts of cities and towns. In some ways, though, he has never left Kingston.
“If I had grown up in the proverbial three-car-garage background—and I don’t mean that in a derogatory way, just in a socioeconomic way—I might have been successful,” Murphy said. “I definitely wouldn’t have been as driven. For lack of a better way to put it, I didn’t want to go back there.”
That resiliency bleeds over into the rest of the program. Which is good because Harvard football players face no shortage of adversity.
A STRAINED GROIN, A HIGH-ANKLE SPRAIN, AND A BRUISED KNEECAP
There were mornings when Justice Shelton-Mosley wanted to stay in bed.
Sacramento, Calif., can be a place of golden sunshine, a temperate paradise where lazy summer days stretch into cool nights, a leafy haven along a gentle river—but not at 4 a.m. At that hour, Sacramento looks like every other city. It’s dark. Nothing moves. The air is warm, maybe, but not as warm as three more hours of sleep.
Shelton-Mosley was rising at 4 a.m. by the time he was in seventh grade. His father, Anthony Mosley, had played running back at Fresno State and bounced around the NFL and CFL. He had settled in Northern California and started to coach.
By 2011, he had taken on two proteges—wide receiver Michael Thomas and cornerback Marcus Rios. The duo grunted through morning workouts devised by Mosley. Also straining was Mosley’s 12-year-old son, Justice Shelton-Mosley.
Thomas later signed with UNLV. Rios signed with UCLA and made the Denver Broncos practice squad. As for Shelton-Mosley, he flew across the country to an FCS program called Harvard.
“I kind of forget about those days, about how much work I put in,” Shelton-Mosley said. “[My dad] was huge in getting me to this point.”
That grueling schedule habituated Shelton-Mosley to early mornings. When the Crimson holds workouts, players must arise at 5:45 a.m., sometimes earlier. Compared to Shelton-Mosley’s previous regimen, that schedule seems like a vacation.
At Harvard, however, the All-Ivy wide receiver has encountered another kind of adversity—injuries.
In 2016, Shelton-Mosley was coming off of a freshman campaign in which he had made the All-American third team. He had set Harvard records for punt return and kickoff return average.
But in the second game of 2016, he suffered a strained groin. He returned two weeks later but sprained his ankle against Cornell. That injury persisted for much of the season, even as Shelton-Mosley returned to action. Later, a bruised kneecap added to his woes.
“It was a tough, tough year,” Shelton-Mosley said. “I probably shouldn’t have been playing. I was able to continue at a somewhat high level with the help of the training staff.”
This “somewhat high level” of play was enough to earn Shelton-Mosley a unanimous selection to the All-Ivy first team. But the sophomore clearly played through pain. In several games, he lined up as wide receiver but not as punt returner, hoping to minimize open-field tackles.
The setbacks forced Shelton-Mosley to draw on a reserve of strength. In high school, Shelton-Mosley had excelled—not just on the field but in the classroom. As a running back, he shattered a school record with 88 touchdowns. He made the dean’s list. He ran a 40-yard dash in 4.5 seconds. He was elected to the student council.
Failure—this was an unfamiliar experience. But Shelton-Mosley could draw on those 4 a.m. wakeups. Also central was his Christian faith. This worldview, quite simply, put adversity in perspective.
“I was able to bounce back,” Shelton-Mosley said. “For me, being religious, things don’t go how you want them to go. But it can be God’s plan.”
'YOU HAVE TO LOSE SLEEP SOMETIMES’
Harvard, in case you didn’t know, holds students to high academic standards. The most constant adversity for Crimson players lies in the school-football balance.
“It’s just the grind, really,” Lee said. “You have to lose sleep sometimes. You just have to stay up, work, and make sure you get everything done by the time you go to sleep.”
Lee has fought this battle for years. At Daphne High School, Lee went on the International Baccalaureate track. The Applied Math concentrator would leave school at seven, work until midnight, and wake up at six.
But Daphne also boasts one of the top football programs in Alabama—which is no small claim. As a freshman, Lee played on the scout team, lining up against then-senior running back T.J. Yeldon. The roster boasted five future NFL players.
Excellence stemmed from intense work. During the season, Daphne held events six days a week. Reprieve only came on Saturday so players could heal from Friday contests.
“The football time requirement was a lot,” Lee said. “When I came here, it was harder because the work was a little harder and football was a lot better. But the time management skills that I acquired in high school carried over.”
Lee was lucky for that training because Harvard athletes face enormous academic pressures. During the fall, football players get up early for workouts, take classes in the late morning and early afternoon, and practice into the evening. Games require at least six hours. And when the Crimson plays away, the team tends to leave Friday and return late Saturday, effectively shaving a day-and-a-half off the week.
It doesn’t help that the Harvard season peaks in early November, when students face a bevy of assignments. Or that physical exhaustion impedes academic performance. Or that football players must battle the “dumb jock” stereotype. Crimson athletes hit the books all the same.
“As long as I turn everything in and put maximal effort into it, I feel pretty good about it,” Lee said. “I’m way better now than I was when I got here.”
‘THOSE ARE THE KINDS OF KIDS WE LOOK FOR’
Every year, Harvard admits a gaggle of high school seniors from New York City, but few end up on the football team. Brooklyn, it turns out, isn’t a football hotbed.
Offensive lineman Mark Goldman is an exception. He grew up in the Empire City as the son of Ukrainian immigrants. Neither parent spoke English. For the first five years of his life, neither did Goldman.
“Those are the kinds of kids we look for,” Murphy said. “The more we have in life, the less opportunity we necessarily get to build up that resilience…. When you don’t have a lot, you have to find a way.”
Academics helped Goldman assimilate, as did football. He served as captain at Midwood High School, a high-achieving public school in Brooklyn. Still, Goldman ended his senior football season without receiving an offer from Harvard.
That winter, the offensive lineman sent emails to various recruiters, including Crimson defensive coordinator Scott Larkee. Harvard requested a visit. Goldman confirmed, excitedly. Then a blizzard struck.
Goldman, his father, and a family friend decided to travel anyway. Through heavy snow, the trio drove from New York City to Cambridge. Murphy was waiting on the other end and soon extended an offer.
“He obviously saw my film and knew I could play a little bit,” Goldman. “But I think he mostly appreciated that I really wanted it.”
The son of a Ukrainian immigrant. A native Russian speaker. Goldman stands out for several reasons. But paradoxically, his exceptional background suits him to Harvard football, where scores of players come from unconventional circumstances.
One of Murphy’s earliest recruits was Isaiah Kacyvenski, a linebacker who grew up homeless in Upstate New York. His father struggled with alcoholism. His mother was struck by a truck and killed during Kacyvenski’s senior year.
Murphy persuaded Kacyvenski to sign with the Crimson. The decision proved fateful, as the 6’1” linebacker made the All-American first team as a senior. Murphy sometimes uses Kacyvenski as an example of how strength can emerge from great suffering.
The coach also cited freshman Aaron Shampklin when discussing player resilience.
“He’s such a positive person, such a positive kid,” Murphy said. “He’s off the charts. It’s all natural.”
The running back attended Long Beach Polytechnic, a 4,400-person high school just south of Los Angeles. The California school boasts a legendary football program that has graduated NFL mainstays such as DeSean Jackson, Willie McGinest, and Juju Smith-Schuster. As a senior, Shampklin served as captain. Before Shampklin, though, no Long Beach football player had ever come to Harvard.
To complicate matters, Shampklin was in need of significant tuition help. FBS programs could offer full-ride scholarships. The Crimson could offer financial aid.
In the recruiting process, Shampklin had the support of his parents, who urged the high schooler to consider the Crimson. So Shampklin did, forgoing a scholarship from Washington State to join Harvard.
“I wanted to change the culture back home,” Shampklin said. “Most people don’t see the Ivy League as an option…. Hopefully I affect generations after me.”
‘THIS YEAR IS SPECIAL’
All the talk of adversity and resilience came to head in 2017. Injuries, defeats, and emotional turmoil—rarely has Harvard experienced these challenges in such concentration.
The Crimson began the season at Rhode Island. In that 17-10 loss, freshman defensive back Ben Abercrombie collided with a wide receiver and suffered a serious cervical injury. Two months later, he remains in rehabilitation at the Shepard Center in Atlanta. While he has regained partial feeling, Abercrombie still struggles to perform basic functions on his own.
The hit transformed Harvard football. It transformed Abercrombie’s life. It transformed his family. It transformed Crimson football players—including Lee, who pledged to play the season in Abercrombie’s honor. The emotional fallout never really ended.
“You go out there and do what you’ve always done but in the face of some terrible things,” said Lee—who, like Abercrombie, is a defensive back from Alabama. “You have to figure things out for yourself.”
The season continued. Harvard dropped four contests, each brutal in its own way. Rhode Island, because the Crimson lost a season opener for the first time since 2011. Cornell, because the Big Red trampled Harvard for over 200 rushing yards. Princeton, because the Tigers embarrassed the defense in a 52-17 final. Penn, because the Quakers broke Crimson hearts for the third-straight year.
Another setback came through a historic plague of injuries. Of the 11 defensive starters in the opener, nine have missed a game. Six have suffered season-ending injuries. Gone is junior Wesley Ogsbury, the top cornerback. Gone is junior D.J. Bailey, an All-Ivy selection in 2016. Gone are Anthony Camargo and Jordan Hill, two promising young linebackers. Coaches have pieced together the defense with youngsters and duct tape. Then the duct tape has broken.
“At times, right now, there’s not even a full scout team to go against the first-team offense,” Murphy said. “You find a way to make it work.”
In this sense, 2017 has tested Murphy’s most fundamental teaching—the emphasis on resilience. It’s fitting that the season ends against Yale. The Crimson’s skid marks trace back to The Game in 2016, when the Bulldogs pulled off an upset. The defeat left seniors dazed and juniors motivated.
A year later, the juniors have become seniors. Yale has matured into an Ivy League champion. And a sea of adversity swirls between November 2016 and November 2017.
“All the teams that I’ve played with would have been able to handle the adversity that we’ve been through,” Lee said. “This year is special…because we’ve actually had to do it.”
—Staff writer Sam Danello can be reached at sam.danello@thecrimson.com.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The year is 1912. You’re an aristocrat living in England, and you want to make a cross-Atlantic voyage to New York City. Maybe some joker has convinced you that Columbia is a top-tier university or that Ithaca is worth visiting. Whatever. The point is that you head to the docks at Southampton and purchase a ticket on a beautiful new luxury cruiser. The name of the boat is the Titanic.
Flash forward three days later. You’re dangling 40 feet above the ocean. The waves are higher than a Brown student at 11 a.m. The water is scarier than New Haven at night. You’re sliding off the boat, inch by inch, when a dollar floats down from above. It lands on your hand.
“See?” you yell at the ocean, where a dozen of your new friends are treading water. “I knew I made the right decision.”
Last year, Yale football beat Harvard for the first time in 10 years. It was a freak event—as unlikely as Tasty Burger completing an order in less than half-an-hour. Some Bulldogs fans used the win as an opportunity to vindicate their school.
“See?” the fans yelled. “I knew I made the right decision.”
Granted, Yale students may not have the highest IQ. They may poop in toilets and live in buildings that look like mental asylums. But you’d figure that these kids would have enough common sense to know the difference between a pattern and an exception.
A pattern is when Harvard coach Tim Murphy wins 200 games. An exception is when a Yale student learns multiplication.
Onto the picks:
BROWN AT COLUMBIA
Remember when Columbia was 6-0? The New York Times had just written a cute piece about how the Lions had pleased some people, angered more, and emerged from a long stretch of putridness—longer even than the PowerPoints of a certain Crimson legend.
Well, the Lions fell quicker than Quan at Exec Dinner. First came a loss to the Bulldogs and then one to the Crimson. Thankfully for Columbia fans, the season concludes with matchups against Cornell and Brown—two institutions that resemble elementary schools in both talent and academic standards.
Last week, the Lions claimed the inevitable win over the Big Red. This week, they will claim the inevitable win over the Bears. Coach Al Bagnoli, congratulations on an 8-2 season. If the Bulldogs lose, you may even claim an Ancient Eight crown. I may name my first child after you.
I’m not kidding.
PICK: Columbia 24, Brown 9
CORNELL AT PENN
Penn wide receiver Justin Watson catches footballs like freshmen at First-Chance Dance catch mono. The Quakers legend runs routes like G-Reg runs the rap game. He pounds opponents like Slap Cup Kid pounds solo cups. He makes plays like Kazoo Kid makes music. He disregards opponents like that YouTube announcer disregards a missed field goal kick. He excites fans like Sweet n’ Nasty excites customers. He turns around linebackers like FM turns around the Ed Office. He sheds cornerbacks like Steve sheds belts. He messes up safeties like Kim messes up Sephora.
For Watson, the dog days really are over. He listens to “Dancing Queen” as pregame motivation. He never gets carded at Dok Bua.
To put it simply, Justin Watson is a legend. Like “Barney meets his maker”-level legend.
Cornell, meanwhile, is in Ithaca.
PICK: Penn 31, Cornell 16
PRINCETON AT DARTMOUTH
I don’t have much to say here, although this game has major conference implications. Dartmouth, along with Columbia, sports two league losses. A Big Green victory combined with a Yale loss would guarantee Dartmouth a share of the title.
This outcome won’t pass, however. Why? Because I have a gut feeling and it’s 3:22 a.m. Princeton quarterback Chad Kanoff remains the most impressive thrower that I’ve ever seen as a reporter. He tosses more naturally than Julio Fierro at the Kong.
The Big Green will play with the intensity of a title-contender, but the Tigers will play with the intensity of a team trying to leave Hanover before the sun goes down.
PICK: Princeton 34, Dartmouth 24
HARVARD AT YALE
Ah yes—The Game.
The last time I visited New Haven, the year was 2015, and Harvard football was flying high. The Crimson trounced Yale, 38-19, as then-freshman Justice Shelton-Mosley notched three touchdowns.
That Saturday, Harvard football was about the only thing in fine form in New Haven. Rats roamed the streets. Gothic architecture prevailed. And everywhere, as far as the eye could stretch, I could see Yale students.
What do you call a supermodel on Yale’s campus? A visitor. What do you call a pedestrian at 10 p.m.? Afraid. What do you call a toilet that can seat over 60,000? The Yale Bowl. And what do you call a group of long-time losers? The Bulldogs football team.
Yes, Yale possesses immense talent. There’s a reason that Murphy has said, on the record, that he has never faced a better Bulldogs squad. The Yale offensive and defensive lines crush opponents. The Crimson, meanwhile, has a depleted defense and a young bunch of guards.
I just can’t bring myself to pick the Bulldogs. Call me biased. Call me dumb. Call me Sam. All three labels apply. But at my core, I’m still a Harvard student.
For a full year, Steve Gleason and I have run the Sports section here. Mostly, we have subsumed our natural fandom. We’re on the way out.
Freshman quarterback Jake Smith is on his way in. On Saturday, I predict a breakout performance—three passing touchdowns and one rushing. The Crimson defense may concede 30 points, but the Harvard offense will fire back.
Let me return to my opening. Do you know what happened to the Titanic? Exactly. Gravity exists for a reason. The universe must bend towards some ultimate meaning, and that meaning is something that Confucius articulated long ago.
To quote those famous words: “Yuck Fale.”
PICK: Harvard 34, Yale 31
—Staff writer Sam Danello can be reached at sam.danello@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The last time the Harvard men’s hockey team played at the University of Minnesota, Jimmy Vesey ’16 hadn’t won his Hobey Baker yet.
In Jan., 2016, the Crimson faced off against the Gophers in the championship game of the Mariucci Classic—Minnesota’s four-school invitational named for its raucous home rink. History was not on Harvard’s side. In fact, in the four meetings between the two teams since the Crimson’s NCAA championship win against them in 1989, the Gophers had always come away with victory. Harvard’s record in the Mariucci Classic overall was relatively unimpressive, having never finished better than last.
The teams’ most recent showdown saw leads gained and lost. The Crimson jumped ahead, 2-0, by the second period, but before long it stared down a 3-2 deficit with less than a minute left in regulation. The Harvard icemen rose to the occasion. Two-time captain Kyle Criscuolo ’16 played the hero, tying the game at 19:26 of the third frame and scoring the overtime winner.
The No. 13/11 Crimson (2-3-0, 2-3-0 ECAC) will need some heroics to get past the No. 7/6 Gophers (7-4-1, 3-2-1 Big Ten) this weekend. In 69 years and 29 games of series history, Harvard has never beaten Minnesota on the road in regulation. The Gophers are coming off a frustrating weekend against conference rival Michigan, scoring 10 goals in two games but earning just one point from their offensive efforts. They are certainly primed for a bounceback, however, with undeniable offensive talent in sophomore forward Rem Pitlick, who boasts a team-leading 14 points, and freshman forward Casey Mittelstadt, the 8th overall pick in last year’s NHL Entry Draft. The keystone to this high-flying offensive unit is 2017 First Team All-American and Hobey Baker Finalist, junior Tyler Sheehy.
Minnesota’s firepower up front could present a particularly unique challenge for the Crimson: the Gophers play on an Olympic ice sheet—a wider surface encouraging more skating and providing more time for clever decision making with the puck. To adjust to the foreign dimensions, Harvard practiced on Wednesday at the local Belmont Hill School’s rink, which boasts an Olympic-sized surface.
All the hype about offensive firepower should not detract from both teams’ sturdy netminder play. The Crimson will also face one of the nation’s most experienced goaltenders in Minnesota’s Eric Schierhorn (7-4-1, 2.39 GAA, .913 SV%), who is fresh off his Big Ten Goaltender of the Year campaign. The senior has backstopped the Gophers in every game of the season. Harvard is just as qualified in net, though. Tri-captain Merrick Madsen (2-3-0, 2.01 GAA, .913 SV%) is its last line of defense, and his performance will be crucial to the outcome of the weekend’s double-header.
All in all, the Crimson faces an uphill climb as it begins non-conference play and enters the thick of a nine-game road series. Trying to dig its way out of a sub-.500 start to the season, Harvard will need to generate more offense than it has to date, notching just 2.60 goals per game through five contests. This middling scoring pace (39th in NCAA) pales in comparison to last year’s dynamic offensive team, who averaged over four strikes per game.
This weekend should also be a nice homecoming for Crimson skaters Henry Bowlby, Benjamin Foley, Jacob Olson, and tri-captain Jake Horton, who are all local to the Minnesota area.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
