News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
In early June, I went to Target with some friends. By the front entrance of the store was  a display of their Take Pride collection, featuring rainbow flags, clothes, and accessories. I spent a few minutes exploring the collection, in awe of the bright colors and loud designs, trying on a rainbow hat that had caught my eye.
These displays of Pride are not limited to Target. For the past month, my Facebook feed has been inundated with sponsored ads for Pride merchandise, from rainbow sneakers to heart-shaped necklaces. Some companies have created ads featuring members of the LGBTQ community, including same-sex couples and trans people.  Others have paid to sponsor and participate in Pride marches. As more companies celebrate Pride month, we ought to closely examine how corporations have impacted the movement for LGBTQ equality.
One of the most obvious benefits to increased corporate involvement is visibility. When major companies mass-produce rainbow shirts or create pride reacts on social media, they introduce customers to LGBTQ issues. In this way, the saturation of Pride paraphernalia in stores and online helps to normalize LGBTQ issues as more people become aware of them.
We also can’t forget about the importance of money in supporting a movement. Corporate sponsors provide the financial resources to expand Pride marches and thus increase visibility. For example, NYC Pride received $1.7 million from 56 corporate sponsors in 2016. Similarly, Pride merchandise can also support the movement for equality, as some companies donate all or a portion of those proceeds to LGBTQ causes.
But these benefits don’t come without drawbacks. Some argue that the commercialization of Pride trivializes the goals of the movement, turning Pride into a marketing strategy rather than a movement for equality. I’m thankful that our society is becoming more accepting, but I worry that, to some, Pride is just a current fad rather than a long lasting commitment to support the LGBTQ community. I have to wonder whether those same companies would be so supportive of Pride if their support was negatively impacting their sales. Where were they decades ago when Pride wasn’t as cool?
Corporate involvement in Pride can also set an example of bad allyship. Some of these companies pretend to care about LGBTQ issues for just one month and then do nothing the rest of the year. And, while it’s great that more allies show support for the LGBTQ community by marching in Pride or purchasing merchandise, many just want to have a good time and ignore the long struggle for equality and inclusion behind it. It’s easy to wave a rainbow flag in a parade, but it’s much harder to combat systematic oppression against LGBTQ people and re-evaluate your own role in perpetuating this oppression. We see this problematic allyship too often with individuals; we don’t need companies doing the same.
Commercialization has also altered the dynamic of Pride marches, which used to be a way to escape heteronormativity, create community, and encourage activism with other queer people.  Now, it’s more straight, more cis, and more white. In making Pride more palatable to general society, our community has been diluted and made less radical. This has the added harm of sending the message that the only acceptable form of Pride is one that makes cis straight people comfortable.
So, what can we do about this?
If you’d rather not participate in corporate-influenced Pride marches, there may be grassroots groups in your area hosting their own events. I attended the Boston Dyke March, and it was a powerful celebration of queer intersectionality with a strong focus on local activism. While at the March, I picked up some pamphlets on mental health in the queer community, along with pre-made stickers that read “African-American Dyke,” “Asian Dyke,” and “Biracial Dyke.” It definitely had a different feel from Boston Pride.
And for those who like to buy Pride merchandise, be mindful of where you’re buying from. Is it a company run by LGBTQ people? Do the proceeds from the purchase go towards LGBTQ causes? What does this company do year-round to promote LGBTQ equality? Is it a safe and welcoming workplace for LGBTQ employees? Does this company’s ads show diversity? What other causes does it support financially?
I was curious about Target’s track record, and so I did some Googling. I’m proud to shop at a store that donated part of the proceeds from their 2012 Pride collection to an organization that advocated for marriage equality, encourages customers to use the bathroom that matches their gender identity, installed gender-neutral bathrooms in all of their stores, signed an amicus curiae brief in support of marriage equality, partners with the Gay, Lesbian, and Straight Education Network, removed the gendered labels and colors in their Toy and Kids’ Bedding aisles, and received a perfect score on the Human Rights Council’s Corporate Equality Index.  However, I was disappointed to learn that none of the proceeds from their 2017 Take Pride collection go to benefit LGBTQ causes (or if they do donate, they don’t state that on their website).
I went to Target a few weeks ago with some family members, some of whom I’m not out to because they’re not accepting of LGBTQ people. As we entered the store, I walked straight past the Take Pride collection and avoided looking directly at it. But, despite my best efforts, I still saw the rainbow hat out of the corner of my eye.
Maybe it’s shallow, but there’s something comforting in knowing that some Target executive thought LGBTQ equality was important enough to create a special Pride collection. And maybe I’m just being sentimental, but there have been times where I’ve felt more accepted in Target’s Pride aisle than I have in my own home.
Or maybe I’m just being suckered into another marketing ploy.
Becina J. Ganther ’20 is a Crimson editorial editor in Leverett House. Her column appears on alternate Thursdays.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
UPDATED: July 12, 2017 at 2:18 p.m.
A faculty committee has recommended that the College forbid students from joining all “fraternities, sororities, and similar organizations”—including co-ed groups—with the goal of phasing out the organizations entirely by May 2022.
In a 22-page report released Wednesday morning, the committee proposed that the policy—which would replace existing penalties for members of the social groups that are set to go into place in the fall—apply to students entering in the fall of 2018.
“All currently enrolled students including those who will matriculate this fall will be exempt from the new policy for the entirety of their time at Harvard,” according to the report. “This will lead to a transition period, whereby USGSOs would be phased out by May 2022.”
The committee suggested that Harvard model its new social group policy very closely on those enforced by Williams College and Bowdoin College, both of which forbid students form participating in social clubs during their time as undergraduates.
“It is unlikely that Harvard can improve upon the policies of these peer institutions,” the report reads.

The recommendations represent a significant development in a years-long effort by the College to curb the influence of single-gender social groups on campus. In May 2016, University President Drew G. Faust announced the College’s current policy, which bars members of single-gender social organizations from holding certain leadership positions on campus.
That policy was quickly imperiled, though, following widespread Faculty criticism, ultimately prompting the creation of a committee that could “revise or replace” the current policy. But that policy, which pressured the groups to adopt gender-neutral membership policies, did not go far enough in the eyes of the committee.
“Our main reservation about the stated goal of the policy was whether the focus on ending gender segregation and discrimination is too narrow,” the report reads. “If all of these organizations adopted gender-neutral membership in a timely fashion, there would remain a myriad of practices of these organizations that go against the educational mission and principles espoused by Harvard University.”
The report also recommends that the College review recognized independent student organizations “with the view to assessing the current training, resources, and procedures and to ensuring that the ISOs follow best practices and demonstrate their robust compliance with the College’s shared values.”
In addition to the broadening of the previous sanctions, the committee also recommended revisions to a number of controversial stipulations of the current policy.
With the proposed changes, students will no longer be required to sign an “affirmation of awareness” of the College’s policy, which some of the policy’s critics have likened to an oath. In March, biology professor David A. Haig filed a faculty motion criticizing this method of enforcement.
Instead, the committee wrote that “it seems sufficient to continue the assumption—as we always have—that students are aware of the contents of the Handbook upon enrollment.”
The committee recommends language for the College to put into place: “Harvard students may neither join nor participate in final clubs, fraternities or sororities, or other similar private, exclusionary social organizations that are exclusively or predominantly made up of Harvard students, whether they have any local or national affiliation, during their time in the College. The College will take disciplinary action against students who are found to be participating in such organizations. Violations will be adjudicated by the Administrative Board.”
In an appendix to the report, Haig—who was a member of the faculty committee—included a dissenting opinion. “The report proposes an escalation of the conflict between unrecognized social organizations and Harvard College,” he said.
Citing the lack of data about the previous policy’s favorability among either faculty or students, Haig added, “Harvard College can do better in reasoning with data.”
Violations of this understanding will additionally be adjudicated by the Administrative Board rather than the Honor Council, according to the report. A previous recommendation that the Honor Council review potential violations of the sanctions met with opposition from some members of the Council who charged it was not part of their original mission.
The committee’s recommendations will likely draw heavy criticism from both alumni and undergraduates in social groups, who have repeatedly attacked the existing policy as overreaching and unnecessary.
The committee is presenting its recommendations to the Faculty for feedback and will hold open discussions with faculty about the new policy during the coming semester. Faculty will be allowed to give feedback from now until late in the fall, according to the report.
Eventually, the committee intends to present its recommendations to Dean of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences Michael D. Smith, and then to University President Drew G. Faust. Until the recommendations are reviewed and either approved or rejected by Faust, the College’s current social group policy—slated to go into place with the Class of 2021—is still in effect.
—This is a developing story. Check thecrimson.com for more updates.
—Staff writer Hannah Natanson can be reached at hannah.natanson@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @hannah_natanson.
—Staff writer Derek G. Xiao can be reached at derek.xiao@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @derekgxiao.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
“The ones that love us never really leave us.”—Sirius Black
Death. We all confront it eventually, even Harvard Square businesses. The Square may have gained a few new destinations this year, but Flyby wants to take a moment to acknowledge some of the establishments we’ve lost.
American Apparel: Bodysuits and crop tops gone, but never forgotten (2006-2017)
Got a 90s grunge costume party coming up? Going as Cher from “Clueless” for Halloween this year? Need a nice new $120-pair of mom jeans for your “ugly-chic” look? You’re out of luck. The American Apparel in Harvard Square closed this past March as the company went bankrupt. And those who preferred an effortless bohemian look (you know, effortless after shelling out $200 or so) have also been left stranded, helpless, and distraught after Free People closed its Harvard location.
But college students need not fear the passings of these overpriced, underwhelming clothing stores. The best is yet to come. Free People was replaced by Fjällräven, a brand well-known for its backpacks (how thrilling). As for American Apparel? A lovely bank will fill the platform shoes it left behind.
Boloco is in a better place now (1997-2017)
Sometimes, you don’t know what you’ve got ‘til it’s gone. Chances are you went to Boloco once to confront your addiction to Felipe’s chimichangas, but never went back. Well, now it’s (almost) too late. In its glory days, the Boston-based chain was a popular stop for tourists and students alike, but in recent years, increased competition from an overwhelming number of Mexican eateries near Harvard has caused patronage to dwindle.
Despite the already-burrito-saturated status of the Square, Boloco will be replaced by a younger burrito chain. Zambrero is an Australian Mexican food chain (yes, you read that right) founded by a doctor, and it focuses on serving healthy, fresh food options.
If you’re a member of the “pro-loco” contingent, our thoughts and prayers are with you at this difficult time. On the bright side, if you need your Boloco tank filled up once the Cambridge location departs in a few weeks, you can just take a quick T ride. Boloco is survived by seven locations throughout Boston.
Algiers: Beloved coffeehouse taken too soon (1972-2017)
Despite a harrowing chapter for the restaurant earlier this year, Algiers continued to serve up Middle Eastern dishes and charm these past few months. Little did we know there was another plot twist in store for one of Harvard Square’s only true characters. After 45 fulfilling years in the Square, Algiers coffeehouse is leaving us for good this August.
A new restaurant is already being planned for the space—before Algiers is even in the ground. Whether or not you’ve been to Algiers before, visit now. In its dying days, the coffeehouse deserves to be surrounded by those who love it most.
R.I.Pinkberry. (2011-2017)
Even those who weren’t the biggest fans of the fro-yo chain might have been just a little sad to see it close—if not for the loss of free samples handed out in front of the shop, then for the fact that it’s been replaced by the Square’s second “juice bar.” Now when you ask yourself, “where should I drop a bunch of bills on making myself feel healthy by buying a smoothie?” the answer might not be as clear as it once was. At the Liquiteria? At Pressed Juicery? This is the burden that Pinkberry has left you with.
Long live Berryline.
