News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Sally Q. Yates, the former Acting Attorney General of the United States whom President Donald Trump fired in January, will be the Law School’s 2017 Class Day speaker, the school announced Friday.
Yates was appointed Deputy Attorney General—the Justice Department’s second-highest-ranking position—in 2015 under former President Barack Obama's administration. She became the Acting Attorney General after Trump’s inauguration.
Ten days into Trump’s tenure, Yates was fired after she instructed the Justice Department not to defend Trump’s executive order barring immigration from seven predominantly Muslim nations. At the time, she said she was unconvinced that the order—which was eventually stopped in court and replaced by another, similar order that has also since been blocked—was legal.
Yates made headlines again in late March when the Washington Post reported that the Trump administration had sought to prevent her from testifying in an ongoing House investigation into connections between Russian and the Trump campaign.
Yates, who attended both college and law school at the University of Georgia, spoke to Law School students in January before Trump took office. The focus of her talk was progress in criminal justice reform under the Obama administration and how she expected it to continue under the Trump administration.
“As current and future leaders in a profession dedicated to the integrity of the law, I hope that you will let your voices be heard and that you will demand meaningful change, and most importantly that you will act at every opportunity to effect the changes that are required to make our communities safer and our system more faithful to its core principle of justice,” Yates said in January.
Members of the Law School’s graduating class are responsible for selecting the Class Day speaker. Last year’s speaker was actress Sarah Jessica Parker.
—Staff writer Jamie D. Halper can be reached at jamie.halper@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @JamieDHalper.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Do you remember senior year of high school? Don’t bother answering, we already know. (Freshmen, yes; sophomores, no; juniors, no; seniors, yes, coupled with nostalgia and tears at impending adulthood.) If you said yes, you probably remember all the posts about where your (Facebook) friends announced they were going to college. You remember that kid who posted every single college acceptance, but you also remember your good friend who kept everyone in the dark until they announced after graduation they were moving across the country.
You might have thought you were free from that, but now that you’re in college you have to deal with people getting into graduate school. Maybe you even got into one yourself, lucky duck. So to all the future MDs, JDs, MBAs, MAs, PHDs, and all the people that need to deal with them, here’s some advice.
If you got into graduate school, remember: 
This isn’t college. We know you poured your life into applying to more debt, essays, and exams—we mean graduate school. But breaking news: fewer people go to graduate school than undergraduate. In all likelihood, most of your Facebook friends haven’t been keeping up with your postgrad plans. So don’t be the No Information Nancy who posts “Heading to ABC University next year!” At least tell us what you’re going for.
Re: THIS ISN’T COLLEGE. You’re starting graduate school while your friends start to pay off debt. Stay humble. Toss in a “#blessed to pursue a ______ in _______ at _______ University”.
If your aunt/uncle/grandparent uses Facebook, they are going to be skeptical. Before you were born, every one of your family members had to attend a mandatory seminar on how to question your life decisions. Someone related to you will probably comment something innocent in your status like “oof three more years of tuition?” or “couldn’t you have studied that in college?” The key here is to get very defensive and insist that this graduate degree is the only way for you to further your career. If you want to be a doctor, you kind of need an MD.
If your Facebook friend got into graduate school, remember:
If you catch a meal with them 3+ times per semester (aka they’re actually one of your friends), you must like their status. That’s just common courtesy. Maybe even give it a love.
If they will be attending graduate school near where you will be working, you are obligated to comment about how you should grab a drink. You never need to follow up with them—unless you two are actually friends—but you need to offer. Otherwise, when you change your current location to New York City for your new Goldman gig, they might call you out on your status and you'll look like a jerk.
If you got into the same graduate school (even for a different degree, even if it’s an older friend and you’re still an undergraduate at that school), do not comment that you’ll see them there. You might think it comes off as chill, but seriously, get your own Facebook status.
