News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Recently, Saturday Night Live produced a skit called “Girl at a Bar” where a woman sitting alone at a bar is repeatedly approached by self-proclaimed feminist men—“not gross guys trying to hit on you or anything”—who make it clear, through their pussyhats and their feminist T-shirts, that they are not one of those “skeazy guys” at a bar. However, after successfully convincing the woman of their feminist credentials, these men use the opportunity make a sexual advance. And when she gently rebuffs their advances, these men become angry, calling her a “bitch” and complaining that “it’s not fair.”
This is the “woke misogynist” that Nona Willis Aronowitz wrote about. This is the self-proclaimed feminist man who proudly attends the Women’s March and reads Judith Butler and casually throws around terms like “gender performativity,” but who also harasses, talks over, belittles, and sexually assaults women.
This is the man who prides himself on his progressive politics, who puts anti-Trump and Support Orlando filters on his Facebook profile pictures, but who then calls Tomi Lahren a “useless bimbo” and “whore” on the Occupy Democrats Facebook page.
This is my male coworker at UN Watch who was a loud feminist and well-versed in complex feminist literature—but who complained that he should be the one giving the speech about women’s rights to the United Nations, not me, because “if a man is giving a speech about gender equality, then more people will pay attention.”
This is the self-proclaimed male feminist who wrote an incredibly popular article in the New York Times about sexual harassment on Wall Street, and who proposed that the way to end gender inequality in the workplace is for “men of status” such as “hedge fund founders” to speak about women with respect—failing to realize that, by designating men as the protectors of women, he is only further reinforcing patriarchal norms.
This is the man who uses his feminist credentials as a shield to defend himself against women’s claims that he harassed or assaulted them—because how could he, a feminist, possibly participate in the oppression of women? After all, he is not like those other men. He voted for Hillary Clinton, attended a workshop on consent, wrote an op-ed about women’s rights—how could he possibly perpetuate systemic violence against women?
What these male feminists fail to realize is that, as men, they will always be oppressors. No matter how many feminist marches they attend or how much feminist literature they read, they are not exempt from perpetuating the subordination of women. Their support of the women’s movement does not erase the fact that they, on an individual level, are capable of harassing, assaulting, or silencing women—nor that, on a structural level, they continue to benefit from a system that establishes male dominance at the expense of women. And even though male allies may genuinely feel guilty, they will continue to benefit from male privilege. The patriarchy does not offer special exceptions for men with good intentions. Men, as a class, are culpable for misogyny, and male allies are no different and no less capable of demeaning women through their words, actions, and complicit silence.
Therefore, when male allies attempt to distance themselves from the culture of male supremacy, they fail to acknowledge the structural privileges at work and how they benefit from the current system. Male allies often undermine the very movement they claim to support because they fail to acknowledge the role that they themselves play in perpetuating female subordination.
This is not to say that men can never be feminists—rather, that feminism should not cater to men. All too often, however, feminism is bastardized in such a way to make it more palatable to men—for example, when Emma Watson called upon the importance of including men in feminism through HeForShe, or when Sophie Trudeau used International Women’s Day as an opportunity to celebrate boys and men.
Feminism does not need men. This simple statement alone will, no doubt, spark cries of misandry and male genocide. After all, in a world that caters exclusively to men, it is revolutionary to claim a space or a movement where men are not considered integral.
On the contrary, feminism is a radical and revolutionary movement that will upheave the status quo and remove men as the monopolizers of power. In general, people don’t like to lose power, especially when they’ve had it for so long. Feminism is not supposed to be palatable to men; it is supposed to be threatening.
As for those men who are not threatened by the idea of losing power, who are genuinely committed to social justice—they understand that allyship is not a badge they can proudly wear and hide behind, but rather a difficult task they must undertake everyday. They understand that allyship entails consciously ceding space to marginalized communities, listening to women’s voices, and willingly giving up the power that they and their ancestors have enjoyed for centuries.
I have faith that some men can, in time, become helpful—never integral—allies to women in their fight for liberation. But until then, beware the male feminist.
Nian Hu ’18 is a government concentrator in Mather House. Her column appears on alternate Thursdays.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Earlier this month, Harvard Law School announced that the Graduate Record Examination will be accepted in lieu of the Law School Admissions Test in applications, effective this fall. In the wake of this important announcement, we are glad to see the Law School taking bold, new action in its decisions to update admissions policies, and commend administrators for taking the risk in enacting far-reaching change that many other schools have not considered. This change will allow for greater flexibility for applicants while easing the process.
With its prestige and respectability, Harvard Law School is in a unique place to affect change and to begin a national conversation among its fellow law schools and the American Bar. The acceptance of the GRE comes on the heels of an internal study indicating that the exam seems to be as effective as the LSAT as a predictor of success during law school. Harvard has historically been in a position where academic and institutional changes have been widely emulated at other places of higher learning, and we hope this policy change sets a precedent in diversifying law school admissions nationwide.
The use of the GRE is additionally beneficial to students who may not have the financial means to take both that exam and the LSAT if they are applying to multiple graduate schools. If the GRE has proven to be an equal contender to the LSAT, it is worth giving all applicants, especially disadvantaged ones, the opportunity to submit it. This could provide future Law School classes with students who hold a greater breadth of experiences.
We also commend the Junior Deferral Program pilot trial, now in its third year, as it allows students to garner real-world experience in law and other careers with the added assurance they will have a spot in a later class. This program, while still in a trial period, allows greater autonomy and latitude for those unsure about their careers, with the benefit that they will be more prepared for law school once they matriculate. These “real-world” experiences help make students more competitive and prepared for future careers, whether in law or otherwise. There are clear benefits to this program, and we eagerly hope it will become a permanent fixture in the future.
In sum, we view the recent changes the Law School has instituted as beneficial, providing new solutions for the students of today and tomorrow. As times change, it is good to see policies adapt with them to better serve hardworking students who require flexibility and diversity of choices and opportunities. We wholeheartedly support these efforts to broaden the Law School’s applicant base and promote a wider range of experiences in future classes.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
In the spring of freshman year, I raised my hand in Spanish Aa and answered a question incorrectly. The girl beside me whispered, “Did you go to private school or public school?” Stunned, I mumbled “public” just so she would look away from the tears welling in my eyes.
I was the first in my rural high school to attend an Ivy League university. I thought I might have a tough time fitting in socially with peers from prep schools and wealthier backgrounds. I also thought that hard work and asking for help would be enough to do reasonably well academically, even when I made mistakes along the way. However, I didn’t know what I was getting myself into, nor did my advisers realize the extent to which I was underprepared.
This is why the College must offer a summer enrichment program for students from under-resourced high schools: Low-income, first generation, and underrepresented students could navigate Harvard more smoothly if they were provided with peer and institutional support.
During freshman spring, I requested an appointment with a counselor at the Bureau of Study Counsel for help in Math 21a. I already had a tutor, frequently attended office hours with the professor, and visited the Math Question Center almost every night. But I still felt lost and was in danger of failing the class. The counselor asked about my roommate situation, homesickness, sleeping and eating habits, as well as how often I went to office hours and if I had a tutor. The elephant in the room was that I should not have been in Math 21a in the first place, that I should have started with a lower level like Math Ma if I hoped to stand a chance in a STEM field. But neither of us realized that, and it was too late to drop the class. My Resident Dean of Freshmen told me to work harder when I sought an exception to the add/drop deadline, and I could barely hold back tears until I stepped out of the Freshman Dean’s Office.
A summer enrichment program for students from under-resourced high schools could have prevented a situation like mine. These students have the talent, drive, and smarts to survive here, but peer solidarity and institutional support can mean the difference between surviving and thriving. Countless students, myself included, could have benefited from an enrichment program, and there is no reason for yet another class of students to arrive in the fall without one. A cohort of students who understand each other’s backgrounds would serve as a support system beyond advising conversations at the start of the term. Just like the Freshman International Program, we need an orientation program that recognizes the needs of students who come from environments incredibly different from Harvard, and that a network of similarly situated peers facilitates immersion into the university.
A summer enrichment program is where to start if Dean Khurana truly believes in a Harvard where wealth does not correlate with GPA, success in STEM fields, or 4-year graduation rates. This program would cost a minuscule fraction of the amount spent on financial aid for these students. If we can afford the high expense to bring them here, we can afford the quite low expense of empowering them to succeed here. Most of our peer schools have done this for years; for instance, Princeton offers the Freshman Scholars Institute, a 7-week program where students earn two course credits and build a strong community of peers and advisers who empower them to navigate their first year and beyond.
Last year, I interviewed a student who participated in Dartmouth’s program. Her parents don’t speak English, and she was nervous to attend an elite university in a rural area with mostly white, wealthy peers. She credits her advisers and mentors in the program for helping her thrive her first year—and her fellow participants for “getting” her background and experiences in the transition to college. Similarly to my experiences, she found that making friends with diverse groups of people matters, but that solidarity from people who understand can make the difference for academic success.
Each year Harvard postpones approving a program for students like her and countless others, incoming students suffer needlessly, even though we have had a viable plan in front of us for years without action. I spearheaded a student group that put an hour-by-hour schedule of a week-long program on Dean Khurana's desk a year and a half ago. It’s inexpensive, our peer schools do it, and students are suffering without it—what is he waiting for?
Dean Khurana, you brought us here. You flaunt us in your diversity statistics. You hold the power to create not just a diverse environment, but an inclusive one. Hundreds of students currently at Harvard could have benefited from a summer enrichment program, and no doubt dozens more will arrive on campus in the fall of 2017. Don’t they deserve the same chance to belong and to succeed as their wealthy classmates?
Savannah N. Fritz ’17 is a Sociology concentrator in Kirkland House.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
UPDATED: March 31, 2017 at 2:03 a.m.
When Stacy C. Jones arrived at Harvard Medical School, she hit a wall.
Jones struggled academically throughout her first year, and was eventually diagnosed with a learning disability and ADHD. These difficulties took a toll on her mental health, but she had trouble finding a therapist through the student health program. It was not until four months after her diagnosis that she received accommodations, like extended time on exams.
“The culture of [the medical profession] is historically not one where people feel open to admitting vulnerability,” says Jones. “You feel that if you ask for help it’s like you failed in some way.”
At the Medical School, problems with mental health are not unusual. In a March 2016 survey conducted by Medical School students, 20 percent of third-year respondents said they had experienced either suicidal or self-harming desires within the last two weeks. Third-year students face extra stressors: They begin clinical rotations, facing long shifts in a difficult environment.
“The clinical year is the hardest year,” Jones says. “Students don’t have time to keep up with their social supports, like family and friends.”
The same survey revealed that mental health problems are not limited to students on medical rotations. Among Medical School respondents of all years, one in five screened positive for depression. Of those students, only one in five reported that they had been treated.
One reason why students can be reluctant to seek care is the Medical School Promotion and Review Board, which takes mental health into account when evaluating students. Other students are simply unaware of the resources available to them, or are unable to visit mental health professionals because of their clinical schedule.
To Jones, these statistics are personal—during her first year, she lost one of her peers to suicide. “We need a new structure in place,” says Jones. “We need new and creative solutions to address this crisis, honestly to ensure that nobody else dies.”
Now on a gap year, Jones heads a subcommittee of the Medical School's Wellness and Mental Health Task Force. She’s had some success advocating for structural change in how the Medical School handles mental health. For example, the Dean of Medical Education, Edward M. Hundert, has invited two outside experts to review the school’s disability program later this spring.
“We’re trying to change the culture to increase awareness and to decrease stigma,” says Fidencio Saldana, dean of students at the Medical School. Saldana has launched a wellness program designed to address these issues, including a student-initiated series of talks called “Sharing Struggles and Building Resilience,” where faculty members and students discuss their difficulties and how they overcame them. “We want to make sure we create the supportive environment for folks to succeed,” he says.
“Under Dean Saldana and Dean Hundert, I think things can change now,” says Kaitlen S. Howell, a medical student who advocates for increased mental health resources on campus. “But I think we need to take this very seriously. This is not just a number. This is not just students feeling a little down. These are very real things with very real consequences.”
According to J. Bradley Segal, one of the medical students who conducted the March 2016 survey, mental health issues are not unique to the Medical School. “It’s indicative of a larger problem,” he says, one that is endemic to the medical field. A 2016 study in the Journal of the American Medical Association coauthored by Segal found that depression is between 2.2 and 5.2 times more common among medical students than others in their age group.
Addressing this problem will require a culture change, according to Howell. “We don’t talk about disabilities in medicine,” she says. “In medicine we all have to individually be strong enough. We have to be able to make it on our own.” Howell says that attitude is part of what prevents students from seeking care.
“At HMS, we have barely any students registered with psychological disability, even though it’s so clear that a substantial portion of our student population suffers from debilitating mental illness,” Jones says.
Advocates at the Medical School seek to provide concrete support for students with mental health issues. “The first thing needs to be normalizing help-seeking behavior, and having services available for those who seek help,” Howell says. She supports extending hours for counseling to accommodate students in clinical rotations, for example.
Nonetheless, Howell believes the Medical School has an uphill battle ahead. “It’s an altruistic profession,” says Howell. “People go into it to help each other, and therefore can be distracted from helping themselves.”
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction:
CORRECTION: March 31, 2017
A previous version of this article incorrectly indicated that the Medical School had extended hours for counseling to accommodate students in clinical rotations. In fact, this has not occurred. 
Sections
March Madness is upon us. You know what that means: basketball, alcohol, and alcohol. That much alcohol can be intimidating. Don't worry, though. Below, FM provides some great recipes to put you in the sportin' mood.
A Good Old-fashioned Blowout
1.5 oz bourbon whiskey
Angostura bitters
1 sugar cube
Tears of a fan
Loser’s foam finger
When the number-one seed faces an Ivy League team, get even more ready for a low-stress win with this extra-stress-relieving beverage. Unless you’re Villanova, in which case, get ready to lose in heartbreaking fashion. Start with one and a half ounces of bourbon whiskey. Add two dashes of Angostura bitters, one sugar cube, the tears of a fan, crushed NBA aspirations, and the losing team’s foam finger. For a twist on a classic, use rye whiskey and take a shot of espresso to make sure you’re able to endure the entirety of the bloodbath—or to seem energized enough to act like you care about college basketball.
Gin & Too Close For Comfort
3 oz gin
4 oz tonic water
Lime
Anxiety
Regret
Whether you wear your tiger stripes with pride or boast that you bleed green, that March 16 game was too close for comfort. As you pace back and forth across your living room, pour three ounces of gin over ice (like the blood in your team’s veins). Add four ounces of tonic water, or just fill the rest of the glass because why the hell not, who’s going to measure at a time like this? Squeeze the life out of a lime into the glass like it’s the opponent’s star player, and try to avoid the fingernails you’ve been biting off since the beginning of the second half. Take a swig every time either team scores because you’re so nervous and then vomit regardless of the outcome. Remake the cocktail throughout the game as needed, adding increasing amounts of gin, anxiety, and regret each time.
Busted Bracket Bloody Mary
1 shot vodka
Tomato juice
Wounds’ salt
To the 1.75 million people who picked Villanova as the NCAA champions this year—FM’s condolences. You’re likely still drinking away your sorrows and need a little morning pick-me-up to get through the next few days (or the rest of March). Drag your disappointed ass out of bed, and take a shot of vodka followed by a tomato juice chaser. (This is a deconstructed Bloody Mary.)  Skip the black pepper, and lick the salt in your wounds instead. Finally, for a more traditional Bloody Mary, smoke some paprika over your bracket. Burn the evidence. Your parents don’t need another reason to be disappointed in you. Take additional shots between sobs as needed.
Man—I haven’t Done Any Work—hattan
2 oz whiskey
2 oz vermouth
Bitters
Maraschino cherry
The consulting firm Challenger, Gray & Christmas, Inc. estimates that employers will lose an average of $1.3 billion in wasted pay to slacking employees during March Madness. So even if you don’t like basketball, why not cut your losses and drink on the job? Combine two parts whiskey with one part sweet vermouth under your desk in an opaque tumbler. Add a dash of bitters and a maraschino cherry from the jar you keep in your briefcase, and sip at your leisure. To spice things up, make a really strong one for the loud guy who sits next to you so he makes a scene when his beloved team loses.
Rhode Island Iced Tea
.5 oz vodka
.5 ounce white rum
1 oz lemon juice
.5 oz gin
.5 oz tequila
.5 oz triple sec
This twist on a Long Island Iced Tea is perfect for the fan who was not expecting her team to be upset in the first round by some random school that has more syllables in its name than it does square miles. It’s best to begin this cocktail at halftime when your hands are already shaking because of nerves and anger that your team is not killing URI. Combine half an ounce of vodka, half an ounce of white rum, an ounce of lemon juice, half an ounce of gin, half an ounce of tequila, and half an ounce of triple sec with a splash of soda in the plastic cup you kept from the last basketball game you attended. Add additional units of alcohol when your team falls behind by five points - or one. Be an alcoholic. Skip the straw and just start chugging until it is clear that your team won’t be making a comeback. Now there should be enough room in the cup for the stupid bumper sticker on your car, the bracket you made with your team winning it all, and the smugness you were going to carry around after this win.
Sections
In 2016, 31 million people watched the NBA finals between the Golden State Warriors and the Cleveland Cavaliers. 36 million people watched the eSports League of Legends finals between the Koo Tigers and SK Telecom. ESports are gaining ground on traditional sports, and in some cases, beginning to surpass them.
Yet despite a national 5 percent growth rate last year and $23.5 billion in revenue in the U.S. alone, the eSports industry remains low-key at Harvard.
Many colleges have undergraduate majors devoted to Computer Science, Game Design, and Development. Cornell offers a minor in Game Design for its undergraduates, and MIT has a Game Lab set up for students to work together and develop games. Harvard is host to the Harvard eSports team and the Augmented Reality-Virtual Reality alliance at the iLab.
Chris D. Rodowicz ’17 and a small group of gaming enthusiasts founded the Harvard College Video Game Development Club. The group, which meets every Saturday evening in the Science Center basement, aims to bring the community of game developers at Harvard together to work on different projects and learn from each other. “If [club members] see a cool feature that they really like, they’ll jump in and grow that feature into a larger project,”  Rodowicz says.
A “feature,” he says, “is a game-play mechanic”—essentially a building block for a complete game. Instead of developing an entire game, some game developers work on creating one feature as part of a larger existing game. Others develop features to sell to larger game development companies
Intrigued, I visited the club’s weekly Saturday meeting to see what features were in the works.
Granted, Science Center B09 is no MIT lab, but the five members who showed up seemed excited to work and hang out with each other.
Overhearing my conversation with another member about the differences between videogames and film, Edwin L. Walda ‘17 joins in. “Sorry to butt in,” Walda says, “But this is something I’m really passionate about. The reason I’m into video games is for the storytelling aspect.”
“Never before have we had such potential to tell such an immersive story. With the [emergence] of VR… we can reach the point of immersion where someone can be making an impact in the story and legitimately believe that they are in that area,” Walda continues. “It’ll be the pinnacle of storytelling from a user’s perspective. ”
Jung-Min Lee ’19 is also a member of the club, but his expertise is not in programming. Lee is a composer. He plays me one of his songs, fast-paced and electronic. “It’s pretty obnoxious,” he says, laughing. The rest of the group chime in with disagreements.
I asked Walda to show me his feature, which he calls “techy, not really showy.” He hits a few buttons on his computer and a grid of gray tiles appears, snaking into the 3D distance. Each time he resets, the path of tiles changes. He says his algorithm deals with cellular automata: “Each [rectangle] is a cell, and it has its own rules on whether it survives or dies.”
Walda is working on a level generator for a multiplayer quest-based game, in order to create randomness in an otherwise linear story. Each gray rectangle is an abstraction of 30 meter-by-30 meter terrain in the game. The feature generates a unique level every time he activates it. In the future, if Walda is successful, this niche abstraction may become a cog in an immensely complicated game. It seems virtually possible.
Sections
“That future hope was tragically cut short by the crazed hands of violence in the spring. And yet, that violence should not exercise its dominion over us. And it should not hold us hostage to the past,” Reverend Peter J. Gomes said to seventy people seated in Memorial Church’s Appleton Chapel on a September morning in 1995.
The congregation had gathered to reflect on a tragedy that had shaken the Harvard community just four months earlier. On May 28, shortly before summer vacation and commencement, Sinedu Tadesse ’96 fatally stabbed her roommate Trang Phuong Ho ’96 in their shared Dunster House double before committing suicide.
As was later revealed in her diaries, Tadesse, a pre-med student from Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, had struggled with loneliness and unanswered cries for help. As reported in a 1996 New Yorker article, in addition to receiving therapy from Harvard University Health Services, Tadesse expressed her feelings of hopelessness by sending letters to local strangers.
When Ho shared her desire to room with a different student senior year, Tadesse hit a breaking point. As reported by The Crimson in a series of 1995 articles, Tadesse missed three exams the week of the murder and mailed an anonymous note to The Crimson including her own picture and the promise of a “juicy story” involving herself. Neither instance was investigated prior to the killing.
As Harvard’s campus reeled after the tragedy in Dunster, reporters flooded Cambridge. Upon the discovery of Tadesse’s diary and details of the crime, Harvard University Health Services and its mental health offerings were closely scrutinized. Over the next year, questions about the institution’s liability were raised in Halfway Heaven, a book about the deaths in Dunster written by Melanie Thernstrom ’87, and a lawsuit filed against Harvard by Ho’s family.
In August 1995, as reported by The Crimson, then-Dean of the College Harry R. Lewis ’68 sent a letter to parents of undergraduates in response to continued media attention. “It appears that neither student was living outside the College’s carefully woven advising system. Indeed, both students were in close contact with their academic advisor and seemed to be managing the ups and downs of college life,” he stated.
Some students were dissatisfied by this “carefully woven” system. In an editorial piece published three months before the murder suicide, members of The Crimson’s staff called for change in Harvard’s mental health offerings. In 1995, according to the editorial piece, making an appointment to see a mental health professional often took 10 to 15 days. Students who were in need of long-term therapy were often referred to outside hospitals, as this treatment fell outside of the University’s health plan.
Mental health services were understaffed and students often found it difficult to meet with the same practitioner on a regular basis. In the year prior to Tadesse’s suicide, three other Harvard students had taken their lives—two of whom had also lived in Dunster. These rates were “very unusual” for the University, said Randolph Catlin Jr., then chief of Harvard’s mental health services, in a statement to The Chronicle of Higher Education.
Lewis, speaking to The Crimson in 1995, found that a review of the incident did not indicate wrongdoing on the University’s part, and that no immediate change would be made to the overall structure of Harvard’s counseling and tutoring system. The administration did implement small changes, increasing tutor training, tripling counseling staff, and increasing UHS student outreach.
The deaths in Dunster continued to shape the discussion surrounding mental health services in the years following. A 2000 Crimson article noted the five-year anniversary of Tadesse and Ho’s deaths, alongside discussion of additions to Harvard’s offerings after the tragedy. UHS mandated that first-time appointments be scheduled within seven days, increased its emergency hours and staffing, and changed its hours to better fit students’ schedules. In addition, mental health liaison tutors were installed in each house and empty suites were set aside as “safe spaces.”
In his September 1995 Memorial Church address, Reverend Gomes offered advice and consolation to the grieving campus: “We must reclaim that future, unclear, uncertain as it surely and always is [...] and we can move on.” Still, the process to schedule psychiatric appointments continues to garner criticism from some students, while ongoing mental health issues on campus have challenged the progress the University had made since the 1995 tragedy.
Sections
On a clear evening during one of the final days of the spring 2016 semester, hundreds of Harvard students, mostly women belonging to final clubs and sororities, filled Harvard Yard.
Marching around its perimeter, they chanted: “Sexual assault is not our fault!” They yelled: “Who run the world? Harvard women!” They shouted: “What do we want? Safe Spaces! When do we want them? Now!” Among their many signs, some read: “Don’t make women collateral damage.” Their megaphone calls and large numbers received national attention, as evidenced by the camera crews who were present on the day of the march.
“Hear her Harvard!” the marchers demanded. Their chant was also the name of their movement, a protest opposing sanctions against members of unrecognized single-gender organizations, including final clubs and sororities.
Hear Her Harvard garnered extensive attention on social media, inspiring a number of posts on Facebook. Numerous members of female final clubs and sororities posted pictures with their friends accompanied by long captions expressing gratitude for their bond and the inspiration and support they felt the groups provide. Some declared the “Hear Her Harvard” movement a triumph of campus feminism.
Yet some students retorted that the women’s spaces under threat—female final clubs and sororities—contain barriers to entry. Each has a “punch” or “rush” process, which involves multiple rounds of meeting and mingling with current members until prospective members are welcomed or denied admittance to the organization. Additionally, all final clubs and sororities require membership dues, with varying amounts of financial aid available, from full coverage to none at all.
While “Hear Her Harvard” was ostensibly all about women at Harvard, it raised questions about the legitimacy and inclusivity of the supporting organizations’ feminism. Critics deemed “Hear Her Harvard” exclusionary, claiming the organizations are unwelcoming of low-income, non-white, or non-cisgender women, among other markers.
Feminists lie both within and beyond final clubs’ and sororities’ boundaries. Unwana Abasi ‘17 is a member of the Association of Black Harvard Women, the Black Students Association, and of the female final club the Pleiades. “I don’t have to pick between race and gender,” she says. Unwana says that members of the Pleiades are particularly conscious of race issues. Their meetings, she says, always include discussion of the importance of race in their community–women of color were among the Pleiades’ founders.
As I sat in my freshmen dorm and watched the protest unfold, I wondered: Who is the “she” of “Hear Her Harvard,” and which Harvard is she fighting for? Is her experience representative of those of all Harvard feminists?
Curious to discover what constitutes feminism at Harvard, who’s practicing it, and how it manifests, I talked to a handful of students of different backgrounds and campus affiliations.
There seems to be no mainstream understanding and practice of feminism at Harvard
“Feminism means something different to everyone…. There’s no one-feminism-fits-all. Everybody has had a different experience, and everybody faces different challenges, and everyone’s own version of feminism reflects that,” Joanna Liu ’18, former president of the Asian American Women’s Association, says.
“Advocating for Gender Justice”
“My feminism is really fighting for equality, and I think that’s really what the goal of feminism should be. It’s fighting for men and women to have equal opportunities in our world,” says Emily M. Hall ’18, president of the Network of Enlightened Women, an organization for politically conservative women at Harvard. Acknowledging that competing and conflicting ideologies that fall under the feminist umbrella, Hall maintains that “the overall goal should be just to look for equality of opportunity so that women can determine their own futures just as any man can.”
Among the students I interviewed, definitions of feminism often include belief in some form of equality. But who exactly that includes—women, men and women, all genders, non-male identifying individuals—varies depending on whom you ask.
Referencing feminist political theorist Iris Marion Young, Amelia Y. Goldberg ’19, an organizer with the sexual violence advocacy group Our Harvard Can Do Better, says feminism is about creating “gender justice.”
“Basically, the forces of society gender us. There’s a specific set of people who by virtue basically of their genitalia and a couple of other biological characteristics are gendered as this social group: women,” Goldberg says. “And as a result of being gendered as women, they’re treated in very specific ways, which often involve being oppressed or being dominated, lacking specific opportunities, and manifest in lots of different ways, depending on other contexts, like class, race, sexuality, et cetera.”
Some who advocate for gender justice have distanced themselves from the term “feminist”  because they see mainstream feminism as exclusive of socially disadvantaged groups, such as people of color, queer people, trans people, and individuals with disability concerns.
“Feminism calls up a pretty specific ideology. It’s very white, it’s definitely not trans inclusive; at Harvard, it’s very upper class, or socioeconomically privileged,” says Hanon McShea ’18, a member of Trans Task Force. “There’s lots of fighting that women can do and have done both under that name and not under that name.”
Lily M. Velona ’18, a fellow member of TTF who identifies as non-binary, says they would “absolutely” call themselves a feminist.
“I don’t think that saying I’m a feminist is at odds with being non-binary,” Velona says. “I don’t think saying I’m a feminist is at odds with advocating for gender justice more broadly than within the binary.”
Among some campus circles, you’re likely to hear the word “feminism” accompanied by the term “intersectionality.” While the idea and practice of addressing gender equality alongside other social issues previously existed among feminists of color, scholar Kimberlé W. Crenshaw coined the term in a 1989 essay. Intersectional feminism recognizes that the overlapping of individuals’ identities—for example, as Crenshaw has analyzed, black women’s race and gender—creates unique, challenging circumstances. Analyzing their lives from just one aspect of their already marginalized identities ignores these challenges.
For many feminists, particularly women of color, “feminism is not actually feminism unless it takes into account different types of oppression,” says Kelcee A. Everett ’18, a member of the Seneca, the Association of Black Harvard Women, and BlackCast.
And some students say that feminism needs to do more to recognize intersectionality on a structural level. That would mean recognizing how institutions such as the law, education, family, and politics affect people with overlapping identities.
“A lot of ways that people are experiencing danger are necessarily linked together. Transphobia is necessarily linked to misogyny in all forms and necessarily linked to racialization, so anyone who’s thinking about any one of those things need to be thinking about all of those things,” says McShea.
“If we don’t attend to the ways that issues like race, class, and sexuality constrain people’s abilities to participate in feminist project, you’ll end up with a form of feminism that perpetuates other forms of oppression,” says Goldberg.
According to Lizzy K. Shick ’19, a board member of the International Women’s Rights Council, conversations at Harvard need to go beyond those envisioned at the “Hear Her Harvard” protest.
“When we have discussions about feminism on campus, when we’re talking about hooking up, we’re not just talking about what it’s like to be a white, able-bodied upper class woman who’s hooking up at a final club–it has to be [about] what it is like for any woman on campus, including women who aren’t straight, including people who are gender nonconforming,” Shick says. “Being a feminist doesn’t just mean protecting your interests. It means protecting the interests of women and ultimately the interests of any disadvantaged group anywhere because racism, sexism, [and] homophobia all stem from the same idea: that some people deserve more than others.”
Feminism In Action
The students I spoke to execute their feminism and advocacy both on and off campus, in activism and service work as well as in non-explicitly gender- or feminism-focused extracurricular activities and organizations.
Trans Task Force, for example, has been advocating for gender-neutral housing for freshmen, safer drug injection facilities in Massachusetts, and solidarity with the Anti-Islamophobia Network, among other efforts. Additionally, the group hosts hangouts for trans people, because they believe in the equal importance of both secure spaces for togetherness as well as formal organizing.
Eliza B. Mantz ’18 strives to put feminist ideologies into action through art. Mantz helped to found a partnership between the Office of Sexual Assault Prevention and Response and the Harvard Radcliffe Drama Club. Together, the two organizations seek to “promote workshops and uplift theater projects that deal with gender justice and sexual violence and discrimination of any kind,” she says.
“Fit for a King,” the show Mantz adapted and directed this semester, “gave non-male-identifying actors on campus the opportunity to play roles written in Shakespeare plays traditionally for men.”
“There’s a push in the wider theater community to open up those roles to people of color and non-male-identifying individuals, but less so on our campus,” Mantz says. “I really wanted to provide unbelievably talented actors with opportunities they otherwise wouldn’t have to explore their strength and to show the community how powerful non-male individuals can be when given the opportunity.”
Other students have focused on different angles. Nadya Okamoto ’20 channels her feminist energy into the fight for menstrual equity and for access to menstrual hygiene. Through the organization she founded and directs, PERIOD, Okamoto and her team provide menstrual hygiene education and advocacy and distribute menstrual products to women in need.
Hall seeks to foster ideological and political diversity among feminist circles, specifically hoping to cultivate a feminism that welcomes conservative and pro-life women like herself. “Any group, no matter who you are, you are strengthened by diversity, and that includes so many different types of diversity, including ideological diversity,” Hall says.
Noting that feminist activism often stresses “pro-abortion” views, Hall feels feminism can be exclusionary to pro-life women, and should focus more on empowering women and celebrating their achievements—which she seeks to do as co-chair of the Fellows and Study Groups program at the Institute of Politics.
“I hope my group and other groups can begin to work together to promote ideological diversity and allow conservative ideas of feminism and conservative ideas generally to make it farther than our own little circles and to get to the broader community,” she says.
In The Future
In McShea’s ideal world, gender would not exist.
“I feel like gender is a violent thing,” says McShea. “Making it such that gender doesn’t hurt people, I think would be the same thing as getting rid of gender. It’s just a mode of violence—colonialist, capitalist violence.”
According to Goldberg, “successful” feminism would mean that talking about women’s rights or gender justice would not be necessary. “The category of women and gender will no longer be socially salient, to the same extent,” she says.
For Okamoto, feminism ideally “empowers all genders to be equal.” She describes policies that ensure women’s rights and cultural changes in parenting and the workforce. “And everyone would have period products that they need, of course.”
Some feminists and gender justice advocates at Harvard have more concrete dreams and desires for the near future. Velona hopes to see people hold themselves to higher standards of gender inclusivity.
“I just don’t think it’s all that hard to be trans-inclusive. I think if we set the expectations at actual gender inclusivity, at actual liberatory feminism, then people would rise to that bar,” Velona says. “I trust that people here will rise to the occasion if it becomes a norm to ask for people’s pronouns, for example, and it becomes a norm to not use binary language.”
Further, Velona hopes to raise a broader understanding of feminism, engage in solidarity with undocumented students, and to protect access to clean water, “from Standing Rock to Flint.”
This past January, hundreds of thousands of people across the world, including Harvard students, took part in the Women’s March. Participants marched for various reasons: in resistance to President Donald Trump to show solidarity with women in what they perceived as a sexist political and social environment, or to advocate for human rights policies.
While, like “Hear Her Harvard,” the marches were open to everyone, the Women’s March received similar criticism as Harvard’s own feminist campus protest—some said that it epitomized and promoted exclusionary feminism.
If we understand Harvard feminism as a microcosm of larger social movements and attitudes, and if we truly listen and Hear Her Harvard, what does she have to tell us? If Harvard women or feminists “run the world,” what are the implications for this contentious political climate? What does feminism at Harvard mean for an ever-expanding social order, where marginalized people are fighting to be seen and heard, and historically dominant groups often see fights for equity or liberation as a zero-sum game?
For Kelcee Everett, compassion is the answer. “I think especially in this time we all have to care for one another and look out for one another, making sure that we’re looking at experiences beyond our own and helping out people the same way we want to be helped out in our struggles,” she says.
Sections
I dreaded writing this endpaper.
As an editor on FM over the past two years, editing endpapers was always my favorite job. I loved getting glimpses into the lives of my fellow writers, and helping transform their thoughts into a piece of beautifully-sculpted prose. It was demanding yet rewarding, and I was good at it.
But when it comes to my own writing, creativity and imagination have become somewhat terrifying concepts. It wasn’t always this way—freshman year, I loved the idea of creative writing, which is what drew me to FM in the first place. As I’ve carved out my academic path, though, my writing has stiffened. The idea of an open-ended piece of self-reflection without a particular form or structure is more daunting than ever.
See, I’m a rare breed in the FM community: I study economics. More than just study, I live and breathe it—it’s become a life philosophy for me, a way of thinking. My poor roommates have had to spend one too many hours listening to me gush over an exciting lecture or describe with too much detail my latest research idea. But with its clear formulae and often lifeless language, economics writing entails a different style than what you find in FM.
This is not to say that economics as a field is uncreative—rather, what I’ve learned over the past four years, and what has made me fall in love with the subject, is that economics demands incredible creativity. In our complicated world of unobservable factors, messy data, and nonlinear relationships, economists often must find clever ways to measure the causal effect of one variable on another. As one of my favorite examples, Harvard professor Melissa Dell exploited variation in droughts to tease out the effect of insurgency during the Mexican Revolution on economic development. In another paper, Caroline M. Hoxby from Stanford examined rivers as a way to see how school choice affected student performance. Seems pretty creative to me.
But the innovative aspects of economics usually fail to translate into writing. The prose of academic papers is often, unfortunately, esoteric and incredibly boring, even for economics-lovers like me. When reading economics literature, I frequently encounter passages that are unnecessarily jargon-ridden and convoluted, with language and terms accessible to only a small group of readers. If only my fellow FM editors could have helped re-craft and revise some of these papers, readers outside the ivory tower might have understood them much better.
Two summers ago, I discovered that the presentation of economic ideas need not be drab, when I stumbled upon a podcast called “Econtalk.” Its host, economist Russ Roberts, tries to make economics interesting to “normal” people, interviewing authors, researchers, and entrepreneurs on a range of topics. A few years ago, Roberts collaborated with a TV producer to make a rap video about the contrasting views of economists Friedrich Hayek and John Maynard Keynes, which now has almost six million views on YouTube.
I religiously listen to Econtalk admiring Roberts’ understandable language and outside-of-the-box questions. He shows how creativity can be leveraged to bring economic ideas to a larger audience. Indeed, I’ve introduced my family—none of whom studied economics—to his podcast, and now they’re all hooked.
This year, as I studied the impact of immigration on trade in the United Kingdom for my senior thesis, I felt that little attention was paid to the actual writing of our papers. Throughout the advising process, we were told that all of the hard work was in finding our data and conducting our analysis—the write-up should be the least of our concerns.
But I thought about Russ Roberts, and creativity, and FM. I tried to steer clear of the formulaic, mundane style that I was so used to reading, and resist the urge to throw in gratuitously fancy economics lingo. With each sentence, I considered whether my family and friends would understand, and perhaps even take pleasure in, reading it. My writing certainly wasn’t poetic—lengthy, stylized prose doesn’t belong in academic papers. But it had clarity and fluency, and could be understood by more than just a few professors in the economics department.
If I continue my economics studies, I want to remember that effectively communicating my ideas is the ultimate goal, not just the necessary final step. I want people to enjoy my writing as they would an FM piece, rather than just drudging through it. I want to be less fearful of creativity.
Hopefully this endpaper is a good place to start.
Sections
In the early days, Feng Zhang ’04 and his lab ate a lot of late-night Chinese food.
This was before Zhang published the seminal 2013 paper that earned him international acclaim, redefined an entire scientific field, and brought scientists one step closer to curing diseases like cancer. The technology Zhang debuted in that paper, called CRISPR-Cas9, offers a precise and inexpensive way to edit the human genome.
CRISPR-Cas9, sometimes shortened to CRISPR, is as controversial as it is revolutionary. A sort of molecular scissors, scienists predict the gene-editing tool may one day allow scientists to clip disease out of the genome. But it could also usher in an era in which expecting parents select their child’s personality, looks, and intelligence in advance—like ordering items off a menu.
In the run-up to publication, Zhang says, everyone in the lab put in extra hours, staying late and returning early the next morning. Regardless, he insists that no one felt like “we were doing hard work.”
“We were having fun, we were trying to solve interesting problems together, time went by without even noticing,” he says. “We would eat dinner around five and then eat dinner around 10 again… We would pick up Chinese deliveries and just eat together in the kitchen and go back to work right after.”
Leaning forward in his pristine 10th-floor corner office at the Broad Institute, a Harvard-MIT genetics research center in the heart of Cambridge, Zhang steeples his fingers and smiles, remembering.
“I tried to build the lab as a start-up environment by putting together or recruiting people who are deeply passionate,” he says. “There was just this energy.”
That “feeling of energy” continues today, Zhang is quick to add. Advances have come at rapid-fire pace—in the last month alone, an influential federal science panel released a report endorsing CRISPR-mediated modification of human embryos; a day later, the United States patent office ended a longstanding patent dispute between Zhang’s lab and a lab at the University of California by ruling in Zhang’s favor.
Zhang says he is excited for the future. And his lab still orders more Chinese takeout than any other lab in the Broad Institute, probably.
‘FROM A HORSE-AND-BUGGY TO A CAR’
It was late 2011, and Zhang says was getting frustrated. Earlier in his career, he’d advanced quickly: After graduating from Harvard, where he concentrated in chemistry and physics and helped author a paper showing how flu viruses enter cells, he’d obtained a doctorate in chemical and biological engineering at Stanford. While he was there, Zhang—along with two other scientists—invented optogenetics, a technique that today allows neuroscientists around the globe to better study and understand neural disorders like depression and schizophrenia.
But, when he returned to Cambridge six years ago, Zhang says he felt stymied. He had become fascinated by the idea of gene-editing, but was increasingly disappointed with the editing tools available.
The two editing technologies then in use—zinc finger nucleases and transcription activator-like effector (TALE) nucleases—were “challenging,” “cumbersome,” and “difficult” to use, Zhang says. Zinc finger and TALE nucleases required months of preparation and lots of finicky “molecular biology manipulation.”
Zhang had been “pretty excited” to show students in his lab how to engineer their own TALE nucleases. Now he wanted something better.
In early 2011, he found it. Zhang was listening to a presentation by Harvard Medical School professor Michael S. Gilmore and “getting bored,” when Gilmore said the word “nuclease.”
“That caught my attention,” Zhang recalls.
Gilmore, who studies bacteria, was describing a bacterial system known as CRISPR that encoded nucleases, which are enzymes that can cleave DNA. Zhang decided he wanted to know more, so he Googled CRISPR and found its Wikipedia page.
“I realized this is really cool,” Zhang says. “If we can harness this system, [gene editing] could be a lot easier.”
“So that’s how I got started,” he adds.
CRISPR—short for Clustered Regularly Interspaced Palindromic Repeats—is used by bacteria to fend off invading viruses. Zhang discovered he could repurpose CRISPR to edit plant and animal (including human) DNA: The system could be targeted to different sections of the genome, where a CRISPR-associated protein called Cas9 would step in to snip the selected DNA.
Zhang’s invention was a major step forward. James F. Angstman, a graduate student in the Department of Molecular and Cellular Biology who works with CRISPR as part of his research, describes going from zinc finger and TALE nucleases to CRISPR-Cas9 as going “from a horse-and-buggy to a car.”
“They both get you from point A to point B, but one way is way, way easier to make and to maintain and to implement,” Angstman says.
David Cox, a student at the Medical School who works in Zhang’s lab, puts it this way: Before CRISPR-Cas9, “the limiting thing for a lot of interesting biological questions was just the tools with which to ask those questions.”
CRISPR-Cas9’s popularity has exploded since Zhang published his paper. From 2013 to early 2017, 4,429 published scientific studies around the world used the technology, according to a STAT News analysis.
“Before CRISPR came out, not a lot of people were willing to put in the time or effort to make it happen, and I think the really exciting thing about CRISPR is now pretty much anyone [can do gene editing],” Angstman says. “The kind of democratization of gene editing is the really exciting part.”
THE CRISPR RACE
In science, timing is paramount. Credit for any discovery goes only to the group that publishes first.
For the past year, Zhang and the Broad Institute have been embroiled in a patent battle to decide who won the CRISPR race: the Zhang lab or a University of California at Berkeley group led by Jennifer A. Doudna, working in collaboration with Emmanuelle M. Charpentier of Sweden’s Umea University.
Back in 2011 and 2012, as Zhang and his group were spending late, CRISPR-filled nights at the lab, Doudna and her colleagues on the opposite coast were doing the same.
The two women beat Zhang to publication. In June 2012, almost half a year before Zhang’s article would appear, Doudna and Charpentier published a paper demonstrating that CRISPR could be used to target and cut various stretches of the genome.
But there were crucial differences. The Doudna-Charpentier paper only proved that CRISPR could slice DNA in a test tube; Zhang’s report showed CRISPR worked inside both human and mouse cells. Moreover, Doudna and Charpentier’s version of CRISPR used different molecules and lacked “critical components” required to make the technology function in living systems, Zhang told STAT.
Zhang and the Doudna-Charpentier team both applied for CRISPR patents in 2013; Doudna and Charpentier filed their application in March, Zhang a few months later in October. In April 2014, the United States patent office awarded MIT a patent for using CRISPR-Cas9 to edit plant and animal DNA and listed Zhang as the primary inventor.
UC Berkeley appealed the decision, arguing that Doudna and Charpentier deserved credit for CRISPR, not Zhang. Doudna and Charpentier contend that Zhang’s paper merely builds on their work—in their view, they drew up the architectural blueprint for the house; Zhang just switched paint colors and fiddled with the molding.
Zhang disagrees. Not only did he come up with the idea of using CRISPR in animal cells before Doudna and Charpentier did, but his version of the technology is designed differently, Zhang told STAT. Now, 13 months after the patent office first agreed to investigate UC Berkeley’s patent complaints, the government has sided with Zhang.
The patent board ruled last month that CRISPR patents belong to the Broad Institute, writing in its decision that Zhang’s use of CRISPR in mouse and human cells “would not have been obvious” from the Doudna-Charpentier paper. In other words, Zhang and the Doudna-Charpentier team planned and built different houses.
Glancing at the Boston skyline spread across his office windows, Zhang—a little over two weeks after the patent office ruling—says he is glad to “have some resolution on that front.” He adds he is especially happy he can focus on science again.
“I think what is really exciting is that I get to spend my time and all my effort working on research and trying to discover new things and new technologies,” Zhang says.
Doudna and members of the UC Berkeley lab did not respond to requests for comment for this article.
Zhang says he thinks the patent fight has ultimately been “a distraction from the science,” and adds he is glad progress on CRISPR has not been “impeded” too much by the conflict. He pauses, and rests his elbows on the arms of his desk chair.
“There are many different contributions from many groups around the world and each one of their contributions adds something,” he says. “I think this is really good overall.”
A CAUTIOUS FUTURE
Zhang’s lab continues to work at a frenzied pace. They have a lot to do—CRISPR-Cas9 has potential applications in fields ranging from therapeutics to farming (it could be used, for example, to genetically engineer crops that require less fertilizer).
Many have balked at the possibility that CRISPR could also be used to genetically engineer babies. After a February 2017 ruling by a United States science panel—convened by the National Academy of Sciences and the National Academy of Medicine—that CRISPR can be used to delete genes known to cause “serious diseases and disability” from human embryo DNA, the era of the “designer baby” seems closer than ever before.
Zhang says only that he thinks “we need to be very thoughtful and very careful” going forward.
But he has other things to think about. A little less than two years ago, he and his wife had a little girl, their first child.
Nowadays, while Zhang’s labmates stay late at work, munching on scallion pancakes and beef with rice, Zhang heads home. He says he wants to “spend more time” with his toddler (though he admits he’ll “soon get back on the computer.”)
He says he has not discussed CRISPR with his daughter.
“I don’t think she has any idea,” Zhang says, laughing at the suggestion.
She does not yet know the world she inherits may be shaped, in part, by her father’s invention.
Sections
In early February, Rebecca Chen ’20 started “Harvard Memes for Elitist 1% Tweens”, a Facebook meme page modeled after two similar university-based groups: “UCLA Memes for Sick AF Tweens” and “UC Berkeley Memes for Edgy Teens”. The page’s premise was much like those of its predecessors: Harvard-related memes only.
In the page’s earliest days, this meant content was usually Harvard-specific, taking up familiar student subject matter—Lamont bag searches, quotes from Rakesh Khurana, Ec10 textbook prices—and reformatting them into popular meme templates. Within weeks, the page’s guidelines were relaxed to include memes relatable to any student, so long as a Harvard crest was photoshopped somewhere on the image.
But even without the stringent standard, the emphasis on Harvard-centric references underscores something about the group that makes it (and other university pages) somewhat unique in internet culture. Most meme groups are anonymous—save for a few friends in any given group, they’re populated by strangers who don’t know each other beyond a profile picture or an “about” page. With the Harvard Memes group, the rule is reversed: Most members go to the same school, live on the same campus, and know each other, or at least know of each other, in real life.
The relative absence of anonymity poses an interesting question for a meme group, an online space which is, by nature, prone to teasing, trolling and outright hostility. Do (or should) the standards of internet conduct change when the users actually know each other?
In the days following its founding, the meme page’s membership snowballed. Within a week, the page had upgraded to a closed Facebook group to accommodate the onslaught of new users. By early March, there were more Harvard Memes members than Harvard undergrads. The most popular memes could accrue likes in the thousands.
As the group’s popularity surged, Chen attempted to moderate posts lacking Harvard-specific content with a comment which became her signature: “Please photoshop something Harvard onto this meme.” She deleted memes which did not comply. Chen says her comments were made out of courtesy, so members would know why their meme was removed.
Alex Lee ’17, who joined Harvrd Memes when it was still a page, says he was bothered by what struck him as inconsistent moderation. In response, Lee started something called a “tag group,” or a Facebook group whose title serves a common quip and can be tagged in a meme’s comment section whenever applicable. Lee’s tag group was called “Please Photoshop Something Harvard Onto This Meme” in homage to Chen’s comments.
“I started this group as an almost reductio ad absurdum protest to point out how ridiculous it is to have that rule,” says Lee. “I think it’s fine to post things without Harvard on them as long as they relate to Harvard culture.”
Tag groups usually exist purely for tagging purposes, but the Photoshop group quickly rose in popularity. This was due in no small part to the appearance of Martin Shkreli, the former pharma-CEO responsible for the enormous 5000% hike in the cost of critical AIDS drug Daraprim, among the main group’s new members.
The so-called “pharma-bro” garnered trolls, who spurred conflict between those who received his posts with enthusiasm and those who found them deeply offensive, laying the groundwork for a series of similar arguments which unfolded in the following days.
Most of these fights fell in line with a discourse familiar to contemporary college campuses, with one side calling for increased moderation of posts which played into racial stereotypes or targeted marginalized groups, while the other championed freedom of expression.
“The Shkreli incident caused a lot of other trolls to crawl out of the woodwork and post things that people found offensive,” Lee says. The Photoshop moderator says he was first bothered by a meme which made fun of Asian tourists.
“It turned me off to the group a little because it got hundreds of likes,” Lee explains. “I think ultimately it plays into this narrative of the dehumanization of Asian tourists [at Harvard] and, to a greater extent, Asian people in America.”
Lee and those who agreed with him began to use the Photoshop page as a space where they could be sure users would not post offensive content.
On the other side, some students from the main group felt the Photoshop crowd was overly sensitive. William Franklin Morris IV ’17, a senior currently on leave who became notorious for endorsing “free speech” on Harvard Memes, says he was bothered by the impulse to delete something on the grounds of personal offense.
“Censorship would be one thing if a post was clearly wrong, but I think there should be a high threshold for what that is,” Morris explains. “I didn’t think the memes were crossing it.”
Lee, Morris, and those who flocked to either side of the argument carried out their debate as meme groups do—through memes and comments on both the main and tag pages. But unlike most online forum feuds, the players involved in these disputes had real-life connections. When arguments escalated, some participants used information from in-person interactions to fuel the fire.
“People were going after my life,” says Morris, whose controversial comments in Harvard Memes put him on the fiery end of a few such flame wars.
Soon after, a member of Photoshop wrote a long post expressing his unease with the personal attacks. The conflicts cooled.
In the time since, the posts which once incited tension have been replaced by tamer, more wholesome memes. They are friendlier than those of the typical online forum. Perhaps the groups and their members have altered their online behavior to account for the real life proximity of their community.
Sections
Sections
I’d say my skin is tan…ish. It’s something I’m self-conscious about.
During the winter, most people assume I’m white. I tell the Sephora employee my shade is chestnut beige, but she just gives me a long stare and tries to hand me foundation in golden ivory. I always get a little offended when she does that.
My mother is Chilean and Dominican, and my father is Italian. Even though my dad cooks Italian food for dinner most nights, I’ve always identified more with my mom’s heritage. As my parents worked full-time while I was growing up, I spent most days with my mom’s mom, Grandma Elena. During that time, I only knew her as a grey-haired, 4’9” old lady who took me for walks in the park and spoke Spanish in hushed tones. Years later, my mom told me how Grandma Elena almost died of seasickness on the boat ride from Chile, entered the country with just fifty dollars, and worked in a New York City sweatshop to support herself and her family.
During high school, my mom’s peers called her a nerd. Then, New York University offered her a full academic scholarship. She studied accounting, not because she loved it, but because she wanted to guarantee herself an income directly out of college. Today, she holds a senior position at her company, represents Latina women in the real estate industry, and mentors Spanish-speaking families who move into our local school district.
When I was 13, I wanted to be like my mom. After she left for work in the morning, I’d go into her closet to scrounge for thongs and try on sweaters. When I got out of school, I’d visit her office and do my homework as we sat side-by-side at her desk. I borrowed her jewelry, sprayed myself with her perfume, and even tried to paint my face with her makeup. It was always too dark for me.
When I was in high school, I returned from a tropical family vacation and was greeted by classmates with comments like “Woah, you’re black.” Once, I sat down at my desk in physics and my lab partner turned his head and said, “Oh, now I can tell that you’re Hispanic.” For some reason, these remarks sort of satisfied me. They helped validate not only my tan-ish skin color, but also my heritage. In many ways, they helped me validate myself.
Soon came the horrid college application process. My guidance counselor told me about affirmative action. Checking the “Hispanic” box might increase my chances of admission, but I promised myself that I would be honest.
Name? Okay. Address? Got it. Birthday? Yep. Are you Hispanic/Latino? Oh man, skip.
Regardless of your answer to the prior question, how do you identify yourself? Long pause, skip again. The questions that many applicants answered easily were the ones that held me up longest.
In my head, I tried to quantify my own Hispanic-ness. How much Spanish do I actually know? Does it matter that I had a Sweet Sixteen instead of a Quinceañera? How many nights a week do we eat arroz con frijoles? If I felt the need to question it, should I even check the box? That question hurt most of all.
Sections
Last night, my friend Hanna invited me to a punch event at the Quabot Club Dining Society, the inbred offspring of Quincy House and Cabot House.
Hanna told me I was one of a mere 6,700 undergraduates to be punched for all 66 inter-house dining societies at the exact same time. I will never forget seeing 66 unopened automated emails from Dean Katherine O’Dair personally inviting me and the lucky few members of the [fas-all-announce] email list to attend.
A few notable club names came to my attention: Wunster, Kirkerett, and Pfurrier to name a few. But my father, my father’s father, and his father before him were all members of the Quabot Club. Unless the diamond-encrusted portrait of my great-grandfather hanging on the ceiling above my bed is lying to me, I do believe my time has come as well.
Hanna showed up at my door, and a look of horror engulfed her face. “What the hell are you wearing?” she yelled, grabbing my shirt. It’s Chaucer Night, so Hanna had suggested we wear period clothing to meet the occasion.
In a last-ditch effort to fit in, I had cut a triangle hole in the neck of a Kohl’s t-shirt to make what loosely resembled a medieval tunic. This was a mistake, as my shirt was a breathable, 70 percent polyester blend not readily available in the 14th century. We were already late, so Hanna insisted we get going.
We arrived at the Quabot Club and knocked on the front door. “Radix malorum est cupiditas,” said a voice on the other side.
“Greed is the root of all evils,” Hanna translated without hesitation. The door opened.
“How did you know that?” I asked.
“‘Pardoner’s Tale.’ Child’s play,” she responded, smugly. Behind us in line, a potted plant made a slight rustling noise in the breeze and, still, miraculously made it inside.
The Quabot Club smelled distinctly of incense and bubonic plague. The room was dark, illumined by only a few candles. The DJ was playing Hanna’s favorite mixtape, “Slow Jamz 1387-1400.” Everyone was eating HUDS specialties: Red Spice Chicken, non-trademarked Toasty O’s, and that warm, watery residue left over when the person in front of you maxes out the hot chocolate machine.
Hanna and I came across one kid wearing a long, blue robe and a hood that covered everything except for his mouth. “I like your costume. Are you supposed to be the Reeve or something?” I asked.
“I am the Man of Law, you daft plebeian,” the mouth responded. “The Reeve’s surcoat is red.” The mouth smirked. “I hope you’re aware that only 100 percent of people make it in,” it said, sneering. “I guess you can say it’s… in our blood.” I turned white with terror.
Hanna took me aside and clasped my shoulders. The look in her piercing eyes said it all. “Just… just please try not to say anything,” Hanna pleaded. “Or if you do, at least use iambic pentameter. I’m trying to look good here.” I was taken aback. My 10th grade knowledge of “The Canterbury Tales” had never been more important.
Suddenly, the candles dimmed and a podium appeared at the front of the room. A man wearing a fake white beard approached the microphone and began to speak. “It is an honor to be your featured speaker for this week’s meeting of the Quabot Club,” he said. I immediately recognized the man as none other than Dean of the College Rakesh Khurana and turned to tell Hanna. Deeply insulted, she instructed me to refer to Khurana only as Geoffrey Chaucer for the rest of the meeting.
“Tonight, I see we have a new addition to the Quabot Club,” said Dean of the Co-Geoffrey Chaucer, pointing in my direction. The room filled with gasps. “Not to worry, my friends. As is longstanding Quabot Club tradition, all new inductees must read from ‘The Canterbury Tales’ to prove their worth. Or not. Whatever.”
I stepped up to the podium and Chaucer slapped down a massive, dusty manuscript of his very own magnum opus in front of me. He flipped open to the Pardoner’s Tale. Hanna winked at me from the back of the room, and I immediately understood. I began reading in my head until I felt Chaucer’s warm, inviting hand wrap around my shoulder. “No, no. Out loud. So everyone can enjoy.” Without looking, I recited, “Radix malorum est cupiditas. Greed is the root of all evils.” My reading was met with thunderous applause from the crowd below—everyone except for the Man of Law, who crossed his arms and pouted in disapproval.
“My boy,” Chaucer said, caressing my cheek. “Thank you for that wonderful rendition. But I must ask—what have you learned from your experience?” I wasn’t really sure how to answer that question. “I guess… I guess I don’t really know what to say,” I responded. “I feel… in a way… transformed.”
The music stopped in a record scratch. Geoffrey Chaucer removed his hand from my face, and a single tear rolled down his cheek. Hanna ran up to the podium and wrapped her arms around me. “You did it! I can’t believe you did it,” she exclaimed, tears welling in her eyes. Everyone knelt on the floor and bowed their heads in my direction, humming in unison.
Chaucer placed his hand on my shoulder and whispered in my ear, “You were transformed by your experience. That’s all I ever really wanted.” He began to back away from me.
Then, all at once, he vanished into a flock of white doves, fluttering to the ceiling. I’m not exactly sure what happened, but I felt a quiver in my heart as I walked home from the Quabot Club that night. All was well.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
English concentrators will soon be required to enroll in a course featuring authors who may have been overlooked in the past for their race, gender, or sexuality following the Education Policy Committee’s recent approval of a departmental motion.
Members of the Class of 2020 who declare an English concentration in the fall of 2017 will be subject to the new requirement, which stipulates students must take a course featuring authors who may have been "marginalized for historical reasons," according to English Department chair W. James Simpson.
“We’re tremendously pleased that the new requirement has been approved,” said Derek K. Miller, associate director of undergraduate studies for the English department.
The Educational Policy Committee, which approved the English department’s proposal last month, is chaired by Dean of the College Rakesh Khurana and votes on changes to departmental requirements.
According to Miller, the department is now beginning the process of determining which courses would fit the requirement.
“I think you’ll see an interesting array of courses taught by faculty across the department,” Miller said “Certainly there are courses that are already on the books that could fit.”
Many English professors were deeply invested in the creation of the motion, according to Miller, and the internal departmental conversations have spurred reflection on the English department’s course requirements as a whole.
“Once we get this new requirement in place, it will help us reflect on everything were and currently doing,” Miller said. “Developing a curriculum is a constant process.”
The curriculum change comes as some students continue to make the push for an ethnic studies program. In 2015, a College committee recommended expanding the number of courses explicitly addressing issues of diversity. The report also suggested flagging those courses in the online course search system, a recommendation that has yet to be fulfilled.
In a February interview, Dean of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences Michael D. Smith said that faculty members remain cognizant about issues of diversity in curriculum.
“I do think the faculty are thinking about this deeply,” Smith said. “It’s foremost on everyone’s mind.”
However, Smith said, the responsibility falls on individual departments to decide whether to alter their curriculums to include more courses on diversity.
“Individually, what the curriculum looks like in the English Department for example, is best determined by those who are members of the English department or affiliates of the English department.”
—Staff writer Joshua J. Florence can be reached at joshua.florence@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @JoshuaFlorence1.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
A student run-health group dubbed the “Feel Good Society” has begun hosting weekly meetings in an effort to improve mental health for students at the College.
Co-founder Alec S. Bowman ’17 began planning the group last semester when he reached out to other co-founders Emily A. Johansen ’17 and Melanie M. Slone ’17 about fostering more open discussions about mental health on campus.
The meetings, which started this semester, typically begin with an icebreaker before moving to self-help topics ranging from meditation to dorm room cleanliness.
Bowman said he hopes meetings’ casual environment will encourage students to be more open about their mental health. He added that he struggled with his own mental health while at Harvard, and noted that the College’s existing resources were more “private and individual.”
“It still felt like even when I went to use these resources to help myself, I was still somehow isolating myself,” Bowman said.
Rather than focusing on specific individual experiences, the group aims to provide a set of tips for participants in addressing their own mental health concerns.
“We’re not trying to be a talk therapy group or a psychoanalysis group,” Bowman said, “I think other resources like Room 13 take care of that very well. The primary purpose of the group actually is to focus on the positive things and practical tips.”
While the Feel Good Society has previously met with representatives from Harvard University Health Services for advice on running the group, Bowman said the organization currently has no plans to affiliate with HUHS.
“In our discussion, we wanted to keep it a non-therapy, non-clinical group. It was more students supporting each other who have had emotional issues of different kinds,” HUHS Director Paul J. Barreira said.
Barreira said that he thought the Feel Good Society was a “great idea,” and added that although the group is not sponsored by HUHS, it will be “supported by us as needed.”
In future meetings, Bowman said he plans to incorporate a system in which students pair off at the end of the meeting and agree to check in with each other later in the week, creating “an organic safety net for people” who may be struggling. He said that in his own experience, it is easy to self-isolate oneself while working through mental health issues, which may not be noticeable to others.
“If someone pairs up at the end of the meeting and doesn’t respond on Thursday at all, it’s kind of like a notice for us as a sympathetic group of people that something might be up,” Bowman said.
—Staff writer Angela N. Fu can be reached at angela.fu@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @angelanfu.
.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
University President Drew G. Faust paid homage to the lives lost in the Vietnam War in a speech at a university in Ho Chi Minh City Thursday.
During her speech, Faust remarked that Harvard alumni from the class of 1967 will take part in a special remembrance event for the war at this year’s 50th reunion. She said these alumni, “now in their seventies, feel an urgency to confront experiences more than five decades old, memories of a time when ‘Vietnam’ asked them to define themselves and their nation.”
“That is why I am so glad to be in your country at last, for I too am of their generation,” Faust said at the Ho Chi Minh City University of Social Sciences and Humanities.
Faust spoke about how the war affected Americans on the ground in Vietnam, and men and women back home. She also highlighted the devastating aftermath of the war to the Vietnamese population—an estimated 3 million Vietnamese civilians and soldiers died in the war.
“I was not a member of the Harvard class that will have its reunion this spring, but I am close to their age, and like them, I was shaped by the war in ways I still am not sure I fully understand,” Faust said. “But one influence I can clearly identify has been upon my work as a historian.”
Drawing on her research as a historian of the antebellum South, Faust also outlined how the Civil War and its aftermath affected life in America.
“We continue to struggle over the war’s meaning for the nation’s abiding racial divisions,” Faust said. “Americans still battle over the use of the Confederate flag, the emblem of the would-be white southern nation that fought to preserve black slavery, a symbol that today is seen by most Americans as an affront and an obstacle to racial justice.”
Faust also visited a Vietnamese military cemetery at Ap Bac, which she called a “great privilege.”
“Created a century after our American Civil War and half a world away, this graveyard represents the same human urgency to honor the dead and their sacrifice,” Faust said.
Vietnam is the second stop on Faust’s trip to Asia, where she has been meeting with academic leaders and alumni. She also attended events in Singapore, where she met with National University of Singapore President Tan Chorh Chuan and spoke at a Harvard Alumni Association event with 400 alumni.
—Staff writer Claire E. Parker can be reached at claire.parker@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @ClaireParkerDC.
—Staff writer Leah S. Yared can be reached at leah.yared@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @Leah_Yared
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
A month after revelations that more than a million emails sent over Harvard Computer Society lists were public for years, HCS President Jason T. Goodman ’18 said he is confident there are no lingering security issues.
Goodman wrote in an emailed statement Wednesday that he believes HCS’ efforts to address the issue “successfully prompted list administrators to review their privacy settings and correct any prior misconfigurations.”
Of the over 1.4 million emails left public, some divulged students’ private information like grades, financial information, and at least one individual’s Social Security number. These emails remained publicly accessible until late February 2017, when The Crimson informed HCS of the public status of the emails.
HCS took several steps to address the issue, first restricting access to the archives of all existing lists whose membership is private. The group then sent “privacy check” emails to every list administrator reminding them of their list’s privacy setting, and temporarily took down the main list directory.
At the time, over two dozen students and administrators contacted by The Crimson said they were unaware their email lists were public.
The list directory remained offline as of Wednesday evening, and several student- and staff-run lists—including lists for BGLTQ undergraduates and teaching fellows—have been made private.
Still, some individual email lists remain accessible through their web domain and public search engines. Goodman wrote that most, if not all, of these lists are intentionally public.
“Many lists legitimately want to be publicly discoverable,” Goodman wrote. “The option to make lists publicly accessible is still there, and we expect it is used appropriately.”
The College also worked to address students’ privacy concerns after The Crimson reported on the public status of the HCS email lists last month. At the time, Harvard sent messages to inform College affiliates who manage HCS email lists that their emails were public. The Freshman Dean’s Office as well as tutors from Adams, Pforzheimer, and Kirkland Houses all subsequently made their own email archives private.
Over the next few days, Assistant Dean of Student Life Alex Miller and Dean of Students Katherine G. O’Dair stepped forward to offer “assistance to any student organization who had questions or issues with their listserv in light of the HCS issue,” according to O’Dair.
“No student organizations have come forward to me about this being a problem or issue,” O’Dair wrote in an emailed statement Wednesday. “[Miller] has not heard from any student organization about this either.”
Though several legal experts said the dissemination of students’ academic information over the HCS email lists likely constitutes a violation of the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act, neither the College nor the federal government has opened an investigation into the matter.
Robert Stasio, the former chief of operations for the National Security Agency Cyber Center, said he thinks the “biggest risk” posed by the once-public HCS email archives is that “hackers” could have used the emails to “gather really good information” about Harvard students. Then, hackers could have used that information to try and infect students’ laptops with malware in a technique known as “spearfishing,” Stasio said.
He said HCS list administrators should have encrypted their email archives from the beginning to ensure users’ privacy. Data encryption, a technique that scrambles information so it is unreadable unless the viewer possesses a key, is “very simple” to perform, Stasio said.
He added he did not think there was much HCS could further do to rectify the situation going forward, other than continue to notify email list users that they should take action to protect their identities.
“Once the cat’s out of the bag, the cat’s out of the bag,” Stasio said.
—Staff writer Hannah Natanson can be reached at hannah.natanson@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @hannah_natanson.
.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Historians and ambassadors debated the economic and political rise of China at the John F. Kennedy Jr. Forum Wednesday, drawing historical comparisons to great power conflicts from fifteenth century onwards.
Graham T. Allison Jr. ’62, a Kennedy School professor, spoke about a phenomenon he calls the "Thucydides Trap,” wherein a rising power like China frightens an existing power like the United States and sparks war. Allison was joined by former United States Ambassador to the United Nations Samantha J. Power and Hoover Institution senior fellow and former Harvard professor Niall C. Ferguson.
Allison’s book explores a number of important themes about great power conflicts, the current state of U.S.-China relations and Thucydides’s theory of great power conflicts.
“When a rising power threatens to displace a ruling power, alarm bells should sound, extreme danger ahead,” Allison said. “Thucydides said, famously, ‘It was the rise of Athens and the fear that this instilled in Sparta that made war inevitable.’”
The Belfer Center has developed the ‘Thucydides Trap” case file, analyzing 16 points in history when a rising power has threatened to displace a ruling power. In 12 of these cases, the conflict resulted in war.
According to Allison, Thucydides is also the founder of Realpolitik, often defined as a political philosophy based on practical rather than moral considerations. Allison proposed that the recent economic and political rise of China could challenge the United States and result in a conflict that would end the “long peace” since the end of World War II.
Allison argued that the potential for conflict between China and the U.S. would be the defining issue of our time. He challenged the audience to imagine new solutions grounded in history that would avoid a global conflict between major powers.
“This is going to be the challenge for the rest of our lives, and the question is will we follow business as usual? And if we do I think we’ll get history as usual,” Allison said. “Or can we imagine a surge of imagination, if we recognize a dangerous situation, a surge of imagination as remarkable as that which occurred as the US created a Cold War strategy for dealing with the Soviet surge, in which we had ‘war’ but not really a war like in the Thucydides Trap file.”
Ferguson analyzed the Trump administration’s attitude towards China, as well as U.S. multinationals’ intertwinement in Chinese markets and economic politics.
“Unlike our leaders, China’s leaders apply history,” Ferguson said. “There is no more historically minded leadership elite than [China’s].”
Ferguson pushed back against the assertion that China is the world’s preeminent power by contrasting Allison’s economic indicators with those that signify real power.
“It’s absolutely right that China is not number one, because those are not the most important measures from the vantage point of power… There is a sense in which even with Mr. Trump as president the US owns the international order, and plays a key role in international institutions, however much he may despise them,” Ferguson said. “I think we need to recognize that we are still quite some way away… from China being the preeminent power, especially in regard to military power.”
—Staff writer Lucas Ward can be reached at lucas.ward@thecrimson.com. Follow him on twitter at @LucaspfWard.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The runners on the Harvard women’s cross country and track teams have been on a winning streak recently.
“In my four years on the team we went from being [near] last of the Ivy League to, by the time I graduated, we’d won seven out of the eight track championships,” Paige V. Kouba ’16, a former captain of the women’s cross country team and current assistant coach, said. “In the fall, the cross country women won the first [Ivy League Heptagonal Championship Title] since 1985.”
The success has coincided, more or less, with the arrival of distance running coach Patrick Wales-Dinan from California State University, Long Beach. Many runners currently coached by Wales-Dinan credit his approach with the recent achievements.
With success, though, Wales-Dinan has brought controversy. More than half a dozen former and current athletes who have competed for Wales-Dinan say he created a culture characterized by an expectation of total devotion, unhealthy training habits, and deep divisions about the direction of the program.
His critics have raised concerns with the Athletics Department staff, the College’s Title IX Office, Dean of the College Rakesh Khurana, Athletics Director Robert L. Scalise, the program’s faculty fellows, human resources employees, and at least one external investigator.
During Wales-Dinan’s tenure, the number of athletes on the team has dropped dramatically. When he began coaching at Harvard for the 2014-2015 season, the women’s cross country roster listed 23 athletes, a figure consistent with the preceding five years. The 2016-2017 roster lists 11 athletes, five of whom are freshmen.
Harvard’s women’s cross country team is the smallest in the Ivy League. The second smallest is Dartmouth’s with 27 athletes.
While many current runners have attributed the decline to natural attrition, some of the former athletes themselves charge that Wales-Dinan was one of the main reasons they quit. In an email to Scalise and Khurana last October, eight former student-athletes asked that the Athletics Department fire Wales-Dinan.
“We all ran under Patrick [Wales-Dinan] at one point or another, now are no longer members of the Harvard Cross Country and Track programs, and feel strongly that he should not be either,” the former athletes wrote in an email obtained by The Crimson. “We believe that he made it clear there was no place on the team unless you were ‘all-in’ and put athletics as your single highest priority.”
Wales-Dinan did not respond to repeated requests for comment for this story. Scalise declined to grant an interview, instead sending an emailed statement.
"Harvard Athletics takes seriously its responsibility to support every member of our community - including student-athletes, coaches and administrative staff,” he wrote. “We have an obligation to work together to create an environment that is inclusive and requires our members to adhere to the highest standards of integrity, ethics and sportsmanship."
The letter to Scalise came after some athletes say they had raised concerns multiple times to coaches, an Athletics Department administrator, and faculty advisers since Wales-Dinan’s arrival.
These complaints came to a head in October when a video of a team practice session posted on a running website drew attention to what some called Wales-Dinan’s inappropriate physical contact with an athlete, while others saw it as an innocuous effort to help a struggling athlete.
The controversy surrounding the video ultimately led Emily J. Miller, the College’s Title IX Coordinator, to begin a brief review of the team, though that investigation changed hands after Thanksgiving. A representative from the Faculty of Arts and Sciences human resources department hired an outside investigator “to look into multiple allegations involving the team,” according to emails obtained by The Crimson.
Wales-Dinan’s leadership has also drawn the attention of the team’s faculty fellows, who act as academic advisers for the men and women’s cross country and track programs. Biology professor Daniel E. Lieberman and Business School professor Paul A. Gompers, whose daughter is a member of the program, have criticized Wales-Dinan’s influence on the team’s culture. In December, after collecting accounts from over 20 former and current members of the team, the pair filed a 17-page single-spaced report to University administrators detailing their complaints.
“When two of out of three athletes on a team are quitting, something’s wrong,” Lieberman said in an interview.
Talking to members of the program can make it seem like Wales-Dinan is two entirely different people. As some women on the cross country and track teams hold him up as a mentor and empowering trainer, others deride him as unprofessional and responsible for creating a toxic environment. But the two camps seem to agree on one thing: Wales-Dinan’s influence as a coach over the lives of his athletes is enormous. The months of administrative review of the team illustrate how Harvard proceeds when a coach is called into question.
For Erin L. Dietz ’19 and other current runners who support Wales-Dinan, the continuous scrutiny of their coach—including the reporting and publication of this story—because of allegations they vehemently dispute has been disruptive and upsetting.
“I feel like I speak for most of the team when I say that Patrick [Wales-Dinan] is a really important figure in all of our lives, and understandably, all these allegations being raised really bothers him and really bothers all of us to see him so upset, especially over something that seems to not be founded in any truth,” Dietz said.
‘A CLASH OF VALUES’
Many runners point to the transition between Wales-Dinan and his predecessor Priscilla Bayley as the source of discord on the team.
“[Bayley] was more about doing the sport for the sake of having fun with not as much emphasis on trying to be great at it, and so I think that she recruited some people and then Patrick came in as the new coach, and there was a clash of values,” Dietz said.
Kouba also said she saw the coaching transition and the team’s increased intensity under Wales-Dinan as a source of dissatisfaction for a group of athletes on the team who were uncomfortable with the new level of commitment.
“When you sign up for one coaching style and get a different one, that can feel unsettling,” she said. “For sure, I think the coaching styles of [Bayley] and [Wales-Dinan] could not be more different, and I happened to thrive on that transition. Some did not.”
Bayley did not respond to request for comment.
For some, the concerns about Wales-Dinan started before he even arrived in the Athletics Department. Two athletes in the program describe a team meeting they attended at Wales-Dinan’s house in the fall. According to those athletes, Wales-Dinan told the team that one of his former athletes had emailed Jason S. Saretsky, the head coach of track and cross country, detailing concerns about him. Wales-Dinan said that Saretsky had chosen to disregard the email.
Saretsky declined multiple requests for an interview, instead sending along an emailed statement. Both Saretsky and Wales-Dinan did not respond to specific allegations detailed in this story.
“Our entire track and field/cross country coaching staff is committed to the mission of education through athletics and we work hard to teach young men and women through the pursuit of both academic and athletic excellence,” Saretsky wrote in the statement.
“Our team has always been open to people who want to work hard, who love their sport, who appreciate the process of self-improvement, and who support their teammates all while being committed to pursuing excellence in the classroom,” he added.
Several current and former athletes said they feel Wales-Dinan’s style has polarized team members and negatively impacted their social lives, academics, and mental and physical health. The Crimson has granted these students anonymity because they said they fear retribution from teammates and coaches.
In an article published in the Huffington Post in August 2016, Erika M. Veidis ’15 described intense pressure from coaches to overtrain during her senior year.
“Even though it soon became clear that I was experiencing severe overtraining syndrome... I kept on accepting the guilt and doubt inflicted by coaches and teammates,” she wrote. “I kept pushing until my body gave out even more. My head coach, in an effort to strong-arm me into competing, told me that if I couldn’t run at Ivy League championships, then I was off the team.”
Three current runners in the track and cross country programs said they have felt pressure from Saretsky and Wales-Dinan not to pursue certain classes or other academic opportunities because they might conflict with or detract from athletics. Four current and former student-athletes said Wales-Dinan has told women to lose what they consider an unhealthy amount of weight. They also allege that Saretsky and Wales-Dinan have allowed women to overtrain and miss meals. All told, six current and former runners, in interviews, characterized the coaches’ actions as harmful and inappropriate.
The majority of the current runners on the team, however, swear by Wales-Dinan. They say he and Saretsky have created a healthy, positive team environment by emphasizing nutrition and health, supporting academic pursuits, and serving as mentors.
 
Elianna M. J. Shwayder ’18, a pre-med student, said Wales-Dinan has worked with her to accommodate her academics by organizing independent practices and travel arrangements to meets. “I have been able to resolve any conflict that has arisen by talking with them,” she said.
Both Kouba and current captain Madeleine V. Ankhelyi ’17 said Wales-Dinan and the coaching staff have been supportive of their academic pursuits, including their decisions to write senior theses. In his statement, Saretsky wrote that the team has earned Academic All-American with distinction every semester of his tenure. The current team’s grade point average is a 3.4, according to the Athletic Department’s website.
Ankhelyi said the team is healthier than it’s been in the past due to Wales-Dinan’s emphasis on proper nutrition. In an interview, current runners Judy Pendergast ’20, Eliza Rego ’20, and Brooke Starn ’20 credited Wales-Dinan with creating a supportive emotional and athletic environment.
Pendergast called being part of the team “the greatest part of my college experience.”
‘WHAT’S GOING ON HERE?’
Discussions of Wales-Dinan’s conduct have circulated far beyond the cross country and track programs. In the last few years, criticisms of Wales-Dinan’s leadership travelled through a number of Harvard offices, including the College’s Title IX Office, the FAS human resources department, and the Athletic Department itself—even as faculty fellows also began their own formal review of the team.
The uneven progress of the investigations began with Shanna Kornachuk, the Athletics Department’s assistant director and the program director for the track and cross country teams. On several occasions, starting in 2015, athletes brought concerns about team culture to Kornachuk in meetings they understood to be confidential, according to three current and former runners.
After these meetings, however, the three runners said that Saretsky and Wales-Dinan, apparently informed of the complaints by Kornachuk, rebuked them for going to others with complaints and imperiling the coaches’ jobs.
Kornachuk did not respond to The Crimson’s requests for comment.
In October 2016, still frustrated by the program, eight former athletes emailed Scalise, the Athletics Director, and Khurana calling for Wales-Dinan’s termination. In that email, the eight former athletes also wrote that current team members felt uncomfortable bringing grievances to the Athletics Department.
“Though only ex-athletes are included in the names below, we believe it important to note that current athletes agreed with the sentiment expressed here, but were unwilling to put their names to any note, fearing retribution,” they wrote. “Last year, athletes who communicated with the Athletics Department about the coaching staff and team culture then faced punishment from that coaching staff.”
A day later, Scalise responded, writing that “we are interested in hearing more about your experience with Patrick [Wales-Dinan] and the cross country program” and directing the women to speak with Kornachuk.
An official administrative review into the program came weeks later, after a video of a women’s cross country practice session posted Oct. 19 by the running site Flotrack became the subject of eight pages of forum discussion on LetsRun, an online running site. In the video, Wales-Dinan held an athlete’s waist in one moment and rubbed her back in another. While some users called the contact “inappropriate,” others defended Wales-Dinan’s actions, writing that his behavior was not unusual.
“It looks to me like a coach working to console an athlete having a bad day. There’s definitely nothing that is inappropriate shown,” wrote one user. LetsRun’s moderator, Robert Johnson, removed the post three days later.
“I looked at [the video] and immediately thought ‘Whoa, what’s going on here?’” Johnson said.
Johnson, a former Cornell men’s distance coach, said he spoke with both Saretsky and Wales-Dinan about the video after it attracted attention on the message boards.
According to Johnson, Wales-Dinan “said that there was a medical issue going on that wasn’t visible in the video, and he was really helping her in a time of need.” Johnson ultimately took down the thread at Saretsky’s request.
On Oct. 22 , a person close to the women’s track and cross country program reported the video to Miller, the College’s Title IX coordinator, who is responsible for responding to allegations of sexual harassment, violence, and discrimination. This informal report prompted Miller to begin meeting with athletes to discuss the video and the team’s broader culture.
The majority of women currently on the team said they were never contacted by Miller about the video and that there was little communication about the process. In an email, Miller wrote that she “definitely cannot comment on investigations.”
After Thanksgiving, the FAS human resources department took over the investigation from Miller, according to emails obtained by The Crimson. Gary P. Cormier, director of human resources consulting in FAS, and William Hoch, an independent legal consultant, were tasked with reviewing the program.
By Dec. 9, Hoch had begun contacting current and former athletes to discuss the team. In an email to a former cross country runner, Hoch described himself as “an independent investigator hired by Harvard to look into multiple allegations involving the team.” Hoch also wrote that he and Cormier hoped to speak with over 20 former and current athletes.
Ten people interviewed for the investigation said that in meetings with Hoch he asked for their perspectives on team culture and coaching within the program.
Hoch declined to comment on the investigation or its results.
As Harvard’s office of human resources began reviewing the team, Gompers and Lieberman submitted their own report to University administrators on Dec. 12. The 17-page, single-spaced report came after the professors spent months interviewing over 20 current and former athletes about the program’s culture.
Current members of the team criticized the faculty fellows’ report, saying they had not been contacted by Lieberman or Gompers.
“Why are they not coming to us with this information?” Shwayder asked.
Gompers and Lieberman did not not respond to requests for comment about how they conducted their review.
Regardless of how the investigations conclude, its results are unlikely to satisfy everybody. To his critics, Wales-Dinan has polluted the program and divided the team. To his supporters, he deserves praise—not seemingly unending scrutiny—for the success and leadership he has brought to the program.
As administrators and investigators continue to consider the future of the program and Patrick Wales-Dinan’s place in it, athletes keep running on their regular schedule. They’re slated to compete at the Hurricane Twilight Invitational in Miami this Saturday.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Harvard men’s hockey team has not lost a game since students began arriving back on campus for the spring term. During this two-month window, the squad has celebrated a Beanpot championship, an Ivy League title, a Cleary Cup, and an ECAC playoff crown.
Now, for the third straight year and the fifth time under coach Ted Donato ’91, it’s NCAA tournament time for the Crimson with the ultimate prize on the line—a national championship. But just 60 minutes of hockey could put an abrupt end to Harvard’s memorable ride.
On its way to achieving several milestones, Harvard has bested both conference rivals and local adversaries—Boston University, Cornell, Quinnipiac, and Yale among its triumphs. This Friday, however, the No. 2 Crimson (26-5-2, 16-4-2 ECAC) will clash with a much less familiar foe—one last seen in 1984—as it embarks on its quest for the Division I title.
“It’s been a special year, very fun to be a part of,” senior forward Sean Malone said. “But at the same time, this is going to be our toughest game of the year…. You’re going to face adversity in single-game eliminations, and I think we’re prepared for it.”
The Crimson icemen enter their 24th NCAA tournament in program history as the East Regional’s top seed and will battle No. 13 Providence—in Providence, R.I.—at the Dunkin’ Donuts Center on Friday afternoon. This season marks the first time since 1983 that Harvard holds a No. 1 seed in the tournament’s regional round.
“It’s one game, so you have to be able to stay away from major mistakes and major penalties,” Donato said. “But I think this group has handled adversity really well…. That’s what we’re going to have to do in a one-game set.”
Following the Crimson’s clash with the Friars, No. 15 Air Force will compete with No. 8 Western Michigan for the other spot in Saturday’s East finals. All three of these Regional foes are foreign to Harvard, as no current Crimson player has ever faced any of them. What’s more: Coach Donato, across his four-year playing career and 13 seasons as bench boss, has never encountered these squads either. But the team is taking the challenge in stride.
“Sometimes you get sick of playing the same teams over and over again,” Malone said. “You just become too familiar with teams…. I think this is good for us.”
Coach Donato also weighed in on playing against some untraditional competition.
“That’s the challenge you earn: to play in the national tournament, to play with refs you’ve never seen and teams you haven’t played against,” Donato said. “It poses challenges as far as knowing exactly which way a team is going to come at you, or some of the strengths they may have.”
While Providence is certainly less familiar to Harvard than an ECAC rival, the Crimson does have some insight on the Friars since their head coach, Nate Leaman, served as a Harvard assistant from 1999 to 2003.
“We know how his teams are led, and they play extremely hard,” Donato said. “They’re very disciplined—very physical—and so we know it’s going to be a great challenge.”
The Crimson hopes to avoid an eighth straight NCAA first-round exit Friday against Providence (22-11-5, 12-7-3 HEA), who comes into its tournament opener on almost two weeks’ rest after being eliminated by Notre Dame in the quarterfinal round of the Hockey East playoffs.
Despite the Friars’ forgettable performance in their conference tournament, the effective home team in this weekend’s East Regional kick-off boasts season wins over St. Lawrence, Vermont, UMass-Lowell (two), and current No. 1 overall Denver.
Providence has proven they can be giant-killers, just two years removed from its upstart NCAA tournament title run, which, incidentally, saw the fourth-seeded Friars emerge from East Regional play en route to capturing the program’s first and only Division I title.
Excluding games against the Fighting Irish, Providence has put together a 3-1-2 record against this year’s tournament teams. Pairing that with the Friars’ experience in both the NCAA tournament and at the Dunkin’ Donuts Center, where they have posted a 7-5-1 all-time record, Providence poses a constant threat.
“Any team that we play moving forward, we’re going to have to take very seriously,” junior goalie Merrick Madsen said. “A lot of those guys on the team now were on [the 2015 NCAA Championship] team…. They get it, and the older guys probably let the younger guys know what’s going on.”
Among other factors, “older guys” have also been the key to Harvard’s success all year. On the ice, the Crimson’s eight soon-to-be graduates have significantly outpaced all senior classes in scoring with 185 combined points, 39 more than second-place Boston College. Perhaps more important, though, is the culture and leadership these Harvard skaters have brought to the team.
“[The seniors] were willing to really take a look at how they were perceived both around college hockey and around campus, and how they could change that to get the perception that they wanted,” Donato said. “They’ve…held each other accountable to a really high level.”
Co-captain Alexander Kerfoot and his cohort of impactful fourth-years will have work cut out for them on Friday night in Providence, but they should expect assistance from their underclassmen. In particular, sophomore Ryan Donato—the team’s goal scoring leader—is coming off a two-goal showing in the ECAC championship game. The Crimson is undefeated this season when the Ivy League Player of the Year records a point or finishes with a plus rating.
Jumping out to an early lead against the Friars will be a team goal for Harvard; especially in an elimination game, playing from behind in a hostile environment against a physical, defensively sound team is a death wish.
Besides, the Crimson is 19-2-0 on the season when opening the scoring and 26-3-0 when leading at any point in the game, so Harvard likely feels no need to try anything new in that regard.
“We have to get after it right from the hop,” Kerfoot urged. “When you get down in games like this, especially to a team like Providence who can pack it in and play well defensively, it’s hard to come back.”
Although it has been over three decades since Harvard and Providence last faced off, the Crimson possesses the all-time series edge over the Friars, 17-9-1, and has emerged victorious in the teams’ previous four encounters.
With a positive result in Friday’s matinee, Harvard would face the winner of the No. 15 Air Force and No. 8 Western Michigan bout to decide which club will pack its bags for Chicago’s Frozen Four in two weeks’ time. If the Crimson happens to be the Illinois-bound team, it would mark Donato’s first trip to the Frozen Four from behind the bench. A Harvard hockey all-timer in his own right, Donato is one of three coaches in this year’s NCAA tournament to have won the Division I crown as a player.
Staff writer Spencer R. Morris can be reached at spencer.morris@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
­On a frigid night at Harvard Stadium, the Harvard women’s lacrosse team (4-3, 1-0 Ivy League) dropped its first home game of the season, falling 16-9 to cross-state opponent UMass Amherst (4-3). The loss was the second in a row for the Crimson, following Saturday’s overtime defeat by Syracuse.
Harvard got on the scoreboard first with a goal by senior attacker Marisa Romeo just 2 minutes into regulation. However, the Crimson’s only lead of the game lasted just under a minute, as UMass senior midfielder Sarah Crowley converted a free position shot on the next possession, followed by three Minutewomen goals to make it 4-1.
Senior midfielder Hannah Murphy led UMass by scored a hat trick and securing 17 draws for her team, despite facing off against Harvard’s senior tri-captain Maeve McMahon, whose 37 draw controls put her at second in the Ivy League.
“[Murphy] is a good player,” Romeo said. “We see a lot of players like her throughout the Ivy League, so it was good practice getting to play her in a non-conference game.”
McMahon did get payback, as she converted a career-high four goals on the night. She began by cutting the lead back to two goals with a curling shot that sent her diving to the ground. However, the Minutewomen answered with three quick goals to extend their lead to 7-2, two of the scores coming on passes from behind the cage to unmarked players in front of goal.
Undeterred, McMahon found the back of the net for the second time after executing a smooth dip move to evade a defender with 12:23 left in the first half. Sophomore midfielder Keeley MacAfee followed this with a low free position shot to the corner of the goal to cut the lead to 7-4.
But any offensive momentum built by the Crimson was stifled by a strong UMass defense who forced Harvard, a team that averages just 11.2 turnovers a game, to give the ball up 18 times.
The Crimson also struggled with organizing its offensive attack. Harvard only turned the ball over one more time than the Minutewomen, but many of its giveaways occurred when the UMass defense forced the home team to rush passes around the net and squander scoring chances.
Mistakes continued as the first yellow card of the game came with 8:50 left on the clock as McMahon was penalized for a dangerous shot and sent off the field for two minutes. The Minutewomen were able to capitalize on her absence, scoring three goals in the next three minutes from Murphy and junior attackers Holly Turner and Hannah Burnett. But three minutes later it was Murphy who was called for a foul, giving the Crimson a one-woman advantage that it exploited with a free position goal by Romeo before heading into the locker room down 10-5.
Harvard continued to struggle offensively in the second half, unable to score a goal for the first 20 minutes of the period. This scoring drought was largely due to UMass senior defender Allison Ryan, who tightly shadowed the Crimson’s leading scorer throughout the game, holding her to just two goals and ending Romeo’s four-game streak of hat tricks.
Despite the strong winds and temperatures in the low 20s, UMass came out of half time red-hot, with goals by 6’3’’ sophomore midfielder Kiley Anderson and Burnett, followed by a quick outside whip shot from Turner four minutes later. The Minutewomen then went up 14-5, their biggest lead of the game, with 10:58 to go after a second goal by Anderson.
The Crimson mounted one last offensive comeback with a three-goal run late in the second half, kicked off by a goal from restart by MacAfee and continued when senior tri-captain Megan Hennessey found the back of the net from a seemingly impossible angle. McMahon then cut it 14-8 by completing her hat trick a minute later.
This run was not enough to catch the Minutewomen. After two more UMass goals and another score by McMahon, her fourth of the game, UMass handed the Crimson its first regulation loss of the season, 16-9. The Crimson was held to just 9 goals, its lowest tally in a season where it has averaged an impressive 15.5 goals per game.
“We didn’t really play as well as we’d like to,” McMahon said. “UMass threw a lot of things at us that they haven’t done before and so it was kind of hard for us to adjust to it.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
