News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
On Sept. 15 at Dedham Field, Harvard women’s field hockey lined up for a penalty corner against Northeastern, barely three minutes into the game. Sophomore midfielder Casey Allen passed to fellow midfield and team co-captain Ellie Cookson, who settled down the ball for high-flying sophomore Bente van Vlijmen. The forward’s shot rippled the net.
That tally was the first in what would end up as a 7-3 win for the Crimson. But that wasn’t the only reason that goal was special.
Cookson’s assist gave her 27 total in her career at Harvard, propelling her to the top of the Crimson’s career assists list and breaking a record that’s over 10 years old. She’s since extended her lead to a comfortable 32 and shows no signs of stopping. To the senior, this distinction is just a small part of what she hopes to accomplish in her last year on the team.
“It was mostly special because it showed how many goals we’ve scored,” says Cookson. “It’s really special to know that you have a pretty big impact, even if it is just assists.”
But with assists, naturally, come goals. This season, Harvard (11-4, 4-1 Ivy) has seen an explosion of scoring from several different players, outshooting opponents 275-121. The team has reached seven goals in three games this year. For comparison, the last time the Crimson scored seven goals in one game before this fall was in 2003. The past few weeks, Harvard has seen its most lopsided wins in program history against Brown, Penn, and Holy Cross. There’s certainly something special cooking on the offensive end for the Crimson—and Cookson is a big part of that. While she has only one goal on the season, she leads the team with eight assists.
“As a [midfielder] you’re the connection between the defence and the forward. You have to be able to see both sides of the field…and put yourself in the best position to get the ball towards the attackers,” says Cookson. “There’s nothing quite as satisfying as finding a really good pass.”
Fellow co-captain and midfielder Hannah Wellington isn’t surprised by Cookson’s growth. She can remember a time when the pair were newcomers to a team that, just the season before, had posted a disappointing 2-5 Ivy record. The next few years brought about a visible change, however. Harvard finished 4-3 in the Ancient Eight in 2014 and 2015. Cookson started all 17 games her rookie year, finishing with a team-leading 11 assists.
“Ellie came into the team as this young player who had so much energy and passion for field hockey,” Wellington recalls. “As she grew older, she went on to refine that energy, point it in the right direction to become really tenacious on the field, and redefine herself as...an extremely tactically aware player who can not just focus on her own game, but also influence and direct others.”
Cookson’s tactical strength is apparent in the way she talks about the game; she grows visibly animated when discussing strategy. The on-the-spot thinking that goes into field hockey is her favorite part of both the game and her position.
“We plan around the [other] teams and their structures, but at the end of the day it’s all about reading what the other team is doing and being able to adapt,” Cookson says. “The big thing with our team is trusting the process and trusting the plan...but we’re encouraged to add our own spice to it. If it’s not exactly working the way we planned, adapt to it.”
Back in high school, the Oakville, Ontario, native captained both the field hockey team and the rugby team, while also dabbling in curling. The tactical aspect of field hockey, among other things, is what led her to follow the path into collegiate field hockey rather than rugby.
“I broke my foot and my collarbone in April of my senior year,” says Cookson. “I thought about playing rugby here too, but I don’t have the injury threshold like I used to. Field hockey is a mental game as much as a physical one, and I think that aspect of it really draws me to it.”
But what about curling, one wonders? Cookson pauses before answering.
“You can’t get recruited for curling,” she says. “I also was really, really bad.”
After playing a major role as a freshman, Cookson saw a dip in production her sophomore year. She returned as a junior to lead the Ivy League with 10 assists in 2017—a season that also saw Harvard take home the Ivy title with a perfect 7-0 conference record. The dramatic reversal of fortune for the team has shaped Cookson as a player.
“My freshman year, I was like, ‘I’ve got to dribble through everyone, and score goals!’” the midfielder says with a laugh. “It’s an important lesson that everyone learns in college field hockey—you literally cannot dribble through everyone. I used to be really hard on myself if I didn’t contribute to the game as much as I wanted to, and I think now I’m less focused on myself and more focused on the team.”
Adding the responsibility of captaincy to the already-full schedule of a student athlete seems a daunting prospect. But Cookson thinks that the team is close-knit and talented enough that she doesn’t feel the need to be a hands-on captain. Wellington agrees.
“Ellie is an incredible player in the sense that she really leads by example,” says Wellington. “I think she’s someone who draws the best out of every single person that she works with.”
Harvard suffered a major setback last week, when the team fell to rival Princeton. The Tigers now control their destiny and can clinch a league title by winning two more games. For Cookson, though, the last three games of the regular season offer a chance to put pressure on Princeton and perhaps take the Crimson to the NCAAs again.
“It’s sad realizing you only have three games left, but you only have three games left, so what’s there to lose?” Cookson says. “If you don’t leave everything on the field in these last three games, you’re going to regret it. For me, going into this, it’s just giving it everything for these last couple of games—for the team—to leave a good legacy.”
When it comes to legacies, the record book shows that Cookson has nothing to worry about.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
This Saturday, in a pivotal clash between Harvard and Dartmouth, a press box window wasn’t the only thing that shattered. So did the Big Green’s comeback bid.
The window fell victim late in the first half, when referees awarded the Crimson the ball after a disputed punt-return fumble. That decision caused a member of the Dartmouth coaching staff to smash a hole in the glass sheet.
That punch foreshadowed greater frustration for the Big Green. Down 14-0 in the second quarter, Harvard rallied for 25 consecutive points and repelled a late comeback effort. Dartmouth (5-2, 2-2 Ivy) gained more yards, but timely defensive plays fueled the Crimson (4-3, 2-2), which escaped with a 25-22 win.
The outcome wasn’t certain until the final minute. Already, the Big Green had won four games on overtime scores or fourth-quarter comebacks. Trailing by three with 1:36 left, Dartmouth seemed ready to pull the trick once more.
But the secondary nixed the come-from-behind attempt. Big Green quarterback Jack Heneghan threw a pass into tight coverage, senior cornerback Raishuan McGhee deflected the ball, and senior safety Tanner Lee dove with outstretched hands to clinch the game.
“Last week was really difficult,” captain Luke Hutton said. “This week, practicing was really difficult. When things go the wrong way, it’s about making a decision. You can either fold or bounce back. Down 14-0 after getting embarrassed last week—to respond the way we responded, it’s all about heart.”
The victory gave the Crimson 14 straight over Dartmouth. Many of these wins have gone down to the wire. Counting 2017, four of the last five victories have come by three points or fewer.
Besides Lee’s final interception, the Crimson caused key turnovers on three consecutive drives. The first came late in the third quarter, with Harvard trailing by two. After a three-and-out, Big Green punter Davis Brief readied for a kick, but senior safety Tim Haehl exploded around the edge for the block.
This play set up a short field for freshman quarterback Jake Smith. On the first play of the fourth quarter, Smith hit junior wideout Henry Taylor in the end zone. The Crimson led for the first time all day, 18-14.
On Dartmouth’s next possession, Heneghan looked for a receiver along the left sideline in Harvard territory. Freshman defensive back Isaiah Wingfield dove in front of his man and snagged his first career interception.
The ensuing drive went nowhere, but the Crimson defense forced one more turnover. On fourth-and-inches at the Dartmouth 29, coach Buddy Teevens made the gutsy decision to bring out his offense. Lee and junior defensive lineman Scott Garrison combined to stonewall Heneghan. That play accounted for one of Lee’s team-high 10 tackles.
Again facing a short field, the Harvard offense took advantage. On second-and-goal at the Big Green 11, Smith scrambled left, reversed right, and finally spotted freshman running back Aaron Shampklin in the end zone. Harvard 25, Dartmouth 14.
Before today, Dartmouth had outscored opponents 45-9 in the fourth quarter. The Crimson reversed that trend, posting a 13-8 advantage in the closing 15 minutes.
“For whatever reason, we label ourselves as a second-half team,” Teevens said. “For whatever reason we didn't come out in the second half with the energy we should have. It's impossible to put into words the frustration that we have right now.”
Relative to the fourth quarter, the Harvard offense struggled early. With 1:20 left in the first half, the Crimson trailed 14-0 and had just posted a three-and-out. Junior punter Zach Schmid sent a kick to the Big Green’s Danny McManus, who signaled for a fair catch.
Before the ball could reach McManus, however, blocker Isiah Swann pushed Harvard halfback Jack Stansell into the returner. In the ensuing confusion, the ball popped loose, and Crimson freshman Max Jones recovered.
“Obviously that's a pivotal point,” Teevens said. “If it's an interference call, we'll get the ball at the 50-yard line, we'll get two timeouts, and [we’ll be] good to go. All of a sudden it's their ball in your territory.”
Harvard capitalized. After a wild scramble to convert a fourth-and-eight, Smith fired to senior halfback Ryan Antonellis at the goal line to make the score 14-6.
On the afternoon, Antonellis scored twice, while Taylor and freshman running back Aaron Shampklin added one apiece. In previous weeks, Harvard had relied on its backs to score, but Smith and wildcat quarterback Lavance Northington found the end zone four times through the air.
Northington’s touchdown punctuated the first drive of the second half—a possession that spanned 5:26 and 76 yards. The sophomore spelled Smith under center to run the option. He found Antonellis in the end zone for the first completion of his college career, making it a 14-12 game.
“When you put [Northington] in there, it makes people play assignment football,” Harvard coach Tim Murphy said. “It’s hard to play downhill football when you have to defend the option and the pass.”
On that third-quarter drive, running back Charlie Booker gained 44 yards on five attempts. The junior was relatively silent in the first half with 20 rushing yards, but he closed out the afternoon with 89.
Ball security was a strength for the Crimson, as the team committed no turnovers. Historically, this recipe has boded well for Harvard, which is 34-1 in games since 2000 without a turnover.
The Crimson offense was not the only unit that struggled early against Dartmouth. Before halftime, Harvard’s secondary had difficulties reining in wide receivers, harkening back to last week’s performance against Princeton.
In the first quarter, Heneghan went five-for-five. Indeed, off the opening kickoff, the Big Green marched 80 yards in 4:36. Running back Ryder Stone, the main option out of the backfield, darted up the middle for a nine-yard score.
Dartmouth seemed firmly in control when it tacked on another touchdown in the second quarter. That drive lasted nearly eight minutes. Heneghan completed a back-shoulder toss to Hunter Hagdorn to put points on the board.
This drive was marked by daring strategy from Teevens. Twice the Big Green head coach decided to take chances on fourth-and-one, and twice Dartmouth converted. On the first conversion, wildcat quarterback Jared Gerbino followed his linemen up the middle. On the second, Teevens passed up a 36-yard field goal in favor of a handoff to Stone.
Saturday’s result strengthens Harvard hopes for an Ivy League title. Columbia's defeat to Yale on Saturday scrambled the picture. If the Crimson wins out and the Tigers and Cornell lose once each, then Harvard will clinch a share of the title.
In the aftermath of Saturday’s win, however, Murphy’s attention lay elsewhere.
“I want them to enjoy this,” the coach said. “It’s a game that they’ll remember for a long time. I just want them to enjoy this, and then we’ll tackle tomorrow at 6:45 a.m.”
—Staff writer Jack Stockless can be reached at jack.stockless@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections


A shot of Rubinoff is already spine-chilling and hair-raising. But, with Halloween party pregames beginning tonight, we all have the opportunity to get trashed in a thematically appropriate fashion. Get together your friends and try out this Flyby-approved drinking game for Halloweekend at Harvard!
Take a shot if you see a Joker grinding on a Harley Quinn.
Take a shot when the DJ starts up Thriller by MJ. If you’re ballsy, take one every time the king of pop screams out “thriller.” Trust us, by the end of your blacked-out night you’ll definitely “wonder if you’ll ever see the sun.”
Down a glass every time you see a group of girls wearing angel outfits. They will usually be seen in the center of the room, refusing to dance with anyone else but themselves, and radiating more second-hand embarrassment than divine light.
Conversely, take a shot every time you see a group of lads wearing their sports gear. Take another one if they aren’t even on the team they represent but still don the jerseys, in a show of how little they care about silly “dress-up.”
Give your drink to someone if you see they’re not wearing a costume. Better yet, just pour it on the offender: they’re killing the mood.
Sections
Group exercise classes at Harvard hold a certain appeal for those who lack the motivation to work out on their own. A plus: for Harvard undergrads, the classes are free (read: covered by a kidney or two, ahem, the $60k tuition). On the down side, there is a high risk of public humiliation, and, depending on how out of shape you are, a risk of death. Harvard Recreation presents an overwhelming array of options to the exercise dilettante. But don’t sweat it! We’ve reviewed Harvard’s group exercise classes, so you can save the perspiration for your workout.
Zumba
Pain rating: 2/10
There is a slight risk of drowning in your sweat, but you’ll be having too much fun to notice that you’re actually working out. 
Fun Rating: 11/10
The most fun you can have and still have it be considered exercise. 
With a name like Zumba, how could this class be anything but a good time? As one exuberant Zumba-goer voiced, “Zumba is publicly acceptable self-embarrassment!” Imagine jamming out in your room but on a more coordinated scale, with some salsa dancing thrown in. A class once deemed acceptable only for middle-aged women, Zumba is now the pretty young thing.
Cardio Kick
Pain rating: 6/10
If like us you are unaccustomed to repeated arm jabs, you may experience sore “muscles” for a few days in your shoulders. And legs. And the rest of your body. You’ll most likely be able to walk.
Fun Rating: 6/10
The music for this class is pretty hype, but to really get into it, you must muster the mindset that you’re a boxer in the ring. Or that your imaginary opponent is an inimical Harvard student—section kid, evil punchmaster, the options are endless...
If you’ve ever wanted to feel like a badass boxer but lack the actual skills to be one, this is the class for you.  You will strengthen your arms, legs, and core, and feel it for at least 24 hours post-class. From uppercuts to jabs, we promise this class will have you hooked!
High Intensity Interval Cardio (HIIT Cardio)
Pain rating: 11/10
The acronym HIIT is fitting because days later, we still felt like we took a HIIT to every part of our bodies.
Fun Rating: 1/10
If your idea of fun is being told to keep going until you collapse and then to get up when you collapse, then this class is a blast!
This review may come off as very negative, but keep in mind that we are not athletic people, and as such, we were not prepared for the high level of intensity that this class’s name warned us of. The class was 25 minutes in comparison to the usual 55 minute class, so we thought, “How bad could this be?” As it turns out, pretty bad. Beginners/NARPS: stay away. Truly fit people: go for it.
Barre Express
Pain rating:  7/10
Barre is the kind of class that sneaks up on you when you’re not looking. You think you’re there for some cute plies, then all of a sudden your legs are jelly and you can’t sit up.
Fun Rating: 5/10
This is a very chill class. The music is pop-based but quiet, and the instructor is upbeat, so you leave feeling like a good, healthy person...but not exactly pumped up.
With Barre, you can pretend to be an ultra-together suburban mom who works out every morning and is super chipper for the rest of the day because *exercise!* and *endorphins!*. If you’re looking for something more strength-based than Zumba but not as intense as HIIT, look no further...just don’t underestimate the toll that squats can take on your walking abilities.
~
When the newest PSA or study reminds you that you’re shortening your lifespan by not exercising, and if the thought of trying to figure your life out by yourself at the gym is overwhelming, try a group exercise class. Armed with Flyby’s helpful synopses, you can tailor the pain and fun levels to your mood and crush your workout!
