News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered

Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
UPDATED: May 23, 2017 at 11:54 a.m. 
David M. Rubenstein does not sleep much. He and his colleagues estimate an average of four or five hours a night—that’s all he says he needs. It’s also all he has time for. The 67-year-old co-founder of the Carlyle Group splits his time between managing one of the largest private equity firms in the world and advising dozens of nonprofit and educational institutions.
Rubenstein, whose estimated net worth tops $2.6 billion, chairs the boards of trustees of the Kennedy Center and the Brookings Institution, serves as a regent of the Smithsonian Institution, and sits on the boards of Duke University and the University of Chicago. He’s the vice-chairman of the Council on Foreign Relations, a trustee of the National Gallery of Art, and he’s on the board at Johns Hopkins Medicine. That’s just a sampling.
And this summer, he’ll become the newest member of the Harvard Corporation, the University’s most powerful governing body.
Everyone seems to know Rubenstein. At a panel on higher education in April at the Economic Club of Washington, D.C.—which he also leads as its president—Rubenstein was in his element. Taking the podium in the Marriott Hotel ballroom he had filled with a crowd of ambassadors, lawyers, bankers, and higher education leaders, Rubenstein—whose thick-framed black glasses pop out against a shock of white hair—pointed to familiar faces to thank them by name.
After a lunch of salmon and salad dressed in truffle vinaigrette, University President Drew G. Faust and the presidents of Stanford and Ohio State joined him on the stage for an hour-long discussion on the future of higher education.
While the topic is far from light-hearted, Rubenstein managed to slip in a dose of his trademark humor.
“Do members of Congress ever say, ‘here’s my son’s resume?’” Rubenstein asked Faust.
“I don’t think any member of Congress has ever done that, but I have had people come up to me when I’m taking a walk and lobby on behalf of their grandkids,” Faust said with a laugh.
In the coming months, Rubenstein will have plenty more opportunities to trade quips with Faust about all things Harvard. As one of the 13 members of the Corporation, Rubenstein—who did not attend Harvard at all, but has donated tens of millions to the University—will be a regular at Loeb House, where the body conducts its meetings. He’ll join a cadre of lawyers, academics, and corporate leaders each distinguished in their professional careers.
But none of the other members will quite have Rubenstein’s star power. A recent Forbes magazine cover proclaimed him one of the “Kings of Capital,” a “60 Minutes” segment referred to him as “Clark Kent in a suit and tie,” and the New Yorker magazine described his role as a “civic patriarch.” He hosts the “David Rubenstein Show” on Bloomberg Television, conducting “peer to peer conversations” with Oprah Winfrey, General David Petraeus, and Jamie Dimon, the CEO of JP Morgan.
Rubenstein is “a recognizable figure in most circles across the United States now,” his long-time business partner Daniel A. D’Aniello said in an interview.
In short, Rubenstein is a far cry from the Boston brahmins of the Corporation’s past.
Once a tight-lipped, seven-member body of New England alumni, the Corporation has slowly broadened its membership and relaxed tradition. And Rubenstein, who reportedly uses his private Gulfstream G550 jet 250 days out of the year, is emblematic of Harvard’s efforts to modernize the Western Hemisphere’s oldest corporation.

 From the chandeliered rooms of Loeb House to the shores of Cape Cod, the site of the Corporation’s annual summer retreat, members chart the University’s course—as they have for over three and a half centuries.
Removed from day to day campus life, the historically secretive body holds Harvard’s purse strings and has the final say on every major change at the University. Appointing deans, changing school seals, and passing sweeping policies governing undergraduate social life require the Corporation’s stamp of approval. And perhaps most importantly, the body wields the authority to appoint or remove the University president—a power it exercised when it ousted former University President Lawrence H. Summers in 2006.
“We are responsible overall for the health and welfare of the University in the broadest fiduciary sense,” outgoing Corporation member and former Duke University president Nannerl O. Keohane said in an interview.
The Corporation’s 1650 charter, enshrined in the Massachusetts Constitution, established a governing body with seven seats to be filled by five members, a treasurer, and the president. Members served life terms with the approval of the Board of Overseers—Harvard’s larger, less influential governing body composed entirely of alumni.
While Harvard grew in size and prominence over the ensuing 350 years, the Corporation remained much the same. But after the turn of the millennium, its size had become stifling and its secrecy, oft-criticized.
“It was very hard to feel that a seven-person board, even with the support and help of the Board of Overseers, could have financial and fiduciary responsibilities for such a large and complicated institution,” Keohane said.
The Corporation’s opacity drew the ire of School of Engineering and Applied Sciences professor Frederick H. Abernathy and former Dean of the College Harry R. Lewis ’68. In 2009, on the heels of the financial crisis, the two penned an op-ed in the Boston Globe excoriating the body for its lack of accountability and transparency. With such a small group of people making high-stakes financial decisions, Lewis and Abernathy called the body “a dangerous anachronism.”
“One of the issues at the time of the governance reforms was that the Corporation was a mystery,” Corporation Senior Fellow William F. Lee ’72 said in an April interview. “It was like the Wizard of Oz behind the curtain, except you didn’t know whether the Wizard was speaking or not.”
To pull back that curtain, the Corporation spent its annual beach retreat in 2010 brainstorming how to revamp the aging body. The reforms the group eventually announced that December resulted in a dramatic restructuring of the Corporation. They nearly doubled its membership from seven to 13 members, instituted term limits, and created committees within the Corporation that focused on different aspects of University life.  The more formal approach, according to Lee, allows members to better promote the Corporation’s four primary responsibilities: “intellectual capital,” “reputational capital,” “physical capital,” and “financial capital.”
Now, members of the Corporation interact more regularly with Overseers on several joint committees. But they won’t be there for as long; in the past, Corporation members—mostly men of the Boston upper-crust—sat on the board for decades, until they reached some “vaguely determined age,” Keohane said.
But the reforms capped members’ tenure at two six-year terms, so Keohane—who was elected to the Corporation in 2005—is on her way out.
“Now that we have term limits there will more often be the need to think about a new member,” Keohane said. “It has simply given us a chance to think more carefully about the types of expertise that we bring on.”
The Corporation’s expansion meant bringing in a new cast of characters. The body added new members in increments over the following years—inducting former Tufts University President Lawrence S. Bacow, University of California, Berkeley computer scientist Susan L. Graham ’64, and Boston businessman Joseph J. O’Donnell ’67 in 2011. In 2012, Harvard added investment banker Paul J. Finnegan ’75, foreign policy expert Jessica T. Mathews ’67, and lawyer Theodore V. Wells, Jr., and rounded out the 13 with venture capitalist James W. Breyer in 2013.
But even with 13 members, the Corporation is among the smallest university governing boards in the country—meaning each individual member holds significant sway. Even though Faust, who Lee likened to “the CEO,” sets the Corporation’s agenda, the 12 other members decide the fate of the University by majority vote.
When Keohane steps down in July, one of those votes will belong to Rubenstein.
Rubenstein’s childhood friends didn’t expect the son of a Baltimore postal service worker to end up on the cover of Forbes magazine.
After graduating from Duke and the University of Chicago Law School, Rubenstein spent two years working in corporate law before entering the world of politics. He became a policy aide to Jimmy Carter’s 1976 presidential campaign and—when Carter won—a deputy to domestic policy adviser Stuart Eizenstat in the White House.
“I thought when we were in high school that his career was going to be focused mostly on government and politics,” childhood friend and former Baltimore mayor Kurt L. Schmoke said in an interview. “Those of us who knew him way back then...we all thought that we would be talking about cabinet secretary Rubenstein rather than CEO Rubenstein.”
But when Carter lost to Ronald Reagan in 1980, Rubenstein left government for the corporate world. He had a vision for a new type of enterprise. Carlyle Group chairman and co-founder D’Aniello remembers his auspicious first meeting with Rubenstein at the restaurant of a Washington, D.C. Marriott in 1986, when the partnership that would lead to Carlyle’s founding began to take root.
D’Aniello recalls thinking Rubenstein was “very polite, very reserved, but well-spoken.” At the time, Rubenstein was working at a Washington law firm and D’Aniello was the vice president of corporate financial planning for Marriott.
After convincing D’Aniello to join him and telecommunications executive William E. Conway, the trio began courting investors to seed what became the Carlyle Group, which was named after the storied hotel. “We started out with only 5 million dollars of capital and the rest is history, really,” D’Aniello said.
The pitch was to leverage Rubenstein’s Washington connections and D’Aniello and Conway’s financial acumen to corral a new set of insider investors. Soon, Rubenstein had recruited a roster of ex-Washington power players, including former Secretary of Defense Frank Carlucci and former Secretary of State James Baker, to the firm.
Michael Lewis, writing for the New Republic in 1993, spared no criticism of the firm’s tactics. To him, Carlyle privileged high-profile names on its staff list over substantive financial planning, in what he called “access capitalism.”
“I've leaned over backward so far to avoid using government contacts,” Rubenstein told Lewis in 1993. “I didn't want anyone to be able to write an article saying we were trading on our connections.”
While private equity has been widely criticized for its emphasis on stock value, Rubenstein said he “likes to analogize [private equity] to sex.”
“You realize there were certain things you shouldn’t do, but the urge is there, and you can’t resist,” he told to a crowd gathered at the Business School in 2009.
But Rubenstein’s instincts pay off, D’Aniello said, describing Rubenstein as a calculated risk-taker—a “type-A personality” with an “unrelenting will to succeed.”
“David, first of all, is a visionary,” D’Aniello said. “He thinks about the world in the way it will look in five to ten years rather than where it is now. And to a large degree he has been sort of the guiding light of the strategic plan and execution of Carlyle's growth over the last thirty years.”
Now, the Carlyle Group’s more than 1,550 employees span six continents, managing a total of $162 billion in assets.
As the Carlyle Group spread around the world, Rubenstein’s wealth and reputation grew with it.
Over the past three decades, Rubenstein has met investors, heads of state, corporate CEOs, and public officials across the globe, oftentimes publicly bantering in the same way he did with Faust.
Through his philanthropy, Rubenstein has ensured that his name is, indeed, everywhere.
When an earthquake damaged the Washington Monument, he quickly put up $7.5 million to fund its repair. He paid to renovate the slave quarters at Monticello and support the National Zoo’s pandas. When a copy of the Magna Carta went up for auction, Rubenstein quickly bid on it—and donated it to the National Archives, where it is on display in the “David M. Rubenstein Gallery.” And, after a $10 million gift, the main exhibition hall of the Smithsonian’s recently-opened National Museum of African American History and Culture bears Rubenstein’s moniker.
“He’s more or less invented this notion of patriotic philanthropy,” former Kennedy School Dean David T. Ellwood said of Rubenstein.
So when the president of the country’s oldest university, then Lawrence H. Summers, approached Rubenstein at the World Economic Forum’s annual meeting in Davos, Switzerland about a decade ago, Rubenstein lent a ready ear. Summers wanted to know if he was interested in getting involved with Harvard and the Kennedy School in particular.
Rubenstein was no stranger to Harvard: his wife, Alice Rogoff, graduated from the Business School in 1978, and two of their daughters would go on to attend the College. Though Rubenstein didn’t have a personal connection to the Kennedy School, it brought his interest in higher education and “patriotic philanthropy” together.
“I think one of my interests in supporting things at Harvard is to help not only Harvard but also help other universities, because I think our higher education system is our great national treasure, and if our great national treasure can be enhanced by people giving their time and energy and ideas, then hopefully it’s a good thing for our country,” Rubenstein said in an interview.
Summers continued to court Rubenstein after their initial meeting in Davos, and Rubenstein even hosted Summers for a party at his Nantucket home. Summers, a former Secretary of the Treasury, remembers playing “aggressive tennis” with the billionaire.
“We played tennis, and David was as aggressive about his tennis as he was about everything else, though fortunately, his investing ability is bigger than his tennis ability,” Summers recalled. Rubenstein donated $10 million to the Kennedy School in 2004 and agreed to chair the school’s capital campaign, on one condition: the school’s buildings had to go.
“I went to him and said we’d like you to lead our campaign. He agreed to do it, but he said ‘David, your buildings are a big problem. If we’re going to work on this, we need to do it,’” Ellwood recalled.
The $10 million gift was the beginning of a philanthropic relationship with Harvard that has lasted for over a decade. Ellwood said he attributes a large amount of his success as the Dean of the Kennedy School to Rubenstein, and Summers regularly sought Rubenstein’s advice throughout his presidency.
After Faust took over from Summers, Rubenstein’s involvement with Harvard deepened. He donated $5 million to the Business School in 2011, and took the stage at the 2o13 launch of the University’s record-setting capital campaign. He is one of the campaign’s co-chairs, and he and his wife have donated at least $25 million to the campaign to date.
Rubenstein makes frequent trips to Cambridge: he estimates that he visits Harvard about once every six weeks. And well before he was elected to the Corporation, he was acquainted for one reason or another with the bulk of its members. He’d met Shirley M. Tilghman, the former president of Princeton, Keohane from his time on the board of Duke University, Matthews from working together in the Carter White House, and former Corporation member Robert E. Rubin ’60 from serving as vice chairman of the Council of Foreign Relations.
Rubenstein was on the Corporation’s radar.
Whether or not the Corporation was on Rubenstein’s radar, though, is another matter. The Corporation regularly sends out feelers to get a sense of who might be next to join the board.
“I actually think that if you try to become a Corporation member, that probably will ensure that you won’t become one,” Lee said. “As I’ve said publicly, it’s a group of folks that no matter what their accomplishments, everyone checks their ego at the door, and that’s a hard mix to maintain, but it’s critical to giving the best advice to the president as possible.”
After the reforms, the Corporation created a new governance committee tasked with nominating prospective members to the Board. The committee casts a wide net when looking for candidates, drawing names from across the University.
Nominees in mind, the Corporation’s governance board takes stock of what buckets of expertise it needs on its body. With a larger membership, Lee and Faust both said the Corporation tries to assemble different skill sets and professional backgrounds. Indeed, recently, the Corporation’s membership has seemingly conformed to a preset configuration.
“If you look at the list of the people on the Corporation today, and you look at their backgrounds, you’ll see it,” Lee said. “We have four current and past college presidents, we have four major business executives. We have a couple of lawyers—Ted Wells and me, we’re not sure why we’re there. We have someone from the nonprofit world—Jessica Matthews—we have some other academics, so you’ll get a sense for how the puzzle fits together.”

The death of James R. Rothenberg ’68 in July 2015 was an abrupt and tragic loss to many Corporation members. It also left a hole in the Corporation’s knowledge base that the body was not prepared to immediately fill.
With Keohane’s term coming to a close, Lee said that the Corporation had been prepared to replace her with Tilghman, and maintain the number of prominent academics on the board. Tilghman—a renowned life scientist—chaired the University’s life sciences review in her first year on the Corporation. But with Rothenberg’s untimely death, the group was short on financial savvy.
“Jim participated, he knew what was going on, and he could advise us,” Lee said, adding that Tilghman’s time at Princeton made her a compelling candidate. “When we filled that spot with Shirley, that left the huge hole that Jim left, and having folks who have business expertise, who participated at the highest level both as investors and business folks is important to us.”
Rubenstein was a natural fit. His decades of experience in private equity, millions of dollars donated to the University, and laundry list of boards he sits on were more than enough qualification.
“I probably served on as many nonprofit boards as one can serve on,” Rubenstein said.
That Rubenstein never attended Harvard distinguished him from many of his would-be colleagues on the Corporation. Only Keohane and Faust did not attend any of Harvard’s schools before assuming a governing role. Keohane and Rubenstein say that’s an asset.
“We think as long as we can now get 13 people, it may make sense to have a few of us without Harvard ties, so that we bring the perspective of some other educational experiences,” Keohane said.
“I think if you’re as important to the country as Harvard is you probably need to take a look at whether you should only have Harvard graduates doing certain things,” Rubenstein said.
By the time Faust called Rubenstein to formally invite him to join the Corporation, he had already been thoroughly vetted by the sitting members and the Overseers. Rubenstein told Faust he’d have to think about it.
“I went back and forth and decided to make sure that the time constraints would work because I think if you’re going to be a member of a nonprofit board—particularly a small one as this one is—you need to show up at the meetings,” Rubenstein said. “I had to make sure my schedule would work.”
Soon after Lee became the senior fellow of the Corporation in 2013, he solicited advice from the chairs of other prominent nonprofit boards. He eventually found himself across the table from Rubenstein, whose deep knowledge of higher education institutions made him an appealing lunch partner. Laurene Sterling, who serves with Rubenstein on Duke’s board of trustees, said his leadership on the board “has just been transformational.”
Lee and Rubenstein chatted amicably over lunch, but Lee said Rubenstein was candid in his assessment of what he should prioritize as senior fellow.
“He was direct, he was honest, he gave me his views of what was strong at Harvard, what wasn’t strong at Harvard,” Lee said.“The only awkward moment is when I offered to pay the luncheon bill and he said, ‘You don’t have to because I own the restaurant.’”
Rubenstein will bring more to the Corporation than a generosity for lunch bills and honest counsel. His time at Carlyle has not only served to enrich him personally—he’s also developed a robust fundraising network.
At Carlyle, Rubenstein finds investors to fund the firm’s ventures. As the private equity firm seeks to buy controlling stakes in private companies—with the intention of selling those interests after making the company more profitable—it needs to put up the equity. It’s Rubenstein's job to raise the funds to make those purchases. He’s quite good at it.
"David is the most prolific fundraiser maybe the planet has ever seen in any field, not just private equity—and Bill Conway is one of the greatest investors I have ever met," Jimmy Lee, the JPMorgan Chase banker, told Forbes magazine in 2012.
Over the course of Rubenstein’s career, his web of contacts has only continued to grow.
“He has a huge reach across not only the business community but also the government community as well as the philanthropic community,” D’Aniello said. “And all of that is a function of  his growth and experience in fundraising and the financing of the firm over the course of the last thirty years.”
As a Corporation member and chair of the capital campaign, Rubenstein plays an active role helping the University raise money. His status as a prominent donor gives him credibility as he asks others to make major gifts.
“I mean I can go out and ask somebody to give $20 million—I did it as president,” Keohane, who served as president of Duke for 11 years and Wellesley for 12 years, said. “But now, as a sitting member of the Corporation, I couldn’t give anywhere near that, and therefore, according to the canons of fundraising, it is not going to be very persuasive for me to go ask somebody to give $20 million.”
“They’ll say, ‘What did you give?’ It’s nowhere in that ballpark,”  she added.
Rubenstein has extensive experience convincing his wealthy peers to donate to universities and non-profits.
“I chaired a number of capital campaigns for nonprofits, and I think at one point I was chairing or co-chairing six nonprofit capital campaigns simultaneously, which is surely Einstein’s definition of insanity to the nth degree,” he said.
Corporation members hope that Rubenstein’s knack for investing transfers over to Harvard Management Company, which has seen “challenging” returns during the last decade.
“Specifically, David Rubenstein has been brought on in part to help us deal with the need for strength in the area of investment and development,” Keohane said.
And though 20 percent of the endowment’s investments are in private equity, Rubenstein and others said that he won’t be in a position to make direct investment decisions that might benefit Carlyle. While the Corporation appoints members to HMC’s Board of Directors, they do not directly set investment strategy at the firm.
Rubenstein said he “wouldn’t presume” that he’ll be providing advice to HMC’s CEO during his tenure on the Corporation.
“I’m obviously happy to give advice if asked, but I think they’re in pretty good shape, they don’t need my advice,” Rubenstein said. “There’s clearly been some challenges for all university endowments in the current situation but Harvard’s now dealing with it directly, and it’s obviously more challenging managing an endowment as large as Harvard’s and as visible as Harvard’s.”
D’Aniello said he expects Rubenstein to recuse himself from any governance decisions involving private equity. D’Aniello previously served on the board of trustees for Syracuse and said he would leave the boardroom if his nonprofit responsibilities and his responsibilities to the Carlyle Group collided.
“Every time they made a decision with respect to putting money with private equity, I would recuse myself,” D’Aniello said. “And as a matter of fact, I’m happy to say that they never did invest anything at Carlyle. But he’s not going to be involved in those decisions, he’ll be recused from those decisions.”
In recent years, Harvard has been trying to expand its global reach. More than 9,800 of its students and scholars are international, Faust just finished a global tour to promote the capital campaign, and Harvard recently opened a center in Tunisia.
Keohane said the Corporation is trying to reflect that international focus.
“When I joined the board, there was almost a sense that Harvard was Harvard, and you know we have a few peers, but most of our time is spent thinking specifically about Harvard itself,” she said. “And now, we’re more inclined to think about Harvard within a context of how higher education is developing around the world.”
Rubenstein is used to thinking globally. He has traveled to the Middle East with Ellwood and spoken at Harvard events in London. “He’s constantly all across the planet,” Ellwood said. And Faust described Rubenstein as the “force behind the creation of the Global Advisory Council”—a network of prominent alumni who advise Faust about international engagements.
“He has so many connections around the world that he’s been very helpful in bringing people together for that group,” Faust said.
As Rubenstein eyes the first few months of his tenure on the Corporation, his focus will be on learning about Harvard. He’s well-versed in the process.
“I think it’s good for new board members to kind of not assume that they’re going to have much influence for a while because I’ve got to learn a lot and listen, so I obviously spend a lot of time listening and learning for the first part of the time that I’m on the boards,” he said.
But as he takes his seat on the governing body of a University better known for its buttoned-up members dedicated to a sober purpose than jetsetting billionaires with their own television shows, Rubenstein is ready to lighten up the mood.
“Hopefully I can...bring some sense of humor to the whole thing so you can have a perspective that's not completely 100 percent so serious,” he said.
—Staff writer Brandon J. Dixon can be reached at brandon.dixon@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @BrandonJoDixon.
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction:
CORRECTION: May 23, 2017 
A previous version of this article incorrectly indicated that the Carlyle Group purchases controlling stakes in publicly-traded companies. In fact, the private equity firm purchases stakes in private companies. 
Sections
UPDATED: May 24, 2017 at 3:31 p.m.
Meetings of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences, held in University Hall’s opulent seafoam-green Faculty Room, are ordinarily rather sparsely attended. But last November’s gathering was no ordinary meeting.
Some of Harvard’s most senior faculty were forced to sit on the floor as the designated chairs filled up. Others, who arrived later, perched in the doorway, craning their necks to see the front of the room.
The Faculty had come in droves to discuss the College’s penalties on members of single-gender final clubs and Greek organizations—more specifically, a motion brought by one of their own against the policy. As professors took to the microphone one by one to alternately praise and lambast the sanctions, administrators—including architect of the policy Dean of the College Rakesh Khurana and University President Drew G. Faust, presiding over the meeting—stayed mostly silent.
In an interview later in January, Faust said she was surprised that the Faculty had taken such a strong interest in an undergraduate social life issue.
“We didn’t anticipate this level of faculty interest when we started working on the policy last year,” Faust said.
However, over a series of contentious Faculty meetings, it became clear that, to many, the issue was about more than who receives a final club invitation slipped under their door.
The policy has revived the perennial question of just who runs Harvard: the people in the classrooms or the people in University Hall? For some, the historic sanctions on social life have encroached upon the authority of the Faculty, and the response has been swift.
“This is not a faculty that will allow itself to get pushed around,” Government Department Chair Jennifer L. Hochschild said.
One year since the policy—two Faculty motions and one unexpected committee later—the debate shows little sign of abating, even as sanctions are scheduled to take effect for the freshman class in the fall.
Still, despite the cohort of vocal Faculty detractors to the policy, many at at the University see the issue as one best left to the administrators hired specifically to manage student social life. According to Faust, the Faculty had not concerned itself with student social organizations for the last “decade and a half.” But that time has seen other high-profile clashes over faculty governance, and Faculty involvement in undergraduate social life, broadly constituted, is nothing new.
Throughout Harvard’s history, the Faculty has been a sleeping giant—often dormant and content to focus on work in the classrooms, but unafraid to flex its muscles if provoked. For some, the sentiments stirred by the sanctions debate feel all too familiar.
Biology professor David A. Haig—who became a major player in the sanctions debate this spring—said that the social group policy has caused “the most severe division within the Faculty that I’ve seen” since the short presidency of Lawrence H. Summers, although the current climate is not as heated as it was at that time: “Nothing compares to the Larry Summers years,” he said.
Summers assumed the presidency in 2001 and quickly began to butt heads with many members of the Faculty over his confrontational leadership style. After five years and controversial and highly-publicized remarks Summers made about women in the sciences, tensions boiled over. At a Faculty meeting in March 2005, a majority of the roughly 550 Faculty members present voted in the affirmative that “the Faculty lacks confidence in the leadership of Lawrence H. Summers.”
Eleven months later, in February 2006, Summers resigned, having lost the trust of the University’s largest faculty.
“It looked to me like the magnitudes of the rifts with certain segments of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences faculty were at a level where I thought it would be very difficult for us to advance on a whole set of fronts,” Summers said at the time.
Prior to the sanctions debates, too, Faust’s presidency was touched by uproar from the Faculty. In 2013, administrators authorized secret searches of resident deans’ email accounts to find the source of a leak of information pertaining to a wave of cheating in Government 1310: “Introduction to Congress.” After widespread Faculty criticism of the searches, then-Dean of the College Evelynn M. Hammonds  resigned.
Both cases serve as institutional reminders of the power of the Faculty. And while Faust was surprised by professors’ interest in social clubs, there is significant precedent for Faculty involvement in student social life as well.
According to neuroscience professor John E. Dowling, Faculty members were involved in the creation of the Undergraduate Council, and other faculty committees focused solely on student social life, especially during the early 1980s.
“The Faculty Council was very interested in undergraduate social life,” Dowling said.“There was the committee on undergraduate education, the committee on social life, and there was a committee on student services.”
Serving as chair of a committee that considered the benefits of randomizing house assignments in the 1990s, former Dean of the College Harry R. Lewis ’68—perhaps most vocal opponent of the sanctions— said he worked with “distinguished senior faculty” on the highly-controversial initiative.
“I spent a whole year selling people on the randomization decision which was very unpopular,” Lewis said. “Very unpopular with certain vocal students, just to be clear about that.”
Faculty have also had their hands in everything from determining ROTC’s place on campus to advising undergraduate clubs. Every year, the Faculty must approve changes to the student handbook—most recently, they approved a ban on vaping.
From ousting e-cigarettes to ousting presidents, Harvard’s Faculty has consistently asserted its role determining the direction of the University—but not always without a fight.
“Certainly we faculty, but the University as a whole, take faculty governance seriously,” Hochschild said. “That is the bedrock governing principle for the university.”
Administrators like Dean of the Faculty of Arts and Science Michael D. Smith—who have disagreed that Faculty members were not involved in crafting the sanctions—nevertheless wholly agree with it in principle.
“I’m a strong believer in faculty governance and the Faculty need to be thinking about what are the most important aspects of the learning environment that we’re building here on campus and how that affects student experience going forward,” he said.
Early last May, at a routine Faculty Meeting, the Faculty were busy discussing the development of the new program in General Education.
Then, just two days later on May 6, Faust announced that—starting with the class of 2021—members of single-gender final clubs, fraternities, and sororities would be ineligible to hold athletic captaincies, club leadership positions, or be recommended for certain post-graduate fellowships.
The policy, immediately explosive among students, soon caught the attention of the Faculty. On May 25,  Lewis  introduced a Faculty motion, signed by 12 professors, opposing the sanctions and asserting that “Harvard shall not discriminate against students on the basis of organizations they join.”
“We therefore believe that this legislation, based on University precedent, history, and practice, is needed to protect the rights of current and future students—and indeed, by extension, the rights of current and future faculty and staff,” the motion read.

In a May 2017 interview, Lewis said that the sense of “ownership” faculty have over the University has diminished in the last few decades. He and others charged that professors should have been involved in crafting the initial policy.
“I think there’s been some change in the way the University administration relates to the Faculty, which is exacerbating that kind of sense that the faculty are players who can move their talents around and don’t have any particular loyalty to the institution,” he said.
In subsequent intense debates over the “Lewis motion”—and, by extension, the policy itself—at Faculty meetings in the fall, the issue of faculty jurisdiction over student social life came to the forefront. At the December meeting—held this time in the more capacious Science Center—English professor James Engell said the policy “threatens a constitutional fabric.”
In an interview later that month, Faust disagreed.
“I think Professor Engell kind of implied this might be the first step on a slippery slide to an erosion of Faculty rights and privileges and part of even some kind of diabolical plot to displace the Faculty’s rights,” she said. “It was not at all seen as intruding on some—by those who created the policy—as intruding on some space.”
At the time, Smith called the criticism that there was a lack of faculty involvement in the policy “categorically false.” In an interview this month, he stood by the characterization.
“We’ve discussed this topic as a Faculty—not trying to make an excuse for the level that they would like to have seen—but it has come up and I think there is a difference between the level of interest that has been displayed in the past and the level that has been displayed more recently,” he said.
In a January interview, Faust said she believed that current debates arose from a misunderstanding between administrators and faculty members over the nature of the policy.
“We had sort of thought of it as a student life issue that came historically under the purview of the dean,” Faust said. “It got presented much more as a disciplinary sanctions issue and that alerted the Faculty to an area that they have long felt responsible for.”
Smith said the Faculty have to decide which issues they want to spend their time on, and which they want to delegate to professional student life administrators.
One such administrator, Dean of Students Katherine G. O’Dair said she believes faculty governance at Harvard is “very strong.”
“I think we’ve established good, strong relationships with faculty,” O’Dair said. “We listen to faculty first and foremost.”
After the December Faculty meeting, a vote on Lewis’s motion was postponed and it seemed as though discussions about the sanctions would dominate meetings in 2017 as well. But shortly before the semester’s first Faculty meeting, Khurana announced the formation of a new committee with the power to revise or replace the sanctions.
In the hopes that the committee—comprised of faculty, staff, and students—would allow Faculty to adequately discuss the policy, Lewis withdrew his motion. For a moment, it seemed like the administration and the Faculty might have reached a governance détente.
“The faculty have made it clear that there are people out there that have some ideas about what they would like the faculty group to think about as ways to possibly improve the policy we have today. And I’d love them to get to work and to get back to us as quickly as possible,” Smith said of the committee in a February interview.
But two events in early March would forestall such a rapprochement.
One, Smith announced Khurana would co-chair the “revise or replace” committee with Music Department Chair Suzannah E. Clark, prompting concern among professors and forcing Smith to come to Khurana’s defense.
“The dean responsible for promulgating the policy is co-chair of this committee,” Classics professor Richard F. Thomas said at the meeting. “This leaves me again with an uneasiness.”
And two, a committee tasked with forming recommendations on how to implement the policy released its final report which suggested—among other things—that students sign a document affirming that they are not a member of a single-gender social organization. Khurana accepted nearly all of the committee’s recommendations.
On March 14, Haig—a member of the “revise or replace” committee—introduced a motion opposing the affirmation.
“The policy is being implemented in September and it has never come to the Faculty to a vote or serious discussion,” he said in an interview in May. “I see that as a problem of governance.”
At the April Faculty meeting, the Faculty voted to refer Haig’s motion to the “revise or replace” committee, rather than voting on it themselves. Haig said this decision was “inappropriate.”
Now, a year after the policy was originally announced and with roughly three months until it begins affecting undergraduates, the amount of influence the Faculty will have over its ultimate form is still uncertain.
In mid-May, Smith wrote in a letter to faculty that the committee will create an online forum for faculty members to post feedback on the “revise and replace” committee’s recommendations after they are disseminated in the “coming weeks.” When Lewis withdrew his motion, he said that he would reintroduce the legislation if the committee’s recommendations were not “adequate.”
But while Lewis and his supporters have been vocal about what they feel is an administrative overreach, outgoing Mather Faculty Dean Michael D. Rosengarten said that many Faculty members do not themselves have a sufficient understanding of student social life.
“As far as the faculty at the University, I don’t think they have an idea what’s going on unless they’re part of the House. So most of it happens at the level of Faculty Deans,” he said. “Some of the Faculty has no idea what’s going on in the Houses, and don’t understand the dimension of student life or the students.”
But while some are skeptical of the Faculty’s relevance to the issue of student social life, History and Literature lecturer Timothy P. McCarthy ’93 has no doubt its influence will be felt.
“The Faculty run the place and that’s always been the case and I think that will always be the case,” he said.
—Staff writer Joshua J. Florence can be reached at joshua.florence@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @JoshuaFlorence1.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Martin Shkreli—the price-hiking former pharmaceutical executive once dubbed the “most hated man in America”—hadn’t even started speaking when someone pulled the fire alarm.
Still awaiting trial for securities fraud, Shkreli was scheduled to speak at Harvard’s Science Center in February. But some students were determined to make it clear they thought that Shkreli had no place at Harvard.
As students shuffled back into the building and Shkreli began his speech, some protesters took seats in the audience to loudly voice their opposition throughout his talk. And around fifteen minutes in, about a tenth of the audience stood up and walked out.
“I think this is a really damaging event and that the Harvard platform shouldn’t be used to give someone like Shkreli legitimacy, space, and power,” Katherine Qian ’20, a protestor, wrote in an email at the time.
Quickly, Shkreli’s visit brought questions of free speech—what it means, and what, if anything, justifies its limitation—to the forefront of campus discourse. While some students argued that Shkreli should be free to state his views on campus, others said his appearance was dangerous and provocative without substance.
Shkreli’s visit was not an isolated incident. In the past year, as confrontations over controversial speakers like Shkreli have have roiled college campuses across the country, students have vocally disagreed on whose voices should be given a platform at Harvard.
Despite these at-times heated conversations, however, students and faculty say that the debate on campus has been subdued compared to some other colleges. Earlier this semester, conservative commentator Ann Coulter cancelled her speech at the University of California, Berkeley after riots in the area and some student uproar. Charles A. Murray ’65, a controversial political scientist, saw his talk at Middlebury College end in violent protest.
Richard H. Fallon, a professor at Harvard Law School who teaches a course on the First Amendment, said that he thinks the University has dedicated itself to the protection of free speech.
“On the whole, Harvard is absolutely an institution committed to freedom of speech,” Fallon said. “I am not aware of incidents I would think of as casting the University in a bad light in terms of its commitment to principles of free speech.”
Nearly everyone agrees that free speech is a fundamental value at Harvard. And even as disagreements arise when it comes to just what that looks like in practice, some charge that the familiar premise of the nationwide debate—that free speech is under attack at all—is a false one, at least at Harvard.
Back at the Shkreli event, as the commotion from the fire alarm died down, one member of the Harvard Financial Analysts Club—the group that invited the speaker—came to the front of the lecture hall to read a section of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences’ “Free Speech Guidelines."
The seven-page document, adopted in 1990, has served as the administrative perspective on free speech for nearly three decades—an affirmation of the University’s commitment to protecting the free expression of both speakers and dissenters.
“Curtailment of free speech undercuts the intellectual freedom that defines our purpose,” the document reads. “It also deprives some individuals of the right to express unpopular views and others of the right to listen to unpopular views.”
Intended to ensure one individual’s free speech could not be protected at the expense of another’s, though, the guidelines also indicate where speech can be limited: namely, in cases of “racial, sexual, and intense personal harassment” or when disruption of a speaker “prevents members of the audience from adequately hearing or seeing the event.”
At Harvard, faculty and students broadly agree that free speech has wide support.
“My general experience is that there is a strong respect for the value of free speech on the Harvard campus,” University Professor Danielle S. Allen said.
And beyond written policy, prominent administrators—including University President Drew G. Faust—and faculty members like Allen have publicly and repeatedly stated their support for open discourse.
“You’re free to say what you want,” Faust said in an interview in 2016. “You're also free to take the hits for saying things that are stupid or prejudicial or uninformed.”
While those at Harvard’s highest levels have largely presented a united front in favor of free speech, some say the broader culture on campus can have a dampening effect on expression.
Divinity School professor Cornel R. West ’74—who authored a widely-circulated statement affirming support for free speech—said he believes that campus culture, rather than direct administrative action, plays the most influential role.
“You’ve got to create a culture amongst students and faculty,” West said. “That’s the most important thing. You never want to begin just with the leadership at the top.”
At Harvard, some conservative students have taken up that mission, arguing that the current culture on Harvard’s largely-liberal campus disadvantages voices outside of its political mainstream. Students across the ideological spectrum, however, agree that free speech in theory should not be a partisan issue.
W. Kent Haeffner ’18, the president of the Harvard Republican Club, said that he thinks Harvard’s predominantly left-leaning student body has made the defense of free speech an increasingly conservative cause.
“This is something that’s a fundamental right guaranteed by our Constitution; that shouldn’t be partisan whatsoever,” Haeffner said. “Conservatives are kind of the main voices speaking out for it on Harvard’s campus and other campuses.”
Kyle G. Sargent ’19, a former board member of the Open Campus Initiative—a new student group that brings lightning rod speakers to campus—said he is alarmed that free speech, in his eyes, has become a partisan issue.
“It really bothers me that free speech has become a conservative cause because, by and large, conservative causes tend to lose if you look at the broad strokes of history,” Sargent said.
And Alexander Z. Zhang ’20, a member of the Harvard College Democrats who said he spoke only on behalf of himself, agreed that the way free speech has become “weaponized” has led it to become a partisan issue, but that it shouldn’t be.
“Free speech is rooted in finding the truth, it’s all about this marketplace of ideas in which the people with the best ideas or the speech that is more truthful or is most in line with American values eventually prevails over all other speech,” Zhang said. “I think that’s not partisan at all.”
While students on the left and right may agree on the value of speech, they tend to depart on what may—or may not—be fit for Harvard’s campus.
“The whole point of free speech is it doesn’t matter how wrong or bad your speech is, you have a right to say it,” Haeffner said. “And if someone disagrees with you, rather than saying you don’t have the right to say it, go out there and use logic and reason and interlocute with them rather than going and saying that this is so wrong that we can’t give it a platform.”
Conor Healy ’19, the president of the Open Campus Initiative, said he worried placing any kinds of limits on speech would put too much power in the hands of whoever is tasked with drawing that line.
“I would say that you can draw that line, but there are fundamental problems with the act of drawing it,” Healy said. “I don’t know that anyone is competent to make that decision.”
According to Healy, the Open Campus Initiative makes its decisions on who to invite not on the viewpoints of speakers, but rather in the quality of the individuals’ arguments. Healy said that he thinks there’s a misperception that the group exists to “court controversy.”
Instead, the Open Campus Initiative brought psychology professor Jordan B. Peterson to campus in April, where he discussed his refusal to use gender pronouns other than “he” and “she” and advocated for defunding women’s studies. Students quietly protested inside the lecture hall, holding a banner of the transgender flag.
“I don’t think there’s a clear line,” Helene Lovett ’19, who helped organize the protest, said. “It’s just a matter of acknowledging that certain speakers can and have incited violence and, in their choosing, in whatever happens at the talk, to prioritize the safety and protection of students who are the subject or involved.”
Lily M. Velona ’18, at the time of the Peterson event, added that there is a distinction between free speech and the kind of rhetoric Peterson uses regarding transgender individuals.
Giving anti-transgender speakers a platform “normalizes the idea that we can refuse to acknowledge the personhood, by putting it up for debate, of an incredibly vulnerable group of people,” Velona said.
Fallon said his ideal free speech culture would allow for the expression of even “ill-considered” speech, where no idea is censored. But, he added, there are instances at other universities and in workplaces where racial epithets and other expressions of speech “are used to create an intimidating environment that is actually hostile to open exchanges of ideas.”
“I think a university has to walk a very fine line on one hand maintaining a vital free speech culture in which there are no ideas that are inexpressible and in which there is some breathing space for hotheaded, ill-considered insulting assertions and references,” Fallon said. “On the other hand, the university has to maintain an environment where its students can’t be bullied.”
—Staff writer Jamie D. Halper can be reached at jamie.halper@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @JamieDHalper.
—Staff writer Michael E. Xie can be reached at michael.xie@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @MichaelEXie1.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Channing Tatum went to Harvard Business School. He was classmates with LL Cool J.
Tyra Banks, too, posed for a photo by the Business School’s Centennial Bell when she attended courses there. “Smiling ear2ear on the Harvard Business School campus w/ my diploma!” the model and TV personality Tweeted.
But none of these celebrities who have passed through the Business School in the past few years have earned an MBA. Instead, they took part in the school’s executive education programs, one of many non-degree-granting curriculums across the University.
Banks, for example, completed the nine-week Owner/President Management program, designed specifically for presidents and CEOs of companies making over $10 million annually. The program’s application doesn’t ask for GMAT scores or GPAs, but does have sections for applicants’ annual incomes and ownership stakes in their companies.
Participants in the program attend one three-week session per year for three years. In 2018, the first session will cost $42,500.
The rise of executive, continuing, and paid online education at Harvard, University leaders say, is part of a larger strategy to extend a Harvard education to an audience beyond the traditional on-campus undergraduate and graduate students. Conveniently, it’s also quite profitable.
These programs are a promising new revenue stream in a time when low endowment returns have constrained budgets across the University. In the past ten years, revenue generated from continuing and executive education doubled from roughly $170 million in fiscal year 2006 to $381 million in fiscal year 2016.
According to University President Drew G. Faust, Harvard educates seven non-degree students—not counting those enrolled in edX courses—for every one degree-earning student on campus.
“Underlying and driving these non-degree programs is the University’s mission to generate and disseminate knowledge, to reach out to committed and talented learners from around the world, and to share our intellectual resources with far more individuals than would otherwise be possible,” Faust wrote in a Harvard Magazine column. “This will be the century of lifelong education, and Harvard is poised to lead the way.”
In short, it’s an opportunity some Harvard administrators are optimistic about.
“Happily for Harvard, this area fits with its mission and it’s pedagogically exciting, and it’s also a source of good revenue,” said Thomas J. Hollister, Chief Financial Officer of the University. “So, it’s a win-win.”
These days, nearly anyone seeking a Harvard education can find one to suit their interests. Those in the corporate sector can bolster their leadership skills with the latest Business School case studies. High school pre-med hopefuls can take Medical School “fundamental” courses online. Lawyers moving up to partner status can gain organizational skills at the Law School.
In recent years, Harvard has made a concerted effort to extend its reach to potential students at all stages of life.
“This market of lifelong learners is very large, it’s changing, and a lot of it is online and it’s new,” Hollister said. “So when a market is new, it’s good to be opportunistic and it’s good to be entrepreneurial.”
Harvard’s newest foray into nontraditional education is “HMX Fundamentals,” an online program from the Medical School which offers four paid courses for individuals considering a career in healthcare.
The program will launch its courses in physiology, immunology, biochemistry, and genetics on June 20. Tuition will cost $800 for a single HMX Fundamentals course, $1,000 for two courses, and $1,800 for all four.
According to Michael J. Parker, the Medical School’s associate dean for online learning, the program fits into the Medical School’s “core mission” to educate a larger audience.
The Business School, meanwhile, has operated its well-established executive education program for over seventy years, attracting more than 9,000 executives annually, according to its website. Last summer, the Business School opened its new Chao Center, a designated space for executive education. The program also has outposts in India and China.
The Business School offers a range of programs for a variety of specialties and executives at different levels. Last summer, Tatum, LL Cool J, and NBA basketball players Pau Gasol and Chris Paul enrolled in a four-day executive education program titled “The Business of Entertainment, Media, and Sports” where Tatum—the star of “Magic Mike”—participated in a “live case study” on the impact of dance movies.
The Law School, too, has been offering executive education programs for the past ten years, ranging from several-day general leadership workshops to custom trainings for individual firms. According to Law School Executive Education Director Carrie J. Fletcher, international lawyers often comprise over half of enrollment in such courses.
Fletcher said a “really strong network of executive education teams” exists at the University. The Law School hosts a University-wide executive education summit each summer to discuss “our collective role in the university” and ensure that the Law School “fits squarely in place with all of the exec ed teams,” Fletcher said.
Hollister, however, said that alternative education is not a single unified push.
“What we have at Harvard that is very exciting is that each school is doing something different pedagogically,” he said. “So you want to be aware that it is not homogenous, nor is it a centrally planned strategic entity. It’s much more [about] the mission of those leading the efforts.”
Like their degree-granting counterparts, a nontraditional Harvard education can come with a hefty price tag.
According to Brian Kenny, the Business School’s chief marketing and communications officer, comprehensive leadership programs up to eight weeks in length can cost from $68,000 to $80,000. Shorter programs, running less than a week, cost between $10,000 and $15,000 at both the Business and Law Schools. Tatum’s four-day program on sports and entertainment will cost $9,250 this year.
Unlike their degree-granting counterparts, these Business school programs do not offer students financial aid.
Hollister said that while established programs generally produce positive financial returns, the initial investment required for newer programs make it difficult to estimate profit margins for each school.
“It’s not about making more money. It’s more about mission and asking, ‘Does this fit with who and what Harvard aspires to be?’” said Hollister. “It isn’t automatically a source of money because you have to invest to make it work,” he continued.
But for now, Hollister said, executive and continuing education is “a bright spot” in Harvard’s financial report. Revenue from the programs has grown at the brisk rate of 7 to 8 percent a year for the past “five to ten years,” he said.
In 2016, the Business School’s executive education tuition contributed $176 million to revenue, according to the school’s financial statement. In contrast, MBA tuition and fees contributed $127 million.
The story across the University was similar, where continuing and executive education garnered $381 million in fiscal year 2016. By contrast, revenue from undergraduate tuition was just over $300 million over the same time span, and the University’s financial report noted that tuition revenue growth “will continue to be limited by affordability pressures” like financial aid.
In a year when the endowment dropped nearly $2 billion in value, the University has pointed to executive and continuing education as a potential area to make up lost funds. While revenue from these programs won’t bridge the entire gap, the steady revenue growth from non-traditional programs provides a beacon of hope in otherwise tight financial times.
“Harvard is an academic institution and what counts here is teaching and research. It’s the academics and the deans and the faculty who lead that, and that’s primary,” Hollister said. “The financial people like me try to make sure the numbers tick and tie and that we are financially responsible, but it’s all in support of the University missio.n”
—Staff writer William L. Wang can be reached at william.wang@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @wlwang20.
—Staff writer Luke W. Xu can be reached at luke.xu@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @duke_of_luke_
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Across the Charles River, a mile from the Cambridge paths well-trodden by centuries of Harvard undergraduates, sits an impressive hole in the ground. It may not look like much, but soon it will become the foundation of the long-awaited expansion of the School of Engineering and Applied Sciences.
While the hole has sat unfilled for months, SEAS Assistant Dean for Education David Hwang said that he and his colleagues eagerly check a live stream of the construction site “every 15 minutes” in anticipation of their new academic home.
The roughly two-thirds of SEAS professors relocating to Allston have plenty of reasons to be excited—bigger laboratories, better classrooms, and a solution to an overcrowded Pierce Hall. With a recent decision to change class schedules in fall 2018 to accommodate moving between campuses and above-ground construction planned to begin this summer, the opening of the campus in fall 2020 feels closer than ever.
Three years is a deceptively short amount of time to prepare for Harvard’s most significant campus expansion in recent memory. Faculty must prepare for new teaching environments, while administrators must grapple with the logistics of moving hundreds of students between two cities each day.
Even though move-in day for SEAS affiliates is set for the summer of 2020, Dean of SEAS Francis J. Doyle already speaks reverently about his school's future home across the river.
“It’s not particularly breathtaking to look at the pit right now, but by [mid-June], steel will start going up so you’ll start to see the superstructure going up,” Doyle said. “It really is a massive building—staggering dimensions for one massive complex—and to me that’s the most exciting part.”
It’s been a long time coming. Since the 1990s, University officials made plans to expand Harvard’s campus into Allston—long before SEAS in its current form was officially established. Former University President Lawrence H. Summers pushed forward on Allston plans in 2004, and by 2008 it seemed possible that parts of the new campus would be open as early as 2011.
Then the 2008 financial crisis hit. While other projects like House renewal continued apace, plans for Allston screeched to a halt. Plans for the SEAS complex were revived in 2013, only to be delayed again in 2015. It was at this time that Doyle rose to the helm of the Faculty of Arts and Science’s fastest growing academic division.
“I am delighted to say that since the time I’ve arrived we’ve stayed on budget and we’ve stayed on schedule, which is very hard to do with a major capital project like that,” Doyle said.
Financing a project on the scale of the SEAS complex, alongside other major Allston endeavors like Harvard’s Ed Portal and Business School expansion, put pressure on the University’s already strained finances.
“The financing plan had been developed pretty robustly in ways that were not heavily endowment dependent. But on all major capital projects we use a variety of financing sources,” University Provost Alan M. Garber ’76 said.
Opting to wait for a rebound in endowment returns—the value of Harvard’s endowment fell by almost $2 billion last fiscal year—would be a race against the clock, according to Doyle. Boston-area construction costs continue to rise by 5 to 7 percent a year.
“Time slippage becomes very expensive,” Doyle said. “So that’s why it’s been so important to me to keep this on schedule.”
Harvard actively campaigned for alumni donations to the SEAS complex throughout the capital campaign. While SEAS has seen the money pour in—most significantly, business magnate John A. Paulson’s historic $400 million donation in 2015—SEAS has not yet found a donor to name the new building itself.
However, SEAS has received multiple donations for smaller laboratories and classrooms over the past year. According to Doyle, the building’s atrium could also be renamed.
As administrators like Garber tout the “visible progress” on the SEAS complex construction, many professors are already preparing for their own massive undertaking: moving dozens of laboratories across the river.
Pierce Hall, the current center of SEAS life, was built in 1901, over half a century before the largest concentration within SEAS—Computer Science—was established as a discipline. Many professors are eager to leave the cramped classrooms and basement labs of Pierce for the 21st century facilities planned in Allston.
“The way that SEAS teaches keeps changing so we need to be very flexible,” Former SEAS Dean Cherry A. Murray said.
Additionally, Murray said the physical expansion will allow for a much needed expansion in faculty. In an interview last month, Doyle said the school is planning to grow its faculty, despite the financial troubles. The new space will allow for more hires, affecting the student-faculty ratio.
“I am deeply concerned about things like student-faculty ratio, and I endeavour to at least hold the line on that—that has been growing over the last decade, and that’s not what you want growing, you want that flat,” Doyle said.
Since 2008, the number of SEAS concentrators has exploded from 291 to 943. The number of non-concentrators enrolling in SEAS classes has also grown.
Although Applied Physics Professor Vinothan N. Manoharan will not be moving to Allston, he said the expansion is nevertheless an exciting opportunity.
“I think the goal is to make sure that faculty can feel at home in both places and students can feel at home in both places,” he said.
However, reception to the Allston move has not always been so warm. When the move was unexpectedly announced in 2013, some professors had concerns over the weakening of ties with FAS and Cambridge.
Murray said she hopes the “strong connection” between the College and SEAS—which differentiates SEAS from other engineering schools like MIT—will be maintained after the move.
In the fall, SEAS spokesperson Paul Karoff announced that Bioengineering, Mechanical Engineering, Computer Science, and Electrical Engineering will be moving, while Applied Physics, Applied Mathematics, and Environmental Science and Engineering will stay in Cambridge.
It is still unclear which classes will be taught in Allston, according to Hwang, and there are a number of other logistical details to finalize.
In April, Faculty took one large step towards solving the two campus puzzle and voted to approve a new schedule that will give students more time to move back and forth. Starting in the fall of 2018, classes on the Cambridge campus will be 75 minutes long with 15 minutes of passing time, and starting in 2020, classes on the Allston and Cambridge campuses will be staggered 45 minutes apart. This new schedule would do away with the seven-minute passing time between classes known as “Harvard time.”
With the new schedule in place, undergraduates will not only cross the river to get to class, but also city lines.
“Harvard Transportation is working on updating its existing shuttle service to Allston to include more frequent trips back and forth across the river,” Harvard spokesperson Brigid O’Rourke wrote in an emailed statement. “The project will also include 500 bike parking spaces and improvements to the City’s bike lanes.”
In an effort to mitigate traffic issues while also providing students with adequate transportation, Harvard has been working with the City of Boston to restructure streets and sidewalks in the area.
“Harvard has had a fairly aggressive mode-share goal for this project and for its entire build out in Allston,” Gerald Autler, a Senior Project Manager at the Boston Planning and Development Agency, said. “We’re confident that the shuttles, with the opportunities for biking and opportunities for bike sharing, and all the other mobility strategies that the transportation system will be able to accommodate the cross-river connection.”
While the Allston campus may seem far away, Autler believes the move is manageable.
“The distance is not large,” Autler said. “But maybe the psychological distance is greater than the physical difference.”
—Staff writer Joshua J. Florence can be reached at joshua.florence@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @JoshuaFlorence1.
–Staff writer Mia C. Karr can be reached at mia.karr@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @miackarr.
Sections
For Harvard affiliates who have lobbied the University for an ethnic studies program, 44 and 12 are familiar numbers. They mark, respectively, the years since the first concerted push for an ethnic studies program and the number of formal proposals submitted to Harvard for investment in the field.
Though these numbers may frustrate the University’s ethnic studies advocates, another is far more troubling: zero—the number of ethnic studies concentrations at Harvard.
So when the Committee on Degrees in History and Literature, home to Harvard’s oldest concentration, announced in April a new field for ethnic studies, reception among some advocates was muted. 
Tessa L. Desmond, the administrative director of Harvard’s Committee on Ethnicity, Migration, Rights—originally an Ethnic Studies secondary—said that while History and Literature administrators have framed the new field “as a natural first spot to begin,” ethnic studies offerings have in fact been decades in the making.
“Ethnic studies has been growing pretty consistently since the establishment of the secondary field in 2010,” Desmond said. “They’ve just been these small, incremental changes and shifts.”
More than four decades have passed since the first push for ethnic studies in 1972, and the waiting game, for some activists, is getting old. But for Harvard’s administrators, real pressures—both financial and ideological—loom along the road to a comprehensive program. As many of the student leaders pushing for the discipline prepare for graduation, dissent over the future of ethnic studies at Harvard continues.
In 1972, then-Harvard history professor John Womack compiled a list of undergraduate courses that could constitute a program focusing on the culture and history of ethnic groups in the United States, marking the first of twelve proposals that have been submitted to create the field.
Since then, the field has gained ground in uncertain fits and starts.
Through most of the 2000s, ethnic studies proposals faced significant faculty and student pushback, Desmond said. Ideologically, opposition to the program ran the gamut: some argued the program would not generate enough student interest to be worthwhile. Others argued that ethnic studies would divide Harvard along racial lines, and yet others maintain that the discipline is more political than academic.
Diana Sorensen, a former divisional dean of arts and humanities, convened a group of faculty in the 2008-2009 academic year to rethink ethnic studies as a discipline.
“That reading group came up with concepts of ethnicity, migration, indigeneity, and human rights, and said these four topics touch on ethnic groups in America in really interesting ways,” Desmond said.

The following academic year, the EMR secondary was created—at the time dubbed “Ethnic Studies.” African American Studies and Music professor Kay K. Shelemay, who chairs the committee for Ethnicity, Migration, and Rights and oversaw the name change in 2012, said the rebranding served to incorporate human rights into ethnic studies.
The renaming of the secondary field presented a new problem, though: ethnicity, migration, and rights, while more comprehensive, distanced itself in name from ethnic studies, what so many students were intensely working towards.
Desmond said she believes the name change obscures decades of work towards ethnic studies at Harvard.
“The effect, though, is that I think students don't recognize that we have this long history of ethnic studies,” Desmond said.
Shelemay said that although human rights are incorporated into the field, “ethnicity and ethnic studies remains our primary mission and that has been our mission for decades at Harvard.”
What some call Harvard’s sluggish progress towards ethnic studies is fueled by a variety of factors that divide advocates. For one, ethnic studies proponents disagree on a precise definition of the field.
Some, like ethnic studies advocates Sally Chen ’19 and Kaipo T. Matsumoto ’17, say they define the field as a holistic study of ethnic minorities in United States history.
“Ethnic studies is not the centralized space where you do different Asian American, Latinx, and indigenous studies, Muslim American studies,” Matsumoto said, adding he views it instead as a discipline “that looks at the US in its entirety, at its place in the world, in relation to the study of race, ethnicity, oftentimes class and gender as well.”
For Itzel L. Vasquez-Rodriguez ’17, another proponent of ethnic studies, ethnic studies and “studies of ethnicity” are different. She said studies of ethnicity are not necessarily situated in the United States.
“In Ethnic Studies, I can learn about a community of Latinx farmworkers in California and how their income status and ethnoracial identities intersect,” Vasquez-Rodriguez wrote in an email. “On the other hand, if I wanted to study an indigenous group in Argentina, that would be more of a study of ethnicity.”
Another consideration preventing the advancement of ethnic studies is a lack of financial resources—a constraint exacerbated in part by shrinking federal funding for the arts and humanities and the lackluster performance of Harvard’s $35.7 billion endowment. Consequently, Harvard is hard-pressed to fund faculty appointments in ethnic studies, according to Dean of Arts and Humanities Robin Kelsey.
Faculty members who are drawn to the University may find scarce resources to further their scholarship. One solution to faculty recruitment problems is to “cluster hire”—hiring several faculty members in the same discipline at once. But this tactic may be even less feasible given financial pressures.
Harvard has thus found retaining faculty members that focus on ethnic studies difficult. Terry K. Park, a lecturer in History and Literature, said a combination of a heavy work burden and lackluster resources pressures ethnic studies scholars.
“We’re often stretched pretty thin. It’s not just the classes that we teach, and the students that we advise,” Park said. “Ethnic studies is not just an academic project, it’s a political project. It’s important because it offers a supportive space for students of color, or first generation students who may feel a little bit unwelcome here at Harvard.”
Chen said it is difficult to offer courses on a range of ethnic backgrounds without the manpower and funding to do so.
“You can’t get anywhere if you don’t have any faculty because if you don’t have faculty, you don’t have courses. You don’t have courses, you don’t have students,” she said.
In recent months, ethnic studies at Harvard made headway after the degree committee on History and Literature began offering a field in the discipline in April.
In December, the Ethnic Studies Coalition circulated a University-wide petition calling on Harvard to establish an ethnic studies department, create a center for research in the field, and hire more faculty.  Lauren Kaminsky, the director of undergraduate studies for History and Literature, said the petition partially motivated the creation of the new History and Literature field.
According to Kaminsky, several students in the concentration’s American Studies track have already written theses relating in some way to ethnic studies. She added that the new track seeks to provide a formal pathway for scholarship in the field.
“The only thing that’s going to change with the ethnic studies field is that, going forward, we’ll be able to actually advertise that we’re looking for people to teach in ethnic studies, but our hope is that we’ll get a wider applicant pool,” Kaminsky said.
To date, the committee for History and Literature has hired 11 new lecturers to join the staff in fall 2017, and Kaminsky said a “high proportion” of these hires have extensive training and expertise in ethnic studies.
But some say these lecturers, who often must leave their posts within three years and are also expected to lead tutorials and advise undergraduate theses, may be overworked. Park said that lecturers’ job requirements might hinder efforts to place ethnic studies on firmer ground.
Park, one such lecturer, said his position is at times “exhausting,” and that the short tenure can “make it that more difficult to sustain a movement for ethnic studies.”
Kaminsky emphasized that hires represent a “small scale” step towards more ethnic studies offerings, and that History and Literature hopes to see more long-term faculty at Harvard in coming years.
“We are really happy to help in any way,” she said.
By some measures, it already has. Kaminsky said she estimated about five to ten rising juniors would pursue the concentration’s ethnic studies track this year.
Matsumoto and Chen said the field was a promising administrative move, although they intend to follow up with the College on next steps.
“We were very much not opposed to [the ethnic studies track], but militant in not letting it stop there,” Matsumoto said. “We still feel that way but there are ways to celebrate the small victories that the ethnic studies for Hist and Lit have accomplished.”
Kaminsky said she agreed.
“It seems to be like a necessary first step, but I’m sure nowhere near enough and nowhere near the last step,” she said.
Activists and administrators alike cite hiring tenured ethnic studies faculty as a top agenda item for the future of the field at Harvard—a future made uncertain by tight budgets.
Administrators like Desmond say Harvard should dedicate its existing financial resources towards building an ethnic studies research center, which she called an “intermediary” between the current History and Literature track and an expanded program in the future.
For Kelsey, the way forward lies in making the effort a “cross-generational” conversation that draws in Harvard affiliates from all age groups.
While large and established minority groups on campus have underclassmen who can continue advocating for ethnic studies, smaller groups such as Harvard’s  Native Americans will have more difficulty passing the baton, according to Matsumoto, an outgoing member of Native Americans at Harvard College.
“We’re freaking out,” he said. “We do have underclassmen; the indigenous side doesn’t. We might have two, one, maybe. Asian American side has several. The Latinx community has several.”
Kelsey also said he intends to collaborate with Dean of Social Sciences Claudine Gay and Dean of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences Michael D. Smith to make ethnic studies more interdisciplinary.
“We took this year as by no means some kind of decision that the future belongs to the art and humanities with respect to this issue,” Kelsey said.
The field is growing out of the humanities division at the College, which, according to Desmond, “leaves students and faculty working in the social sciences without an analogous program.”
“I look forward to doing my part, in conversation with students and faculty throughout the division, to ensure that ethnic studies thrives at Harvard, including within the social sciences,” Gay wrote in an email. “I come to this with an open mind about what the ‘solution’ will be, though my guess is that it will be multi-faceted as befits the enterprise.”
—Staff writer Brandon J. Dixon can be reached at brandon.dixon@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @BrandonJoDixon.
—Staff writer Kristine E. Guillaume can be reached at kristine.guillaume@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @krisguillaume.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
They’re the workhorses of Harvard’s laboratories. They help run experiments, mentor undergraduates, and advance groundbreaking research.
More than 5,000 postdoctoral scholars work at Harvard—the largest population out of any American institution. A stepping stone to academia, postdoctoral research is open to those who have completed a Ph.D. and come to Harvard for work and on-the-job training.
In an effort to centralize the oversight of these thousands of researchers, about 80 percent of whom are in the sciences, offices of postdoctoral affairs have cropped up over the years.
James Gould, the director of the Medical and Dental School’s Office for Postdoctoral Fellows, oversees 940 postdocs in Longwood, and four or five thousand working in affiliated hospitals. Stephen Kargère, who directs the Faculty of Arts and Sciences’ Office of Postdoctoral Affairs, serves as a resource for more than 1,200 postdocs across 44 departments.
If something goes wrong between a postdoc and their principal investigator—the faculty member who is essentially their boss in the lab—there are avenues that the postdoc can take, Kargère said.
But for one postdoc in an FAS science department, whom The Crimson granted anonymity because she feared professional retaliation, none of those resources were enough. After her relationship with her PI soured, she was advised to resign to avoid being fired.
“I used all the resources that I could find, and even found more, and at each point I found that I had no protections,” she said.
In addition to navigating what can, at times, be a contentious employer-employee relationship, postdocs at Harvard face challenges outside of the lab, including exorbitant child care expenses, a rising cost of living, and a non-existent University health plan for those who get external funding. They also lack many of the resources available to graduate students, such as access to the Office of Career Services.
While newly-formed postdoc-run associations and postdoctoral affairs offices have sought to plug these holes and organize advocacy, some are still left to struggle behind the scenes.
In a survey of FAS postdocs last year, 199 respondents reported that they worked an average of 55 hours per week, and a majority said they make between $40,000 and $55,000 per year. Slightly over half of the respondents said they did not make enough money to cover their living expenses.
Nearly three quarters of those with children said they were dissatisfied with childcare options, and one respondent wrote that he was living paycheck to paycheck because of the high cost of childcare.

Another issue raised in the survey was health care coverage. University Provost Alan M. Garber ’76 said the health care package is updated each year for all faculty and staff not covered by a collective bargaining agreement.
But some postdocs are not eligible for Harvard employee health insurance at all. Kargère said postdocs receiving external funding—meaning ones paid directly by an outside institution instead of through a PI or stipend—are ineligible.
This affects a smaller subset of the postdoc population: 7.73 percent of survey respondents were ineligible for the University’s health plan. But these postdocs are forced to find an outside provider. One respondent said health care costs take up more than a quarter of their salary.
Finding healthcare is a requirement for those with an international visa. Ömer F. Örsün, a postdoc at the Institute for Quantitative Social Sciences and the co-president of the FAS Postdoctoral Association, said the International Office offered him several outside providers to choose from.
Many postdocs also complain that few career resources are made available to help postdocs move on to careers in academia or the private sector. Postdoc office directors like Kargère act as a substitute for OCS, offering to read resumes and answer questions.
“[Kargère] will read stuff for us, but I think he is inundated with people sending things for him to read,” Organismic and Evolutionary Biology research associate Sevan S. Suni, a co-chair of the FAS Postdoctoral Association’s advocacy committee, said. “I mean, it’s one person for 1,200 people.”
One postdoctoral fellow in the Psychology department, Calvin K. Lai, said the burden of scouring the academic job market, combined with research responsibilities, can be “incredibly time-consuming.”
“For most of us postdocs, we’ll be on the academic job market for many of the years that we're on a postdoc,” Lai said. “That’s a lot of time and energy and emotional work that is going on... in addition to the responsibilities as a postdoc to your PI.”
Many of the postdocs interviewed said the cost of living in the greater Boston area is expensive given their salaries. Giuseppe Ugazio, a Psychology postdoctoral fellow, said that he doesn’t think he could afford to live alone in the area if he was not married.
“I’m living with my wife, so we’re sharing the cost of living in two, but I wouldn’t be able to live by myself. I would need to find a cheaper accommodation and that’s something that is not ideal,” Ugazio said.
Beyond the common financial struggles that postdocs face, the day-to-day experience of working in a Harvard lab can also be challenging.
From the outset, the relationship between postdocs and their advisers is isolated. Unlike Ph.D. students, who are accepted into a department, postdocs are interviewed and hired by the single professor they do research for. And if that research is funded through the professor, they have less academic independence in publishing.
There are different avenues to becoming a postdoc, Kargère said. One could, for example, apply to a postdoctoral fellowship at the Mahindra Humanities Center, or find faculty who are hiring and submit a resume directly.
Kargère said the relationship between postdocs and their PIs is “more professional” than the adviser relationship for Ph.D. students.
“Postdocs could obviously ask for advice from somebody else, but typically, it's just their faculty member is the PI,” Kargère said. “From that perspective, there's less faculty oversight.”
Suni said the adviser relationship at the postdoc level differs from the one Ph.D. students experience.
“I think it’s really important to find a good postdoc adviser because, unlike as a graduate student where you have the support of the whole department and it’s really the department that’s accepting you, with a postdoc it’s really just a one-on-one relationship,” Suni said.
Suni said she “got lucky” and has a great relationship with her PI.
“I sought out a good postdoc advisor,” Suni said. “She ended up being really great and I do feel lucky because I have heard a lot of stories of people that have had difficult experiences.”
One such difficult experience was that of former Harvard post-doc Alexander Arefolov, who sued his PI, Chemistry professor Matthew D. Shair, earlier this month for omitting his name from the inventor list of what became a lucrative cancer drug patent.
Kargère said he encourages postdocs to “come see me with anything.” Still, he said in an earlier interview, “it’s tricky.”
“It's a tricky world because PIs are faculty members, and ultimately they're the ones who are in charge,” Kargère said.
Each year, postdocs are constantly entering and leaving Harvard’s campus.
In the best case scenario, postdocs leave for another job. Other times, the lab may have run out of money. If an appointment is not renewed because, for example, the money ran dry, they are not asked to return.
“Every year we have about 200 postdocs come in, and about 200 postdocs leave, for various reasons,” Gould said of the Medical School, adding that the average length of stay is 4.25 years. Gould said that only in rare cases is a departure due to termination.
The turnover is even more stark in FAS; of the more than 1,000 working in FAS departments, about 50 percent are coming and going in a given year.
Kargère said his office does not track the number of postdocs who quit or are fired, and Gould was also unable to offer numbers. But both said their offices plan to administer an exit survey for postdocs leaving the University.
“In a sense, whether a person is leaving happily or successfully, or is being pushed out, is impossible for me to determine,” Physics department chair Masahiro Morii said, adding that postdocs come and go in “odd intervals.”
Morii added that of the 106 postdocs he oversees, there have been about two cases in the past two years involving a postdoc’s termination before their contract renewal.
Some science funding agencies, such as National Institutes of Health and the National Science Foundation, have begun requiring a postdoc mentorship plan in addition to the usual grant proposal. Since the FAS postdoc granted anonymity was allegedly notified that she would be fired after her contract was renewed, she believes mandatory reviews—which allow the PI and postdoc to know where they stand—help prevent miscommunication and avoid situations like the one she experienced.
The postdoc worked with as many of the resources available to her as she could think of: Kargère, the ombudsperson, Assistant Dean for Science Zoë Fonseca-Kelly, the University’s Human Resources office, Chief Research Compliance Officer Ara Tahmassian, and the head of her the department, among other offices.
Kargère and Fonseca-Kelly declined to comment on the case, writing that they cannot discuss personnel matters. Tahmassian did not respond to multiple requests for comment.
Speaking generally about the resources available to postdocs, Kargère said, “If it doesn't seem warranted, and they haven't done anything wrong, then we try and see if there's anything we can do to help out in this case.”
But the postdoc said none of these resources were enough to protect her from a PI who worked to fire her and keep her name off of publications.
“I honestly never felt the entire time that I had any real resources, or someone that was helpful,” she said. “I honestly felt that it was always what was in the best interest of Harvard and this professor.”
The postdoc said she was urged to resign by University officials, who told her it would be worse to be fired and have that show up in her Harvard records.
Her mentors, the postdoc said, advised her to never openly speak about the circumstances surrounding her resignation until her career is secure. Several postdocs interviewed for this story declined to comment on the record about workplace issues.
Come the fall, hundreds of new postdocs will arrive to work in Harvard labs.
—Staff writer Leah S. Yared can be reached at leah.yared@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @LeahYared.
—Staff writer Kenton K. Shimozaki can be reached at kenton.shimozaki@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @KentonShimozaki.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
It was December of 2009, and University President Drew G. Faust was nervous.
Katie N. Lapp, Harvard’s executive vice president, was behind the wheel of a Toyota Prius heading for Boston’s Hyde Park. An ongoing snowstorm made the usual 40-minute trip take over an hour.
In the backseat, Faust prepared to deliver what then-Vice President for Harvard Public Affairs and Communications Christine M. Heenan, riding shotgun, called “tricky news.” Faust had decided to pause construction on Harvard’s much-anticipated Allston development—one that would provide construction jobs and create an important new structure in the city—because of the financial crisis then enveloping the globe.  So the trio trekked to the home of then-Boston Mayor Thomas M. Menino, who had recently injured his knee, to tell him in person.
“People thought ‘why is she so scared,’ ‘why isn’t she being bolder?’” Faust said in a recent interview with The Crimson. “In retrospect, it was so much the right thing to do. But it sure was hard to take this much-trumpeted, glorious plan and say, no, we’re not going to move forward with that.”
The decision to pause construction was an early test for Faust. Only two years earlier, Faust had taken the helm of Harvard, transitioning from leading an 81-person staff and fewer than 15 faculty members at the Radcliffe Institute for Advanced Study, Harvard’s smallest school, to overseeing more than 25,000 employees across the University. She went from handling a $16 million budget to one of about $3 billion.
As if the enormous expansion in responsibilities had not been enough, Faust also faced the burgeoning financial crisis and a precipitous decline in Harvard’s endowment. It would not be her last obstacle as the leader of one of the most famous higher education institutions in the world. Over the course of her term at the University, Faust has navigated a series of internal and external challenges—from turmoil in Washington to strife on campus—as she’s tried to implement a long-term vision for Harvard.
Ten years after she first moved into Massachusetts Hall, here’s a look at the events that have defined and delineated her tenure so far.
When Drew Faust became the first female president of Harvard in July 2007, she took the reins of a University still recovering from controversy. Her predecessor, former Secretary of the Treasury and University President Lawrence H. Summers, had resigned after just five years—the shortest tenure of a Harvard President since the Civil War.
Summers’s time in Massachusetts Hall had been an acrimonious one, and it was Faust’s task to steady the ship. Where Summers had repeatedly clashed with members of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences—prompting one vote of no confidence in his leadership, with another planned—Faust, an esteemed Civil War historian, was set to chart a more collaborative course.
But even as Faust aimed to heal some of the wounds with the Faculty, she never intended to significantly change the University’s playbook. Summers had emphasized expanding into Allston, reinvigorating the undergraduate curriculum, better integrating Harvard’s 12 schools, and bolstering financial aid.

During the months-long search to replace Summers, his agenda—if not his style—remained the standard  for members of the Harvard Corporation, the University’s highest governing body that selected Faust.
On the same day that Faust was officially selected as the 28th President of the oldest university in the United States, Nannerl O. Keohane, now the longest-serving member of the Corporation, said that the governing boards “were not looking for an anti-Larry” candidate. Instead, the Corporation members wanted to find somebody who “shared Summers’ commitment to positive change.”
“Most of us, certainly on the governing boards, feel that the priorities that Larry Summers articulated are still the ones that we should focus on,” Keohane, the former president of Duke University and Wellesley College, said at the time. “We wanted the same sort of vision, and we would have been really worried if we had a candidate who had come in and said that their priorities were 180 degrees in the opposite direction.”
As President, Faust would build on Summers’s initiatives. She also gained the power to reshape many of Harvard’s core institutions, from its twelve schools to its governing boards. Faust has now appointed the dean of every single one of Harvard’s schools, and she has ushered in historic reforms to the Corporation—nearly doubling its size, imposing term limits, and eventually helping to select all but one of its current members.
According to Lisa M. Coleman, Harvard’s first Chief Diversity Officer and Special Assistant to the President, these changes meant “adding more people from different backgrounds, from the West Coast, people who are people of color, women, [and people] representing different kinds of organizations.”
For Faust, working with these colleagues is a key part of her leadership style.
“Listening is always an essential part of what I try to do. So I say that’s a key part of it,” she said. “I also think that you can be very tough and very gentle at the same time, that being tough doesn’t mean being noisy or cruel or aggressive, it just means standing your ground and pursuing your goals, and being equitable and decent to people.”
As Faust was still settling into her Massachusetts Hall office, the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression struck the nation. She watched as Harvard’s $37 billion endowment plummeted $11 billion in value after a negative 27.3 percent return. The University entered crisis mode.
“It was so scary because just in a matter of hours you watched the markets crash, and you felt this urgent emergency was going on before your eyes, and you didn't know if by the end of the next day the endowment would have fallen another 10 percent or 15—when was it going to stop? Was there going to be no endowment left at all?” Faust said.
Faust went to the drawing board, consulting with the Corporation as well as deans and administrators from across Harvard’s 12 schools to work out a solution.
“What that environment does, when you find all of a sudden you wake up and you don’t have the money that you thought you had, it really forces you into the corner of having to make choices,” former Executive Vice President Ed C. Forst ’82 said. “And Drew made choices.”
Apart from halting construction in Allston, the drop forced University administrators to make significant budget cuts across the schools, including a $77 million cut to FAS. The cuts resulted in reducing Harvard’s staffed food services, laying off and offering buyouts to hundreds of University employees, and freezing Faculty hiring.
The financial crisis would also further delay the University’s capital campaign, which had originally been set to kick off in 2006 or 2007 during Summers’s presidency. Harvard fundraisers determined that it would not be wise to launch a fully-fledged campaign in the midst of economic turmoil.
Heenan characterized the atmosphere as a “challenging time.”
“We worked hand in glove through that period of time on managing those challenges and I learned a lot from her about sort of picking your spots, about the importance of building relationships in step-wise ways,” she said.
Former Dean of the School of Public Health Julio Frenk, who now serves as the president of the University of Miami, said Faust held regular meetings with Harvard’s deans to work out an effective “short term vision” and restore financial stability.
But it would be some time before Harvard got back on entirely secure financial footing. While the returns at Harvard Management Company were largely positive in the years after the financial crisis, Harvard’s endowment grew more slowly than its peers. In fiscal year 2016, the value of Harvard’s endowment dropped almost $2 billion to $35.7 billion—still below the endowment’s value in 2008.
As Harvard and the world’s fiscal outlook improved in the years after the recession, Faust and her fundraising team decided it was time to launch Harvard’s capital campaign. While the campaign would not publicly begin until September 21, 2013, fundraisers had been soliciting donors in a “quiet phase” since several years prior.
The campaign was historic. Not only did Harvard set out on the most ambitious fundraising drive in higher education history, but Faust launched the first University-wide campaign. It would be Faust’s chance to fund many of the University’s most pressing priorities—from the Allston campus to House renewal, common spaces to financial aid—and leave a lasting mark at Harvard.
Dubbed “The Harvard Campaign,” the campaign had a clear theme: bringing each of Harvard’s school together and plugging some of the gaps in a historically decentralized institution. The concept of “One Harvard” was not Faust’s original idea, but the capital campaign was its most visible manifestation.
Heenan said Faust’s emphasis on unifying Harvard’s schools—not only with the campaign, but with other priorities like consolidating Harvard’s libraries—stemmed from her time as the dean of Radcliffe.
“She had all these years as dean of Radcliffe to stitch together parts of the University, so as president she had a different perch to think about the possibilities of that, and part of what she did was modernize the place,” Heenan said.
With the campaign, Faust also oversaw the beginning of a new fundraising practice: renaming schools in exchange for historically large gifts. In September 2014, Harvard renamed the School of Public Health in honor of Gerald Chan’s late father after Chan gave $350 million to the school; likewise, the University renamed the School of Engineering and Applied Sciences after hedge fund magnate John A. Paulson donated $400 million to the school.
The campaign, set to end in June 2018, has raised money at a breakneck pace, surpassing its $6.5 billion goal about two years ahead of schedule and shattering higher education fundraising records.
Faust has had the opportunity to pour more resources into the arts and humanities with the fundraising boon. According to Mahindra Humanities Center Director Homi K. Bhabha and American Repertory Theater Artistic Director Diane M. Paulus ’88, Faust was instrumental in launching the Theater, Dance, and Media concentration in 2015, which brings together members of the University and the A.R.T.
“She is always talking about the arts and always bringing the arts into the conversation,” Paulus said. “I think Drew understands the significance of the arts to our lives, to the mission of the University to train citizens.”
Between trips around the world to meeting with alumni and donors for the capital campaign, Faust has had to repeatedly travel to Washington, D.C. to make the case for higher education to federal lawmakers.
In 2013, as the federal government neared shut-down, Congress proposed a number of historic cuts to federal research funding as its sequestration package slashed spending across the federal government.
The threat of sequestration drove Faust down to the nation’s capital to meet with lawmakers from both parties. Among these lawmakers, Faust met with then-Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell, Representative Joseph P. Kennedy III of Massachusetts, and Senator Tim Kaine of Virginia.
“She was someone who really enjoyed the rough and tumble of Washington, enjoyed making the case for higher education,” Heenan said. “She viewed her role as not making the case for Harvard alone, but making the case for young researchers at every university—public and private—for the importance of the humanities across the country.”
Federal research funding is not the only issue at stake for Harvard: Faust has also advocated for relaxing certain immigration standards and maintaining university endowments’ tax exempt status. In 2010, when Eric Balderas ’13 faced deportation after trying to fly to Boston from San Antonio, Faust personally lobbied legislators on his behalf and voiced strong support for the DREAM Act.
Faust is again traveling regularly to Capitol Hill after President Donald Trump’s unexpected rise to the presidency, requiring what Faust called a “careful and strategic response.” In just the last few months, Faust has been to Washington three times, meeting with several key legislators including Senate Majority Leader McConnell, Speaker of the House Paul Ryan, and Senate Minority Leader Chuck E. Schumer ’71.
“She develops unbelievable relationships with people regardless of their politics, regardless of their view on issues, she relates directly with them,” Lapp said. “Whether it be with Congress, with the former administration, with this administration, she can relate to people in a way and point out why it’s in their best interest that higher ed is as accessible as possible.”
Faust has also had to grapple with the fallout from Trump’s executive orders banning travel from six Muslim-majority countries this past fall.
According to Faust, there is now again a pressing need to advocate for these causes in Washington.
“We find that we need to defend them by making the case for science, making the case for undocumented students, making the case for bringing talent from all over the world, and opening our doors as a university to that talent,” she said. “It's important now to articulate things we didn't think we had to say.”
Back on campus, Faust has turned her attention to the University’s traditions and vestiges as Harvard grapples with its storied—and sometimes troubling—past.
In 2011, Faust officially welcomed the Reserve Officer Training Corps program back to campus after the military repealed its “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell” policy barring openly gay and lesbian people from serving in the armed forces. Harvard had not had an official ROTC program since 1969, when Vietnam War protests pushed it off campus. Faust’s efforts were a culmination of a rapprochement several years in the making.
Then-Secretary of the Navy Ray E. Mabus said Faust was “very clear, very straightforward, and outlined exactly the steps it would take and what each of our responsibilities were.”
“I could not ask for a better leader or a better partner in bringing ROTC back to campus,” he said.
Former Army General David Petraeus said her role in bringing the program back shows why she is a “strategic leader.”
“She proved good to her word,” Petraeus said in an interview.
Faust’s background studying the history of the Civil War became increasingly relevant in 2015 and 2016, when Harvard—like universities across the country—began to confront the legacy of slavery on campus. Students at Harvard Law School demanded that the school abandon its seal, which bore the crest of a slaveholding family. The Corporation ultimately voted to remove the seal after a Law School committee recommended the change, though Faust has repeatedly warned against forgetting Harvard’s past.
In April 2016, Faust joined Georgia Congressman and Civil Rights leader John R. Lewis to dedicate a plaque to four enslaved persons who lived and worked on Harvard’s campus in the 18th century. She also created a committee to research Harvard’s ties to slavery and convened a conference in March to unveil its findings to date.
“Because she’s a historian, she will reflect on how the history will influence contemporary situations,” Coleman said. “That’s very, very useful to provide context and of course to not make the same mistakes one may have made in the past—to reflect on it and learn.”
Also in 2016, Faust sought to take on another part of University history and begin to draft her own chapter in it. With Dean of the College Rakesh Khurana, Faust announced penalties on members of final clubs, sororities, and fraternities—placing unprecedented regulations on groups that generations of Harvard administrators had held at arms-length.
Faust argued that the groups were inherently discriminatory and exclusive. To her, the policy was an opportunity to make “Harvard a campus for all of its students.” Professors, coaches of athletics teams, and some alumni have supported the new policy.
Some Faculty members, including former Dean of the College Harry R. Lewis ’68, have been highly critical of the sanctions, and a new committee could “revise or replace” the current policy.
Peter L. Malkin ’55, a prominent donor who is the namesake of the Malkin Athletic Center, said Faust should be given credit for her successes with the capital campaign and the Allston project, but thought the sanctions were the “wrong solution.”
“I think that it’s very unfortunate that an issue that has been plaguing the administration for the past year is the single gender kerfuffle,” Malkin said. “I think that this is a very unfortunate coda to the president’s term.”
Still, Faust remains steadfast in her commitment to curbing the influence of single-gender social groups, and she continues to move forward with the capital campaign, lobbying legislators in Washington, and building Harvard’s new campus in Allston.
With 10 years under her belt, Faust won’t say when she plans to resign, but if history is any indication, she could be moving on soon—Summers served five years, former University President Neil L. Rudenstine served 10 years, though Derek C. Bok was the president of Harvard for 20 years. When Faust was named President in 2007, Bok predicted she could serve as many as 30 or 40 years.
“I can’t say at this point how long I’m going to serve. I’ll just say I expect to have a long and successful term,” Faust said in 2007.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
When Harvard Law School’s Class of 2017 receives their diplomas on Thursday, they’ll leave a school far different than the one they entered three years ago.
In just the last few years, the Law School has overhauled its admissions process, abandoned its long-standing school seal—which came under fire for its ties to a formerly slaveholding family—and continued to expand its non-traditional legal education offerings, like clinical programs. Just a few months ago, Dean of the Law School Martha L. Minow announced that she would step down at the end of the academic year.
All of these changes have taken place in the midst of the Law School’s bicentennial year and a $305 million capital campaign. The next leader of the school—who will likely take over in July—will have to navigate the Law School through a rapidly changing legal profession in addition to a tumultuous political environment at a school known for producing presidents, justices, and legislators.
As it enters its third century, the Law School continues to try and distance itself from “Paper Chase”—a 1973 film about the travails of a first-year Harvard Law School student—and rebrand itself as a 21st century Law School, even as some call for the school to go further and better diversify its faculty.
Law School alumnus and former Crimson editor Jeffrey R. Toobin ’82, a legal analyst for CNN and The New Yorker, said he thinks the school has become a more “sophisticated and worldly” institution since his time as a student.
“I think there’s a recognition that the legal system is a lot more complicated than you can learn about just from reading cases, that there are regulatory dimensions, there are international dimensions,” Toobin said.
After a dramatic decline in applications to the Law School after the financial crisis and a decline in the legal industry overall, the school has taken a number of steps to alter the way it admits students. Earlier this year, the Law School unveiled plans to allow applicants to submit GRE scores instead of the standard LSAT in the fall of 2017 and expand the school’s Junior Deferral Program beyond Harvard College students to undergraduate juniors from across the country.
Under the JDP program, juniors who gain early acceptance to the Law School must work or pursue further study for two years before matriculating. Both the changes are aimed at attracting more applicants from science, technology, and international backgrounds—as well as expanding the Law School’s accessibility to the maximum number of applicants.
Jessica L. Soban ’02, the associate dean for admissions at the Law School, said even more changes are expected in the next few years.
“Harvard Law did not become Harvard Law by standing still,” Soban said. “The innovations in the admissions process are a reflection of the work of the school and of the types of talent we want to attract to do that work.”
Richard J. Lazarus, a professor at the Law School and a member of the admissions committee, says it’s unclear how fundamentally altering the way applicants are accepted into the Law School will pan out. But, he said, the changes seemed to be “thoughtful, experimental” efforts.
“There is clearly no one fixed, ‘correct’ method of assessing an applicant’s potential and it is almost always a good idea to challenge oneself to rethink past admission criteria and test out new approaches,” Lazarus said.
Third-year Law student Rauvin Johl said she thinks the move to accept the GRE is a good step to increase the diversity of applicants at the Law School, but third-year Law student Kristin A. Turner was more skeptical about the test’s ability to serve as a credible metric for admissions.
“[The LSAT is] an imperfect thing, but on the other I hand, I still feel like I can kind of see at least somewhat of a correlation between what the LSAT asks you to do and what you end up having to do in the Law School,” Turner, the former president of the Black Law Students Association, said. “It’s more difficult for me to make that argument for the GRE. I’m open to a different test other than the LSAT, but I’m not really sure that the GRE fits the bill.”
As the Law School’s admissions team seeks to adapt to a changing applicant pool, students and faculty already at the Law School are making similar strides to evolve the school’s academic approach.
Beyond cutting the number of applicants to the school, global economic developments since the financial crisis have also pushed faculty and administrators to diversify the school’s course offerings for first-year students. Some students at the Law School hope that the next dean will continue to reinvigorate the curriculum.
The last major curricular change at the Law School took place in 2006 when then-Dean Elena Kagan and Minow revised the curriculum the school had been using for over 100 years to include courses on policy and international law.
“It was the first major reform in a long time. I’m not sure we were able to do it as we would have liked because there were issues we had to take care of that were immediate,” Minow said in an interview with the Harvard Gazette. Minow does not speak to The Crimson on the record.
Despite these curricular changes, Johl said she thinks the school’s method of teaching has remained largely stagnant over the years.
“I think that’s something the school’s still trying to work on, and still needs to work on. I think there have been small steps, like the way that J-term focuses more on things like developing problem-solving skills, but I think that that’s definitely going to be inadequate given the fact that the legal landscape is changing so much,” Johl said.
Last year, several Law School student groups made a series of demands that the school not only change its seal, but actively work to diversify its faculty and expand certain curricular offerings.
“The lack of representation in the faculty realm, I think that that also contributes to some of the other climate issues that we’re trying to work on as a community,” Turner said.
In the past, the Law School has said it will continue to take a number of steps to improve diversity among faculty and staff.
Turner said that though she thinks she benefited from the legal education she received, Harvard could experiment more with how it educates students.
“I do feel that Harvard does have a little bit of wiggle room in terms of creating initiatives and thinking outside the bounds of what it always has done and what it does well,” Turner said. “Most of my peers and I will ultimately do jobs that don’t even exist yet, and I think that in order to be confident to do those jobs, we first need to be able to think creatively about how we even use our skills.”
A major pillar of the Law School’s current capital campaign is to endow more clinical professorships, a role tasked with teaching students skills more practical than theoretical.
As the Law School seeks to cast a wider net for applicants and expand its curricular options, the culture at the school, for many, has become more collegial. Increasingly, students, faculty, and alumni say that the Law School is shedding its reputation as a competitive, cut-throat institution—a culture enshrined in some Hollywood films.
“I’d say, fortunately, the reality of the Law School is very different than how it’s represented in things like ‘The Paper Chase’ or even in ‘Legally Blonde,’” Johl said. “I was relieved to find that the atmosphere is actually a lot more collegial than either of those films would make you think.”
During the school’s capital campaign launch in October 2015, John Jay Osborn ’67, author of “The Paper Chase,” the novel that later became the famed film, gave a speech to distance the modern-day Law School from its intense portrayal in his book.
At the event, Minow was eager to prove the school had come a long way.
“More than half the courses that we offer today have fewer than 25 students—take that, John Jay Osborn,” she said.
Johl said that when alumni return they are happy to see how the school has changed.
“There’s generally a sense of surprising appreciation for how the dynamics within the classroom and between the students have shifted over the past few years, and I think a lot of that goes back to very purposeful decisions made by the administration,” Johl said.
But Turner said that while the school has a different culture, she can still see the roots of the competitive environment today.
“Do I see kind of the seeds of what kind of bears those stereotypes? Maybe,” Turner said. “ I think that that’s more so about the caliber of people that Harvard is able to recruit and also the rigor that they’re able to expect in terms of their curriculum and the students’ kind of intentionality.”
Richard H. Fallon, a professor at the Law School, said various aspects of the school’s culture have shown dramatic changes throughout his years as a member of the faculty, including the size of classes, interactions between faculty and students, and the diversity of the faculty.
“I think Harvard Law School had a reputation as a very corporate sort of place in which the faculty were very distant from the students, and in which the curriculum was substantially prescribed for the students based on traditional understanding of the courses a law student would take,” Fallon said. “Overall I think we’ve just become a warmer, more welcoming institution and that our students recognize that.”
Despite all the changes at the Law School, however, Toobin maintained that some things are the same as they’ve always been.
“I think the basic challenge remains similar, which is how do you train lawyers to succeed in the legal world that exists at the same time that you train them to improve the legal world and the world at large,” Toobin said. “Are you teaching law students to do well or to do good?”
—Staff writer Jamie D. Halper can be reached at jamie.halper@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @JamieDHalper.
Sections
Days after Neil L. Rudenstine was tapped to serve as Harvard’s president in 1991, he received a letter in the mail from the City of Cambridge. The University’s construction plans for the Law School’s Hauser Hall were to be called before Cambridge Historical Commission for review.
According to William B. King ’54, the longtime chair of the commission and a 1959 graduate of the Law School, the blueprints were problematic.
“They wanted to site Hauser Hall in a way that had no sense of [architect] Walter Gropius’ construction of the Harkness Center, or a sense of the alley of trees in North Field,” King said of Harvard’s plans.
After many meetings with the Historical commission and Harvard’s administrative law professors, the plans for Hauser Hall were altered, much to the satisfaction of King and his fellow commissioners.
“Ultimately they got the word, and they got the message and Hauser Hall is beautifully sited now, Gropius is respected, the alley of the trees still works and even people at Harvard Law School have said ‘we learned,’” King said.
In its 54 years of existence, the commission’s unique power over construction projects and renovations in Cambridge has not been limited to the confines of Harvard’s campus. The body exercises varying levels of jurisdiction across two historic districts, including parts of Harvard Yard, and four neighborhood conservation districts, one of which includes Harvard Square.
As the Square grapples with rapid development and swift business turnover, the commission has emerged as one of the few bodies in the city with the power and clout to determine Harvard Square’s uncertain future. Dozens of citizens pack themselves into its late-night monthly meetings in City Hall, thrusting the small, unelected body into the center of Cambridge politics.
Facing criticism from citizens and requests for greater transparency, the commission has itself become entangled in Cambridge’s storied history, finding itself accountable to two often opposing sets of demands: one to deepen Cambridge’s commitment to preservation and another to let the city evolve.
During the 1950s and in the early 1960s, the rapid development of urban areas and the clearance of old neighborhoods threatened to demolish structures beloved by Cambridge citizens. In response to this threat, in 1963, Cambridge became an early adopter of a Massachusetts statute allowing cities and towns to establish local historical commissions, according to King.
The commission was first charged with taking meticulous inventory of every building in the city, which was completed in 1977. Today, file cabinets covering the details of every building in Cambridge extend vertically to the ceiling of the commission’s office, standing as testament to the commission's continued archival work over the years.
Over the course of the next half century, the Historical Commission gained more control over city development projects through expansions in its areas of jurisdiction by the City Council.
“Since then we’ve been able to add to our authority several times, but each time it’s been in reaction to a particular series of events in the city,” said Charles M. Sullivan, who has been commission’s executive director since 1986.
Aside from keeping records and educating the public about Cambridge’s history, the commission can landmark important areas of Cambridge and designate neighborhood conservation districts, where buildings are protected from demolition and developer’s ambitions. In monthly meetings, the commission also adjudicates over building project proposals with public access.
“We got neighborhood conservation districts because in the 1970s neighborhoods were being threatened by overdevelopment,” said Sullivan. “We have the authority to review demolition permit applications when a lot of houses are coming down for apartment buildings.”
Most importantly, the city also gave the commission the power to approve proposed changes to the exteriors of Cambridge architecture, including many of Harvard’s buildings. Sullivan said that the commission has “total jurisdiction over what happens to the exterior, including paint color” of some of Harvard’s historic buildings. Nevertheless, Sullivan said he has a “productive” relationship with the University.
Unlike city legislative positions, commission members are not elected by residents. The Cambridge city manager appoints Cambridge residents to the Cambridge Historical Commission while making sure individuals from specialized fields, such as a real estate, architecture, law, landscaping, and urban history are represented in the commision.
In the event of a vacancy, the Historical Commission executive director must inform the City Manager, Louis A. DePasquale, and make hiring recommendations accordingly.
Membership to the Cambridge Historical Commission is often a long term commitment. Since there are no term limits for the position, only about 45 Cambridge residents have held membership in the 54-year history of the nine-person committee, according to King.
Sullivan cited the long-standing history of the commission as a strength of the city.
“I think the implication of that is that we’re recognized by this time as a regular part of the planning process in Cambridge,” said Sullivan. “A lot of projects that might be proposed in other jurisdictions just don’t even come up here.”
Yet, in recent months, some proposed projects have tested the limits of Sullivan’s assertion, causing public criticism of developers—and even the commission itself.
Looking at Harvard Square today one would be hard pressed to find evidence of a city government considering a full scale “intervention” in the name of protecting the Square’s historical buildings. But that’s exactly what City Councillor Jan Devereux suggested should happen at a December meeting with Harvard Square stakeholders, including the Historical Commission.
Since then, the City hired a retail consultant to study the effects of gentrification and commercial development in Cambridge, an issue affecting urban areas around the country, according to Devereux.
Still, zoning laws from the City Council can only go so far in preventing the entry of new developments in the Square, while regulating building use could be seen as government overreach, according to Devereux.
“Our power is limited because our main power is the zoning,” Devereux said. “If it conforms to the existing zoning then we can’t, without changing the zoning. We don’t really get much of a say.”
Businesses, which would have otherwise been banned from the Square, have often changed their models to comply with Cambridge’s zoning laws, according to Assistant City Manager for Community Development Iram Farooq.
“At the time these ordinances about fast food were framed, the things in people's minds were McDonald’s and Burger King,” Farooq said. “We have to rethink how we address those in the zoning.”
With the City Council unable to prevent some major developments, community activists as well as the Council have turned to an established body with the ability to reject proposed projects: the Historical commission.
One such activist is Suzanne P. Blier, a Harvard African and African American Studies and History of Art and Architecture professor and member of Our Harvard Square, an activist group advocating for historical preservation formed following a controversy over the redevelopment of the Harvard Square Kiosk.
“In the case of Harvard Square, you are talking about companies with an awful lot of money with large potential impacts on the city,” Blier said.
Of all the major projects in Harvard Square, none have received quite as much community opposition as real-estate firm Equity One’s proposed renovation to the triangular Abbott Building on John F. Kennedy St. and Brattle St., which houses the World’s Only Curious George Store.
Equity One purchased that valuable property in the center of the Square in 2016 from the Dow Sterns Family Trust, and quickly proposed a significant renovation to the structure, which would force out some stores like the Curious George Store.
Dow Sterns sold the Abbott Building to Equity One for more than $80 million in 2015, “which was probably four to five times what any rational person would imagine it was worth,” Sullivan said. “So this new owner, needs to make their money back, and that’s where the pressure was coming from.”
The proposal has come before the Historical commission four separate times, with another round of discussions scheduled for later this month. Each time the commissioners have asked the architects to alter the proposed facade, postponing but never outright denying Equity One the chance to reconstruct the building’s exterior.
Those meetings, which have sometimes gone past midnight, have been tense, with the commission acting as a mediator between the community, city officials and developers.
“At the Historical meetings, a given business is given as much time as they want to present their proposal, and they can come back as many times as they want,” Blier said. “But those of us in the audience are given a short period of time, generally three minutes, in which we can ask questions or make comments. It’s not an easy meeting for that reason.”
Activists and the City Council attempted to designate the Abbott building as a historical landmark earlier this year, a title which would have given the commission increased jurisdiction to protect the structure, but were denied by the commission. Activists have since appealed the decision.
The commission and activists often force the City Council to be “stuck in the middle” between a body they created and strengthened and the citizens who elected them.
“Part of me thinks that the sort of push-pull is useful,” Devereux said. “I think often we are on the same page but given each’s different interests and powers it's hard for us to realize that.”
Tensions between activists and the commission boiled over in January when Blier submitted a petition to the commission asking for a complete review and overhaul of the Harvard Square Conservation District.
On behalf of the commission, Sullivan responded with a memo in March, disputing the petition’s claims but agreeing on the need for review.
“Staff disputes any allegations that the commission has not acted appropriately, within its authority and in good faith,” Sullivan wrote. “However, staff also recognizes that there is significant public interest in the Harvard Square NCD and the Commission’s administration of the district.”
In the memo, the commission agreed to the formulation of a committee tasked with reviewing the conservation district. Seven individuals—three commissioners and four Harvard Square stakeholders— will sit on the committee during public meetings. As of May, the committee’s membership is still undetermined.
“We’ve got a list of candidates last week,” Sullivan said. “In a week or two we’ll start to interview and then make a recommendation to the City Manager.”
Relations between activists and the commission have become increasingly cordial since, with both sides recognizing the difficulty in weighing the fiscal benefits of future developments alongside the intangible benefits of historical character.
“[Harvard Square] has to be vibrant, we can’t pickle it,” Sullivan said. “We can’t fix it in any particular time.”
Blier agrees.
“I don’t see it as a vanguard against developers, nor should it be,” Blier said. “They are in an important position acting as negotiators between history and the need to build.”
The Historical Commission will have its next monthly meeting on May 25 and the debate over Harvard Square will undoubtedly continue. The Equity One proposal is the only agenda item.
—Staff writer Joshua J. Florence can be reached at joshua.florence@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @JoshuaFlorence1.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
As the sun set on Stevenson-Pincince Field on a clear October day in Providence, R.I., the Harvard women’s soccer team lined up for a free kick near midfield in the 89th minute. The squad knew that this shot would be one of its last chances to tie the game.
As the ball left the foot of sophomore Leah Mohammadi, a connection that would happen several times over the course of the season snapped into place. The ball arced toward the left side. Senior forward Midge Purce one-touched it to classmate Rachel Garcia, who flew into the box and finished the ball into the top left corner. Header, header, goal.
What significance did these six seconds hold? The game finished tied at one apiece in double-overtime to keep the Crimson undefeated in Ivy League play. Three matchups later, Harvard would go on to take the conference crown and preserve an undefeated record, with Brown in close pursuit at second place.
Purce, the Ivy League Player of the Year, points to that game-saving sequence as one of her favorite moments from her title-winning senior season. In a year of clutch goals, Garcia’s Providence score was especially important, as it warded off the Bears’ upset bid and kept Harvard in the driver’s seat midway through Ivy play.
Purce has garnered countless accolades as her four-year career with the Crimson draws to a close. Certainly, the senior from Olney, Md. fueled the team’s 2016 title run.
But whether it be Garcia’s goal at Brown, Caroline Chagares’ goal against Yale, or the combined team effort in the championship-clinching game against Columbia, Purce tends to highlight her teammates when recalling the high points of her senior season.
“It was an amazing experience,” she said. “I wouldn’t trade it for the world.”
Few question who was at the fore of women’s soccer run to an Ivy championship.
Let’s get Purce’s individual accomplishments out of the way. The veteran earned a spot on the NSCAA All-American First Team, was selected as the Ivy League Player of the Year for the second time, was chosen as a semifinalist for the MAC Hermann Award, and made it to the All-Ivy League First Team for the fourth straight year.
The forward led the Ancient Eight in goals (12), points (28), shots (87), and game-winning goals (four). She ranks third all-time in the program and seventh all-time in Ivy League history with 42 career finishes. As a result of this success, Purce was drafted ninth overall in the first round by the Boston Breakers of the National Women’s Soccer League.
“She really was one of the top players in Ivy League history,” Harvard coach Chris Hamblin said. “If you look at it from a statistical standpoint, that’s clearly demonstrated. If you look at it in the games, over the course of her career, she was a threat in every game she played.”
Over the season, Purce added four assists, good for second on the team. Her speed and attacking presence warranted constant defense from the opposition and opened opportunities for her teammates.
Purce also spent time at a new position this season: Hamblin utilized Purce’s attacking versatility to put her on the wings for a good portion of 2016. The move came with great effect in the 3-5-2 setup that the Crimson deployed all season long, which Hamblin explains as “one less defender and one more midfield player, which gave us a little bit more of an attacking presence.”
“She spent time at center-forward, but I think that while Midge was incredibly dominant as a forward. she was very, very challenging to defend from a wide position, because she had more time and space,” Hamblin said. “Tactically, we were able to move Midge around a lot, and that caused teams a lot of problems.”
Along with co-captain Bailey Gary and junior Dani Stollar, Purce was one of three players to start all 17 games for Harvard. Her consistency and final-third execution led the team to a 10-4-3 record overall and a 5-0-2 record in Ivy League play. Across four seasons, Purce was part of a senior class that won 22 conference games and lost just two.
“The high accolades are worthy,” Hamblin said. “There’s no doubt in my mind [that] she goes down as a Harvard women’s soccer legend.”
While Purce can go toe-to-toe with anyone when it comes to individual accolades, she prefers to talk about her teammates first.
“My team did an absolutely incredible job this year,” Purce said. “This was a very special season, and it has to be my favorite, by far, because these girls have overcome so many hindrances that were posed throughout the year.”
“I just happen to be the person who puts the ball into the back of the net—the last person to touch the ball—but there’s so much buildup to that. That’s what people miss,” she added. “Even the people whom you don’t always see on the field, they contributed in such amazing ways to allow us to have the results we did.”
Purce gave just a couple examples of the intangibles that made this year’s squad a championship-caliber team.
“[Senior] Marissa Segala was absolutely remarkable,” Purce said. “I would come to her and ask her, ‘What do you think, what do you see?’ [Freshman] Kat Hess, the same thing—‘What do you think we need to change?’ They’re fantastic soccer minds. Those are a few examples, but it was the definition of a team effort, where every single person was on board.”
In explaining how the 3-5-2 system bore fruit, Purce credited the stability and discipline of the defense and midfield. Having a veteran core of senior goalkeeper Lizzie Durack, junior Candy Janachowski, Segala, and Gary also helped.
“That was a huge change,” Purce said. “I’d never played [that system] with Harvard before.”
No matter the positional adjustments, consistent results followed. What Purce achieved since arriving in Cambridge from Good Counsel High School will be difficult for any future player to replicate.
Right off the bat, Purce won Ivy League Rookie of the Year and Player of the Year in 2013—something no Ivy League competitor had ever done. She then won three conference titles in four years, which culminated in the program’s 16th trip to the NCAA tournament last November.
“I’m so happy I got to meet the people that I met, “ Purce said. “We faced a lot of external hindrances and issues that really could have changed our season. I’m so proud of the team and how they handled it with so much class. The end of the season was just fantastic.”
On Jan. 12, 2017, the Boston Breakers drafted Purce ninth overall, making the forward the highest Ivy League draft pick ever, and the first player from Harvard to appear in the NWSL. Two months later, she signed with the team.
“She was a highly attractive prospect across the league,” Hamblin said. “[Breakers coach Matt] Beard being local, being able to see her on a consistent basis, really was able to understand her qualities. [He[ obviously thought high enough of her to take her in the first round.”
The Breakers play at Jordan Field, also the home field of both Crimson soccer teams. In the team’s press release, Beard wrote that, “Midge has really impressed since our preseason camp started. She is a quick, versatile forward who will give us something a bit different to the forwards that we already have.”
As for Purce? She’s already started three games for the Breakers.
—Staff writer Bryan Hu can be reached at bryan.hu@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
For most seniors, spring brings relaxation, celebration, and lessened responsibilities. The end of college nears. Soon-to-be-graduates reward years of hard work with a lighter course load and more free time with friends.
The onset of senioritis is especially drastic for fall athletes. After an intense senior season, and after years of consistent training, these players leave behind their weeks of 20-plus hours of practice, team meetings, and games. Suddenly, they join the ranks of the Harvard “NARP,” or “non-athletic regular people,” a term that some sports teams use to describe non-varsity students.
Varsity athletes look forward to senior spring, and for good reason. However, water polo star Noah Harrison decided to give up this reward for something more important—one last season in Blodgett Pool after missing his entire junior season.
“A large part of the reason I came to play [at] Harvard was to play water polo with that team and with [coach] Ted [Minnis], on top of the other incredible things that Harvard has to offer,” Harrison said. “A huge portion of my time and my life has been dedicated to this sport. When you get that taken away, you want to come back. You want to take full advantage of it when you can.”His decision to return paid dividends. In 2016, Harrison led Harvard to a season for the ages. The Crimson claimed its first Northeast Water Polo Conference championship, its first NCAA Tournament berth, and ultimately a spot in the Final Four.“One of the things I enjoy so much about coaching college as opposed to when I coached high school is watching these young men and women grow into these amazing young adults,” Minnis said. “To watch Noah over these past few years not only grow as a water polo player but also as a man was amazing.”
In the fall of 2015, a day before the first games of his junior season, Harrison learned that he had mononucleosis. For four months, Harrison was not medically cleared to play for Harvard. After two impressive seasons, he traded his starting spot in the pool for a spot on the bench.
"That was it," Harrison said. "If I wanted to play high-level water polo as long as I can, then I had to come back. It also was a lot of the team. I had a lot of faith in the guys on the team. Ted was a huge help in the decision and was super supportive the entire time."
Across the country, in compliance with NCAA rules, student-athletes have up to five academic years to use for four years of playing eligibility. If players lose the majority of a season to an injury, then they are eligible to receive a medical redshirt or hardship waiver. In this fifth academic year, student-athletes can take extra classes or work toward a higher degree and still maintain playing eligibility.Ivy League athletes do not have this luxury. The Ancient Eight is the only conference in the country that prohibits a redshirt year; student-athletes have only four years for academics and playing eligibility.The only way around this rule is to take a voluntary leave of absence. Harrison became the first Harvard water polo player to go this route.“I think getting mono in the first place was tough for him,” junior co-captain Harry Tafur said. “It was tough for him to sit by and watch everyone play. He really couldn’t compete because he was medically inactive. I think him making the decision to come back for another year was not difficult, as I think he really did want to finish his four years out. He really loves the sport and this team, so he wanted to get as much as he could out of it.”As a fifth-year senior, Harrison came back hungry to make history. He led the team in all areas of the game with 86 goals, 63 steals, and 27 field blocks. He consistently put up dominating performances, earning the title of NWPC Player of the Week five times this fall. The Huntington Beach, Calif., native scored in 31 of his 34 appearances and posted 18 hat tricks.Offense is not Harrison’s only strong suit, however, and he proved just as elite on the defensive end in his final season in crimson.“Noah was always a scorer, but he also took a lot of pride in his perimeter defense,” Minnis said. “He posted a ton of steals for us. He would be able to match up on other teams’ top players and get stops for us…. Noah did a lot of things for this team that are going to be missed.”
Harrison’s team-leading statistics came as no surprise, as he has led the Crimson in goals three of his four seasons and in steals all four.
“I think having to miss his junior year and watch his class and his teammates play and battle gave him a different perspective,” Minnis said. “He came back his super-senior year just ready to enjoy the season and make the biggest impact he could in the water. Not as a scorer but as a leader. Not as a captain but as a senior leader who understood what it was going to take to get where we wanted to go.”
Socially, Harrison also brought a unique aspect to the team. His decision to return for a fifth year demonstrated passion for the sport and love for his teammates. But he also had a veteran perspective that few players, or even seniors, possessed.
This combination allowed Harrison to serve as a bridge between the experienced players and rookies.
“[Harrison] being a super senior showed a lot of the younger players especially how much the older players on the team care about the program and care about our success,” Tafur said. “So him coming back for that fifth year, when he could have easily called it and graduated with his class, let everyone know just how important the team is to us. That definitely helps to motivate kids to work extra hard and push themselves.”
In December, Harrison received both his NWPC champion ring and his diploma, two important milestones marking the end of his collegiate career. One semester after his classmates graduated, Harrison wrapped up his time as a member of the Crimson.
“You work so hard throughout college on school and water polo, spending four hours or more across the river in season, and then all of your classes and traveling and trying to balance everything,” Harrison said. “It was a little overwhelming to get the ring and the diploma on the same day. It was kind of like the nail in the coffin.... I’m like ‘Okay, I’m done. I graduated—this is it.’”
Officially, Harrison’s career is finished, but he will maintain connections to Harvard and to its water polo program. During his semester off, thanks to his professors and the support of the Harvard Athletic Department, Harrison was able to start a master’s program at the Harvard Medical School and is expected to graduate next spring.
And Harvard water polo also isn’t quite ready to move on from the Harrisons. Noah’s little sister, Julie, just finished off her freshman year for the women’s team.
“What’s the motivation now?” jokes co-captain Dileas MacGowan.
Eight months after arriving in Cambridge, Gina Kennedy accomplished a sporting trifecta that others would label as a lifetime accomplishment. Fresh off winning an Ivy League Championship, National Team Championship, and National Individual Championship, the freshman squash player has gone home for the summer with few other titles to train for.
But as many champions realize, one-time success is not enough. There’s always more to attain.
Although squash is played in a glass cage, the public perception of the sport is much more opaque. Not many college students know the rules of the sport, and even fewer can appreciate it. Playing it can be isolating. Stepping on the court brings the player into a dyadic world—personalities and playing styles clash.
Compound this deeply personal experience with rivalry, and the sport tailors to a niche group of strong-willed individuals. Gratification can be glorious, but defeat equally devastating, for there are few others with whom one can share the experience.

Kennedy and fellow first-year Amelia Henley brought their friendship and rivalry across the pond when the former England youth national teammates started college. Little has changed between them. The Brits compete fiercely in challenge matches during practice but hold a battle-tested friendship off the court.
“I feel really lucky, actually, to have come into this team in this year,” said Kennedy. “Everyone on the team is such great friends. Once I got here, obviously it was a very scary transition coming all the way from England and just moving to this new place. Obviously it helped to have Amelia there, but the whole squash team helped so much.”
Athletics teams often provide a support structure as students acclimate to the new academic environment. This social network can also change the experience of the actual athletic activity.
“It was different for me because squash, all the junior squash that I’m used to, has always been an individual sport,” Kennedy said. “So although I played team events for England, in order to get there, you have to do all these individual competitions. It was different for me being thrown into such a team environment with Harvard.”
From travelling as a team to training together, the experience of playing squash now has a communal component. Intra-team competition, in the form of challenge matches, serves not only to distinguish but also to solidify bonds.
Most pragmatically, these exhibitions allow the coaching staff to rank athletes and draft lineups. But intra-squad rivalries can be a proxy to simulate the challenges athletes from other universities will throw at the Crimson, both in terms of skill-based challenges and mental training. It also closes the parity between athletics and elevates the team’s overall level of play.
In such an individual-focused sport, self-motivation and dedication often go hand-in-hand with success. Joining together as a team can elevate these characteristics and make the team better as a unit.
“Honestly, every single one of those freshmen had such a positive impact on the team and the team dynamic this year, on and off the court,” MacGowan said. “Gina and Amelia have incredible work ethics. They get to practice, and they have such a positive influence on the team, even as freshmen, which you might not necessarily expect.”
Student-athletes must be especially disciplined to balance schoolwork and athletic obligations. Still, Kennedy maintained as consistent a training schedule as when she plays at home.
Moreover, team training for Kennedy and the other freshmen provides for coordinated improvement and peer feedback. It also allows the team to form game plans, especially against the team’s rivals.
“We were practicing the whole season but mainly for those two games against Trinity and Penn,” Kennedy said. “Even though we were practicing the same way throughout the season, that’s when the coaches would talk more about the match and get more involved.”
After breezing through her first three opponents in the National Individual Championship, Kennedy faced a difficult title match. She faced two-time national finalist Reeham Sedky, a Penn sophomore. Moreover, Kennedy had never faced the hard-hitting Quaker before.
“I genuinely went into that match thinking that there was no chance that I could win,” Kennedy said. “Not that I played as though there was no chance for me to win. My mental preparation was that I was very relaxed because I wasn’t expected to do anything.”
This nothing-to-lose attitude put Kennedy up two games. From there, she secured a 3-1 victory.

Perhaps more impressive than the honors Kennedy earned this year—Ivy League Rookie of the Year, First Team All-Ivy and College Squash Association All-American—was her ability to transition from a team environment to an individual player in one week, while winning two national titles.
“For me, personally, I saw my friends weren’t training anymore and having fun, whereas me and a few others still had to come down to the courts every day and train,” Kennedy said. “There was definitely a different feeling about it. Nobody was as fired up for it as Team Nationals.”
The lonely moments preceding her second national championship in seven days gave way to an outpouring of support.
“I’d never really experienced that amount of support,” Kennedy said. “Even though I have been playing squash my whole life, my friends back home don’t understand what happens or anything. I never had that experience when I’ve come back to school the next day, and everybody’s [said], ‘Oh my god, congratulations!’”
Coming back to Cambridge as a champion, Kennedy felt the support that a team could provide. With a year of college under her belt, she hopes that she can provide a similar experience for incoming freshmen.
“It’s exciting that we get new freshmen in,” Kennedy said. “Just hopefully I can show them as good as a time as the people on the team showed me in my freshman year.”
—Staff writer William Quan can be reached at william.quan@thecrimson.com.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The 200-yard freestyle final at this year’s Ivy League men’s swimming championships was effectively over after the first 50 yards.
One lap in, freshman Dean Farris was already a second ahead of the next closest competitor and appeared to be extending his lead. By the time that he kicked off the race’s final 50 yards, the freshman was a full two seconds and a body-length in front of the second-place swimmer.
As he continued to pull away from the competition in the last lap, the question wasn’t whether Farris would win the race, but what his time would be.
The rookie arrived at Harvard with a personal-best mark of 1:36.0 in the 200 free. By the start of his finals race, he had cut that time down by nearly four seconds, setting a new personal record of 1:32.70 in the prelims of the event.
As Farris cruised through the final 25 yards, the expectant crowd filling up Blodgett Pool waited to see if the freshman could break his own record. The cheering started as soon as Farris touched the wall—two body lengths in front of the second-place finisher. Not only had the first-year won an Ivy League title and outdone his own personal-best time, but he’d broken his record by over a second. His final mark was 1:31.56.
Farris hadn’t been thinking about his time during the race.
“I was pretty nervous walking out to the blocks because of expectations I put on myself, but once I got into the water, all my training took over,” Farris said. “I just executed my race plan. It was like I was on autopilot.”
However, the rookie’s time was significant. His mark of 1:31.56 was the fastest in collegiate swimming for the season, making him the top-seeded swimmer in the 200 free for NCAA Championships.
His result also broke the event records for Harvard, Blodgett Pool, and the Ivy League Championship meet. In addition, Farris’ time was the sixth-fastest in collegiate history in the event. All five swimmers ahead of the first-year on the all-time record list were Olympians.
“Dean’s 200 free final at Ivy Champs was the single greatest performance I’ve witnessed in my four years at Harvard,” co-captain Eric Ronda said. “Not only was his time incredibly fast, but his pure dominance over the rest of the field was impressive and a lot of fun to watch.”However, while Farris' teammates were impressed by his performance, they were not surprised by it. The rookie's 200 free final showing was just one highlight in a debut season filled with jaw-dropping results.At the Ivy League Championships, Farris won seven events, breaking the same number of pool records, as well as setting six new school-best marks and smashing four meet records. For his efforts, the freshman was awarded the Phil Moriarty Award, given to the meet’s high-point swimmer.Farris’ strong showing at the conference championships included individual wins in the 100 freestyle and 100 backstroke as well as victories in the 200 and 400 medley relays and 400 and 800 freestyle relays. Those first-place results helped propel Harvard to its first Ivy League title since 2014.Farris played a similarly important part on the team throughout his rookie season.
“Dean was a significant source of reassurance for all of us on the team because we could always count on him to execute when we needed him to,” junior Koya Osada said. “I think Dean is certainly one of the most talented swimmers to ever come through the Harvard swimming program, but talent aside, his work ethic and dedication are unmatched.”
Farris arrived at Harvard with an already impressive résumé, including two junior national championships and a pair of Georgia state titles. The first-year also qualified for four events at the 2016 Olympic Trials and picked up top-75 finishes in each race, highlighted by a 39th-place result in the 100 freestyle.
As such, it was little surprise that he started contributing to Harvard’s success immediately after arriving in Cambridge. In his first meet for the Crimson, Farris picked up two individual wins, taking top marks in the 100 freestyle and 100 butterfly in a victory over Dartmouth and Cornell.
Between that first meet and the Ivy League Championships two months later, he failed to take first in just a single race in dual competition—the 50 freestyle against Brown and Penn, in which he finished second.
Along the way, Farris quickly grew into a consistently strong performer for Harvard and one of the top swimmers in the Ancient Eight. The first-year cemented his place among the Crimson’s most reliable athletes with 12 individual victories in dual meets, including five first-place finishes each in the 100 and 200 freestyle events.
Farris also secured a spot as an essential member of Harvard’s relay unit, which did not lose a single race in the regular season. The rookie played a vital part in that success, regularly competing in the Crimson’s top lineups for the 200 and 400 freestyle relays and as the anchor for the 400 medley relay squad, which beat out top programs like BYU and perennial rival Yale.
Led by its standout freshman, Harvard cruised to its third undefeated dual season in four years. The team also won the regular season Ivy League title and cracked the top-25 in the national rankings.
Throughout the successful campaign, in which he played a leading role, Farris remained humble and focused on his teammates.
“Dean is the perfect teammate, and I don't say that lightly,” senior Max Yakubovich said. “He cares about how your races went, he doesn't get down on himself after his own sub-par swims, and he always emanates positivity in and out of practice. All he wants is for his teammates to succeed.”
Not only did the freshman value the success of the team as a whole, he actually improved it through his hard work and inherent ability, according to his teammates. For his contributions to the program, Farris was honored with the Iron Man Award, which is presented to the rookie who best embodies the values of the team.
“By watching Dean on a day-to-day basis, we all were able to learn what it takes to prepare your mind and body for peak performances in competition,” Osada said. “He elevated the level of everyone around him and I think that's what made him the ultimate teammate.”
Part of Farris’ positive effect on his teammates stemmed from the fact that he was constantly improving. Though his talent was already well-established when he arrived at Harvard, he worked extremely hard to get faster. This dedication to improvement was reflected in the fact that Farris set a new personal-best time in every event that he raced in during the 2016-17 season.
“Dean's a freak of nature,” Osada said. “He's definitely naturally gifted, but above all, his competitiveness and passion for the sport are what set him apart from the rest.  He is never satisfied with his results and he constantly finds areas for improvement. The internal fire that motivates Dean to push himself is unique and brilliant.”
That fire propelled the freshman to his first NCAA championships in March. Competing in the 200 free and 200 backstroke against an extremely experienced field as a first-year, Farris could easily have been intimidated. If he was, though, it didn’t show.
The rookie qualified for the A final of the 200 free and swam to a fourth-place finish behind three Olympians, two of them gold medalists. The result earned Farris first-team All-America honors, making him the first Harvard swimmer to receive the award since 2010.
“I imagine that he definitely felt quite a bit of pressure as a freshman, but he rarely showed it,” Yakubovich said. “The only time I noticed any sort of nervousness with Dean was when he stepped up on the blocks for the 200 free NCAA ‘A’ Final. He was shaking a little bit. But then he drove home like it was nothing and got fourth behind three Olympians. The guy doesn't crack.”
Farris wasn’t done, though. The freshman went on to break the school record in the 200 back prelims before finishing 14th overall and garnering honorable mention All-America recognition. He is the first Crimson swimmer to earn All-America status in two individual events since 2008.
The Atlanta, Ga., native also picked up a third honor, finishing 14th in the 800 freestyle relay, good for another honorable mention All-America award.
Farris’ standout performance at NCAAs was a fitting conclusion to an outstanding debut season in which the first-year established himself as one of the top swimmers not just in the Ivy League, but in the entire country.
If he can continue to show the same improvement that characterized his freshman campaign, there’s no knowing what Farris might accomplish in the years to come.
“Not only did Dean catapult Harvard men's swimming into the national spotlight this year with multiple world-class performances, but he did so with the poise, determination, and leadership of a true champion,” Ronda said. “I am very excited to see what Dean does in the future.”
—Staff writer Sam O. M. Christenfeld can be reached at sam.christenfeld@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
