News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
I’m not at all surprised that an old, wealthy, powerful, and disgusting white man such as Harvey Weinstein would use his power and privilege to sexually harass and sexually assault over 50 women. But I am particularly disgusted by how he got away with this for decades. Weinstein was not discreet. He was not subtle. He didn’t care that everyone knew. This was Hollywood’s “open secret.”
The reason for his indiscretion is simple. He knew that his behavior would be tolerated. And up until very recently, he was right—he would sexually harass and assault women, and suffer absolutely no consequences. Matt Damon knew. Ben Affleck knew. Brad Pitt knew. Quentin Tarantino knew. Seth MacFarlane knew. It stands to reason that hundreds of other men in the industry, who have remained strangely silent, also knew. And they all did nothing.
As a society, we tolerate this behavior wherever it manifests. We all know a Harvey Weinstein. We all know that guy who takes things a little too far, who makes the women around him feel slightly uncomfortable and icky. And we still hang out with him, we still go to parties with him, we still consider him our friend.
I think about the woman who told me about her male friend and how he would touch her even when she said no repeatedly, how he would press his body against hers in bed and touch her even as she tried to wriggle away, and how he would scream at her for speaking to other men and for not sleeping with him. She cut off her friendship with him, but her other friends continued to hang out with him, as if nothing had changed.
I think about a group of friends who told me about this “really weird guy” they all know who would continually harass one of them. He would touch her inappropriately, make sexual comments about her and her body, and sleep in her bed and try to cuddle with her against her will. I reacted with horror and disgust, and the woman was relieved, saying, “You’re the first person to take me seriously. Everyone else thinks I’m making a big deal out of nothing.” Later, I found out that her friends were going to spend the weekend with him.
I think about the woman who met a man during her travels, a man who made continuous sexual advances towards her and climbed into her bed in the middle of the night to seduce her, even as she told him repeatedly to get out and that she had a boyfriend back home. As she told me this story, and other women concurred, we were sitting barely two meters away from the man in question. He was happily drinking beer, laughing with everyone else—people who had seen him make unwanted sexual advances, and who continued to joke and party with him.
I think about the man who is good friends with someone who multiple women on campus have told me sexually assaulted them. I told him about what his friend had done, and I asked him how he could stand to be friends with a rapist. He shrugged and said, “Well, he never did anything to me.”
And this is exactly the attitude that allows people like Harvey Weinstein to assault and harass over fifty women and get away with it each and every time. The men who protected Harvey Weinstein did so because it was too difficult, too inconvenient to cut off their friendships with him—and besides, he never did anything to them. It was easier to believe that dozens of women were lying than to cut off their relationship with Weinstein.
This is the reason why true allyship is so very difficult. It means cutting off your best friends. It means cutting off your family members. It means being alone. It means being shunned. It means not getting invited to parties anymore. It means being sad because you miss spending time with them and joking around with them, and even though they were a horrible person who did horrible things to some people, you still miss being friends with them.
Men—if you really want to be feminist allies, stop giving TED Talks and stop publishing books and stop writing op-eds about feminism. Stop taking up space in a world that already tells you that you’re entitled to space. Stop amplifying your voice in a world that’s already filled with loud male voices blabbering on and on about things they barely understand.
True allyship means having a small taste of what it is like to be a woman—how it feels to be all alone, how it feels to be betrayed by someone you thought was your friend, how it feels to simultaneously miss someone while feeling disgusted by what a horrible person they are. Allyship is hard. Allyship requires personal sacrifice. But if you truly want to create a world that does not protect Harvey Weinstein, you’re going to have to start by not protecting the Harvey Weinsteins in your own life.
Nian Hu ’18 is a Government concentrator in Mather House. Her column appears on alternate Fridays.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
As soon as Olivia S. Farrar ’21 got her driver’s license, the world was her classroom.
The freshman, who was homeschooled throughout high school, said she would hop from one cafe to the next, finding new places to complete her online assignments and self-defined projects.
Unlike the experience of the vast majority of Harvard students—who come from traditional brick-and-mortar high schools—a small group of undergraduates were homeschooled by their parents or through online courses before coming to college.
Like many peer institutions, Harvard says it does not evaluate homeschooled applicants differently than others in the admissions process. The University also does not publicize any statistics on homeschooled applicants or accepted students.
While an admissions officer declined to comment, according to the Admissions Office website, “each applicant to Harvard College is considered with great care and homeschooled applicants are treated the same as all other applicants.” The website adds that “there is no special process, but all relevant information about your educational and personal background is welcome.”
Dean of Freshmen Thomas A. Dingman ’67 said that homeschoolers integrate well into the student population, while also adding that the definition of ‘homeschool’ has certainly changed, now encapsulating students who take online courses or community college classes.
“We’ve had lots of success with students who identify as homeschooled,” Dingman said. “It’s changed over time, so I don’t know that you can say these are people who’ve only gotten their education within the four walls of their home,” he added.
Harvard’s homeschooled students say growing up outside of a school system was an opportunity for them to be organic and self-driven in pursuing their interests and education, and has made coming to Harvard an occasionally overwhelming experience but one they felt well-equipped to tackle.
Upon coming to Harvard, homeschooled students say they are often asked how they are able to socialize in college after the perceived narrowness of their homeschool social environment.
Claire L. Sukumar ’20, who was homeschooled until the ninth grade, said being homeschooled was helpful in shaping her attitude towards schooling going forward.
Sukumar said that starting college, she felt less tired of school than some of her new classmates.
“Generally, I feel less burnt-out than other people do. I never felt the need to get time off or to adapt here; I was really excited to go to school and then college,” she said.
Farrar, a student who was homeschooled all the way until college, agreed that the transition was also not as difficult as people often think, particularly due to Harvard’s encouragement of its students’ unique qualities and backgrounds.
“I think Harvard—probably more so than a lot of other schools—does give you flexibility to have that goofy background, so the transition has probably been easier here than at other schools,” she said.
Farrar added that the common misconception that homeschoolers are socially inept is far from the truth.
“I get ‘How do you make friends?’ all the time,” Farrar said. “I’m having a conversation with you right now. Socialization is an innate thing.”
However, Farrar said she has sometimes felt overwhelmed by having her classes, teachers, activities, and social life all in the same place. Coming from an online education and few interactions with classmates, she said Harvard’s campus felt “surreal.”
“I’ve never been inundated with so many people at all times,” Farrar said. “At times I’m not a fan of it, but the Harvard community, not to throw out all the cliches, but it’s so diverse and talented it is exciting to be part of it.”
Kemen Linsuain ’18 said his homeschool experience means he sometimes has trouble relating to the shared experiences of people who grew up in public or private school systems. Linsuain was homeschooled after his Kindergarten-eighth grade Montessori school in Pittsburgh closed due to dropping enrollment.
“I’ve been here and never met another homeschooled person, or at least no one who’s told me they were homeschooled. It’s kind of an unusual thing,” Linsuain said. “I would say maybe the major difference is in general attitudes toward education. I think many people here have grown up in this standard school system and have the culture and the experiences that come with that.”
For some students who were homeschooled, one downside was not experiencing the breadth of education that is often mandated by public and private schools. On the flipside, homeschooled students say their extracurricular options were more diverse.
“I probably had a little bit less of the backbone of STEM that some people come here with just because there wasn’t quite the same resources for that when you’re alone as opposed to in a classroom or in a lab,” Farrar said.
Multiple students said that homeschooling allowed them ample amounts of free time to pursue various interests.
Farrar said that homeschooling in her experience was far from the common conception of a parent sitting a child down at a desk with a blackboard. Rather, her parents helped facilitate wherever her interests led her—ranging from nature walks to museum visits.
“When I was small I would just spend days at the library and I would just get lost in the stacks and just read everything that I touched,” she said. “There would be days where that was all I would do, and then there were days where I would just explore.”
For Sukumar, she realized how much she appreciated that flexibility when she began attending a traditional high school, where she found she had less time to pursue the activities that had characterized her homeschooling experience.
“I’m not sure if it was because I was homeschooled, but when I got to [high] school, I dropped a lot of my extracurricular activities, gymnastics being the biggest one, because I was like so exhausted after school everyday,” she said.
Sukumar added that her transition to high school came with other challenges.
“School kids would be used to that, but I was just so tired and felt the need to spend a lot of time on my homework,” she said. “I was still kind of unsure in the beginning years about how much time I should be spending on all that.”
Linsuain said that the relative narrowness of his pre-college education made the transition to college at times tricky, but also rewarding.
“When I was in Pittsburgh, I had a limited opportunity in what classes I could take,” Linsuain said. “Here they make you really explore fields outside of your immediate area of interest. That was something that took some getting used to, but I think it was unquestionably a good thing. I used to be a terrible writer, for example, before coming here, and now that’s thankfully gotten a lot better.”
Without any formal, mandated curriculum, some students who were homeschooled said they valued their training in creative ways of thinking and following their interests and intuitions, rather than being held to formulaic requirements.
Linsuain said that the homeschooled experience created a less rigid thinking style, which he said was both good and bad.
“I feel like I have less structure in the way I think about things and I’m just a little bit more ad hoc because I really figured out how to do things on the fly,” he said. “In some cases I feel like it’s more efficient; in some cases I feel like it’s less efficient.”
Farrar said that while her peers often struggle to manage their free time in college, her experience has been just the opposite.
“I’m not used to having these chunks of the day where somebody else has decided for me what I should be doing with my time,” Farrar said. “I think time management has always been one of my assets just because it was organic. I had to tell myself to sit down and do my homework. Nobody told me to do it.”
Linsuain said his less traditional education means that he often thinks and structures his ideas differently from his peers in situations like essays, cover letters, and job interviews.
“I often would not write an essay in the same way that other people would because I feel like many people here were taught to write it in a certain way and I wasn’t,” Linsuain said. “I feel like many people have a certain conception of how it should be done and I kind of have my own.”
Farrar agreed that her self-led approach to schooling felt more natural to her, allowing her to truly enjoy learning in college.
“Homeschooling prepared me for Harvard really well because it fostered such a strong love for the act of learning,” Farrar said. “Not learning for a grade, not learning for an exam, but learning for the sheer love of knowledge itself.”
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
University President Drew G. Faust is making the fight against the Republican tax plan her “priority focus,” reaching out to lawmakers and Harvard alumni in conservative states to combat the bill’s most “dangerous” proposals.
In an interview Friday, Faust said that she and leaders of other universities—including David W. Leebron ’77 and Michael A. Fitts ’75, the presidents of Rice University and Tulane University, respectively—have been “working on having universities in red states with relevant representatives to reach out to those representatives and help us make a case.”
If passed, the overhaul would hike taxes on tuition for graduate students, as it repeals the tax-exempt status of the “qualified tuition reduction”—tuition lowered by a university for its employees and paid graduate students. Other potential measures include removing the tax deductibility for student loans and taxing university endowments. Both the House and Senate plans could result in an estimated $43 million tax on the University’s endowment, according to an email from University Provost Alan M. Garber ’76 last month.
Both the House and Senate have passed their own versions of the tax plan. Negotiators from both legislative bodies are expected to reconcile the differences and finalize the plan during a meeting on Wednesday.
Faust, who has called the tax plan a “blow at the strength of American education,” traveled to Washington, D.C. last month to meet with lawmakers on both sides of the aisle. "We have worked really hard to point out why this is a very, very dangerous bill with terrible impacts for higher education,” Faust said in the interview Friday.
Faust also said that she is focusing on contacting alumni who are lawmakers or political donors. “It’s a strategy of trying to use our Harvard connections in whatever way we can, and that varies from connecting to our own alums who are in the Senate and the House, having donors and alumni who have been supportive of various members of Congress,” Faust said.
Faust’s efforts have been part of a larger University-wide conversation about the impending effects of the tax plan. Affiliates of Harvard’s 12 schools, including the College, have held rallies and phone banks to urge their Congressional representatives not to support the proposal.
The tax plan isn’t Massachusetts Hall’s only concern. Faust has been an outspoken opponent of the repeal of Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals—an Obama-era program that allows undocumented youth to legally live and work in the United States—and is continuing to advocate for its continuation or a replacement situation.
Faust met with South Carolina Senator Lindsey O. Graham on Oct. 23 to discuss protections for undocumented students. Graham, during his visit to campus, met with two student leaders of Act on a Dream, a student group that advocates for immigration rights.
“[Graham] is proposing the bill to protect the Dreamers because he wants to have a permanent solution, but if he doesn’t get a permanent solution, he wants to have a BRIDGE Act before we get a permanent solution,” Faust said.
Daishi M. Tanaka ’19, a Co-Director of Act on a Dream and one of the two students at the meeting, said that he felt “dehumanized” after his conversation with Graham, adding that Graham seemed to focus on the economic benefits rather than human impact of the program.
Tanaka said that he did not have a chance to relay his thoughts to Faust after the meeting. He said that it is “great that President Faust personally is being an advocate and partaking in advocacy,” but criticized the University for not designating itself as a “sanctuary campus” last year. Faust has said that the term offers no legal protections and may draw further unwanted attention to undocumented students on campus.
—Staff writer Kristine E. Guillaume can be reached at kristine.guillaume@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @krisguillaume.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
