News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The fifth episode of “Game of Thrones” is no nail-biter, but that’s because it’s not supposed to be. “Eastwatch” shifts its sights away from the violence, and chooses to focus on the political landscapes of Westeros, and how the characters navigate their way through them.
Or in Daenerys' case, steamroll through them with dragonfire. In the last episode, we saw her abandon Tyrion’s casualty-minimizing approach, opting to rain hellfire on Lannister soldiers instead. “I’m not here to murder,” she tells the ones not reduced to ashes against a backdrop of charred bodies. “I offer you a choice. Bend the knee and join me…or refuse and die.” That’s not much of a choice, Dany.
She’s even ruthless enough to destroy a whole house within a few minutes, executing the Tarlys when they refuse to accept her as their new queen. Perhaps she doesn’t care about the old system, but it’s one that has a lot of significance to the people of Westeros. This is what some feared from a Targaryen—that Daenerys would turn out like her father, the Mad King. And now, Tyrion is slowly seeing it unfold before his own eyes, as he walks through the fields of dead Lannister soldiers—soldiers who might have once sworn to protect him. His own inner turmoil is fascinating. Tyrion has abandoned his house, which doesn’t just mean betraying his sister. It also means betraying all of the Lannisters’ people, allies, and soldiers.
Ultimately he thinks it’s for the greater good. But it looks like Tyrion is having more and more trouble believing that as Daenerys tries to win over Westeros with dragonfire. Politics were so much simpler in Essos, when “Game of Thrones” writers painted an unsettlingly simple depiction of good and bad (i.e. Daenerys frees slaves. Daenerys is good at it. Daenerys is good.).
Someone from those simpler times decides to visit. Jorah Mormont is finally rid of greyscale, and literally bends the knee to Daenerys as soon as he sees her on Dragonstone. This is a moment that’s had a lot of buildup from the whole season, given Jorah’s romantic affections for Daenerys. But it falls flat. Unfortunately, Emilia Clarke has struggled with Daenerys’ emotional range in the past, and the poor writing in this scene doesn’t help. There isn’t enough time devoted to this reunion. The last time the two were together they were unsure if they would ever see each other again. The emotional potency promised by this plotline is missing. Instead they carry on with awkward conversation like he was just out with the flu.
Meanwhile, Sam decides that he’s had enough of trying to persuade the maesters’ of the White Walkers’ existence. He and Gilly (who confirmed Jon’s Targaryen lineage while Sam ignored her) leave the Citadel, with a few stolen books in tow.
Later, Jon and Tyrion form a plan to convince Cersei of the White Walkers’ existence. Jon and Jorah will be heading north of the Wall to try to catch a White Walker. Tyrion will be going to King’s Landing to convince his brother for an audience with Cersei. It’s unclear if either of them will survive these encounters, but Tyrion makes it out alive with the help of Ser Davos. He also gets help from Gendry, who turns out to have been hiding at a blacksmith's all this time. Jon, meanwhile, takes a ragtag team of minor characters beyond the Wall. It’ll be interesting to see how the dynamics in this mashup work as they try to capture a zombie.
More trouble is brewing north. In the last episode, Sansa was shocked by Arya’s newfound talents as an assassin. This time, Arya is suspicious of Sansa’s role as the Lady of Winterfell. Arya says that she knows what Sansa’s thinking, and a rebellion in favor of the elder sister is implied. Arya later snoops around Littlefinger’s room, where she finds the letter Sansa wrote under Cersei’s influence, asking Robb Stark to surrender.
The letter was planted, unsurprisingly, by Littlefinger, probably as a way to create an even wider divide between the Stark sisters. What seemed like petty drama in the last episode is now more sophisticated and intense. Arya and Sansa clearly don’t trust each other anymore, and their old differences become amplified in the most cruel way.
Seams are splitting in Winterfell, but in King’s Landing (despite just losing thousands of men and stolen crops), Cersei manages to solidify her hold on her brother by announcing her pregnancy. The question of whether or not the baby is real doesn’t seem to pass through Jaime’s mind, unfortunately. He was just starting to realize that his relationship with Cersei isn’t just loving—it’s toxic and unhealthy, with Cersei as the puppetmaster and Jaime as the toy. But now the “baby” has Jaime locked into Cersei’s grip, even as she calmly says to him “Never betray me again.” Mid-embrace too.
Jaime being caught in Cersei’s manipulation is heartbreaking, as he’s the character with the most interesting growth. He used to be a bully, and now he’s a brainwashed soldier with an easily-overlooked conscience. He doesn’t want the same things Cersei wants anymore, and what Cersei wants is to win or to die. But Jaime is meant for more than that—Jaime is worthy of living. Cersei knows this, and yet she continues to drag his reputation down further, declaring their incestuous relationship publicly in a time and place where a royal brother-sister romance will provoke violence and protest.
If Cersei stays queen, her incestuous relationship won’t bother her. If Cersei loses the crown, then she’ll die, and then literally nothing will bother her. But that isn’t the case with Jaime. Instead, he might have to live to suffer the consequences resulting from his sister’s actions—without the queen’s protection. And while Cersei might disguise her openness as love, it’s clear what she’s actually doing.
Cersei’s dragging Jaime down with her. And it looks like he doesn’t care enough to stop her.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
It is officially the last week of summer, and Flyby implores you to end it with a bang. For the last time (this summer, that is) we have your week lined up with solar eclipses, chocolate tacos, Turkish cats, and more. It’s your last chance to make some summer memories before the beginning of sch**l, so make it count!
Solar eclipse 
Monday, 1:30-3:30 p.m. | MIT Kresge Oval (1 bus from Mass Ave @ Holyoke St. to 77 Mass. Ave. - MIT stop, then walk)
In a perfect metaphor for the last week before school starts, this Monday the happy summer sun will be eclipsed by the moon. Since it’s not the best idea to look at the sun without proper eye-gear, stop by MIT to wear some solar-filter glasses, use telescopes for a close up view of the partial eclipse, and hang out with other space nerds on this special day.
Choco-Taco Tuesday at Taza
Tuesday, 1-4 p.m. | Taza Chocolate Factory (69 bus from Mass. Ave. @ Holyoke St. to Cambridge St. @ Windsor St. stop, then walk)
If you like Taza Chocolate, Honeycomb Creamery ice cream, and tacos, you should sit down for this, because your mind is about to be blown. This Tuesday, the Taza Chocolate factory in Somerville is selling Honeycomb Choco-Tacos covered in Taza chocolate. We are not worthy. If you were waiting for some special reason to visit the chocolate factory—besides, ya know, the chocolate—the excuses end now.
Free circuit hacking class 
Wednesday, 6 p.m. | Artisan’s Asylum, Inc. (86 bus from Harvard Station to Washington St. @ Calvin St. stop, then walk)
If you’re a hacker, raise your hand—on second thought, maybe we should keep it a little more discreet. Whether you’re planning on using your hacking powers for good or evil, we all have to start somewhere. Thankfully, Artisan’s Asylum in Somerville has got you covered with a free circuit hacking class for all levels, rookies and covert CIA engineers alike. From soldering to circuits to answers about your own projects, this class has it all.
Kedi screening at the Brattle
Wednesday, 5 p.m. and 7 p.m. | Brattle Theatre
Wish you could travel the world this last week of summer? Look no further than the Brattle Theatre’s screening of Kedi, a recent hit documentary about the cats of Istanbul. Whether you’re a fan of felines or not, the film’s stunning shots of the Byzantine city and its inhabitants will satisfy your wanderlust. So book your (movie) ticket now, and don’t forget to grab some of the Brattle’s delicious popcorn before the show.
Mamma Mia screening at Faneuil Hall
Thursday, 7 p.m. | West End of the Faneuil Hall Marketplace (Red Line to Park Street, then walk)
Money, money, money, must be funny, in the rich man’s world—luckily, this event is free! You might not have been able to afford your dream trip to Greece this summer, but watching Mamma Mia outdoors in Boston is the next best thing, right?
ICA “Culture Club” event
Friday, 6:30-10:00 p.m. | The Institute of Contemporary Art (Red Line to South Station, then walk)
Boston’s not known as a party city, so when a clubbing event presents itself, seize the opportunity. This week, the ICA is hosting the last event in their “Culture Club” series, which provides an outdoor experience with local DJs and artists. If the night-life scene makes you claustrophobic, don’t fret—nine therapy dogs will be at the event for comfort while the party rages on. The evening is open to all ages (don’t be surprised to see some awkward middle schoolers or a few grandmas), and tickets are available ahead of time for $15.
Evening cruises in the Boston Harbor
Thursday-Saturday, times vary for each type of cruise | Rowes Wharf (Red Line to South Station, then walk)
Unfortunately, these are your last few days of summer. While Flyby has tried to provide you with affordable, local, and college-friendly events this summer, we thought you might be willing to splurge as we close out #summer2k17. Throughout the week, Massachusetts Bay Lines offers a variety of cruises around the Boston Harbor—at sunset, in the moonlight, or even on a pirate ship. Cruise prices range between $20-$35, but it’s worth it to escape The Bridge before you’re sucked back into the Harvard Bubble.
Back to school :(
Next Monday, all day, Next Tuesday, all day, and every day after that | Harvard College
What can we say, summer has Flownby.

