Sections
Hopefully, you’ve adjusted to the reality that August is upon us—and if not, you’re in luck. Flyby is here with your weekly list of summer activities in the Cambridge area. From seafood festivals to meteor showers, one thing’s for sure: summer isn’t over yet.
My Neighbor Totoro screening
Monday, 7 or 9:15 p.m. | Coolidge Corner Theatre (Red Line to Green Line C train to Coolidge Corner)
Maybe you’ve never seen this Studio Ghibli classic before—maybe it was the only movie you watched as a kid. Either way, its return to the big screen in Brookline is an opportunity to sit back and let the beautiful animation and simple story-telling of Hayao Miyazaki ease your August blues.
Finding Neverland opening night
Tuesday, 7:30 p.m. | Boston Opera House (Red Line to Downtown Crossing, then walk)
Let the childhood nostalgia continue with Finding Neverland’s opening night in Boston. Sprinkle yourself with some pixie dust and soar across the Charles (or take the train—your call) for a chance to see this Broadway hit show. Tickets start at $40, and performances run until August 20th.
Live music in the Square
Thursday, 5:30-6:30 p.m. | Palmer Street at Brattle Street, next to the Coop
As always, Flyby has you covered even if you don’t feel like leaving the Square this week. To get out without really having to get out, head into the Square on Thursday evening and enjoy live outdoor music from Club Passim’s weekly “Berklee Concerts on Palmer Street” series.
DJ Night at the ICA
Friday, 6:30-10 p.m. | Institute of Contemporary Art (Red Line to South Station, then walk)
Celebrate the end of the week with a trip to the ICA. Gather a group of friends and head into Boston to enjoy art exhibits, views of the waterfront, and music from this week’s DJ, Devendra Banhart.
Perseid meteor shower
Before dawn Friday-Saturday, Saturday-Sunday, and Sunday-Monday | The most open, unlit outdoor space you can find (good luck)
We realize you’re up against light pollution to experience this event, but the annual Perseid meteor shower (which peaks at the end of this week) is worth the effort. Wake up early (or stay up really late) to get outside one of these nights, and hope for clear skies!
Comic Con in Boston
Friday-Sunday, event times vary each day | Boston Convention & Exhibition Center (Red Line to South Station, 7 bus from Summer St @ South Station to Summer St opposite WTC Ave, then walk)
Don’t miss New England’s largest Comic Con this weekend in Boston! Celebrity guests will include comic-book creator Stan Lee, The Vampire Diaries’s Ian Somerhalder, Doctor Who’s Matt Smith and Karen Gillan, and many more. Day passes range from $35-55, and each day of the event is packed with opportunities to prove your #1 fan status.
Open Newbury Street
Sunday, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. | Newbury Street from Arlington Street to Massachusetts Avenue (Red Line to Green Line B or D train to Hynes Convention Center stop, then walk)
No more overcrowded sidewalks and crazy Boston traffic on Newbury Street—this Sunday, the shopping center will be pedestrian-only. Do some shopping (or maybe just window-shopping), grab a bite to eat, and enjoy the excitement of a summer day on a car-less Newbury Street.
Boston Seafood Festival
Sunday, 11 a.m. to 7 p.m. | Boston Fish Pier (Red Line to Silver Line to World Trade Center Station, then walk)
Nothing says summer like seafood, and luckily Boston has a lot of it. End your week with a visit to the sixth annual Boston Seafood Festival for good food, chef demonstrations, and other seafood-themed events. General admission is just $15, or you can splurge for the $50 lobster bake ticket. No matter what, you’re sure to walk away feeling like you’ve participated in a summer tradition.
