News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Washington, D.C.-based chain &pizza is partnering with Milk Bar, a dessert bakery based in New York, in an effort to revive the pizza chain’s bid to open in Harvard Square.
Two months ago, Cambridge’s Board of Zoning Appeal denied &pizza the permit necessary to open in Harvard Square, citing an excess of pizza restaurants in the neighborhood. After its application was rejected, &pizza could only re-apply if it chose a different location or proposed a different service model.
In a statement, &pizza’s co-founder and CEO Michael Lastoria said his company sought to address the community’s concerns about the addition of “just another pizza shop” in the Square.
“We’ve listened to the community and heard loud and clear that they’re looking for more than just another pizza shop—they want a neighborhood partner,” he said in the statement.
BZA members and Cambridge residents also cited a divergence from Harvard Square’s historical character and the take-out format of the restaurant as key challenges. The revised proposal includes new food offerings and exterior and interior design changes that &pizza says incorporates community feedback.
Karen D. Simao, &pizza’s attorney, wrote in a letter to the Planning Board that by adding a dessert option, the restaurant will encourage customers to have a sit-down meal and reduce take-out orders and possible congestion.
“&pizza’s new concept attracts customers to eat in, reducing traffic and upholding the integrity of Harvard Square,” Simao wrote.
Lastoria is teaming up with Milk Bar founder and CEO Christina Tosi to occupy the property that previously housed Crimson Corner and Tory Row.
Tosi, who has been to campus before as a guest lecturer in the popular Science & Cooking course, said she is excited for Milk Bar to “help fuel some of the most brilliant and innovative minds in the world,” according to the statement.
“Our mission at Milk Bar is to make life a little sweeter—that includes making study breaks fun, too! Plus we can finally tell our folks we made it into Harvard!” she said.
In order for the zoning board to consider &pizza’s new proposal, the BZA must find “specific and material changes in the revised proposal. The hearings for “milk &pizza” will take place next Monday and Tuesday.
—Staff writer Sarah Wu can be reached at sarah.wu@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @sarah_wu_.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections

This week, Flyby is bringing you a round-up of movie premieres, festivals, sporting games, and other events nearby in the upcoming days. Mid-summer blues, be gone!
Area premiere of The Little Hours 
Playing Monday-Thursday, showtimes vary | Brattle Theatre
Start your week with a viewing of The Little Hours at the Brattle. The comedy—starring Alison Brie, Aubrey Plaza, and Kate Micucci as medieval nuns—was first screened at the Brattle last Friday, and you can catch it until Thursday here in the Square.
Taste of Cambridge food festival
Tuesday, 5:30-8:30 p.m. | Canal Park at CambridgeSide (69 bus from Harvard Station to Lechmere, then walk)
If you have $50 to drop on food and drinks, the annual Taste of Cambridge food festival is the place to do it. Take an evening away from the Square to sample a wide variety of food from over 100 local restaurants and specialty food providers.
“Sounds of Summer” at the Gardner Museum
Thursday, 5-9 p.m. | Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum (Red Line to Green Line E Train to Longwood)
Harvard students can visit the Gardner Museum for free anytime, but if you stop by on Thursday, there will be activities and musical performances for the event, and you’ll get to experience the museum at night (most days, the museum closes at 5 p.m.).
Bastille Day Party
Friday, 6-11 p.m. | Marlborough Street, Back Bay (1 bus from Harvard Station to Mass. Ave. @ Marlborough St., then walk)
Celebrate Bastille Day, the French national holiday, with performances by Ben l’Oncle Soul and Daby Touré, food from various Boston-based French restaurants, and drinks. Advance tickets to the block-party-style event are $33, and if available, tickets at the entrance will be $40.
Artbeat festival in Davis Square
Friday from 6 a.m. to 10 p.m., Saturday from 11 a.m. to p.m. | Davis Square, Somerville
Hop the train to Davis for Somerville’s two-day “Artbeat” festival. Friday night will feature music and performances, and Saturday will offer craft vendors and other shows. Any excuse to head into Davis is a good one, and an arts festival is sure to be worth the train ride.
Red Sox v. Yankees at Fenway
Friday-Sunday, game times vary | Fenway Park
Tickets for Sox/Yankees games are hard to come by, but it’s worth giving it a shot to try and score a seat at Fenway for this iconic match-up. Don’t forget to check out Fenway’s student discount program.
Festival Betances in the South End
Saturday and Sunday, from 1-8 p.m. | 100 W. Dedham St., Boston’s South End (1 bus from Harvard Station to Massachusetts Ave. @ Tremont St., then walk)
Mix it up this weekend and journey to the South End for two days of music, food, and other activities at the “longest running Latino festival in New England.”
Yoga at Harvard’s Arboretum 
Sunday, 10-11:15 a.m. | Arnold Arboretum Hunnewell Building (Red Line to Orange Line to Forest Hills Station, then walk)
End your week with some rejuvenating yoga at Harvard’s own arboretum. If you’ve never been, Sunday’s free class is a good reason to visit for the first time and immerse yourself in nature.
