Sections
Flyby is here to fill up your first week of August because, let’s be honest, it’s when the best summer memories are made. This week there are plenty of opportunities to get active (by dancing or running), to jam out (to Rihanna or James Baldwin) and, of course, to spend money (on books or amusement rides). Whatever activity you choose, whether it be all or one, these are sure to set your August off on the right track—well, at least until school starts.
Run with Athleta from Newbury St.
Tuesday, 6:30 p.m. | Athleta on Newbury St. (Red Line to Green Line to Copley, then walk)
For all the women looking to run, start running, or walk but make it look like you’re running, Athleta’s got a plan for you. Every Tuesday at 6:30 p.m., the athletic store, along with She Runs Boston, will be leading three or four mile loops starting at their location on 92 Newbury St. You can store your stuff safely in the store, so you’ll be able to run hassle-free. And if you’re worried about trailing behind or sprinting ahead, there will be leads and sweeps to make sure no one’s left out. It’s a great way to exercise, socialize, and maybe even do a little shopping after. You ran three miles, after all—maybe you deserve a new sweater. Make sure to join the Facebook group for any additional information.
Dance through art at the MFA
Wednesday, 7-9 p.m. | Museum of Fine Arts (Red Line to Green Line E train to Museum of Fine Arts)
We know that looking at art can get real boring real fast, but the MFA has a plan to spice things up. For two hours, the Reciprocity Collaborative, a Boston-based art collective, will bring the galleries to life with movement and music. You’re encouraged to follow the performers as they “activate” the museum with their instruments and dances, and, if you want to, you can dance along with them. If an interpretive dance party isn’t enough to get you on the Red Line, the fact that it’s free should.
Ride the Codzilla at the Boston Harbor
Monday-Sunday, 12-6 p.m. | Long Wharf (Red Line to Downtown Crossing, then walk)
If you’re craving thrill, danger, and risk, you could eat at Chipotle—or, better yet, ride Codzilla. Codzilla, as its name might suggest, is monster boat: 70 foot long, with up to 2,800 horsepower, and specially equipped to make 360 degree turns that will make your stomach lurch—in the good kind of way. Be prepared to get wet as the boat sprints through the water; the sharp circles are guaranteed to get you soaked.
The tickets are $29 (maybe add an extra $10 for the hat that will surely fall into the Harbor), but with the soundtrack, show, and adrenaline that Codzilla offers, it’s well worth it. The ride begins at Long Wharf in Boston and runs throughout the week in the summer, but the ride closes for the fall in early September, so get there soon.
I Am Not Your Negro screening at MIT
Thursday, 6-7:30 p.m. | MIT List Visual Arts Center (Red Line to Kendall, then walk)
If you’ve never gotten the chance to see this acclaimed documentary, now is your chance. MIT is hosting a free screening of “I Am Not Your Negro,” a documentary which centers around James Baldwin’s unfinished manuscript about the assassinations of Medgar Evers, Malcolm X, and Martin Luther King, Jr. Baldwin never got to finish his project, but Samuel Jackson narrates what he did complete, while director Raoul Peck compiles old clips of Baldwin, protests, the three assassinations, and more recent footage to illustrate race relations over the past six decades. The screening is free, but the space is limited so make sure to RSVP beforehand.
The Rihanna Experience at the Museum of Science
Opens Friday, August 4 | Museum of Science (Red Line to Charles/MGH, then walk)
This rainy weather has got everyone down, needing an umbrella, and disturb(ia)ed, but Flyby’s got a wild thought to brighten up this hopeless place. The Museum of Science has been showcasing popular artist’s works in their planetarium this summer with stunning visuals to accompany the music, and this week they’re playing someone very special. What’s her name? Rihanna, don’t wear it out. The show opens August 4th, but the museum better have your money. It’s $10 to get in, so get ready to work, work, work (work, work, work) for it.
Book sale at Boston Public Library
Saturday, from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. | Boston Public Library (Red Line to Green Line to Copley, then walk)
We know that you already have to spend hundreds on notebooks, binders, and—worst of all—textbooks. The last thing you want to do is spend an extra $20 on a book you won’t even get to read, but thanks to the Boston Public Library, you won’t have to. The annual BPL book sale is this weekend in the Cushman Room of the library, and most books are between $1-2. And, if you’re feeling generous, you can donate some of your old books to the library. (Come on, you’re really going to read the Twilight series again?) All proceeds will go to new equipment and to sponsor programs for the BPL. Cheap books, a good cause, and a chance to clean out your bookshelf. What’s not to like?
Eat for cheap around Cambridge
Sunday-Friday, and the following Sunday-Friday (Saturdays optional) | Local Restaurants
Even college students can appreciate a nice meal, and starting this Sunday, they can do so for cheap. Dine Out Boston (formerly known as Restaurant Week Boston) is the perfect opportunity to explore, eat, and save. Restaurants around Cambridge and Boston choose to participate in the event where they create prix fixe menus for lunch and dinner, and then set the price (for lunch it ranges from $15-$25 and for dinner from $28-$38).
Restaurants in Harvard Square are participating too, so if you don’t want to commute you won’t have to. Toscano, Beat Brasserie, and Harvest are all offering specially-chosen and frugally-priced menus starting on the 6th and continuing through the following two weeks (but not always on Saturdays). Microwaved ramen no more!
