News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
UPDATED: September 29, 2017 at 4:05 p.m. 
The committee that recommended Harvard ban membership in social groups this summer watered down its initial proposal in its final report Friday, instead suggesting that the University consider the ban on as one of multiple ways to reshape social life at the College.
In its final report, the committee suggested three separate paths forward for Harvard undergraduate social life: maintain the current penalties on membership in single-gender social groups, ban membership altogether in unrecognized single-gender social groups, or consider a set of “some other possible solutions.”
Gone from the committee’s report is a recommendation to ban membership in both coeducational and single-gender groups. The committee now suggests Harvard consider banning membership in single-gender groups that the College does not recognize.
The report is a revision of a preliminary draft the committee released this summer, when it first recommended that “fraternities, sororities, and similar organizations” be “phased out” by May 2022. That recommendation—and Friday’s report—are themselves revisions to the College’s current policy on single-gender social organizations, which took effect with the Class of 2021 and bars members of the groups from campus leadership positions, athletic team captaincies, and certain prestigious fellowships.

The Faculty of Arts and Sciences will discuss the report at its monthly meeting on Tuesday, and University President Drew G. Faust will make the final decision on which of the options Harvard should pursue.
The committee’s first option would “phase out” all social organizations by 2022 or allow them to switch to a model in compliance with policies for recognized student organizations. The report cites the examples of Williams College and Bowdoin College, who banned fraternities and sororities from their campuses.
The second option proposed in the report involves maintaining the current sanctions accepted by Faust in May 2016. That implementation of that policy, initially set for this fall, was effectively put on hold amid uncertainty about the future of the penalties.
The third option put forth by the committee did not comprise any specific suggestions. In the report, committee members wrote that “this option is… a collection of thoughts” and “not intended to form a cohesive whole or outline a specific policy.”
In six bullet-pointed paragraphs underneath this third option, members laid out a variety of suggestions including: a “dedicated campaign” to “inform students and their parents about the risks of joining USGSOs,”  holding “training” sessions for leaders and members of social groups instead of sanctioning them, and increasing cooperation with the Cambridge Police Department to monitor the final clubs.
In addition to the report, Faculty members will hear a new motion presented by Government Professor Danielle S. Allen on Tuesday. In an “explanatory memo” sent to Faculty Friday afternoon, Allen argues that final clubs are recognized by Massachusetts as  “student organizations” and that the policies of the Harvard Student Handbook should apply to members of those organizations. Allen’s motion is scheduled for discussion at Tuesday’s Faculty meeting, according to the meeting’s agenda.
“The years-long saga with the final clubs underscores that the sanctioning, or re-direction, mechanism built into our basic policies for student organizations fails,” Allen wrote.
In the body of the report, the committee dismissed Allen’s recommendation as unworkable.
“The problem with this proposal is that the College is not at liberty to pronounce these organizations recognized and then compel them to comply,” the report reads.
Dean of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences Michael D. Smith formed the committee in January and tasked it with reviewing and revising the original penalties after faculty members charged that administrators had not included them in the policy-making process.
The committee has been mired in controversy since Smith announced that Dean of the College Rakesh Khurana, one of the major architects of the original policy, would co-chair the committee. Some have also raised questions about the body’s process—in July, The Crimson reported that the full-fledged social group ban received just seven votes from the 27-member committee, making it the third-most popular option considered. In an interview this week, Khurana refused to comment on how the committee came to its preliminary recommendation this summer or say whether he personally thinks the ban is a good idea.
In the initial report released this summer, the committee wrote there was “strong majority support” among members for a ban on membership in both single-gender and co-ed groups. In its final report, though, the committee acknowledged the group was unable to decide on one best option.
“As a committee, we did not reach consensus about the path forward,” the report reads. “Therefore, we decided that, rather than present a single recommendation, we would present what we discovered during our deliberations and through the extensive feedback we received from the community.”
Members also included a four-page, single-spaced “Minority Report” at the end of the document, in which psychology professor Jason P. Mitchell attempted to make sense of the debate on social club regulation that has roiled Harvard for over a year.
Though Mitchell wrote that the “Minority Report” was “not intended as a dissent per se,” he did indicate that any of the proposed sanctions against social groups would constitute an “extraordinary” step.
“One index of just how extraordinary these policies seem is the amount of time spent by the USGSO Committee on the question of whether the various sanctions policies are even legal. Such policies will take us into uncharted places,” he wrote.
In the report, committee members also discussed Harvard’s reasons for attempting to regulate undergraduate social life. Harvard administrators have twice revised their stated rationale for a social group policy since Faust announced the sanctions, shifting the focus from sexual assault prevention towards the elimination of gender discrimination, and then towards preventing all kinds of discrimination.
The report acknowledged that some Harvard affiliates feel the argument for addressing the social groups has “shifted over time,” and called “this sense of shifting sands...understandable.”
Committee members then reaffirmed that the College’s “commitment to non-discrimination” drove the body’s work before specifically noting that final club membership practices perpetuate race-based discrimination.
“Female students of color reported stories of insults and epithets said to them as they were denied entry to a club,” the report reads. “As our student body becomes increasingly diverse, it is more imperative than ever that questions of rights must be asked from multiple vantage points.”
The report faces opposition, however. Former Dean of the College and vocal sanctions opponent Harry R. Lewis ’68 will present a motion at Tuesday’s Faculty meeting designed to invalidate any administrative action on social organizations.
Per Faculty meeting rules, Lewis’ motion will only be up for discussion for the October meeting. Should the Faculty ultimately vote on the motion at November’s meeting, they will do so by paper ballot.
—Staff writer Joshua J. Florence can be reached at joshua.florence@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @JoshuaFlorence1.
–Staff writer Mia C. Karr can be reached at mia.karr@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @miackarr.
–Staff writer Hannah Natanson can be reached at mia.karr@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @hannah_natanson.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The longest game of the year for Georgetown football began with the longest punt return in Harvard history.
Three minutes into play, wide receiver Justice Shelton-Mosley fielded a kick near the right pylon and swept left. Nobody could catch him. He beat punter Brad Hurst down the sideline for a 91-yard score and 7-0 lead.
“That was a big hole that I had,” Shelton-Mosley said. “I think a lot of people could have run through that.”
The junior could have kept going all the way back to campus. On an afternoon of smothering defense, that was all the scoring the Crimson needed.
For the second Saturday in a row, Harvard (2-1, 1-0 Ivy) held the opposing offense scoreless through three quarters. This time, the lockout lasted 60 minutes, as the Crimson deprived the Hoyas, 41-2, at RFK Stadium in Washington, D.C.
“I think anytime you win 41-2 on the road, you’ve got to be pretty happy,” Harvard coach Tim Murphy said. “Coaches aren’t easy to please, but defensively we played another outstanding game.”
Georgetown (1-3) entered as clear underdogs, aiming to steal an upset or at least introduce drama. The Hoyas did neither. The only upset of the game was the cheering of the Georgetown crowd at halftime. By that point, the Hoyas trailed 31-2.
Meanwhile, the only drama of the game took place on the Crimson sideline, as Murphy deliberated whether to start freshman quarterback Jake Smith or fifth-year senior Joe Viviano.
Murphy went with Smith, who rewarded the coach with 214 passing yards on 16-of-30 throwing. The Harvard rookie also tossed two interceptions and had several other passes bang off Georgetown defenders.
Midway through the first quarter, Smith launched his most complete drive. Snap completions to junior wide receivers Shelton-Mosley, Adam Scott, and Henry Taylor advanced the ball to the 25. After two small-gainers, Smith escaped pressure and threw across his body for a first down to Lavance Northington (sophomore wideout). Junior running back Charlie Booker went the rest of the way, shrugging off five tacklers for an 11-yard score.
Viviano had bright spots, too. For the second straight game, the senior entered before halftime and led a touchdown drive without missing a pass. The possession started on the Georgetown 38 with 1:20 left and ended with a one-yard push by Booker.
Compared to Smith, Viviano posted less yardage—5-of-10 for 66 yards. He added a 28-yard touchdown pass in the fourth quarter. Four minutes after keeping the drive alive with a Family Circus-esque run, Viviano threw a frozen rope to Taylor in the end zone.
That pass pushed the score to 41-2. By then, viewer attention had shifted from the game itself to the quarterback audition—and whether Murphy had seen enough to make a decision.
“I look at the glass as half-full,” Murphy said. “We’ve got two guys that can play. One’s a freshman who’s only going to get better. Another one is a guy that we know we can win with.”
Again, the Harvard defense emerged as the real star. The Crimson grabbed three turnovers before halftime, including a pick-six in the first quarter.
On that play, sophomore defensive end Kelvin Apari had wrapped up quarterback Clay Norris when the quarterback decided to throw the ball. Bad idea. Raishaun McGhee grabbed the flailing pass and sprinted 23 yards for Harvard’s second defensive touchdown of 2017.
The other turnovers came on strip sacks. On the Hoyas’ second possession, Norris navigated to the 24 with short passes over the middle. But the drive ended when senior lineman Stone Hart grabbed Norris in the backfield and ripped the ball. Junior defensive tackle Richie Ryan recovered at the 34.
Ten minutes later, on a third-and-three, Bailey slammed in from the blindside. This time, Hart emerged with the ball.
“Basically, I ended up swiping the guy’s hands away,” Bailey said. “I saw [Norris] trying to throw the ball, hesitating, and then I realized I could probably get this guy.”
Harvard would have stockpiled an even larger lead if not for a red-zone interception by Smith in the second quarter. Scrambling out of pressure, the freshman saw Scott in the end zone. Georgetown defensive back Blaise Brown anticipated the throw and dove for a shoestring interception.
“I just saw the quarterback roll out, and I saw the guy in front of me,” Brown said. “I figured he was going to throw it to him, and I just broke on it.”
Smith’s second turnover came with three minutes left in the third quarter. A pass caromed off Smith’s target and toward Brown. The junior somersaulted for his second pick of the day.
While the Crimson defense enjoyed a dominant performance, the special teams posted a more mixed showing. Sophomore kicker Jake McIntyre headlined with five extra points and two field goals, including 39-yarder, a career long. He hasn’t missed this season.
In the second quarter, however, Harvard long snappers overshot senior punter Zach Schmid on consecutive possessions. On one misfire, the punter scooped the ball near the 10, took two steps, and improvised a punt that rolled to the Hoyas 35. On the other one, Schmid could do nothing as the ball sailed out of the end zone, giving Georgetown its only points of the game.
“It’s just got to be automatic at this level of football,” Murphy said. “We just have to be consistent under pressure.”
Kickoff coverage looked suspect at times as well, as senior running back Isaac Ellsworth raced past midfield twice. At the start of the third quarter, the 5’5” speedster electrified the crowd with a return to the 42.
Then the Harvard defense got to work. Two plays yielded scant yards. On third down, Bailey forced a punt with an eight-yard sack.
RFK Stadium, the site of Saturday’s game, used to host NFL matchups. When the Crimson played the Hoyas, only one team looked professional.
“We didn’t play well today against a good football team, and I give them a lot of credit,” Georgetown coach Rob Sgarlata said. “They earned the win.”
—Staff writer Sam Danello can be reached at sam.danello@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
