News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Anyone who has watched the trailer of the new Netflix original “Win It All” knows exactly what unfolds in the first hour of the film. Gambling addict Eddie Garrett (“New Girl” star Jake Johnson) is tasked with storing a mysterious duffle bag in exchange for ten thousand dollars. Eddie opens the duffle bag, finds tens of thousands of dollars in cash stuffed inside, and gambles it all away. When he finds out that the bag’s owner is being released from prison early and wants his cash back, he gambles even more in a desperate attempt to get the money back. Even those who haven’t seen the trailer can tell what’s bound to happen as soon as he finds the first wad of bills in the bag––and so does Eddie, who cries out in a knowing mix of horror and exhilaration as soon as he catches sight of the cash.
The pervading sense of inevitability in this film is not necessarily a bad thing, as it mirrors the painful predictability of the cycle of relapse that many addicts experience. “Win It All” does an exceptional job of compellingly conveying the highs and lows of addiction. Johnson carries the film with his natural and nuanced portrayal of Eddie. With every twitch of his lip and furrow of his brow he is able to make visible the compulsions, delusions, and devastations that Eddie experiences every night at the poker table. A voice of exasperated reason comes in the form of Gene (Keegan-Michael Key of “Key and Peele”), Eddie’s irreverent, irresponsible, and oft-ignored Gamblers Anonymous sponsor, who points out the cruel humor of Eddie’s Sisyphean situation. “You lose, lose lose,” says Gene. “USDA prime-rib fucking loser! That’s the cut of you.” It’s as if Gene knows he can say exactly what he wants as harshly as he wants, because no matter what he does Eddie won’t listen. The film is most alive during Eddie and Gene’s interactions; it’s in these moments when the stakes can be felt most intensely.
But “Win It All” falters when it attempts to depict Eddie’s life outside of his addiction. Eddie’s older brother Ron (Joe Lo Truglio), a family man who runs a successful landscaping company, exists only to serve as a foil to his chaotic poker-loving younger sibling. Lo Truglio does his best with what he’s given, injecting as much life as he can manage into a largely flat character with painfully on-the-nose lines like “at a certain point, you have to grow up!” and countless variations thereof.
Eddie’s girlfriend Eva (Aislinn Derbez) is similarly one-dimensional. Everything that is ever revealed about her is reported rather than shown or felt. She is a nurse. She’s busy. She likes to take care of people. She is a single mother. Eddie tells Ron that “she’s the real deal,” that she’s “incredible” and “smart” and “cool,” but she isn’t given enough space or screen time to build herself into a real character. Her sole purpose in this film is to motivate Eddie to stop gambling, get a stable job, and––as Gene puts it––“get his shit together.” It’s a bad sign when a character could easily be replaced by a nice house or pretty piece of furniture that the protagonist really wants to save up for.
One of the potential challenges with gambling movies and their inherent predictability is that there’s generally only two ways for them to end: with a big win or a big loss. For a film like this one, which is driven more by character than plot, an unsurprising ending might not have been a big problem. But for some inexplicable reason, “Win It All” instead ends with a gimmicky twist that is completely bizarre and ultimately unsatisfying, cheapening a film that otherwise would have been a decent watch.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Yorgos Lanthimos knows black comedy. His last film, “The Lobster,” found its humor in ridiculous, if terrifying situations, and Lanthimos’s latest, “The Killing of a Sacred Deer,” doubles down on both of those impulses. Working with his “Lobster” star, Colin Farrell, Lanthimos has created a film both funnier and more tragic than his last effort. By establishing a world with bizarre characters and twisted logic, Lanthimos is able to mine the drawn-out, if inevitable, build-up to a dramatic conclusion for an equal measure of laughs and chills.
“The Killing of a Sacred Deer” is based very loosely on the Greek myth of Iphigenia, one of Agamemnon's daughters. After accidentally killing a deer sacred to the goddess Artemis, Agamemnon is forced to sacrifice Iphigenia or halt the entire invasion of Troy. Farrell’s character, Stephen, is faced with a similar choice after accidentally killing a man in surgery. In Lanthimos’ hands, what was once simply a tragedy becomes a true horror film.
This impossible choice is a trying situation for most families, but Stephen’s family is far from conventional. Petty power politics play out as both he and his wife, Anna (Nicole Kidman), have clear favorites between their two children. Farrell is back with his weirdly direct monotone, familiar to viewers of “The Lobster,” although he demonstrates here far more of an emotional range than in that film. Kidman matches him note for note, and their oddness plays tremendously well off each other.
The true breakout star of “The Killing of a Sacred Deer,” however, must be Barry Keoghan, playing Martin, the deeply disturbed son of Stephen’s victim. He sells the ineluctable rationale of a boy in search of revenge, and gradually, as Stephen’s family comes to terms with his terrible choice, his twisted logic dominates the entire film. All the other characters are living in his world, and Keoghan’s determined insanity is the base upon which the others’ performances rest.
To assist Keoghan in ratcheting up the suspense, Lanthimos turns to his cinematographer, Thimios Bakatakis, and his sound designer, Johnnie Burn (both of whom worked on “The Lobster” as well). Bakatakis relies heavily on long, slow zooms, and frames many of his shots so as to dwarf the characters in their surroundings. Burn, for his part, uses instruments not so much to create music as to create a mood—one of the most common refrains in the film is the eerie, tuneless squeaking of violins. The effect of all this is that Lanthimos uses even the seemingly everyday scenes at the start of the film to create dread, long before horror comes to bear on this unassuming family.
In films as chilling as “The Killing of a Sacred Deer”, humour would often be used to break the tension, giving the viewer a chance to breath. Lanthimos, however, does not let up, and often the funniest moments and lines are also the most horrifying. The characters never crack jokes—it is only their surreality, and that of the positions in which they find themselves, that lend humor to tragedy. The climactic scene of the film is deeply ridiculous, while also providing visceral shocks. In fact, the times when the audience finds itself laughing are some of the main contributors to the incredible discomfort that comes from watching this film.
Those familiar with Lanthimos’ oeuvre will not be surprised by the surreal quality of the dialogue and characters. He does not aspire to naturalness, and in “The Killing of a Sacred Deer,” this serves him well. By fully embracing the inherent rationalization of the damaged and insane, he has managed to construct a movie at once enjoyable and painful to watch, switching between and combining genres with the freedom of an auteur.
—Staff writer Ethan B. Reichsman can be reached at ethan.reichsman@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
No one who watches Claire Denis’s “Un Beau Soleil Intérieur (Let the Sunshine In)” will want Isabelle (Juliette Binoche) to find love more than she does herself. As she wanders through a parade of lovers just not right for her, she longs for something easy and true. Nearly all the time, she is falling into or out of love with a brand new artist or banker or actor, but nothing is forthcoming. Denis manages to create a world far more similar to reality than most romantic comedies, one full of genuine awkwardness and mishaps and no dramatic conclusion.
The film takes the form of a series of vignettes, but this is to be expected given that it is based on Roland Barthes’ book “A Lover’s Discourse: Fragments”, a disjointed collection of stories. “Un Beau Soleil Intérieur” opens with a hilarious and realistic sex scene, full of awkward physical and emotional gestures. The tone set in this encounter continues throughout the film, as every conversation is laden with unspoken and misspoken feelings.
Each lover takes up varying amount of screentime, and their suitability for Isabelle varies as well. The closest she seems to come to happiness is with an actor (Nicolas Duvachelle). After a first date that leaves them both feeling very unsure about each other, they go home together. Because they both resist saying exactly what they want, they stand around bickering for ages before they finally go to bed, and even then neither can manage to fully shut up. Unfortunately, the actor regrets it the next day. Or maybe he doesn’t—as in life, in “Un Beau Soleil Intérieur” it is hard for one to determine exactly what anyone else is thinking.
Denis often plays upon this difficulty in communication for comedic effect. One of the funniest scenes in the film sees Isabelle trying to broach an awkward subject with a female co-worker with so much trepidation she can barely get a sentence out. In Isabelle’s world, this seems to be a regular occurrence, and goes a long way to explaining her difficulty in finding love.
In less talented hands, Isabelle could easily become a drag as the audience became annoyed by her indecision and seeming fragility. Instead, Binoche plays her to perfection, and even if the audience wishes she could just speak her mind, the fact that she often cannot elicits empathy rather than ire.
This feeling of empathy is helped greatly once the audience sees the men by whom Isabelle is surrounded. They are often absolute boors, or just as hesitant as she is. Her male friends or even just those who meet her briefly sexualize her, from a driver that continues to stare at her long after he dropped her off, to a co-worker that actively sabotages a relationship that actually seems to be going well. The most memorable and hilarious example of this is a fortune teller, played with lumbering grotesqueness by Gérard Depardieu, who is clearly hitting on her while giving her a glimpse into her future.
In a brilliant move, Denis elects to play the credits as this final scene plays out. There is no happy ending to “Un Beau Soleil Intérieur,” nor indeed any ending at all. Perhaps Isabelle will find love, perhaps she won’t. Denis sets out not to answer these questions, often considered the heart of a rom-com, but instead to paint a portrait of the difficulties of finding meaning in relationships, sexual or otherwise. The situations in which Isabelle finds herself are likely to resonate with viewers, especially women, and Denis leaves us room to discover the endings of these stories for ourselves.
—Staff writer Ethan B. Reichsman can be reached at ethan.reichsman@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Although Harvard’s record-setting capital campaign—the first to involve every school in the University—is set to end in June 2018, long-time donor Mitchell L. Dong ’75 said he has no plans to stop donating to the University.
“Raising money for Harvard doesn’t end, it can’t end,” he said. “It just means that there’s a push, we go from being a big push to a huge push and we go back to a big push.”
Harvard’s latest “huge push” has raised over $7 billion dollars in four years and surpassed its $6.5 billion goal—the highest ever set in higher education—two years ahead of schedule.
The campaign has substantively increased Harvard’s annual revenue from gifts. From 2010 to 2012, before the public launch of the campaign, the University’s average revenue from gifts was roughly $628 million. Harvard soon started to haul in far more every year, raising a record-high $1.19 billion in fiscal year 2016.
But even with the overall goal in hand, certain areas of the campaign— such as the House renewal project, a new Allston campus, and financial aid—have not met their individual fundraising goals. And with threats to federal funding and a year of poor endowment returns, fundraising may be more important than ever to some University officials.
Despite the impending end of the drive, Harvard will likely continue to fundraise at the elevated level established by “The Harvard Campaign”—and many major donors will continue to support the University.
According to Dean of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences Michael D. Smith, capital campaigns in higher education tend to permanently elevate the average level of annual donations, even after the campaign is over.
“We go from one level and it bounces around and then you move up to a new level after a campaign and it bounces around at that level, but you don’t slip back to the old level,” he said.
FAS, which relies on the endowment for about half of its budget, has recently struggled to make ends meet after the endowment lost nearly $2 billion in value during fiscal year 2016. Smith said FAS is depending on fundraising more than usual, but not because of their budgetary woes. He said it is the normal outcome of a major fundraising campaign.
Still, Smith said that if fundraising revenues were to decrease, there would be “no easy way” to make up the revenue—new sources of revenue are rare and take time to come to fruition.
FAS is responsible for the more than $1 billion project to renovate Harvard’s undergraduate Houses, an area of the campaign that has received lukewarm support from donors. Smith said that he plans to continue to fundraise for the project with the same “vigor” as during the campaign.
Like Smith, University Chief Financial Officer Thomas J. Hollister said Harvard is hopeful that the elevated level of fundraising during the campaign years will become the new norm, or even be exceeded in the future.
Major donor Peter L. Malkin ’55—the namesake of the Malkin Athletic Center—said that he thinks Harvard’s capital campaign has been “necessary” and “very successful” at bringing in new donors to the University’s fundraising base.
“The experience has traditionally been that following the capital campaign, the annual support is greater than it was before the campaign because new people come on into the campaign and people who have been involved but made bigger contributions during the campaign continue,” he said.
But Frederick M. Hess, the director of education policy studies at the American Enterprise Institute,  cautioned that campaigns do not always raise the overall level of fundraising.
“Sometimes you see a drop off because they put lots of time and money into raising the money and people wrote big checks so there’s a drop off,” he said. “Other times it becomes a new plateau and they’re able to raise lots of money on top of it.”
Michael T. Kerr ’81, a long-time donor and a member of the FAS campaign steering committee, agreed that fundraising will not continue at the rate seen during the capital campaign.
“This is going to be the most successful campaign for higher education in American history,” he said. “In order to get to this goal, many of our alumni… gave money beyond what they would normally give because of the campaign. And you can’t expect fundraising of capital nature to continue at this level.”
Many prominent donors have been giving to Harvard for decades and expressed their confidence that the University will continue to fundraise successfully.
Anthony M. Lamport ’57, a long-time donor, detailed specific strategies the University uses such as “trying to identify specific interests that people may have” and “[introducing] you to someone in a lab who you can talk to”  to encourage donors to contribute.
“Harvard is very expert at fundraising. It’s been doing it a long time,” Lamport said.
Some donors said they are concerned about potential cuts to federal funding. President Donald J. Trump has proposed significant reductions to the National Institutes of Health and suggested completely eliminating funding for the National Endowments for the Arts and Humanities, prompting concern from Faculty and administrators.
“I think especially the threats to federal funding—that’s a real amazing threat. It’s critical that the investments and donations made by donors help support [the University],” Dong, who has donated to the University’s financial aid, said. “I don’t think that donations can make up for the federal government.”
Others, like Thomas C. Foley ’75, a long-standing donor and former United States Ambassador to Ireland, said he believed fundraising is “more important than ever” given the University’s low endowment returns. “The University relies more than ever on fundraising to support its current budget,” he said.
But Dong said he believes “endowment returns will improve under the new president of Harvard Management,” adding that he supports HMC CEO N.P. Narvekar’s recent decisions to outsource more of the firm’s investments to external managers.
What’s more, many longtime donors said they will continue to donate even after the campaign’s close.
“I’ve been a loyal supporter of Harvard since I graduated back in 1975… I think it’s an excellent institution with an important mission that I want to support,” Foley said. “I support the annual fund and I supported capital campaigns in the past and the current one.”
Dong said his reasons for contributing to Harvard were more personal.
“When I was a student at Harvard I had almost a full scholarship,” he said. “Somebody invested in me back then, so as a way of giving back, I’m investing in current students.”
–Staff writer Mia C. Karr can be reached at mia.karr@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @miackarr
.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
In December of 2016, days before a vote count deciding whether or not eligible students at Harvard could form a union, some union organizers gathered for a “happy hour” in anticipation of the results.
By many measures, they had reason to celebrate. They had spent weeks phone banking, sending emails, and knocking on dorm room doors in an effort to convince their peers to vote in favor of fundamentally changing how thousands of Harvard students negotiate for their pay.
“We’ve been having thousands of conversations over the past week with grad workers all over Harvard,” union organizer and Ph.D. student Abigail Weil said in November. “I think more than ever our supporters have been stepping up and showing their enthusiasm and dedication.”
Now, it seemed like their months of hard work were about to pay off: eligible graduate student researchers and teaching assistants and undergraduate teaching assistants would soon collectively bargain through the Harvard Graduate Students Union-United Auto Workers.
But the December vote count did not turn out in favor of the union organizers. The National Labor Relations Board counted more votes against unionization than in favor of it, though enough ballots remained disputed that the election was too close to call.
With the NLRB’s vote count, Harvard’s unionization effort entered a new phase. What began as a democratic get out the vote effort has descended into a months-long protracted and procedural legal battle. Increasingly, union organizers have had to stop calling students and start calling their attorneys, while Harvard administrators now make their arguments against unionization in legal briefs to NLRB officials and not in mass emails to students.
In the interim months, some union organizers—who have also turned advocacy efforts to opposing President Donald Trump—are now again gearing up for a large-scale organizing campaign with the possibility of a re-vote.
Harvard’s student unionization effort began in April 2015 as a relatively small group of students. In the following months, the organizers tried to recruit their peers to the nascent effort, and in late September 2015, HGSU officially partnered with the United Auto Workers.
Over the next year, union organizers would continue to try to increase awareness about their work and publicly make the case for unionization. Their arguments gained steam: in February 2016, a majority of graduate students employed by the University signed authorization cards supporting a union election.
Then, in August, the National Labor Relations Board ruled that graduate students at private universities could unionize, making student unionization a legal possibility. Harvard would hold a vote in November. 
As union organizers campaigned, Harvard did not sit idly by. Administrators emailed students to inform them of the upcoming election, urging them to carefully consider whether a union was the best choice and warning them that unionizing could fundamentally alter the relationship between students and their professors.
Terms of the vote quickly became contentious. After the Nov. 16 and 17 vote, Harvard and HGSU-UAW spent the next month meeting at the NLRB in Boston and discussing the eligibility of challenged ballots from the election.
On Dec. 22, the NLRB counted all the votes that both sides had agreed were eligible. The count revealed that 1,456 students voted against unionization, while 1,272 supported it.
Because the margin between votes for and against the union was smaller than the number of remaining challenged ballots, the election was declared too close to call. Both sides planned to participate in a hearing in front of the NLRB to settle the eligibility of the remaining challenged ballots.
The future of Harvard’s unionization effort began to hinge on arguments in an NLRB hearing room—not the dining hall conversations students had been staging for months.
Both the union and the University called up their lawyers.
A few days later after the NLRB vote count, both sides filed objections to the election. The unionization effort argued that the list of eligible voters that Harvard provided before the election was incomplete, listing students’ legal names on the lists instead of their preferred ones. This may have prevented eligible voters from having their ballots counted or deterred them from going to the polls at all, necessitating a second election, the organizers argued.
The University also filed an objection with the NLRB, albeit of a much different scale. Harvard objected to the NLRB’s decision to mark void one ballot—which the voter marked with a smiley face and a note—that opposed unionization.
Starting in February, both sides participated in a weeks-long hearing at the NLRB to resolve the remaining challenged ballots and discuss the validity of each side’s objections.

After considering the arguments presented at the hearing, NLRB hearing officer Thomas A. Miller wrote that Harvard had “not substantially complied with voter list requirements.” He recommended that, if the remaining challenged ballots do not result in a union victory, Harvard should hold a re-vote.
Currently, 185 more ballots oppose unionization than support it. 195 ballots have not been counted yet, meaning that almost all of the remaining ballots would have to be in favor of unionization to avoid a recount under Miller’s recommendation.
Days later, lawyers representing Harvard appealed Miller’s recommendation, arguing that the election result should hold.
Now, NLRB Regional Director John J. Walsh Jr. will review Miller’s recommendation and Harvard's appeal, then make his own ruling. After Walsh releases his decision, either side could appeal to the NLRB in Washington, D.C. for a final judgment.
With the strong possibility of a re-vote, some union organizers are now turning back on-campus organizing. Union organizer Eben M.L. Lazarus said union organizers had been preparing for a new election even when they were not sure that Miller would recommend a re-vote.
“Union organizers were reaching out to contacts in departments informally even before the re-vote was announced,” he said. “People on the organizing committee have been meeting to discuss proceedings and hearings to discuss strategy.”
The union has also been “soliciting feedback about the previous election,” according to Lazarus.
According to Michael E. Rowan, a graduate student and opponent of HGSU-UAW, students have not yet started a campaign to oppose unionization during a possible re-vote. During the election in Nov. 2016, students who opposed HGSU-UAW campaigned against HGSU-UAW and created a Facebook page arguing that students should not support the union.
Rowan said that even though a formal campaign against HGSU-UAW has not started yet, he intends to try to persuade students not to support the union through informal conversations.
“If I’m talking to people, I’ll stress my opinion,” he said. “I don’t think every union is a bad thing. I think this union is definitely a bad thing because it isn’t organized well enough to get the things it wants to get.”
Union organizers said they intend to campaign on the issue of student pay. Niharika Singh, a graduate student and union organizer, said it has been “important” for the unionization effort to “highlight some of the pay-related issues that have come up” over the past few months.
In April, the GSAS announced students would receive a 1.5 percent stipend increase—a raise that trails the current rate of inflation and is lower than the pay increases that Ph.D. students have received in past years.
In the same month, GSAS emailed over 800 students to tell them they would receive their summer funding in two installments instead of in one lump sum. After student outcry, GSAS decided that students who wanted to receive their funding in one payment could do so.
“Part of what the union does is make sure these things don’t slide by,” Singh said.
The union also plans to campaign around the issue of top-ups—the additional pay GSAS grants graduate students if their earned teaching compensation is lower than expected. Some departments, though not all, grant this type of pay, according to Singh.
“It’s this arbitrariness in pay that doesn’t make sense,” she said.
Opponents of unionization argued that HGSU-UAW could not secure the pay raises for students that union organizers are promising in their campaigning.
“My impression was that they had a lot of promises about things the union could supply—increase to student stipends, health benefits, that kind of thing. At the end of the day, it’s just promises,” Rowan said.
Rowan added that he did not think HGSU-UAW was organized enough to bring about the changes that union organizers said they could.
Rowan also criticized HGSU-UAW for continuing to campaign after the first election, which he said clearly showed that students do not want a union.
“I think there’s already a fairly clearly decision after the main vote and I feel like the pro-union people are trying to extend this further,” Rowan said.
As Harvard’s student unionization process continues, student union organizers at other universities are also trying to convince their peers—and their schools—to support collective bargaining. At Yale and Columbia, students voted to unionize, but the schools have appealed the results of elections to the NLRB and are not yet engaging in collective bargaining.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
On May 18, Director of Athletics Robert L. Scalise wrote an email to the nearly 1,200 student-athletes at Harvard College.
“As you know, our varsity sports program has confronted a number of significant challenges this year,” Scalise wrote.
Among those challenges were a pair of high-profile incidents in the fall, ongoing personnel complaints about a polarizing distance running coach, a human resources investigation into alleged mistreatment of the women’s rugby team, charges of non-compliance with Title IX, and accusations regarding gender and pay inequity within the department. Several separate “reviews” of various aspects of the department are currently ongoing.
When details of the first of these challenges—the men’s soccer team tradition of producing vulgar documents on female soccer recruits—surfaced in October, Scalise expressed hope that the department’s response could be kept internal.
“I don’t want our steps or our actions played out in the media,” he said at the time. “This is not a media thing.”
Within weeks, however, the school’s response was a matter of intense media attention, with dozens of national and international news outlets covering Scalise and University President Drew G. Faust’s decision to cancel the men’s soccer season.
Initially, Scalise was also skeptical that the soccer team’s explicit “scouting reports” were reflective of problems specific to the Athletics Department.
“These things exist in our society. Society hasn't figured out a way to stop these things from happening, okay? Whenever you have groups of people that come together there’s a potential for this to happen,” Scalise said when he first learned of the “reports.”
But for others, including members of the women’s rugby team frustrated by what they call insufficient financial and administrative support from the department, the revelations about the soccer team and, later, the men’s cross country team reflected “an intrinsic culture of sexism” in Harvard athletics.
Since his initial response and after details about the cross country team’s production of similar explicit documents came to light, Scalise has sought to investigate whether the teams’ practices indicate systemic cultural problems specific to the department. This semester, Harvard athletics began working with a group of outside consultants to conduct a review of department culture.
That review will, in some ways, act as a referendum on whether a longstanding governance structure can effectively address intensifying campus concerns in one of the larger administrative departments at Harvard.
Since Scalise stepped into the role of Athletic Director in 2001, Harvard’s varsity athletics program has expanded competitively, financially, and administratively. Former assistant athletics director John Veneziano, who worked in the Athletics Department for 14 years before leaving in 2003, said the growth of the department led the Athletic Director to rely on a number of associate and assistant directors, committees, and councils for support and advice.
“When the department was smaller...I think there was a lot more direct relationships between the AD and the smaller staff, coaches, and the athletes,” Veneziano said. “It was just more personal, that was college athletics in the day and I think it’s changed now.”
Three senior associate athletic directors, seven associate athletic directors, and seven assistant athletic directors act as administrative coordinators for each of the sports teams in addition to performing other roles within the department.
According to two coaches, the department organizes its teams into three tiers, allocating resources and support based on a given team’s tier. In an April letter to Faust obtained by The Crimson, women’s rugby coach Suzanne Parker described the tier structure, writing that programs in the top tier receive “the highest level of financial and other support.”
Former men’s and women’s water polo coach Scott Russell described the tier-structure as “an unwritten policy” but said it regularly came up in department meetings and the interview process. Russell explained that a team’s tier—water polo was tier two—often determined its travel distance, financial support, and recruiting capabilities.
“The understanding that we had as coaches, and certainly my understanding as the men’s and women’s water polo coach was that my budget was going to be very different, my level of pay was going to be very different, my ability to recruit athletes,“ Russell said. “I didn’t have any expectation that the admissions office was going to make any exceptions for me.”
Russell and Parker listed ice hockey, basketball, and football as tier one programs. In a May interview, Scalise would not confirm the use of a tier structure, saying instead that the department “groups” sports by certain factors like revenue and popularity.
While each team reports to an associate or assistant athletic director who then reports to Scalise, the entire Athletics Department falls under the governance of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences.
Scalise said he meets with FAS Dean Michael D. Smith as well as Dean of the College Rakesh Khurana approximately four times a year to discuss the athletics program.
Scalise also interacts with FAS as a regular guest at the meetings of the Standing Committee on Athletic Sports, a body of faculty and University administrators who meet monthly to discuss topics such as admissions and recruiting, athletes’ academic performance, Title IX, and the NCAA.
Economics professor and chair of the Standing Committee Jerry R. Green said the committee reviews statistical analyses of student athletes’ athletic and academic performance, meets with coaches, and offers advice to administrators.
“What we do is provide advice to the Director of Athletics if he has issues he would like some discussion on he brings it to us,” said Neuroscience professor John E. Dowling, a member and former chair of the committee. “We have the responsibility in many ways of making sure that our athletic programming makes sense in terms of the goals of this university.”
In addition to FAS oversight, many alumni are involved in the Athletics Department in an advisory capacity through the Visiting Committee on Athletics and the Athletic Director’s Council.
According to former member Paul G. Kirk, Jr. ’60, the Visiting Committee submits reports about the Athletic Department’s performance every three years to the Board of Overseers, Harvard’s second-highest governing body.
In 2014, Scalise created the Athletic Director’s Council, a group of former Visiting Committee members that acts as an advisory group. The Council meets yearly in May with athletes, coaches, and administrators but does not report to other administrators.
“The Visiting Committee has a very specific role in terms of reporting to the Overseers and then reporting to the president through the dean of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences,” said Alan D. Bersin ’68, a Council member. “This council I think is an effort on the part of Bob Scalise to have a group to which he can turn for advice and to bounce thoughts off.”
While these administrative and advisory bodies have different roles and levels of engagement with the department, all were taken by surprise in the fall when a series of high-profile incidents pulled the Athletics Department into the national spotlight.
On Oct. 25, a report in The Crimson revealed that a member of the 2012 men’s soccer team had produced and distributed by email a nine-page “scouting report,” in which the author evaluated each incoming members of the women’s soccer team in sexually explicit terms. The document appeared to be an annual tradition since the author of the 2012 “report” referenced one from the previous year. The document and the email list the 2012 team used had been publicly available and searchable through Google Groups, an email listserv service.
When first approached about the documents, Scalise said he had been unaware of them.
“Any time a member of our community says things about other people who are in our community that are disparaging, it takes away from the potential for creating the kind of learning environment that we’d like to have here at Harvard,” Scalise said directly after seeing the document for the first time.

While Scalise said he previously had consulted Faust only on broader issues, the soccer incident prompted the direct involvement of the University President.
In a Nov. 1 statement a week after the report came out, Faust announced she had asked the Office of General Counsel, the University’s legal branch, to “conduct an immediate review” of the team’s circulated document. Faust wrote that she asked OGC to review the “scouting report” after consulting with Smith and Scalise.
Scalise said the decision to involve OGC rather than handle the review through regular disciplinary means was not Faust’s alone, but “basically a joint idea” between himself, Faust, Khurana, and Smith.
He added that the group came to the decision quickly since they were “under pressure to immediately act and do something.” Faust’s announcement that she asked the OGC to conduct a review came a week after the initial report.
“As I asked the OGC to undertake this, it had to be on a fairly short time frame because the season is proceeding apace,” Faust said at the time. “I wanted a response that would be within the context of the team’s responsibilities representing Harvard and this athletic season.”
On the evening of Nov. 3, Scalise emailed student athletes that he had decided to cancel the remainder of the men’s team season after the OGC review revealed that the practice of producing “scouting reports” continued beyond 2012, including up to the most recent 2016 season.
The cancellation sparked a national media frenzy, with outlets like CNN, the New York Times, and CBS all running stories on Harvard’s decision. In the weeks afterwards, similar incidents at a number of other universities came to light, leading to more season cancellations.
Green said the reports surprised the members of the faculty standing committee.
“I have not seen anything like what happened in soccer before,” he said. “It kind of just came to light and was a shock to everyone.”
Initially, Scalise said actions like the soccer team’s “could happen anywhere.”
“It could be an individual, it could be a group, it could be a rooming group, it could be an athletic team. We’re not insulated from these types of things,” he said at the time.
But reports of a similar practice among the men’s cross country team spurred Scalise to request an external review of the “overall culture” of the department.
Days after the decision to cancel the rest of the men’s soccer team’s season, which had been on its way to an NCAA bid, reports revealed that members of the men’s cross country team had produced spreadsheets about members of the women’s team ahead of an annual dance between the two teams. Some of the spreadsheets from previous seasons contained “explicit comments” about the female athletes.
Nearly a month later, the Athletics Department placed the men’s cross country team on “athletic probation” after another OGC review discovered that members of the 2014 team had made “crude and sexualized statements” about the 2014 women’s team.  The OGC found, however, that the 2016 team did not “denigrate or objectify particular women.”
The probation status did not affect the rest of the team’s season, but the discovery prompted the Athletics Department to look for an outside consultant to conduct an internal review of “the overall culture of our programs, and to help us identity and develop positive, shared values in all of our teams.”
Members of both the Athletic Director’s Council and the faculty standing committee praised the way the Athletics Department handled the two incidents, crediting Scalise for the decisions.
“Frankly, I think his decisiveness, as was the case with President Faust and the FAS leadership, in the face of these incidents has been decisive and thoughtful, and while some would think it was harsh punishment, I think that that harsh punishment was duly founded,” Bersin said.
Months after the department announced the culture review, Scalise wrote in a March email to student-athletes that the department had begun working with consultants from the National Consortium for Athletics and Sports.
The NCAS consultants administered a survey to athletes, coaches, administrators, and members of the faculty standing committee. They also met in focus groups with teams, coaches, team captains, and others. In an email sent to student athletes and department affiliates in May, Scalise reported that 850 people participated in the survey and 350 participated in the focus groups.
Athletics administrators will meet with the NCAS consultants over the summer to review the preliminary findings and will share a “high-level summary” with athletes in the fall. Earlier this month, Smith said in an interview that he does not plan to make the entire report public.
While Scalise said that the year’s events led him to seek out advice from the various athletics committees and members of FAS, College, and University administration, he does not anticipate the overall governance of the department will change going forward.
“I haven’t really gotten the full analysis of the data from the National Consortium for Academics and Sports,” said Scalise. “I’m not anticipating anything, but we certainly would be open to things if they thought it would be helpful, but I’m not anticipating that.”
The events involving the men’s soccer and cross country teams brought a new urgency to regularly-discussed issues of gender equity in the department.
In October, current and former affiliates of the women’s rugby team wrote a letter to Faust calling for a meeting to discuss the treatment of the program regarding coach compensation, financial support, and recruiting resources.
The letter prompted a series of meetings between the authors and FAS administrators that culminated in two separate athletics-focused reviews. A human resources review would assess the alleged inequities of the rugby program’s treatment and the administrative response to the team’s concerns. A separate, internal Athletics Department review would assess gender and pay equity within the department.
In an April 4 letter to Faust, the authors connected the perceived inequality of their program to what they called larger, systemic issues of sexism within the Athletics Department.
“The behavior of the men’s soccer and cross-country teams reflect an intrinsic culture of sexism in the Athletic Department,” they wrote. “We hope that the consultants hired to address team culture focus on the deeply rooted sexism that taints everyday life for females in that department, and that the resulting report is shared for all to see.”
Several administrators and committee members said gender issues within Athletics have been an annual topic of interest and concern. Green, the current standing committee chair, said one of the committee’s six to seven yearly meetings focuses entirely on Title IX and gender equity. He added that the committee monitors the proportion of male and female athletes as well as the allocation of resources to men’s and women’s programs.
“We have to support men’s and women’s teams equally well and it’s a matter of who the coaches are—Title IX also looks into the gender of the coaches,” he said. “We do have a number of sports where there’s a male coach of a female team, and I don’t think we have any now that have a female coach of a male team...it’s not equal, so we worry about that.”
Scalise also emphasized that gender equity has been a persistent focus for the department. “I can tell you that we have a gender equity lense on everything that we do, and we are sensitive to Title IX all the time,” he said.
While gender equity may be a constant concern within the department, Department of Education statistics show that certain financial gaps have persisted and, in some areas, deepened between men’s and women’s sports teams.
In 1996, head coaches of women’s teams earned 81.6 cents on the dollar compared with head coaches of men’s teams, earning on average $47,507 while their counterparts on the men’s teams made on average $57,572. In the 2015-2016 year, roughly two decades later, the gap increased: coaches of women’s teams made 70.1 cents on the dollar, earning average salaries of $82,796 compared to the head coaches of men’s programs who made, on average, $120,532. The way that Harvard compensates its coaches is comparable to peer institutions in the Ivy League.
The records show that the gap increased between assistant coaches as well. Although the salaries for assistant coaches of women’s teams increased from $28,322 to $39,006 in that time period, the gap with comparable positions on male teams widened. Assistant coaches of women’s teams in 2015 earned 72.3 cents on the dollar compared to men’s team assistant coaches, as opposed to 75.1 cents on the dollar two decades ago.
Smith, the FAS Dean, said that while Title IX and gender equity in athletics are perennial topics of discussion, they have received special focus of late “for a variety of reasons that I don’t want to go into.”
Many administrators and committee members declined to comment on the ongoing gender and pay equity review.
“Gender equity I can’t comment on because it’s an ongoing matter. It’s not being handled by our committee,” Green said. “We have discussed gender equity every year so we know the data, but I think now it’s being dealt with and hopefully we’ll see results, but I can’t comment on it.”
Though Scalise is also remaining tight-lipped on the ongoing reviews, he said the department is ready to change if needed.
“We are a department where we embrace the concept of continuous improvement” Scalise said. “How can we do things in a better way than we're doing them when issues come to the forefront and are brought to our attention?”
Sections
UPDATED: May 24, 2017 at 2:13 p.m.
It was five nights before Christmas and anything but quiet at Harvard Management Company. Earlier in December, N.P. Narvekar had taken the reigns of the University’s investment arm, which manages Harvard’s $35.7 billion endowment.
Narvekar had come to Harvard from Columbia in an effort to restore the performance of the world’s largest endowment, which had lost almost $2 billion in value in fiscal year 2016. Administrators and outside observers questioned whether Harvard’s “hybrid” investment model—a combination of internal and external money management—was still viable after years of underperformance at HMC. Still others wondered if the HMC workplace culture—characterized as “lazy,” “fat,” and “stupid” in  a McKinsey & Company review— needed change after years of executive turnover. University budgets were increasingly strained under the burden of lackluster returns.
Still, the holiday season was in full swing, and HMC’s 250 employees were  preparing to enjoy a black-tie winter gala on January 6, an event that the unusually large staff enjoyed every year. But with his task ahead of him, Narvekar had little interest in yuletide festivities. Just fifteen days into his tenure as HMC’s chief executive, Narvekar sent an email to his employees: the annual party would be postponed.
“This planning work is our highest priority for the coming weeks and months, and will be our primary focus,” wrote Narvekar and Chief Operating Officer Robert A. Ettl.
Within weeks, Narvekar had made his list and checked it twice. He announced later in January that the firm would be laying off half of HMC’s staff in the most dramatic restructuring of how Harvard invests its money in decades.
While it may be years before Narvekar’s overhaul could begin to shape the firm’s investment performance, they aim to address a number of factors that experts and some former employees say held back Harvard’s endowment performance for years—whether it be HMC’s internal compensation structure, portfolio distribution, or executive turnover.
Unless Narvekar abruptly jumps ship, he is slated to remain at the helm of HMC for at least the next three years—and the University will pay him nearly $6 million per year to do so.
Narvekar has his work cut out for him. Across the market in fiscal year 2016, educational investors saw their investments flounder, according to an annual report which aggregates endowment return data from universities across the country. This year’s report said what many already knew to be the case: besides a few stand-out investment offices, most universities experienced sharp declines in investment revenue as they doled out more money from their endowments to fund operating budgets.
And Harvard, once again, found itself in what was becoming an all-too-familiar position: far behind Yale. 
Harvard’s endowment plunged as HMC returned negative two percent on its investments. That same year, Yale returned a positive 3.4 percent. Fiscal year 2016’s poor returns are the latest in a decade of “challenging” investments returns for the firm, according to the 2015 annual endowment report.
To some, Narvekar and his changes could not come quickly enough. In a sharp turn from the firm’s long-held “hybrid model”—in which HMC employed both internal and external money managers—Narvekar intends to gut many of the firm’s internally managed teams and outsource to non-HMC managers, aligning the University’s investment strategy more closely with peer institutions like Yale and Columbia.
While at least one team—natural resources—will remain in-house, a number of investment managers at the firm will spin off to form their own hedge funds, some of which Harvard may retain to manage its money.
In doing so, it’s likely the University will incur higher fees—generally, external managers cost more than internal staff—but the elimination of over 100 internal staffers might mitigate those financial pressures.
In his announcement, Narvekar also outlined a radically different vision for the firm’s investment strategy. He would transition HMC from a “silo investing” approach to a more “generalist” model, outsourcing the firm’s assets to external managers,
Silo investing refers to a practice where portfolio managers in a fund focus almost exclusively on generating returns for the asset classes they are responsible for. While those assets may flourish on an individual basis, Narvekar wrote, the health of the overall endowment can erode in the absence of a cross-team approach.
“I think his strategy makes sense,” said Timothy J. Keating, the president of Keating Wealth Management, said of the generalist approach. “And the issue is, at the end of the day, there’s one overall performance figure for the Harvard endowment, and I think what Narvekar was doing was saying there’s one bottom line.”
In the months since Narvekar’s announcement, the firm has also made smaller changes to its strategy. According to reports in Bloomberg and Axios, HMC is moving to sell off around $2.5 billion in private equity, real estate, and venture capital—all risky, illiquid assets. The move stymies the predictions of some experts: Narvekar himself specializes in such alternative assets.
Despite the major changes that have rocked HMC in the past few months, some experts and former employees say there is more that can be done to salvage the fund’s performance.
One employee who left HMC in 2014, whom the Crimson granted anonymity because he is not permitted to talk about his former employer, said that the firm’s trend towards a more risk-averse investment strategy—away from illiquid assets like private equity—has hurt its performance.
“I think a big drag on performance—the endowment went into the financial crisis 10 percent over-leveraged, and came out of the crisis very risk averse, underleveraged,” he said. “As a long term investor, as the market is selling up and recovering, you should be adding in more risk, not scaling back because you’re afraid.”
Keating also raised doubts about whether the move to external managers will close the gap between Harvard and its peer investors, arguing that Yale’s lifelong approach to external management means it has established steady relationships with its external money managers.
“Yale, relative to smaller endowments or pensions, has the internal resources to analyze and work with these managers,” Keating said. “Harvard also has that capacity, but it’s gone in a different direction.”
More broadly, Keating said, if Harvard is taking its cues from Yale—and many experts say its actions so far indicate that it is—it will lose out in the endowment game.
“I think for Harvard to try and replicate what Yale is doing today would not make sense for me, and I think the main reason is that the asset classes that Yale has made a lot of money for over time, I believe [Yale’s] heyday is over for a variety of reasons,” Keating said. “That’s why I think Harvard would be better served to have the core of the portfolio be passively managed.”
Unlike Harvard, small institutional investors often use passive management to increase returns, focusing on low-risk index funds instead of high-cost hedge funds or alternative assets. Notably, renowned investor Warren Buffett has been a vocal supporter of the strategy, arguing even large institutional investors should adopt it.
Yale, however, uses active management, and wrote a vigorous defense of the tactic in its annual endowment report in April, arguing it would not produce better returns under a passive management model.
“Such strategies make sense for organizations lacking the resources and capabilities to pursue successful active management programs, a group that arguably includes a substantial majority of endowments and foundations,” the report reads. “While passive investment strategies result in low fee payments, an index approach to managing the University’s Endowment would shortchange Yale’s students, faculty, and staff, now and for generations to come.”
Ben Carlson, a financial analyst, argues the key in improving performance at any institutional endowment is simplifying investment portfolios, not passive management. In an article for his site, Carlson described a three-fund portfolio that outpaced the returns of most schools that use the Yale Model—which is a complicated portfolio—consistently across ten years.
“This has nothing to do with active vs. passive investing. This is all about simple vs. complex, operationally efficient investment programs vs. operationally inefficient investment programs and high-probability portfolios vs. low-probability portfolios,” Carlson wrote.
Investment strategy may not be the only in-house factor affecting endowment performance: some argue the culture at the firm could also be stunting its progress.
While details about the firm’s internal culture are scarce, a 2015 report by McKinsey & Company obtained by Bloomberg provided a rare glimpse into the interior of Harvard’s investment arm.
The takeaways were, for many, at HMC disconcerting: In McKinsey's 78-page PowerPoint, employees labeled the investment firm, “lazy,” “fat,” and “stupid,” centered on “stable, rather than smart, capital.”
The former HMC employee said he disagreed with the McKinsey report’s characterization of HMC’s culture, arguing that the report and subsequent news articles unfairly ignored positive aspects of the firm.
But to some executives, the report hit home. It described a “performance paradox”: while the endowment posted poor returns, managers consistently hit their internal benchmarks and were compensated accordingly.
The debate about compensation has raged since Jack Meyer—HMC’s CEO from 1990 to 2005, once the darling of the higher education investment world—left the firm after enduring intense public scrutiny over how much he and his top managers were paid.
“When Jack Meyer left, that’s really when our volatility started,” Keating said.
Over Meyer’s tenure, alumni and financial experts regularly and publicly questioned what they believed to be unnecessarily exorbitant compensation packages at the firm. Two top-paid bond managers at HMC in fiscal year 2003, for example, each pulled in $34.1 million and $35.1 million, respectively.
In 2004, under pressure from alumni, the University placed a “significant cap” on executive salaries. Meyer departed shortly afterwards, taking four of the firm’s top executives with him.
While HMC’s top managers are still paid highly—former HMC CEO Stephen Blyth, Narvekar’s predecessor, received $14.8 million in 2015—the firm has publicly acknowledged a need to revise its compensation packages.
In November 2016, a cohort of alumni from the Class of 1969 sent a letter to the University excoriating HMC for paying its executives so much while the endowment flatlined—the same paradox the McKinsey report pointed out. University’s Treasurer Paul J. Finnegan did not respond directly to the group’s concerns about the overall level of compensation, but starting in 2017, HMC began to tie a greater share of compensation to the fund’s overall performance. Current and former managers also forfeited pay that was held back in previous years.
A lot has happened in the roughly six months since Narvekar came to Cambridge, and while most experts can only offer vague predictions of how HMC’s fiscal year 2017 returns will turn out—those results will come out in September—University officials are hopeful.
Thomas J. Hollister, the University’s Chief Financial Officer, said in an interview that “the stock market is up so far this year,” calling it a “good indicator” of what this year’s investment landscape might look like.
Financial executive headhunter Charles A. Skorina, though, cautioned against expecting changes in the investment office to necessarily reap high returns.
“The markets go up and down, opportunities change, you have boom times and bust times, so no matter how good they stand, you will have times that you perform less well than other times,” he said.
Narvekar has the confidence of some of Harvard’s highest administrators. University President Drew G. Faust has repeatedly praised the new CEO, and the powerhouse private equity manager David Rubenstein—the newest member of the Harvard Corporation, the University’s highest governing body—said Harvard is confronting the problems of its past head-on.
“There’s clearly been some challenges for all university endowments in the current situation, but Harvard’s now dealing with it directly and it’s obviously more challenging managing an endowment as large as Harvard’s and as visible as Harvard’s,” Rubenstein said.
Rubenstein runs one of the largest global alternative asset management firms in the world, which manages about $162 billion in assets. In an interview, he said he was confident in Narvekar’s ability to put HMC back on track.
“The Harvard Management Company has a new person running it who’s a very very talented person, so I wouldn’t presume I’m going to help him all that much,” Rubenstein said. “I’m obviously happy to give advice if asked, but I think they’re in pretty good shape. They don’t need my advice.”
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
UPDATED: May 24, 2017 at 1:54 p.m.
Forty-two percent of surveyed members of the Class of 2017 reported having a favorable view of Dean of the College Rakesh Khurana in a survey conducted by The Crimson, marking a significant drop from previous years and his lowest rating since assuming the deanship in 2014.
Khurana’s decline in popularity appears to be tied to steps he undertook in the past year to pressure Harvard’s single-gender final clubs and Greek organizations to adopt gender-neutral membership practices.
In previous years, Khurana’s favorability rating was significantly higher: 62 percent of surveyed seniors from the Class of 2016 said they had a favorable view of Khurana, while 82 percent of senior respondents said they viewed Khurana favorably in 2015. This year’s iteration of The Crimson’s senior survey garnered 790 responses, representing nearly half the graduating class, though not all respondents answered every question.
In an interview Friday, Khurana said he was saddened to hear of his decline in popularity.
“I’m sorry that people feel that way, I take it as a failure on my part to communicate effectively,” Khurana said. “I’m sorry if I’ve disappointed people.”
In May 2016, University President Drew G. Faust announced a policy barring members of unrecognized single-gender social groups from holding certain leadership positions on campus or receiving certain College-endorsed fellowships. Khurana was instrumental in crafting the policy—in the year leading up to its announcement, he met repeatedly with social group leaders behind closed doors to discuss the legislation.
The penalties, unprecedented in Harvard’s history, drew national attention and faced vocal opposition from students, faculty, alumni, and outside observers in the year since their rollout.
Eighty-one percent of senior respondents who said they viewed Khurana unfavorably also indicated they did not support the College’s policy. By contrast, 51 percent of people who reported supporting Khurana also said they approve of the sanctions.
Among graduating members of penalized social groups, 29 percent of respondents indicated holding a favorable view of Khurana, while 59 percent said they had an unfavorable view of him. Fifty-two percent of seniors who have never been members of these organizations said they have a favorable view of Khurana, while 29 percent of this group reported viewing Khurana unfavorably.
The sanctions are still subject to change: a faculty committee Khurana unveiled in January could revise or replace the policy. The new body will share its preliminary recommendations with faculty members in “coming weeks,” and plans to present a final report in fall 2017.
This year’s version of The Crimson’s survey, sent to every senior via email, was open from May 1 to May 12 and was anonymous. The Crimson did not adjust data collected for possible self-selection bias.
—Staff writer Hannah Natanson can be reached at hannah.natanson@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @hannah_natanson.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Opening three days of commencement exercises, University President Drew G. Faust called on graduating seniors to be “noticers” in her annual baccalaureate address Tuesday afternoon.
More than 1,000 seniors paraded around the yard to the newly-renovated Memorial Church for the first air-conditioned baccalaureate in Harvard’s history. During the ceremony—a long-standing tradition Faust called a “curious medieval custom”—students sang hymns and read prayers from an array of faiths, while loudspeakers broadcast the proceedings to parents listening outside in Tercentenary Theatre.
Taking the podium, Faust joked about social media, the week’s subpar weather, and a College committee’s recent recommendation that students read Chaucer aloud to one another as a means of improving their social lives.
Her speech took a more serious turn as she recounted challenges the class of 2017 has faced—from the Boston Marathon bombing canceling their Visitas weekend, to heavy snow storms, to the 2016 presidential election.
“You have stood up and stood out,” Faist said, listing activism movements students took part in throughout their time at Harvard, including a strike of dining hall workers and a blockade of Faust’s own Massachusetts Hall offices to call on the University to divest from fossil fuels.
The bulk of Faust’s speech, though, revolved around “noticing,” which she defined as “not just passively seeing, but actively looking.” She argued this skill is particularly important as a means of “resisting the dangerous, post-factual world we seem to find ourselves in.”
“My graduation wish for you is that we will have succeeded in making you noticers,” Faust told soon-to-be graduates.
“Your degree may or may not get you noticed, but what I hope your education does, is guarantee a lifetime of noticing,” Faust said.
In his opening remarks, Pusey Minister and Plummer Professor of Christian Morals Jonathan L. Walton told assembled students that the ceremony was intended to serve as a “moral capstone” to their college careers. Walton and Faust entreated graduating seniors to remain humble as they are recognized for their successes.
“It is my sincere prayer that each of you will embrace the world with an open heart, humble spirits, and a curious, courageous, and compassionate demeanor—these are the virtues that Harvard College set out to instill four years ago when you entered through these gates,” Walton said.
Faust emphasized the serendipity behind each student’s—and her own—arrival at Harvard.
“Congratulations, you deserve to feel proud,” Faust said. “And yet, there are 7 billion people in the world. There are 1,626 of you. There is one of me. Why us? How often do we remind ourselves that, to some degree, we won a global lottery over which we had no control?”
Recognizing this good fortune, she added, comes with a responsibility to “nurture the humility that is essential for learning and growth.”
The College’s Class of 2017 will hear former Vice President Joe Biden speak at Class Day Wednesday, and Mark Zuckerberg deliver this year’s Commencement address to graduates from across the University Thursday.
—Staff writer Claire E. Parker can be reached at claire.parker@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @ClaireParkerDC.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Computer Science professor and former Dean of the College Harry R. Lewis ’68 likes puzzles. He likes tracing connections, fitting disparate pieces into a larger pattern. His wife, Director of Admissions Marlyn E. McGrath ’70, says Lewis likes to “see and connect the dots.”
So when University President Drew G. Faust announced unprecedented penalties on undergraduate members of single-gender final clubs and Greek organizations in May 2016, Lewis could not help himself—he quickly drew a historical parallel.
“It immediately collided with this principle that you don’t punish people for joining clubs,” Lewis says. “This is a piece of 1950s Americana which I’m afraid is just on the fringe of human memory now, that people don’t remember how important that principle was and how brutal [Senator Joseph R.] McCarthy was to bring people before Congress and just ask them, ‘Are you now or have you ever been a member of the Communist Party?’
“Immediate connection,” he adds.
In the year since the rollout of the policy—which, starting with the class of 2021, bars members of unrecognized single-gender social groups from holding certain fellowships and leadership positions on campus—Lewis’s “immediate connection” has sparked staunch opposition to the College’s sanctions. The same month Faust debuted the policy, Lewis filed a faculty motion resolving that “Harvard shall not discriminate against students on the basis of organizations they join”—an explicit attempt to kill the sanctions. Though 11 other professors co-signed the legislation, it quickly garnered a nickname: “the Lewis motion.”
In the past 12 months, Lewis has railed against the policy in private correspondence to Faust and Dean of the College Rakesh Khurana, in speeches to students and faculty, and in posts on his blog, Bits and Pieces. He also wrote critical op-eds in The Crimson and the Washington Post, both of which he has taped to the window of his Maxwell Dworkin office.
Lewis’s advocacy comes near the end of a long career at the College; he plans to retire roughly three years from now on July 1, 2020. When he steps down, Lewis will have been involved with Harvard in some way—whether as an undergraduate, graduate student, professor, or as dean of the College—for more than half a century.
Supporters describe Lewis’s recent actions as a necessary defense of students’ constitutional rights. But detractors say the Lewis motion is dangerously wrong-headed and fosters discrimination. And to some, the former dean’s open criticism of his successor constitutes a breach of professional etiquette.
Nonetheless, former and current colleagues and students agree on one point: they say Lewis is devoted to Harvard, an institution he helped shape over the past five decades.
“Harvard is his church, in some way,” McGrath says. “We laugh about putting it that way, but it’s just true.”
Lewis’s near-religious zeal for Harvard has, in the twilight of his career, driven him to crusade against a policy he believes threatens the school’s founding principles and core identity—its status as “America’s University.”
It was the summer of 1967—a time Harvard technician Scott O. Bradner, who ran a computer shop where Lewis worked as an undergraduate, remembers as “the height of the ’60s, when none of us were feeling any pain.”
Lewis, though, doesn’t recall relaxing much that summer, which fell between his junior and senior years of college. Most days, he divided his time between a nondescript wooden desk in Harvard’s Engineering Sciences building and a massive, single-user PDP-1 computer in the basement of the computation lab. He was doing research for his thesis: developing software that could interpret handwritten mathematical equations.

A lowly undergraduate, Lewis usually got access to the computer during the “2 to 4 a.m. block.” He often stayed up all night, working to transfer his mathematical scrawl from the page to the screen.
Lewis had also recently proposed to McGrath, then a Radcliffe sophomore. And he knew he would likely be drafted to serve in the Vietnam War after he graduated Harvard.
“There was so much going on,” Lewis says. “I was madly in love, I was under tremendous stress, and I was having the time of my life programming computers.”
Lewis calls that summer—and the following two semesters—the “critical year” of his life. His wife agrees.
“Harry came of age at Harvard,” she says.
Shortly after Lewis’s graduation, he and McGrath married at a church in Brookline. The couple then left Cambridge for a time, working a two-year stint at the National Institutes of Health before journeying through Europe for 12 months after Lewis won a Harvard traveling fellowship.
In 1971, Lewis and McGrath returned to campus: he to pursue a graduate degree in applied sciences, she to complete her undergraduate studies. They never left again.
Lewis joined the faculty in 1974 after receiving his PhD, and became a full professor of computer science in 1981, three years before Harvard began awarding computer science degrees—a decision he was instrumental in pushing through. He has taught at Harvard ever since, including during his eight-year tenure as dean of the College from 1995 to 2003.
Harvard is central to Lewis’s life: it is where he discovered his love for computer science, where he proposed to his wife, where he pursued and made his career. Both of Lewis’s two daughters attended Harvard and went on to earn MBAs at the Business School.
“All I can say is, it runs very deep, he’s spent most of his life here,” says Computer Science professor Michael D. Mitzenmacher ’91, who studied under Lewis while an undergraduate at the College. “He loves the place and it’s always on his mind.”
Lewis calls himself a “Harvard lifer”—a breed he fears is dying out.
“The faculty are more like professional athletes now; they move around,” Lewis says.
Across the years, Lewis and his wife have come to feel “a sense of ownership” over the University.
“We’ve got a stake in what happens. It’s not a transactional thing: you do your thing here, they pay you, and next week they trade you to Princeton,” he says. “No. It’s like family. The same way you’ve got an ownership stake in your family members.”
As much as Harvard shaped Lewis, Lewis, in turn, shaped Harvard. Both as dean of the College and as a Computer Science professor, Lewis has overseen major changes to the way his alma mater operates.
While serving as dean, Lewis carried out the then-highly controversial process of House randomization. He also pushed to complete the final steps of a decades-long merger between Harvard and Radcliffe.
There were smaller changes, too: in 1998, Lewis named Diana L. Eck and her partner Dorothy A. Austin the heads of Lowell House, marking the first time a same-sex couple served as House Masters in Harvard’s history.
“He really pushed the walls on many areas,” says Tamar March, who often worked with Lewis in her role as Radcliffe’s Dean of Educational Programs during the merger.  “I think he left Harvard a better place than he found it.”
One Harvard institution Lewis did not seek to alter was the school’s all-male final clubs, though he sharply criticized the groups at the time.

"The unequal status of women at Clubs—unwelcome as members, but welcomed for the amusement of the male members at their parties—continues to be of great concern to the College,” he wrote in a 1998 op-ed for the Harvard Independent.
When asked, though, colleagues and former students say Lewis’s teaching—rather than his involvement with randomization or the merger—forms his enduring legacy.
In 40 years at Harvard, Lewis taught thousands of students, including computer science rock stars Bill Gates and Mark Zuckerberg. Seven current Harvard Computer Science professors studied under Lewis or served as teaching fellows in his classes while studying at the College.
“One of the things he teaches in his course is the concept of countability and uncountability,” Computer Science professor Salil P. Vadhan '95 says. “The number of people he has had an impact on does seem to be in the realm of the uncountable.”
Apart from his track record as an administrator and professor, Lewis has recently become something of a Harvard celebrity for his vocal criticism of the College’s penalties and for posts on his personal blog. Online, Lewis opines freely on issues ranging from a 2012 Harvard cheating scandal to the “tiresome” canonization of Steve Jobs to the proper format for Christmas cards.
Colleagues and former students describe the 70-year-old Lewis—grey-haired, blue-eyed, and with a fondness for button-down Marimekko shirts in summertime—as an outspoken, unapologetic advocate for what he believes.
Some say Lewis has long been this way.
“I think when he has a strong view of something and he thinks it’s fair and right, he’s going to fight for it,” says Karen E. Avery ’87, who served as Assistant Dean of the College during Lewis’s tenure. “I think he’s a mover and a shaker.”
March adds that “shy” is not “something I would marry” to Lewis’s personality.
“If you look back at his history, he has long spoken out about issues related to Harvard that he thinks are important,” Mitzenmacher says. “Consistent throughout all these times, Harry has been a moral voice at Harvard.”
Lewis’s outspokenness has, at times, earned him critics—particularly when it comes to his campaign against the College’s proposed penalties on members of single-gender final clubs and Greek organizations.
During a December 2017 faculty meeting, several professors derided the Lewis motion and defended the College’s social group policy. English professor Louis Menand offered a particularly emphatic rebuke of Lewis and his co-signatories’ rationale for opposing the penalties.
“I am astonished that colleagues I like and respect have put their names to the motion before us,” Menand said then. “The motion is pure sophistry. It basically says, ‘We cannot discriminate against people who discriminate because that would be a form of discrimination.’”
“Seriously?” Menand continued to cheers. “This is the kind of limits-of-tolerance hypothetical that you might be able to get away with in a freshman seminar, and it is unworthy of this faculty. Of course we can be intolerant of intolerance, and of course we can discriminate against people who discriminate.”
Lewis says he has no patience with Menand’s censure. He says the English professor’s contention that it is acceptable to discriminate against those who discriminate is nonsense.
“It was a great applause line, but it was just wrong,” Lewis says. “We don’t think it’s our job to judge what people do in their lives.”
Some have criticized Lewis’s anti-sanctions stance more generally, claiming the former dean violates protocol by speaking out against a sitting dean’s signature policy.
Lewis says it is “too bad” that some have seen his public denunciation of the policy as an act of impolitic defiance against President Faust and Dean Khurana.
“I wish it didn’t look that way,” he adds. “I know it’s hard, I know these are hard jobs and you’re always trying to balance conflicting goals, and I deeply respect both Dean Khurana and President Faust—I’m not speaking up about this because I want to make their lives difficult, I just think the policy is wrong and I want to be able to have a discussion about it.”
Lewis’s adamant opposition to the College’s penalties—decorum be damned—stems from a particular vision of America, one forged in large part during his time at a ’60s-era Harvard still reeling from McCarthyist witch hunts.
“It is an axiom in America that you don’t punish people for joining [clubs], you punish them for what they do,” Lewis says. “As Americans we have the right peaceably to assemble. And peaceably assemble means assemble and form a club.”
His wife says that, for Lewis, Harvard is “America’s University”—meaning the College’s policy, which Lewis sees as fundamentally un-American, has no place within the school’s gates.
Lewis says his thoughts on the matter are distilled in remarks made by Franklin D. Roosevelt, a member of the Class of 1903, during a speech the then-president gave in Harvard Yard at the University’s Tercentennial in September 1936.
“In this day of modern witch-burning, when freedom of thought has been exiled from many lands which were once its home, it is the part of Harvard and America to stand for the freedom of the human mind and to carry the torch of truth,” Roosevelt said then.
For now, Lewis has paused his campaign against the sanctions. He’s holding out hope that a committee with the power to “revise or replace” the policy—a committee Khurana announced in the fallout of the Lewis motion—will radically alter the penalties.
If things don’t go his way, though, Lewis is ready to again plunge the campus into debate over whether his specific ideas of Harvard and America still resonate. And, if the debate stretches past his 2020 retirement, Lewis hopes some will remain to safeguard Harry’s Harvard.
“I don’t want to carry this ball myself. You know who all the co-sponsors of my original resolution are and my coauthors on my first op-ed,” he says.
“So we’ll see what happens.”
—Staff writer Hannah Natanson can be reached at hannah.natanson@thecrimson.com. Follow her on twitter @hannah_natanson.
Sections
During his junior year, Computer Science concentrator Roger G. Zou ’17 wondered whether his CS courses were harder than others at Harvard.
Drawing on his experience in computer science and statistics, Zou set about finding an answer by gathering and analyzing published course evaluation data. After extracting data from the Q guide—which students use to rate their courses—Zou conducted statistical analyses to determine which courses boasted the highest workloads.
Zou’s analysis, which he published on Medium last year, found that computer science students reported the highest average workload per class at 10.7 hours per week, roughly five hours per week more than the average class. Most STEM courses—such as those offered in Mathematics, Physics, and Engineering Sciences—featured higher-than-average reported workloads.
“It’s pretty clear that engineering classes tend to have higher workloads,” Zou said.
Many of the subjects Zou’s analysis tagged as high-workload are housed in the School of Engineering and Applied Sciences, which hosts the Computer Science, Bioengineering, Electrical Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, Environmental Engineering, and Applied Mathematics departments.
Though SEAS courses may be more time-consuming, record numbers of  students have recently declared concentrations within the school. In 2007, when SEAS became its own Harvard school, 291 students—or about 6 percent of undergraduates—concentrated in an engineering or applied scientific discipline. This year, a decade after SEAS’s debut, the school boasts 943 concentrators: 19 percent of undergraduates.
This explosive growth, driven primarily by growing popularity of Computer Science, has coincided with an increased institutional focus on the engineering disciplines. In 2015, Harvard accepted a record-setting, school-renaming $400 million gift from Business School graduate John A. Paulson to help develop SEAS. In 2020, a $1 billion science complex is set to open in Allston.
As more and more Harvard students flock to applied sciences, some undergraduates and administrators think the field may be creating an entirely new kind of Harvard student—one more focused on problem sets than parties and extracurriculars.
With the move to Allston looming on the horizon, Harvard engineering is in a state of transition. And while many affiliates are optimistic about SEAS’s future, others worry that the distinctive aspects of engineering at Harvard—its integration with a broader student body in a liberal arts College—could disappear once SEAS concentrators and their peers are split by the Charles River.
Electrical Engineering concentrator Kevin J. W. Yoon ’19 chose Harvard over MIT, Stanford, and the California Institute of Technology. Those schools are ranked first, second, and fourth respectively for undergraduate engineering by U.S. News and World Report. On the same list, Harvard ranks 28th.
For Yoon and students like him, though, engineering at Harvard, rather than a more established engineering school, offered some distinct advantages. They said Harvard’s relatively small engineering department and liberal arts education offered the opportunity to be part of a growing program and develop a wider-ranging skill set.
Nicolas Weninger ’20, a freshman planning to study electrical engineering, said he chose Harvard over a college with a more recognized engineering program because he felt the small and growing department would give him the opportunity to be “left alone and given resources to do what I want.”
“Being just a freshman, I’m now head of electronics [for the Harvard Undergraduate Robotics Club] on this sizable robotics project and was given the equivalent of about $1,000 to buy motors for the project,” Weninger said.
Yoon, who was recently elected junior co-president of the Harvard College Engineering Society, said choosing Harvard reflected a desire “to become a more well-rounded engineer who knows how to make conversation, have social time as well as practice all the technical knowledge and practices that are necessary for an engineer to be successful.”
Cesar E. Maeda ’17, a mechanical engineering concentrator said he feels “very satisfied” with his decision to study engineering at Harvard because “it combines science and technology with philosophy and history.”
“I think it’s very special and it creates the leaders that are going to be running companies later on in tech that need those types of backgrounds to be able to communicate with people and interact with different companies,” Maeda said.
Still, some students said better-known engineering programs offer more robust pipelines to coveted industry positions.
“I did regret [choosing Harvard] when I started freshman year and realized that all the Silicon Valley companies want to hire from Berkeley or Stanford, which are much stronger engineering schools, but despite that so far so good, I guess,” Yoon said.
SEAS Director of Experiential and Career Development Keith R. Karasek said that although employers may be less familiar with Harvard’s engineering school, the College’s liberal arts curriculum provides particular advantages for graduates in the workplace.
“If I were working at Caltech or MIT I would be saying, ‘Look, these students have a lot of tremendous depth in [technical areas].’ But what does the Harvard student have that the others don’t? All of these students can write,” Karasek said. “I’ve known so many scientists and engineers that just don’t like it. So they don’t write. They don’t communicate as much. So I tell employers, ‘It’s really important: these students can communicate.’”
For some engineering students, time-consuming courses mean pursuing a different social and extracurricular lifestyle than many of their peers. Zou, for instance, said he had to forego certain extracurriculars to have enough time for his classes.
“I’ve been wanting to join the Asian-American Dance Troupe for a while, and I was only able to join it this semester, despite wanting to do it for the past six semesters based on high commitment issues,” Zou said.
Dance groups aren’t the only sorts of extracurriculars engineers may miss out on. As campus conversations this year focused on a controversial policy that is set to penalize membership in single-gender social organizations, Computer Science professor and vocal opponent of the policy Harry R. Lewis ’68 argued in a blog post that few engineering students join such organizations.
“I think...that they are underrepresented in those organizations, probably because they are working too hard,” wrote Lewis.
Yoon agreed that he had to skip certain social functions to make time for engineering coursework, though he added that he wasn’t speaking for all Harvard engineers.
“I think it’s more evident when I have close friends who are not engineering who go out to parties or go out to social events,” Yoon said. “For engineers, that definitely takes a lot of planning ahead.”
SEAS Dean Francis J. Doyle III said in an interview earlier this semester that there is a “certain duration involved in doing long problem sets and particularly in SEAS coding sets that take a lot of time that is not directly comparable to the energy it takes to write an essay, for example.”
Computer Science professor Michael D. Mitzenmacher ’91 said that, even when he was an undergraduate, computer science classes “were difficult and certainly more time consuming than the average course.”
Despite, or perhaps because of, the long hours spent studying and working on problem sets, some SEAS concentrators said their common experiences create a tight-knit bond with other engineers.
“I think the intensity and difficulty of computer science classes I took as a student actually really served to bring people together because they would often be working together late at night,” Mitzenmacher said.
Grace C. Eysenbach ’20, who plans to concentrate in Electrical Engineering, said that working on assignments together creates a “sense of camaraderie” between engineers on campus.
“If they just mention they’re an engineer you kind of get it and you understand what...they’re going through,” she said, “They’re always there to support you if you have questions and stuff because the community is so small.”
Joint Electrical Engineering and Computer Science concentrator Yankang Yang ’18 recalls working late nights before Housing Day with other engineers to finish work for their classes.
“We all had three [problem sets] due on Housing Day,” Yang said. “We got the reading room in Lamont and we were all in there until 5 a.m., but it wasn’t a bad memory for us...we all try to take care of each other and make sure we’re all doing well.”
Though students said they were content with Harvard engineering as it is today, the impending relocation to Allston drew mixed opinions from SEAS students and faculty.
The move, dubbed “the Allston Bomb,” faced stark resistance from several faculty when it was first announced.
More recently, students like Yoon worry that the longer commute time may detract from their college experience.
“For me personally, the fact that I have to go across the river to take all my classes, the transportation time...gives me a lot to worry about,” Yoon said.
For administrators like Karasek, though, the school’s expansion will provide relief from the space constraints that currently plague SEAS.
“It’s going to make a lot more space,” Karasek said. “One of the big differences between when I was a grad student here in the seventies and now is every square foot is used—people are crammed in.”
Other students said they were excited about the new developments and facilities that are to come with the new campus.
“I’m personally really excited for it and just sad that I won’t be here,” Daniel Wang ’17 said. “My biggest hope for that campus is more students study engineering and, I guess, overall have more confidence in the program. I feel like that’s one thing that’s lacking right now.”
Maeda also said he was optimistic that the move will provide a prestige boost to SEAS as a whole.
“This new building and renovation is really going to put us on the map in terms of engineering,” Maeda said.
Some, however, are wary that the school may become more isolated after the move.
"It could have the result of isolating the engineering community more than it currently is," Eysenbach said, pointing out that "Maxwell Dworkin and Pierce Hall are still close to other buildings on campus."
Computer Science concentrator Jared R. Pochtar ’17 also said he hopes Harvard engineering can remain integrated with the rest of the College.
“I would be disappointed to see Computer Science and other SEAS concentrators separated from the rest of Harvard,” Pochtar said.
However, Mitzenmacher, an early skeptic of the move to Allston, said predicting how the move may truly affect the school was impossible.
“We’re concerned about these things,” he said, “But we’ll see what happens.”
—Staff writer Dianne Lee can be reached at dianne.lee@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @diannelee_.
UPDATED: May 24, 2017 at 2:09 p.m.
More often than not, students taking one of Rakesh Khurana’s classes at Harvard Business School could not see their professor.
Khurana, now dean of the College, disdained the traditional spot by the blackboard, instead lecturing from the fringes of the classroom. Khurana would teach from “everywhere: the front, the back, the side,” according to former student Nworah B. Ayogu ’10.
At times, Khurana even switched seats with students, asking them to stand by the board in his place, Agoyu remembers.
“Rakesh was like an invisible hand in the back of the room,” says Business School Professor Boris Groysberg,who co-taught “Leadership and Organizational Behavior” with Khurana in 2002 and 2003. “You could hardly see him, he would orchestrate the case discussion while making himself almost invisible.”
Groysberg says Khurana’s teaching reflects the way the dean thinks about leadership: as a group process requiring universal input. Groysberg, along with other Business School colleagues and former students, say Khurana’s belief in team governance dictated his teaching style and informs his approach to leading Harvard’s flagship school.
Khurana was named Dean of the College in 2014; he has served on the Business School faculty since 2000, and as co-Faculty Dean of Cabot House since 2010. In a January 2014 email announcing Khurana’s appointment, Dean of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences Michael D. Smith praised the new dean’s “distinctly inclusive” style of leadership.
Khurana says he is skeptical of what he calls “capital ‘L’ leadership.” He adds that he thinks everyone is a leader, and that he is just one of thousands of leaders on Harvard’s campus, all working together to improve the College.
He agrees that this idea of governance—as well as his broader academic scholarship in the field of organizational behavior—has heavily influenced how he conducts himself as dean of the College.
“My study of institutions and study of organizations deeply inform the way I think,” Khurana says. “This is the area I’ve devoted my life to understanding—how we can create more effective institutions and organizations for society, and it is that question that guides my decision making.”
In particular, Khurana’s colleagues at the Business School say his academic work helped inspire him to launch the most controversial policy of his young deanship: sanctions, announced May 2016, that penalize members of unrecognized single-gender social organizations. Khurana says he thinks this version of events is largely “accurate.”
Set to take effect with the Class of 2021, the policy bars members of single-gender final clubs and Greek organizations from holding certain fellowships and leadership positions on Harvard’s campus. Since the rollout of the legislation, many have come to see Khurana—despite his desire to be an “invisible” leader—as the face of the penalties.
In emails sent to faculty and students over the past year, Khurana has called the policy a crucial, high-stakes effort to improve campus culture.
“Given the problematic impact the USGSOs have on undergraduate life, it would not be ethically or administratively responsible to pause our efforts to solve these problems,” Khurana wrote in one email, referring to Harvard’s single-gender social groups.
Some students and faculty have spoken out harshly against what they call Khurana’s policy, holding protest rallies in the Yard and writing critical op-eds in national newspapers. The same month the penalties debuted, Computer Science professor and former Dean of the College Harry R. Lewis ’68 introduced faculty legislation explicitly designed to kill the sanctions.
The first class of Harvard students likely to be affected by the policy will set foot on campus this fall, ushering in another major test of Khurana’s deanship. As before, he says he will plumb his scholarship for answers.
Khurana first came to know Harvard miles away from his current office in University Hall. He arrived at the Business School, located across the Charles River from the College’s campus, as a doctoral student in 1993 and stayed to become a professor. Over the span of two decades at the school—interrupted only by two years spent across town as an assistant professor of management at MIT—Khurana studied the hiring patterns and practices of elite institutions.
In his 2002 book “Searching for a Corporate Saviour,” Khurana explored how corporations select top executives, arguing that arbitrary social and cultural factors—often predicated on exclusivity—saddled firms with underperforming CEOs.
Business School colleagues say Khurana’s background in organizational behavior all but ensured he would address Harvard’s relationship with its unrecognized single-gender social groups as dean.
“I would say it is very consistent with his scholarship and very consistent with who he is as a person,” Business School Professor Joshua D. Margolis says of the College’s policy.
Margolis says that, throughout Khurana’s career, the dean has examined how institutions fall away from their “fundamental values and purposes” and sought ways those groups could rectify their failures.
Khurana has consistently argued that the “fundamental purpose” of top-tier organizations like Harvard, given their power and privilege, is to advance the public good. He refers to this as a “social compact”: the highest caliber students and faculty come to Harvard, and in return, the College must provide them with a “transformative” experience that equips them to become better leaders for society.
As dean of one of the most elite colleges in the world, Khurana has applied this philosophy to arguably the most elite institutions on campus: the single-gender final clubs that rule Harvard’s undergraduate social scene. Colleagues say they believe Khurana chose to penalize these groups in part because he thinks they render the College unable to uphold the social compact he prizes.
Scott A. Snook, a senior lecturer at the Business School who has known Khurana since both were Ph.D. candidates, says that the dean has long investigated the role that elites and elite organizations play in society. Khurana himself says he believes exclusive groups like the clubs directly hinder Harvard’s ability to entice gifted students.
“I believe there’s a direct line between attracting the best talent and the most people who want to make a difference in the world and the kind of environment and culture they find themselves in,” Khurana says.
“And that inclusive culture is where you feel like your differences and your distinctiveness and your perspective will be valued,” he adds. “That all doors are open to you.”
While Khurana’s penalties on members of single-gender social groups stem in part from his desire to return Harvard to its founding principles, they are also informed by a belief that leaders must govern by example.
Asked to identify Khurana’s administrative style, seven Business School colleagues offer the exact same response: they say Khurana practices “values-based” leadership. This theory holds that leaders model standards that extend to their constituents.
“Those virtues can be infused and transposed in ways that extend far beyond who the person is, what behaviors they exhibit, or what context they’re operating in,” explains Ryan L. Raffaelli, an assistant professor at the Business School.
Snook calls “values-based leadership” the theory that has underpinned Khurana’s entire career.
“Khurana has always led with his values—it’s animated his research, his passion for why he wants to write, why he wants to study what he studies, and now it’s animated the impact and the issues he wants to take on as a leader in the role of the capacity of the dean,” Snook says.
Students and coworkers on this side of the Charles say there is little doubt what primary value drives Dean Khurana: the mission of Harvard College.
In his first major speech to undergraduates as the new dean of the College in September 2014, Khurana read out the College’s mission: to “educate the citizens and citizen-leaders for our society” and to provide students with an intellectually, socially, and personally “transformative” experience.
In the three years since, Khurana has not stopped repeating the mission.
“It’s almost like the ‘Our Father’ at this point,” former Dean of Student Life Stephen Lassonde said in 2014.
Khurana says he will recite the 136-word statement “literally everywhere.” He adds he believes Harvard’s mission necessitates a campus that is “open to everyone”—one free, in his view, from social groups that discriminate based on gender.
Colleagues and former students say that by speaking out against these groups, Khurana eventually hopes to transfer his values to students and spark a cultural shift on campus.
“He couches [the policy] within a larger narrative of cultural and social change,” says Mihir J. Chaudhary ’12, an alumnus of Cabot House. “Truly, he believes that you have to initiate social and cultural campaigns to convince people of the importance of things, otherwise it’s just not going to work.”
The sanctions did spark social campaigns—though some were not the sort Khurana hoped to see.
Following the rollout of the policy, Harvard students, faculty, and some outside observers spoke out harshly against the penalties. Critics of the policy say it infringes on students’ constitutional rights and argue it will do little to solve issues of social discrimination on campus.
They also advance a critique that strikes at the heart of Khurana’s ideas about leadership: they say he crafted and debuted the sanctions in exactly the top-down, vertical fashion he tries to avoid.
Leading up to the announcement of the policy, Khurana met repeatedly with social group leaders behind closed doors to discuss the legislation; he also canvassed the subject with other administrators. And in crafting the policy, he drew on hundreds of private student responses to College-administered surveys collected in recent years.
Nonetheless, many on campus—especially professors—said they felt left out of the discussion. Facing mounting criticism from faculty, Khurana announced in late January that Smith was creating a faculty committee to determine whether the penalties will be “revised or replaced”—prompting Lewis to withdraw his anti-sanctions motion, for now.
But even this step drew criticism for being too top-down, including from members of a different committee that had been working for months to recommend how to implement the sanctions. Minutes before Khurana announced the creation of the faculty committee to the school, implementation committee members received an email informing them the policy they were helping to enforce could be completely overhauled. Khurana gave the implementation committee no input, and no advance warning.
“It doesn’t go through the constituted procedure,” Lewis says of the general rollout of the policy. “The reason for committees is not just to create speed bumps, the reason for committees is that you learn something.”
“Nobody likes surprises in this community,” Lewis adds.
In another potential blow to Khurana’s philosophy of team-style leadership, students have come to identify him—and him alone—with the policy.
Results of The Crimson’s 2016-2017 senior survey showed that, among seniors, Khurana’s favorability has dropped to a low of 42 percent, down from 62 percent among the Class of 2016 and 82 percent for the Class of 2015. His declining popularity seems to be linked to the College’s social group policy: 81 percent of respondents who view Khurana unfavorably also oppose the sanctions.
Khurana says he thinks about his identification with the penalties in two ways. On the one hand, he argues students are making an “individual attribution error”—he says he developed the policy in tandem with “senior leadership across the University,” among others. But he says he is not sorry to see some at Harvard taking him to task. 
“I think that’s my job, to be accountable and responsible, [if] I have done something that has offended people,” he says. “The way I like to think about it: when things go right it’s we, when things go wrong it’s me.”
Regarding the survey results, Khurana says he is sorry if he has “disappointed” students in the past year, adding he takes his low favorability ratings as “a failure on my part to communicate.” Nonetheless, he does not intend to abandon the policy.
Khurana’s commitment to and rationale for the penalties stem from his core personal and academic credo—values he will continue to rely on going forward.
“I have a strong, social science-supported idea but also a deep belief that inclusive organizations [are] more effective,” Khurana says. “I just don’t know any other way of being and wanting the world like that.”
—Staff writer Hannah Natanson can be reached at hannah.natanson@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @hannah_natanson.
—Staff writer Derek G. Xiao can be reached at derek.xiao@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @derekgxiao.
Sections
After a months-long election season calling for a “complete and total shutdown” of Muslims entering the United States and the arrival of a presidency many say stirred nationwide Islamophobic sentiment, violence against Muslim Americans intensified beginning in late 2016.
Harvard was not exempt.
Just days after the election, Harmann Singh, a first-year student at Harvard Law School, was called a “f***ing Muslim” while at a store in Harvard Square. In an op-ed in the Boston Globe, Singh recalled how no one questioned his aggressor as he followed Singh around, repeatedly asking him where he was from.
The incident was only one of many across the nation. According to a May report from the Council on American-Islamic Relations, Islamophobic incidents increased by 57 percent in 2016, and hate crimes targeting Muslims increased by 44 percent during the same period.
Many across Harvard emphasized that they would not tolerate anti-Muslim discrimination. In a November email, University President Drew G. Faust lamented “escalating numbers of cruel and frightening incidents” both at Harvard and nationwide. She later announced the start of a search for the University’s first full-time Muslim chaplain, and vigilantly opposed a White House executive order that looked to bar immigration from several Muslim-majority countries.
Muslim affiliates say they are pleased to see a commitment to Muslim students, though they noted Harvard could increase financial resources to better welcome the vulnerable group.
As discrimination against Muslim Americans became more visible across the United States, Harvard students say they experienced its consequences. In addition to less subtle acts of Islamophobic aggression, some students say they felt hurt by peers with political opinions they found offensive.
“I was amazed how a few people were turning things and twisting them around to make it sound like the stuff that Donald Trump was doing was not necessarily racist,” said Sahar Omer ’20, a member of the Harvard Islamic Society—an undergraduate Muslim affinity group—and an active Crimson editor. “At this point, how does someone convince you that the stuff that you’re saying has ramifications that really do affect me and a lot of other people?”
Omer and others said they found students with discriminatory opinions to be in the minority, but still felt it was difficult to separate their student experience from changing political tides.
For Anwar Omeish ’19, the Islamic Society’s director of external relations, this was impossible.
“When the literal president of the United States is talking about how your community should be banned, that’s significant.” Omeish said. “No matter how much you try to separate in your head what’s happening outside and what’s happening on campus...it affects the way you experience this place.”
A majority of Harvard undergraduates identify as liberal, and roughly 87 percent of respondents to a Crimson election survey said they would vote for President Donald Trump’s Democratic contender, Hillary Clinton, in the November election. But despite living at a left-leaning campus largely disapproving of Trump’s rhetoric, Omeish said she felt “isolated” because students largely did not understand the profound effect such rhetoric had on her identity and life at Harvard.
“It’s because I’m thinking and stressing and processing this thing all the time… and I don’t know how to express this energy and stress in me to people around me who are just going about their daily lives and the way they would have regardless,” Omeish said.
Muslim students and their allies across the University took to activism to express their experiences and protests, hosting teach-ins, rallies, and vigils after Trump’s election.
Professor of Indo-Muslim and Islamic Religion and Cultures Ali Asani said Islamophobia has always been embedded in the United States and in Muslim Americans’ experiences. The election results only fueled it.
“The [latent racism] was already there. The election, his rhetoric, that's what he was whipping up. And once he was elected, it became even more bold,” Asani said.
Some students took the aftermath of the election as an opportunity to further bring Harvard’s Muslims together to cope.
“I could tell very obviously that people were looking for a space, and I was very fortunate enough to be able to help create that space,” said Kennedy School student Omar El-Halwagi, who organized a vigil in February shortly after Trump signed his travel ban.
“I think it was just a time where people needed to take a minute and step away from all the political activism that people were doing and the organizing and have a moment to maybe reconnect spiritually, and have a moment to exhale,” he added.
Even with the positive outcomes of an otherwise troubling election, some students now find themselves burdened with an expectation to represent all Muslims.
For El-Halwagi, this is complicated by an already difficult task of being a student.
“There is an additional tax placed on Muslim students to not only have to navigate the regular experience of being a student, but on top of that, you also have to figure out how you can advocate for your community,” El-Halwagi said.
Following a concussion while preparing for final exams, Omeish said she had to create a presentation for faculty members on institutional Islamophobia after the election, which made her feel overburdened compared to non-Muslim students.
“I literally had a concussion, and I still ended up being the person who had to give this presentation to faculty and tutors and staff,” she said. “That’s not something our students should be expected to do.”
Omeish said discussions about Islamophobia and discrimination are often wrongly grouped into a single story. She said she is often asked to do “institutionalized Islamophobia presentations” for groups on campus and in Boston.
“People sometimes still do approach it as, ‘Tell us what the Muslims think’ and I'm like, I cannot,” Omeish said. “What does it mean to represent Islam correctly and fully? There is such a diverse set of experiences within Islam and within the Muslim community.”
After Trump issued an executive order barring immigration from seven majority muslim nations, Harvard announced it would begin searching for a University-funded, full-time Muslim chaplain.
Students have for some time pushed for a full-time chaplain, and Muslim students currently do not have even a part-time religious advocate of this kind.
In an email to Harvard affiliates in January, Faust said that the hiring of a new chaplain was in recognition of “the special concerns of the Muslims among us at this moment in our national life” and that a chaplain would provide “more tangible ways to support [Muslims’] distinctive needs.”
The previous Muslim chaplain, Taymullah Abdur-Rahman, had only worked part-time and was funded by the Harvard University Muslim Alumni.
“Taymullah was great,” Omeish said. “But his position was limited in what it was able to do because it was part time and served all of the schools.”
Many students and faculty have responded positively to the news of the hiring, noting that the decision was unprecedented. While Harvard has 35 chaplains representing a variety of belief systems and sects within them, many chaplains are either volunteers or are paid for by outside student groups and churches.
“I think that is one very strong sign of solidarity, particularly for a group of students on campus who need someone who can be able to assist them through this difficult time both politically and socially,” said El-Halwagi, who is on a committee to search for the chaplain.
The chaplain will serve as a “spiritual and mental health resource,” according to Islamic Society President Zarin I. Rahman ’18. Rahman said she looks forward to “having someone to talk to and to help advocate for our needs that we ourselves have been advocating for for decades.”
Omer said she expects the presence of a chaplain to make a “huge difference” in guiding students through faith, and that it will allow Muslims at Harvard to devote more time and energy to their spirituality.
“I think [the Muslim community] will move from being a social group to one that will actually help kids on campus with their religious knowledge and religious teachings and what not,” Omer said.
While students praise the hiring of a full-time Muslim chaplain, they have said that they hope the administration will continue to provide tangible support—mainly in the form of financial investment in Islam on campus.
Noting limited funds for groups like the Islamic Society, students say they want increased funding for Muslim student programming, and construction of a “Muslim student life center”—which already stand at schools like Princeton and Duke—to supplement Harvard’s existing prayer spaces.
Harvard administrators have previously said they are open to creating a similar multicultural student center, though some like Dean of the College Rakesh Khurana have cited local space constraints as a barrier from beginning construction.
According to Rahman, one issue facing the Islamic Society is a lack of funding for the programs it runs for Muslim students. She noted that compared to other religious groups on campus, the Islamic Society does not have as large of an alumni network to help support its programming.
“We host Ramadan events because Ramadan is in the summer,” Rahman said. “Term-time, we can apply for grants. But during the summer, we have to fundraise for that.”
College spokesperson Rachael Dane did not respond to requests for comment for this story.
Omeish emphasized that although their incoming chaplain marks a major step in Muslim student support, the University should not stop there.
“A lot of the issues students of color are raising—diversity of faculty, ethnic studies—all of these things also intersect with the needs of Muslim students,” Omeish said. “So yes, it's great that we have this Muslim chaplain, but there's also a lot more we can be doing.”
—Staff writer Angela N. Fu can be reached at angela.fu@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @angelanfu.
—Staff writer Alexis J. Ross can be reached at alexis.ross@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @aross125.
Sections
It was 4:42 p.m. on a Friday afternoon, and University offices were closing down for the week.
But hundreds of miles away at the White House, with a flourish of his pen, President Donald Trump signed an executive order that would reverberate through Harvard’s campus and generate chaos across the world.
Executive Order 13769, signed Jan. 27, banned foreign nationals from seven predominantly Muslim countries—Iran, Iraq, Libya, Somalia, Syria, Sudan, and Yemen—from entering the United States for 90 days, stopped admission of refugees for 120 days, and blocked all Syrian refugees from entering the country indefinitely. Hundreds of people were stranded in airports, families were separated, and flights halted before they took off.
In Cambridge, residents and Harvard affiliates spoke out loudly against the ban. Demonstrators at a Kennedy School emergency protest called the order “horrible news,” others went to Boston Logan Airport to demand that officials release immigrants from the affected countries, and University President Drew G. Faust herself penned a letter opposing the move.

Meanwhile, behind closed doors across the University and in Washington, resistance had begun days earlier. Administrators saw a copy of the draft executive order two days before Trump signed it, and each evening before its signing, staff in several Harvard offices phoned Washington, D.C. to respond to a situation Faust called “very unstable and uncertain.”
More than 100 Harvard affiliates hail from the seven affected countries. At least four of these affiliates were barred from entering the United States in January.
“There was incredible anxiety on campus, and not wrongly placed anxiety,” said Suzanne Day, Harvard’s Director of Federal Relations.
While temporary injunctions have suspended that first travel ban and the revised version that followed it, international students’ fears about their ability to travel freely and remain in the United States still linger.
Offices across Harvard have poured additional resources into supporting students with foreign passports, yet some maintain that the University should do more. And as the Trump administration and its controversial immigration platform tread on, anxiety only continues to mount.
During his presidential campaign, Trump called for a “total and complete shutdown” of Muslims entering the United States—a context that fueled immediate court challenges to the travel ban.
Harvard filed multiple amicus briefs in these challenges, and the Law School’s Immigration and Refugee Law Clinic also filed briefs prepared by their staff and students.
For Harvard affiliates affected by the ban, the Harvard International Office’s Immigration Services Director Maureen Martin and attorney Jason M. Corral—who works in the Immigration and Refugee Law Clinic—answered questions at a series of town hall meetings the week after Trump signed his order.
Affiliates at the town halls asked personal questions about their futures in the United States. A postdoctoral fellow asked about the fate of her visa, set to expire four weeks after the event. Another graduate student said he was concerned about the prospects of gaining refugee status, adding he feared facing religious persecution upon return to his home country of Iran.
More than a thousand Harvard affiliates attended the town halls while Harvard’s federal relations team fielded administrators’ own concerns from their office in Washington, D.C.
“We were sort of all hands on deck to try and… provide answers and support,” Day said.
Amid legal challenges, the White House released a modified executive order on March 6, which removed Iraq from the list of banned countries and exempted valid green card and visa holders.
Appeals court judges heard oral arguments on injunctions to the second order in the first weeks of May, and it is expected that legal debate on the executive order will eventually reach the Supreme Court.
At the center of Harvard’s response to the executive order stands the International Office, tasked with ensuring that the University’s foreign affiliates can remain safely on U.S. soil.
The office first opened its doors in 1944 to serve Harvard’s international students, who numbered around 250 at the time. Now, 9,851 international affiliates study or work at Harvard, according to the HIO website. Roughly 4,900 of them are students.
Upon their arrival in Cambridge, international students are assigned a designated staff member by the HIO. This staffer acts as a liaison between the student and government agencies that handle visas and immigration. Harvard temporarily hired an additional staff liaison shortly after the travel ban was issued.
Martin said this addition has made the office more efficient.
“The way that we’ve incorporated that position into our office is allowing our average client load to be reduced by about 20 percent, so this has had an immediate impact,” she said.
But even with the extra staff member—coupled with the town halls, community messages, and amicus briefs—some felt that the University was not doing enough. In February, more than 600 Harvard affiliates signed a petition members of the graduate student unionization effort later presented to Faust, calling on the University to take a series of steps to further support international students and scholars.
The petition argues that these affiliates “require much greater and more concrete legal, political and institutional support from the administration...in the face of ongoing and anticipated attacks.”
The International Office has since created a 24-hour hotline Harvard affiliates can call if they find themselves stranded abroad or facing legal trouble—fulfilling one of the petition’s requests—and the HIO website now features a section on “Immigration Updates and Resources” with updates on changes to federal immigration policy and procedures.
But beyond the petition, some are confused about where international affiliates facing legal trouble should turn. While the HIO can offer advice through appointments, walk-in hours, and its hotline, it does not provide legal counsel or representation to students who may find themselves stranded abroad or caught in deportation proceedings.
Graduate student Niharika N. Singh said while she found both the HIO and Immigration and Refugee Clinic to be “great resources” for international students, the scope of their legal capability is unclear.
“There needs to be much more clarity on the types of issues these organizations are able to handle,” Singh wrote in an email.
At a rally in March, graduate student Laura Correa Ochoa announced through a megaphone, “We need more institutional guarantees from Harvard and far more direct legal support.”
Administrators referred students with legal questions to the Immigration and Refugee Law Clinic, and Corral handed out business cards at town halls. But the University hired Corral in January for a different purpose: providing legal counsel to students with undocumented immigration status.
“My understanding [was] that the primary focus of my job was to represent and assist undocumented students but… there needs to be some flexibility to respond to the issues that the Harvard immigrant community faces,” Corral wrote in an email.
Corral wrote that he has met with students with concerns on the travel bans throughout the semester, and is representing students in several types of cases before U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services.
The Office of the General Counsel—Harvard’s official legal arm—also created a list of firms willing to represent Harvard affiliates in court if necessary, according to Martin.
“As far as I know, anyone who had a question or concern was able to speak to someone,” Martin said.
But when asked if the Office of the General Counsel itself would ever intervene in a case involving a Harvard affiliate impacted by changes to visa policies or travel bans in the future, Harvard General Counsel Robert W. Iuliano said he could not make any promises.
“I can’t answer a hypothetical—I’d have to be presented with a concrete situation and make a judgment about what the appropriate response might be,” Iuliano said.
After court rulings, the immediate threat of getting stuck abroad has abated. But a sense of unease lingers among international students and scholars, who are left wondering what Trump might do next.
“That initial weekend, January 27, when bedlam was apparent throughout the U.S.—I don’t think people have fully recovered from that,” Martin said. “I think in some ways, the damage was done, because there’s still fear and anxiety around traveling.”
During his campaign, Trump repeatedly called for changes to U.S. visa and immigration policy, including potentially ending visa programs used by foreign students and scholars.
Nava Gharaei, a biology graduate student from Iran, wrote in an email that she and her husband did not want to leave the country for conferences or field studies for fear that they might not be readmitted.
“It is not easy to study or work when you are constantly worried that you might get deported or discriminated against due to your nationality and origins,” Gharaei wrote.
Juhwan Seo ’17, a Korean citizen at Harvard on a student visa, lived in the United States throughout his childhood, and hopes to get temporary protected status after graduation to stay in the country. But the Trump administration’s volatility leaves Seo’s post-graduate prospects up in the air.
“Even months after graduation, we might be interacting with a whole new set of rules for immigration,” Seo said. “I am now in a much more vulnerable place.”
Deborah E. Anker of the Immigration and Refugee Law Clinic said she still cautions international clients about traveling abroad. Anticipating travel difficulties over the summer, the College reserved beds for students who felt they could not safely travel home. And on Commencement Day, Harvard will record live video streams of the event for international families unable to make the trip to Cambridge.
Vice Provost for International Affairs Mark C. Elliott and Martin also met with customs and border officials at Logan Airport several weeks ago ago to tour the facilities and ask questions about their procedures, in case Harvard affiliates are detained there in the future.
Other administrators say they are concerned that a message sent by the travel bans may deter international students and scholars from choosing to come to the United States in the first place.
“We face a very real risk that students and scholars from all corners of the globe may no longer see Harvard and other U.S. universities as attractive places to pursue their studies,” Faust told faculty members in March, shortly after Trump signed the second travel ban.
Samira Asgari, an Iranian post-doctoral fellow who was among the four Harvard affiliates barred from the United States in January, said she may not remain here after her current visa expires in two years.  She added that the unpredictability caused by the travel ban has added pressure to her life.
“I don’t think I could do this all the time,” Asgari said, “Boston, the Brigham [and Women’s Hospital] are awesome, but there are many other great places around the world for research.”
But Elliott said the anticipated drop in international enrollment has not materialized. Numbers of international students who will matriculate this fall remain steady, he said.
“I truly hope that nothing changes,” Elliott said. “I can’t emphasize enough how crucial the presence of international students and scholars on campus is to what Harvard really is...We really strongly depend on a talent pool that is the whole world.”
—Staff writer Claire E. Parker can be reached at claire.parker@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @ClaireParkerDC.
—Staff writer Phelan Yu can be reached at phelan.yu@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @phelanyu.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harry Lewis has donned many hats at Harvard. PhD candidate. Gordon McKay Professor of Computer Science. Adviser. Author. Committee Member. Interim Dean of the School of Engineering and Applied Sciences. Dean of Harvard College.
And basketball recruiter?
When current freshman Chris Lewis was going through the recruiting process to play college basketball, he had one major stipulation—he wanted to study engineering. So, when Lewis visited Cambridge on his recruiting trip, Harvard coach Amaker brought out the big dogs. Not Celtics players who have made visits to the team in recent years, not former players who could be examples of Harvard athletes’ success after graduation, but Harry Lewis, who could show Chris around the School of Engineering and Applied Sciences.
Chris Lewis received his first offers to play college basketball in the eighth grade. The 6’6’’ middle-schooler gained notoriety in a 15U basketball tournament, which led to scholarship offers from Memphis and New Mexico. But Lewis wasn’t satisfied. According to an article in Lewis’ local newspaper, the then-middle schooler told a reporter that “he’s hoping for Harvard, Duke, or North Carolina”.
When talking about college basketball, Duke and North Carolina are common knowledge. With 11 combined NCAA championships and 36 Final Four appearances, it’s normal for any young basketball player to see himself donning Carolina Blue or suiting up in primetime at Cameron Indoor Stadium.
But in 2012 when those initial offers came in, the Crimson had just made its first NCAA Tournament since 1946. It was not yet clear whether the trend of success on the hardwood was here to stay.
After the initial offers in eighth grade, major programs like Notre Dame and Auburn continued to pursue Lewis, but his desire to become an engineer led him down a different path. For some time, Lewis considered MIT, a Division III basketball program, to get the best-possible engineering education.
Over the past four years, you could count on one hand the number of players on the men’s basketball team who have concentrated in a department from SEAS, but Amaker didn’t hesitate to give Lewis the go-ahead during the recruitment process.
“When I asked him about it, he said that he would be very helpful and very accepting of my pursuit in engineering,” Chris Lewis said. “He helped in any way or fashion to allow me to be both great at engineering and basketball, and he’s been very helpful this year and has been very accepting of my workload.”
Lewis isn’t alone in holding big academic dreams to go with a collegiate basketball career. Take rising senior captain Chris Egi.
Egi knew he wanted to go to Harvard when he was in the third grade. There’s even recorded evidence.
“There’s this video of me in third grade, and my mom is asking me about what I want to do when I grow up,” Egi said. “I’m like, ‘I’m going to go to Harvard, and I’m going to study and start my business.’ I’ve just always had this dream of going to Harvard and studying here.”
When the Markham, Ont., native stepped on campus in the fall of 2014, he wasn’t your average Harvard basketball recruit. Yes, he was only the second top-100 recruit that Amaker had ever brought to Harvard and was coming off a year at Montverde Academy in Florida in which he won a high school championship alongside Ben Simmons, the number one pick in the 2016 NBA Draft. But Egi was also a top student who had Harvard on his radar before he even knew that basketball would be in his future.
Egi’s inspiration to pursue academics at a high level and eventually join the business world came from his parents, both entrepreneurs. His father, Tony, moved from Nigeria to Canada at the age of 16 to pursue a university education and went on to start a business in land development and real estate in Toronto. His mother, Christiana, owns a group care home for adults with Alzheimer’s Disease.
Across Harvard’s 42 varsity teams, a disproportionate number of athletes tend to concentrate in economics as compared to the general student body, but Egi doesn’t align with many athlete stereotypes. In the spring of 2016, Egi was honored with the Detur Book Prize, which recognizes sophomores who “attained very high academic standing in their first year” as he notched a 3.96 GPA. In addition to doing well in his own classes, he has contributed his time to tutoring other students in economics and math with Harvard’s Bureau of Study Counsel.
“When Chris decided to come to Harvard, one of the coaches that had been a part of his growth and development through the years...said, ‘You don’t know this yet, but you guys just have the future Prime Minister of Canada coming to play Harvard basketball,’” Amaker said.
Egi has backed up his prediction from third grade in pursuit of starting his own business. The economics concentrator has been the top student on the basketball team in each of his three years according to Amaker and is heading to New York to work as a summer analyst at Goldman Sachs for the second year in a row.
Goldman Sachs is not an internship for the faint of heart, with long hours being the norm for every summer analyst. But for a student-athlete, sport doesn’t stop in the summer, either. Coaches expect players to maintain a fitness regimen and improve areas of weakness.
“My typical daily schedule this summer was that I would wake up at like 5:45 and work out with a trainer from like 6 to 7:30,” Egi said. “I would get breakfast, get showered, get to the office by 9, and work till like 11, midnight. Then rinse, wash, repeat.”
“It was definitely a grind,” he added. “When you prioritize things—and basketball is a priority to me, and work is a priority to me—I think you’re willing to make those sacrifices.”
In recent years, the Harvard men’s basketball team has garnered national attention during its rise in the NCAA ranks. The Crimson went from a team that hadn’t made an NCAA Tournament since 1946 to one that went four consecutive years from 2012 to 2015—from a team that never had a player in the NBA to one where top-100 players consistently choose to don crimson as a precursor to the pipeline to professional basketball.
Despite all this transformation, the program hasn’t compromised academic standards for on-court success. Much of this steadiness has to do with Amaker.
When Harvard pursued him in 2007, Amaker was intrigued by the possibility of being a “first” at Harvard. The former Duke standout had coached at more high-profile programs in Seton Hall and Michigan, but he saw an opportunity with the Crimson to take an unproven program and bring it to a new level of success. To Amaker, however, the job was bigger than sports.
“It drives me to think about the Tommy Lee Joneses and the Zuckerbergs and the Gates and the President Obamas—folks like that,” Amaker told CBS in its “Men of March” special that aired in February. “To celebrate the current team at Harvard, how cool would that be?”
Teaching has always been a part of Amaker’s life, and it played a big role in his decision to come to Harvard. The Virginia native grew up in a family of teachers, most notably his mom, who taught in Fairfax County for 50 years. Because of this background, Amaker noted that he doesn’t view his job description as a “coach” but as a “teacher,” having learned more from one particular coach than he did from any teacher or professor—Mike Krzyzewski.
“I look back at my own existence at 18 through 22—my experiences at Duke—and I realize how fortunate and lucky I was [for] the people that guided me and lead me,” Amaker said. “That started with Coach K. I’ve always said he was the best teacher that I had at Duke, and that’s no offense to any professor that I had in any class because there are some world-renowned professors and teachers at Duke. I do think that the teaching component of integrating all that Harvard has to offer with our basketball players, our student-athletes, is amazing.”
Amaker earned a bachelor’s degree in economics from Duke in 1987 but went on to pursue an MBA from Duke’s Fuqua School of Business after being cut from the NBA’s Seattle Supersonics. During his first year of the MBA program, Amaker worked as a graduate assistant but took on a full-time assistant coaching vacancy the next season.
Amaker saw Harvard’s academic prestige as a tool that he could use to find top players. Along with increased financial aid opportunities through the Harvard Financial Aid initiative—which which began in 2004—Amaker went after a wider range of players than his predecessors, expanding the scope of the regions that he covered and the types of families that he approached.

Jonathan Walton has seen this method at work firsthand. He has been a mentor to the team and involved in the recruiting process since rising to his current position as the Pusey Minister at Memorial Church in 2012.
“There are so many people in different regions of the country and from different backgrounds that a place like Harvard is invisible to,” Walton said. “They are doing great work, they meet the academic standards, they could come here and thrive as well as anybody else, yet no one in their life has ever said to them, ‘You should consider Harvard.’.... I think that’s part of [Amaker’s] gift and his skill and why he has helped to make Harvard a better place.”
According to a data project by The Crimson in 2014, the men’s basketball program had 64 players from New York, Connecticut, and Maryland combined between 1970 and 2007, when Amaker took over the coaching job. By comparison, Amaker successfully recruited just three players from those three states between 2007 and 2014. According to the data set, Lewis’ commitment made him the fifth Harvard player to hail from Georgia, four of which came in the Amaker era.
You know that Amaker has gotten in a recruit’s ear when he recites one of the coach’s quintessential recruiting phrases—that Harvard is a “40-year decision” rather than just a four-year one. Only now, instead of convincing players that their Harvard education will be there when they want to pursue business or medicine after their basketball careers end at commencement, he’s reminding players that their degree will be there when they exhaust their options at the professional level—whether that involves playing abroad, in the NBA D-League, or in the Association itself.
While Harvard was on Lewis’ radar prior to his recruitment, it would not have been surprising for a player of his caliber to choose a more proven basketball program. Yes, Lewis is certainly considering professional basketball in his future, but he also has firsthand experience with what life after professional athletics looks like. Lewis is the son of former New York Jets linebacker Mo Lewis, known best in New England for laying the hit on former Patriots quarterback Drew Bledsoe that thrust Tom Brady into the lead role in 2001. Since retiring from the NFL at the age of 34, Lewis has shown Chris how much life remains after a sports career, and thus the value of non-athletic academic goals.
Additionally, there is an element of pride in defying athlete stereotypes. At a press conference in March, the coach recalled a story that Lewis had told him during the recruiting process about a teacher trying to tell him that he was in the wrong place when he showed up for an AP Government class.
“He was supposed to take a certain class because it’s for…the gifted and talented kids,” Amaker said. “[Chris] showed up for the class, and he’s towering over everybody. He is how he looks; he’s who he is. The teacher, or whoever it was guarding the door, [says], ‘You’re not supposed to be in here. And he’s like, ‘What do you mean? Why not?’ It got to the point that he had to explain that he was one of those kids that was supposed to be in that [class].”
Senior forward Zena Edosomwan had a similar experience. Upon entering high school at Harvard-Westlake School in Los Angeles, he was tasked with selecting a foreign language to study. His guidance counselor and basketball coach recommended Spanish, but Edosomwan wanted to take Mandarin. Despite the school’s hesitations given the challenges of his other subjects and his need to keep up with basketball, Edosomwan pursued his pick. Now, nearly nine years later, Edosomwan is graduating Harvard with a degree in East Asian Studies.
While 20 percent of the Harvard student body participates in intercollegiate athletics—and can be found in all areas of study across the university—nationwide stereotypes of collegiate athletes pervade even strong academic institutions. In 2013, North Carolina was found guilty of creating opportunities for athletes to enroll in “fake classes”—ones that either didn’t exist or were created with minimal requirements so that athletes, particularly of major revenue-earning sports, could maintain academic eligibility.
This was just one example, but the event brought the conversation of academics and intercollegiate athletics to the forefront. The NCAA maintains standards for teams that fail to show progress for athletes towards graduation or who drop below a certain grade level, but universities often respond by steering their players towards supposedly easier fields or courses.
To play in the Ivy League, each team must follow a statistic known as the Academic Index—a number between 60 and 240 which is calculated using SAT and SAT II scores, GPA, and class rank. Every student is assigned a number on this spectrum, with each athletic team required to remain no lower than one standard deviation below the average for non-athletes. According to a 2013 article published in The Crimson, each individual student athlete must meet a minimum AI of 176, while the average Ivy League student holds approximately a 220. A 176 represents approximately a 3.0 GPA and an 1140 out of 1600 on the SAT.
However, with a typical standard deviation between 12 and 16 points, with the 220 Ivy League mean, and with no individual school dipping below 200 on average, it is likely that no program sits at the league minimum of 176.
To be sure, Harvard’s rapid rise in recruiting and NCAA performance did raise eyebrows to the methods of attracting basketball players to the university. Claims that the school lowered its standards for admission for basketball players as it went through the coaching transition were highlighted in a New York Times article in 2008, but the university denied such claims.
There was a well-publicized instance of academic wrongdoing in 2012, when the men's basketball team's co-captains withdrew amid the Government 1310 cheating scandal. However, the case affected more than men's basketball, as over 120 Harvard students were investigated.
To meet proper AI scores, some Harvard athletes—including basketball players—choose to go to a fifth year of prep school to prepare themselves for the rigor of the Ivy League. Current players on the roster attended preparatory schools such as Northfield Mount Hermon and Vermont Academy—which each have sent several players to play basketball in the Ivy League—to improve their scores as well as their basketball skills.
Edosomwan was the most prominent player to pursue this route. The 6’9’’ big man was recruited to join the Crimson out of Harvard-Westlake but was unable to gain admission to Harvard based on his initial SAT score. Despite offers from 39 total schools who would have taken him straight out of high school, Edosomwan decided to fight to get to Harvard by pursuing a postgraduate year at Northfield Mount Hermon, even if it meant potentially risking his basketball career if he suffered an injury. He was eventually able to improve his scores and gain admission to the class of 2017.
But the importance of academics for Amaker doesn’t end with the caliber of students that he brings into the program. Adding learning opportunities to team activities is of equal, if not greater, importance.
“One of the points of our mission here as an athletic department is that we educate through athletics, and that’s important for us,” Amaker said. “It’s important that we share that with our current student athletes and things that we want them to be engaged and involved in on campus. We want them to be a part of this community and think that they can learn.”
As part of a plethora of team activities that go on outside the confines of Lavietes Pavilion, Amaker has created a program for his team that he calls “Food, Faculty, and Fellowship” in which prominent professors give lectures to the team to engage them in academic pursuits outside of their regular coursework.
One session this season that stood out to Egi and several other players was with Harvard Business School professor Steven Rogers. A former student-athlete himself, Rogers put himself in the players’ shoes by using the Socratic method to engage them rather than just make them listen while he instructed.
“I’m very cognizant of talking to athletes,” Rogers said. “That is, athletes are—as a former player myself—we’re accustomed to sitting in a room and being lectured at...Typically, we sit in a room, and unless we’re actually playing, we’re sitting in a room being told, instructed—never sort of this sort of interaction. They’re very good and conditioned to be listeners primarily. I think one of the things that I’ve always done when I have athletes as an audience is to engage them.”
Rogers spoke on the fundamentals of business and entrepreneurship—first because of an interest among many players such as Egi who hope to go into business after basketball, but also because of the applicability of his lessons to sports.
“I taught to them the theory of sunk costs, which is a business concept that says you make business decisions about today and tomorrow based on information about what’s best for today and tomorrow, not based on your investment yesterday,” Rogers added. “I said, ‘To think about that whole concept, isn’t that similar to what you have to do as an athlete?’ That is, you have to leave behind what you’ve done in the past and focus on the here and now. So I told them it’s a natural move from the classroom to the hardwood.”
Since the session, players have gone back to Rogers to seek his mentorship and advice as they look to get the most out of their Harvard experience. For Amaker, one of the main goals of “Food, Faculty, and Fellowship” is to connect players with professors and mentors across Harvard’s campuses, not just to provide them with a few extra hours of classroom time.
“People come from all over the world to try to find answers, and they come to Harvard to get the answers,” Amaker said. “Whatever some of the concepts or challenges or issues or questions that we may have, on the floor and off the floor, or with our team-building dynamics, leadership, teamwork, whatever it is, we think that the answers are somewhere on this campus. We think that we have amazing people and the people have been so willing to embrace us.”
Amaker’s bond with the faculty began almost instantly. As the only African-American coach in the Athletic Department at the time of his hiring, African-American faculty members started a monthly breakfast tradition that they refer to as the “Breakfast Club”. The original group consisted of Amaker, law professors Charles Ogletree and Ron Sullivan, and journalist Howard Manly, but it has since grown considerably in size. While Amaker claims that they don’t “talk shop” at the breakfast club, he has forged friendships with faculty members that he has passed along to his players.
“Coach Amaker and I were appointed the same year. We met each other very early on and became friends,” said Sullivan, the faculty dean of Winthrop House. “Tommy was always interested in making sure that his athletes got a holistic experience, so from day one he was always thinking about innovative ideas to ensure that the experience that the basketball players had at Harvard was as full and complete as possible.”
The innovation has gone beyond facilitating professor-student connections. Amaker has brought his players outside the gates of Harvard so they can share their Harvard experiences with the community at large. This practice includes annual trips to the local Boys and Girls Club where the players aim to inspire the children attending the club and demonstrate that they too can make it at Harvard.
“I think it’s really fun and important at the same time, just to get in touch with the youth and kind of bring them our working habits and show them how we were where they were and how they can get to Harvard no matter what,” sophomore forward Balsa Dragovic said. “Anything can happen here. You don’t have to be perfect to get into Harvard.”
Facilitating ways for his team to give back is a significant part of Amaker’s goals in creating a thriving basketball program.
“We also are constantly talking to our kids—kids that we recruit and talk about having here,” Amaker said. “We talk to them about the opportunities that they can bring to Harvard themselves. Their pieces that they can add to the greatness of Harvard, where they are from, who they are, what they’re interested in, how they look. Whatever their interests may be, they can add, and we want them to always understand that they bring value too.”
Every day at practice, Amaker has a quote of the day. At the end of one particular session last season, Amaker shared some words from Oliver Wendell Holmes: “The great thing in this world is not so much where we stand, as in what direction we are moving.”
While the success that Amaker has achieved at the helm of the basketball program is unprecedented for Harvard, he’s not content with where the team stands. On the court, the Crimson strives to go even further in the NCAA Tournament than its predecessors. In recruiting, Amaker has continued to push boundaries of what was expected for a Harvard recruit, most publicly going after the No. 4 recruit in the class of 2017, Wendell Carter.
Though Carter eventually chose Duke, it was his consideration of Harvard that made national headlines. When asked why he was considering Harvard, the Amaker-speak was clear from the get-go—that he wanted to be different from his peers, that he knew the value of an education when basketball ends, and that Harvard could still get him to the NBA.
While Amaker didn’t persuade Carter to sign, the coach continues to push for high-caliber athletes. Lewis has shown that Amaker doesn’t leave his promises unfulfilled. Having wrapped up his freshman year, Lewis plans to spend his summer applying what he’s learned this year. First, he’ll return home to work for a local architect to learn about housing and building design, and then he’ll be back in Cambridge to do research with SEAS associate professor Conor Walsh.
“His desires or his academic pursuits, as for every kid, will always come first,” Amaker said. “We told him that, one of the things that Chris has mentioned after his first year here, is that he was really grateful because sometimes people say those things and don’t necessarily mean it or follow it through. We’re committed to Chris with that—committed to his growth and development in every way, not just basketball-wise and athletically.”
The team continues to embrace the mantle of “student-athlete.” Freshman guard Bryce Aiken summed it up at a postseason press conference in March when a reporter asked what part of the program’s story hadn’t received enough attention.
“Our impact off the court,” Aiken replied without hesitation. “Just us being at Harvard, [being] Harvard student-athletes. It just shows that life is bigger than basketball. You can do so many different things in this world and have an effect on so many other places and inspire the lives of so many people… People see that these basketball players can go to Harvard and still play the sport they love on a national level.”
—Staff writer Theresa C. Hebert can be reached at theresa.hebert@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Harvard’s humble hockey abode—the Bright-Landry Hockey Center—holds only 3,095 people. That’s less than half the capacity of the buildings that Boston College and Boston University call home, and 1,000 seats fewer than what's housed by Northeastern’s Matthews Arena.
Yet, by the time late March rolled around, all the commotion in the Commonwealth was for once confined to the smallest of the four core collegiate rinks in the Greater Boston Area. Cameras and microphones were flocking to Cambridge, not Boston. Because for the first time in almost three decades, the Crimson represented the area’s last men’s hockey team still standing.
Widespread attention is the reward you reap for winning. And over the course of the 2016-2017 campaign, Harvard did a whole lot of that. A 28-6-2 season kept members of the Crimson in uniform until April 6, the latest the program has ever marched.
Trophies continuously made their way into Harvard’s cabinet. The month of February saw the Crimson win its first Beanpot title since 1993, its first ECAC regular season championship since 1994, and its first outright claim to the Ivy League crown since 2006. Harvard showed no signs of slowing down in March, either, capping an undefeated run at home and tacking on its second ECAC tournament title in three seasons.
Nonetheless, in spite of all the drought-snapping that the Crimson accomplished, yet another hump separated Harvard from becoming the focus of attention in the Greater Boston Area. After seven straight first-round exits at the Big Dance, the Crimson desperately sought to seize its first NCAA Tournament win since 1994.
That it did. On Mar. 24, Harvard blanked Providence just a couple miles from the Friars’ campus to move to the East Regional final. And there, the Crimson won a program-record 16th consecutive game, gliding past Air Force to reach the Frozen Four for the first time in 23 seasons.
“Thinking back to freshman year and how different this year has been, it’s amazing to see how far the program has come,” said co-captain Devin Tringale, who won just 10 games with the Crimson as a rookie. “It’s something we really have pushed for. We thought we could have this kind of success—we always believed in it—but for it to [come] true, it’s amazing.”
Tringale may have thought Harvard was capable of this kind of success, but hardly anyone outside the Crimson locker room shared the same belief heading into the season. Despite the fact that Harvard had reached back-to-back NCAA tournaments at the end of the previous two campaigns, two major departures fueled the thinking that the Crimson’s window for a national championship had expired.
A year ago, a second consecutive loss in round one of the NCAA Tournament—this one to Boston College—had marked the end of the illustrious career of Hobey Baker winner Jimmy Vesey ’16, who netted a nation-leading 56 goals over his final two collegiate seasons. Furthermore, it halted the career of two-time captain Kyle Criscuolo ’16, who logged 80 points over those same two seasons, primarily opposite Vesey on Harvard’s top line.
With the senior duo having accounted for 37 percent of Harvard’s goals a year ago, Vesey and Criscuolo’s departures led many to question whether the new-look Crimson could generate enough offense to compete for a title. Harvard still returned one of the ECAC’s more talented rosters—one that could get it back to the Big Dance—but if the Crimson could not get over its NCAA tournament hump with two of the top forwards in college hockey, then how was it supposed to fare without them?
Prior to beginning his 13th season behind the bench, Harvard coach Ted Donato ’91 admitted that the Crimson’s style of play was going to have to change. However, he never appeared all that concerned.
“It’s not hard for us as a coaching staff to convince our team that no one guy is going to try to replace what we had go out the door,” Donato said in October. “As far as who steps in, I think we have to do it a little bit more across the board. We’re going to have to not really look to a player or a line, but more of a team game. And I think that we’re capable of doing it.”
Donato was right. One year after Vesey was the only member of the Crimson to eclipse 35 points, six different skaters accomplished the feat.
Co-captain Alexander Kerfoot tied for the team lead with 45 points, quadrupling his goal total from a year ago. Skating on an all-senior line with Sean Malone and Luke Esposito—two forwards who also had stellar offensive years—Tyler Moy logged 45 points of his own after recording just 19 a season ago.
Meanwhile, sophomore Ryan Donato scored 21 goals en route to Ivy League Player of the Year honors, and freshman Adam Fox led the nation in both points and assists among defensemen, becoming a First Team All-American in the process.
With this caliber of production in the attacking zone, the Crimson finished second in the country in scoring at 4.06 goals per game—just 0.04 behind Penn State, which plays in the Big Ten, a weaker defensive conference.
“We kind of knew that people would have their doubts about how good we could be next year after losing [Vesey and Criscuolo],” Tringale said. “We used that as a little bit of motivation. People thought this would be a little bit of a down year, and we wanted to prevent that.”
“[Vesey] deserved all the spotlight he got, but I think a lot of the talent on this team might have flown under the radar during the summer,” Moy said. “People may not have expected [the success]. But I think in the locker room, we didn’t really have a shred of doubt that we [had] the firepower to be able to make it very far. People doubting us and saying that we’re not supposed to be as good anymore...I think we’ve kind of taken that personally, and we came back to prove a statement.”
The verdict remained out on what kind of team Harvard was going to be early in the campaign. The Crimson thumped Division I newcomer Arizona State in its first two games, but a 1-1 draw against a weak Colgate team in its home opener and a subsequent one-goal victory over a short-staffed Cornell club left plenty of room for improvement.
It was not until an 11-day stretch before Thanksgiving that the Crimson provided a glimpse of what it was truly capable of. The Crimson dominated play on the road against a Quinnipiac team that swept the season series with Harvard just a season earlier, became the first team in more than a month to knock off third-ranked Boston College, and threw its best punch at Boston University inside Agganis Arena.
Granted, the Crimson dropped two of those games. A defensive zone miscue and a separate misplay in net enabled the Bobcats to steal a victory in Hamden, Conn. And the Terriers eventually surged past Harvard in the third period of their Boston battle. But the Crimson was playing quality hockey. Opponents were taking notice.
“That’s a team that could win a national title,” said Boston University coach David Quinn on Nov. 22, 2016. “You talk about teams that have a chance to win it—Harvard’s one of them."
Following the BU game, the Crimson rattled off six wins in a row, highlighted by a dominant road sweep of St. Lawrence and Clarkson in North Country—Harvard’s first since 2002—and a redemptive home win over Quinnipiac. As a result, the Crimson assumed its highest ranking in the major polls in program history. By Jan. 9, the Harvard’s 11-2-1 mark had propelled the team to No. 2 in the country.
Then came the collapse. In perhaps the most stunning upset of the college hockey season, ECAC cellar-dwellar Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute blanked the Crimson, 4-0, on Jan. 13. One night later, Union came 10 seconds from shutting out Harvard again in what amounted to a 2-1 win, and the following Tuesday, a below-average Dartmouth squad lit up the Crimson for eight goals in Hanover, N.H.
History was repeating itself. Harvard has been notorious for stumbling out of the gate following the annual winter layoff, now having fallen victim to a three-game winless stretch early in the second half of the season in 11 consecutive campaigns.
Thus, the players on this year’s roster were no stranger to slumps. In 2015, after at one point reaching the top spot in the PairWise rankings, the Crimson dropped seven of nine games between January and early February. Last year, Harvard dropped three games in January, then three out of its first four February contests. And in the early part of 2017, the Crimson was staring again at three consecutive L’s.
Things improved only marginally at home the following weekend, as Harvard eclipsed Brown—the new last-place team in the ECAC—and barely salvaged a tie with Yale. So the coaching staff took action.
A few days after the Yale game, each senior on the team received a text from the coaches asking them to arrive early to practice for a private meeting. Defenseman Clay Anderson recalled the coaches providing a wake-up call: “‘Guys, do you want to just go away in the night? Or do you want to actually do something with the season?’”
“At that point, we very well could’ve just gone .500 the rest of the year and lost the second round of the ECAC playoffs or whatever,” Anderson acknowledged. “But we sat down, looked in the mirror, and actually realized that we had something special. And if we wanted to do something with it, it had to be now.”
In the following weekend, the coaching staff spared no line or defensive pairing, even subjecting its top two lines—which had not been touched all season—to temporary upheaval. And the message appeared to be well-received. Harvard scored four times in the third period at a rowdy Lynah Rink to knock off Cornell, setting into motion a winning streak that seemingly knew no bounds.
 A string of three straight wins carried the Crimson into its Beanpot opener—a game that Harvard had not won since 2008. But behind four goals scored exclusively by seniors, the Crimson staved off Northeastern by a 4-3 margin to set up a championship bout with Boston University—a 30-time Beanpot champion that had rattled off 13 titles since Harvard last won the tournament in 1993.
After the Crimson’s November bout with BU, Donato had said that he hoped to see the Terriers again. However, this time, freshman phenom Clayton Keller—who missed the teams’ first clash with an injury—would be suiting up for BU.
That addition proved to make a difference, as Keller—the eventual winner of the Tim Taylor Award given to the nation’s top rookie—scored twice in the Beanpot finale. But Harvard was not to be denied. Putting together one of its most complete performances of the year against the PairWise’s third-ranked team, the Crimson outshot BU 46-17 en route to a 6-3 victory that cemented Harvard’s status as the Commonwealth’s college hockey king.
“I think it was something [our seniors] really wanted,” said Donato following the win. “They wanted to leave this kind of legacy that they were a group that was going to break the curse.”
Donato’s seniors went on to finish the season with the most points of any graduating class in the country (193) and seemingly helped to break a new curse once every week or two until Harvard had steamrolled its way to the Frozen Four at the United Center in Chicago.
By that point, the Crimson’s winning streak had hit 16 and the unbeaten streak had hit 18—both program bests, eclipsing the marks set by Harvard’s 1989 national championship team.
It’s reasonable, then, to argue that the 2017 edition of the Crimson will go down as one of the greatest men’s hockey teams Harvard has ever fielded. The 1989 team, which finished a remarkable 31-3-0, possessed unparalleled offensive firepower, but this Crimson team has at least fought its way into the conversation.
Heading into the Frozen Four, onlookers inevitably drew comparisons between the 1989 team and the 2017 one. The comparison was especially pertinent considering the coach who now patrols the Harvard bench.
In 1989, Donato was a sophomore forward for Harvard. At the Frozen Four, he earned the Most Outstanding Player award.
“Watching this team this year, I feel like they play their best in some of the biggest moments,” said Lane MacDonald ’89, captain of the 1989 team. “And that I think is a really important thing. In these big moments, this team has seemed to be able to elevate their game.”
MacDonald highlighted Harvard’s Beanpot victory over BU, calling the performance as good a game as he’s seen in a very long time. The former captain also said that senior leadership—which he saw as the most evident similarity between the two teams—is what allows teams to rise to big occasions.
In the national semifinal, Harvard elevated its game yet again, playing second-ranked Minnesota Duluth tight for 60 minutes. But a breakthrough for the Bulldogs with 27 ticks remaining, paired with two Harvard shots in the final seconds being blocked by the pipe, spelled the end of the Crimson’s remarkable run.
MacDonald’s former teammate, Ed Krayer ’89-90, admitted that in 1986, there may have been a bit of a sentiment that Harvard was just happy to be at the Frozen Four. But by the time the team got another chance at the crown three years later, Krayer said there was almost an “expectation”—at least around the team—that the Crimson was going to win it all.
“There were four or five of us who had played in that national championship in ’86,” Krayer said. “We knew what it felt like to be 20 minutes away from the national championship. And then having it slip away off your fingertips, we were pretty determined to not have that happen again.”
Perhaps 2017 will serve as Harvard’s next 1986 moment. Both before and after the Frozen Four, Coach Donato and many players said that they traveled to Chicago expecting to win. But that attitude doesn’t change the fact that 2017 marked Harvard’s first trip to the Frozen Four in decades, not to mention that the Crimson was not the favorite.
Harvard will have plenty of offensive production to replace next season with the nation’s most prolific group of seniors walking out the door. But that’s the dilemma many expected the Crimson to face this year minus Vesey and Criscuolo. And things turned out just fine.
The odds may be stacked against Harvard replicating the same degree of success it had this year, but the Crimson retains stars all over the ice who are capable of leading Harvard on another impressive run. Fresh off a string of superb postseason performances, goaltender Merrick Madsen will be back between the pipes with two above-average back-ups waiting in the wings. The younger Donato will be a menace yet again in the attacking zone. And Fox and classmate John Marino should remain forces on the blue line.
While this edition of the Harvard men’s hockey team is well deserving of The Crimson’s Team of the Year designation, it’s also worth repeating what Vesey said on his way out in 2016: “Harvard Hockey isn’t going anywhere.”
“It’s incredible to be a part of this group,” added Kerfoot after the loss to Minnesota Duluth. “And I mean, with [whom] the team’s got right now and the direction the program’s going, everything’s looking up.”
—Staff writer Jake Meagher can be reached at jake.meagher@thecrimson.com.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
“Siyani Chambers has been absolutely the most important player in our program.”
It was with these words that Harvard coach Tommy Amaker introduced his starting point guard in a “Men of March” feature for CBS earlier this year.
The evidence is there—Chambers graduates as the only Harvard player with more than 1,000 points and 600 assists in his career. As a freshman, he earned Ivy League Rookie of the Year honors, and he leaves Cambridge with two First Team All-Ivy League selections and a pair of second team picks. He is second on the Crimson’s all-time assists list, sixth in steals, and fourth in games played.
Since he first arrived at Harvard, however, Chambers has been more than a standout guard in the Ivy League—more than anything, the Golden Valley, Minn., native’s first three years in Cambridge are now synonymous with what can only be described as a golden age for Harvard men’s basketball.
As a freshman, he led a young Harvard squad to its third-ever NCAA tournament appearance, in which the Crimson would upset No. 3 seed New Mexico, 68-62, for its first ever tournament win.
An article from the New York Times summed it up in a sentence—“It was, if not a seismic upset, then a big one.”
Despite a lackluster performance from Chambers, who finished with five points, seven assists, and five turnovers that game, for Amaker it was clear the then-freshman was at the heart of Harvard’s budding dynasty; in the ensuing celebration after the win, Amaker went out of his way to find Chambers for a hug that would mark the beginning of something special.
After that game, senior guard Christian Webster put it quite simply.
“He’s the leader on our team," Webster said. “Laurent [Rivard] and I are the captains, but he’s the leader. He drove this team."
As a freshman that year, Chambers was the Crimson’s second-leading scorer and its best passer. He averaged over 12 points and nearly six assists per game while shooting 43 percent from the field.
He was unanimously selected as the Ivy League Rookie of the Year and First Team All-Ivy League.
In his sophomore season, Chambers hardly slowed down. He averaged 11 points and five assists per game en route to Harvard’s third NCAA Tournament appearance. This time around, Harvard upset No. 5 seed Cincinnati. Against the Bearcats, Chambers cemented the win late with a step-back jumper and a steal. The Crimson would fall to No. 4 seed Michigan State, 80-73, in a tightly-contested matchup.
From there, the dynasty only continued.
Harvard went 22-8 during Chambers’ junior year with an 11-3 record in conference. In the Crimson’s final regular season game against Brown—a must-win to remain in contention for a share of the Ivy League and a chance to dance—Chambers dropped a team-high 15 points on 3-of-4 shooting from deep along with four assists and two steals. Harvard went on to win the tiebreaker against Yale at the Palestra and, for the fourth year in a row, the Crimson found itself in the Big Dance—this time against one of the most storied programs in college basketball, North Carolina.
After falling behind by as many as 16 points in that game, Harvard mounted a comeback fit only for March. The Crimson held the Tar Heels scoreless for over four minutes and strung together a 14-6 run late in the second half. The underdogs found themselves down by two with a little over a minute to play. With the shot clock winding down, Chambers took a deep three from the top of the key—he made the basket, with the foul, to give Harvard its first lead of the game.
Had the Crimson won, it might have gone down as the most memorable shot in school history.
Harvard would ultimately lose that game, but Chambers finished with 13 points, three assists, and three rebounds. The Crimson might have lost, but in a broader sense, Harvard was finally winning.

Entering the 2014 game against Cincinnati, the Crimson had lost only four games all season. New York Post writer Mike Vaccaro tweeted, “Cincinnati in the rare position of a 5 seed looking to upset a 12 seed.”
After the narrow loss to UNC, Tar Heels coach Roy Williams went so far as to say, “We were extremely lucky. It’s the luckiest I’ve ever felt after a basketball game in my entire life.”
But perhaps Amaker himself said it best—speaking after the win against the Bearcats, he put it bluntly.
“We have become a program that’s relevant in the world of college basketball.”
Through those three seasons, the Crimson had a combined 69-23 record. Chambers would lead the league in assists and minutes played twice and never finished below 20th in the conference in scoring.
For a Harvard team that hadn’t danced in over six decades, those three years of basketball in March are forever tied to Chambers.
With the departure of fellow standout Wesley Saunders after the 2014-15 season, the spotlight was on Chambers and Chambers alone as he entered his senior year.
For the emerging guard and for Harvard men’s basketball, however, things came to a quick halt that summer.
A September press release from the Harvard Athletic Department broke the news, “Rising senior and returning captain Siyani Chambers will take a voluntary leave of absence from the college for the 2015-2016 academic year, after sustaining a torn ACL to his left knee while working out over the summer.”
After successful surgery in Minnesota, Chambers couldn’t help but stay close to the program that he had put on a national stage. In January, he returned to Cambridge—not as a student, but as a babysitter for the basketball team’s faculty fellow, Jonathan Walton.
The job as a babysitter allowed Chambers to be around the team, but it was on the court where the guard was perhaps missed the most.
What ensued was Harvard’s first losing season since the 2007-08 campaign. The Crimson lost seven of its first eight conference matchups, and despite the emergence of forward Zena Edosomwan as a force to be reckoned with inside, Harvard never got past its sluggish start.
The Crimson finished 14-16 overall and 6-8 in conference play. Speaking on the season, Edosomwan pointed to the missing piece.
“[I] kind of wanted to show people consistency and that I can play with the best and play at the highest level,” Edosomwan said. “But it was really hard not winning, especially given what we’ve been doing, and it obviously shows how much we missed Siyani and his leadership on the court.”
In his absence, Harvard’s rise to the top of the Ivy League halted. The program he had built up, however, was very much thriving.
Buoyed by four straight tournament appearances—including the upsets against New Mexico and Cincinnati along with near upsets of Michigan State and UNC—Harvard found itself in uncharted territory for the Ivy League. The Crimson had a recruited the 10th-best recruiting class in the nation, just in time for Chambers’ return.
It wasn’t all perfect, though.
His homecoming was to a team that had a total of seven upperclassmen and 13 underclassmen. Of the former group, the guard had only seen significant time on the floor with Edosomwan and co-captain Corbin Miller. Some of the most highly-touted recruits in program history figured to carve out spots in Amaker’s rotation.
Despite the moving pieces on the young team, Amaker felt the difference even before the season began.
“He is our undisputed leader,” said Amaker in early November. “It was evident what we missed from him when he was not here. Now we have him back and we feel the difference. There is a presence about him. He is a veteran point guard and he has led this team since the day he set foot on this campus and we’re just expecting him to do the same as a senior.”
Picked to finish second behind Princeton in the conference before the season began, Harvard couldn’t find a rhythm early in the year—the team began the season with four losses through its first five games and struggled to find consistency. In those five games, Amaker had four different starting lineups.
For Chambers, the start was equally underwhelming, with the low point coming against Holy Cross. Against the Crusaders, the senior scored three points to go with five assists and five turnovers in a home loss—Chambers’ return was not looking like the storybook ending that many had predicted.
“We’re still a team that’s trying to find the right rhythm, and we haven’t found that yet,” said Amaker following a loss to George Washington in late November. “You have to look at different pieces and players to see if we can ignite that. I think we have seen flashes of that but not enough that we have had victories that we can feel good about.”
After that loss to the Colonials, however, Chambers was at the helm of a big turnaround for the Crimson.
It began with Fordham.
Against the Rams, Chambers dropped nine points, 10 assists, and three rebounds to snap a three-game losing streak.
From there, he would add 11 assists in consecutive games to take down non-conference rivals Northeastern and Boston College.
After the win against the Huskies, freshman forward Seth Towns didn’t hesitate to credit Chambers.
“It comes easy with the people that I’m playing with,” Towns said. “Especially with [Chambers] at point guard. He’s the best point guard I’ve ever played with.”
All told, Harvard would win 10 of 11, including a big win on the road against Houston. Midway through the season, Chambers ranked fourth nationally in the assists.
Once Ivy League play began, the guard continued to dominate. At Yale, he tallied 16 points and six assists to hand the Bulldogs their first home loss in over two years. Against a Princeton squad that was undefeated in conference, he dropped 17 points on 5-of-7 shooting.
Chambers’ best game came against Brown on senior night. After Harvard jumped out to an 11-2 lead, Chambers decided to end his career in Lavietes on a high note. Over a span of three minutes, the senior scored 10 points on 4-of-4 shooting—he assisted on the only other bucket in that span, and finished with 19 points and five assists.
The Crimson’s season was cut short in the inaugural Ivy League Tournament after an opening round loss to Yale, but Chambers’ return to the court was nothing short of spectacular—the guard averaged 9.9 points and 5.9 assists per game to go with his second First Team All-Ivy League selection.
Losing one of the most prolific players in program history certainly creates a void, but it’s one that seemingly won’t go unfilled. As a freshman, Chambers became the first player ever to earn Ivy League Rookie of the Year and First Team All-Ivy honors. The second player to achieve that same feat was freshman guard Bryce Aiken, who’s set to take the reins at lead guard next season.
“I’ve learned a ton from Siyani,” Aiken said. “The main thing that I take away is just how to be a leader. He’s done that for us all year and that’s the main thing that I take away from his game. He’s done a terrific job for our team and for the program in general. He’s taken them to new heights, took them to multiple March Madness appearances and that’s something that I hope me and my team now, we can bring back to this program and even take us to new heights.”
Coach Amaker echoed the thought.
“Siyani was, it seems like he’s been here forever and I wish he could literally be, but he’s had that kind of impact throughout his time,” Amaker said. “It’s nothing short of remarkable what his career has been throughout these four years. Obviously, coming back from a season ending knee injury is another layer to why it’s been a remarkable journey for him. It’s going to be hard not having him.”
—Staff writer Troy Boccelli can be reached at troy.boccelli@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Twenty-three years is a long time.
For every year since 1994, the Harvard field hockey team had fallen to Princeton. More dauntingly, the Tigers had taken the Ivy League title in 21 of those seasons.
In the fall of 2016, the Crimson did not overlook the historic importance of the Princeton matchup. Most of the players had not even been alive the last time that Harvard had claimed a victory in the series.
Indeed, 2004 marked the last time that the Crimson had tasted an Ivy League championship. Saying history was not on Harvard’s side entering the Oct. 22 contest was akin to the Apollo 13 crew saying, “Houston, we’ve had a problem” after an oxygen tank exploded. A massive understatement.
But something about 2017 felt different.
The team looked sharper and more confident as the wins started piling up. Anticipation and excitement built up alongside each record-breaking Harvard victory over the course of the semester.
Still, the Princeton showdown was the one that the squad had circled on its calendar. With a six-game winning streak and an unblemished Ivy League record through four contests, the Crimson arrived at Princeton looking far more like equals than the David to the Tigers’ Goliath. Perhaps the most important obstacle that stood in Harvard’s way for an Ivy League Championship was this matchup with the defending league champions.
“It’s something that we initially didn’t think was possible,” senior forward Clare McClintock said. “But we got to the game and really felt like we could do it. After years and years where we felt like we could’ve come close, it was pretty exciting to finally steal [the Ivy League title] from them.”
Despite suffering some early season losses, Harvard was riding high from an extended winning streak and outstanding individual performances from some of its top players. Sophomore goalkeeper Libby Manela had been practically airtight the entire season, allowing only three opposing shots to squeeze past her to date.
Meanwhile, senior forward Marissa Balleza had just become the new program record-holder for career goals and points with 44 and 103, respectively. Balleza also entered the game against the Tigers as the Ivy League Player of the Week, a title that she coincidentally shared with Princeton senior midfielder/striker Cat Caro.
“Everything came together at the right time,” Harvard coach Tjerk van Herwaarden said. “All those things we had worked on for the past year came together for the Princeton game. The big thing with that game is that everyone in the program has worked so hard for four, five years, and it all led up to this point. It all came down in the right moment in the right time.”
With several individual accomplishments already in hand, the Crimson was ready to take the next step toward its ultimate goal. Balleza took little time to add another tally to her record, netting a goal in the 13th minute. With the Crimson up 1-0, sophomore forward Kathleen Young continued to propel Harvard by finding the backboard in the 27th minute. Young collected a loose rebound from junior midfielder Ellie Cookson’s scoring attempt and knocked it past the Tigers’ Grace Baylis for her second goal of the season.
“We took a very well-deserved 2-0 lead against Princeton,” van Herwaarden said. “I think this is because everyone entered the Princeton game with the right expectations and right attitude. We knew that, frankly, this game was going to determine the Ivy League season.”
Caro and the Tigers were not going down without a fight. The Bridgewater, N.J., native helped even out the scoreboard during the second half with an assist in the 44th minute and a goal 19 minutes later. In the game’s final seven minutes, neither team was able to find holes in the opposing defense, and the contest rolled to overtime.
Harvard was no stranger to an extra period. Having opened its season with three overtime games in a row, the Crimson knew what it took to break a deadlock and bring home a victory.
“The team does a great job of really pulling themselves together for the last few moments,” McClintock said. “Everyone has a really focused mentality on overtimes and getting those games done.”
It took Harvard only 59 seconds of overtime to seal the deal. Receiving a pass on the right of the Princeton goal, Young ran the ball down the end line before slotting her shot in near the post to end the game with a Crimson victory over Princeton for the first time in 22 long years.
The victory against the Tigers was the crown jewel in a historically successful season for Harvard field hockey. The Crimson beat Penn for the first time in four years and sealed the longest winning streak in program history.
The breakthrough came after the team went just 30-37 since 2012, van Herwaarden’s first in Cambridge. As freshmen, the current seniors were 63rd in the RPI rankings. Three years later, the group finished its senior campaign ranked 14th.
“I think that really shows what we have been able to change this past season and over the last five years,” van Herwaarden said. “A different culture has been established—it’s a culture where we want to put ourselves in the best position possible to compete for Ivy League Championships.”
—Staff writer Amanda X. Fang can be reached at amanda.fang@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
“Untapped potential.” Not a statement often attributed to a player who leads her team in rebounds and ranks as one of its top scorers and defenders.
“A work in progress.” Not a phrase often attached to an All-Ivy honorable mention and co-captain of the Harvard women’s basketball team.
However, this year’s Female Breakout Athlete of the Year fits these descriptions perfectly. For as impressive as her numbers may be, this athlete stands out for her immense ability and athleticism. She may have experienced a breakout in 2017, but with so much natural talent, the possibilities tantalize.
Destiny Nunley, a senior forward for the Crimson, led the program to a 21-9 record and a third-place finish in the Ancient Eight after an 8-6 conference record. Nunley captained a squad headlined by four underclassmen, two of whom were freshman, to a historic 16-game win streak, the program’s longest since the 2002-2003 season.
Despite such a monumental season, her final one in crimson and white, Nunley’s senior campaign offers a mere glimpse of her skills and leadership abilities.
“She’s as long and athletic as it gets, and she can jump really high and uses her body really well on the court,” co-captain Taylor Finley said. “Those are things that are just natural, raw talent that are amazing for a coach to work with coming into college. Also, she’s a great scorer, too, but I think her defense is what stood out to me compared to other athletes I’ve seen.”
Nunley, a native of North Richland Hills, Texas, was equipped as a freshman with the physical tools to have a huge impact for the Crimson. At 6’1”, she had the length and quickness to have a positive influence on both ends of the floor from multiple positions.
“When I was recruiting her as a high school student-athlete, I was blown away by her potential,” Harvard coach Kathy Delaney-Smith said. “Her athleticism is in the top percentage of athletes that have played here and been successful. She’s an incredible athlete.”
Not only did the forward catch the eyes of fellow recruits and the coaching staff, but also older players saw her potential.
“I think versatility is a trait that she has,” said Shilpa Tummala ’16, a teammate of Nunley’s for three seasons.  “Versatility on the defensive end, specifically being able to guard inside [and] outside. She was able to be in the passing lane [and] be a full court on-ball defender. The length really helped her.”
Nunley was no stranger to playing at an elite level before coming to Harvard. As a junior, the Richland High School product led her club team, Cy-Fair, to a Nike Nationals championship, and to a bi-district championship her senior year. Nunley was a three-time all-district selection, was named to the Fort Worth Region Super Team in 2013, and was selected as the 5A District MVP as a senior.
With all the tools and experience to match, Nunley was poised to have a similarly decorated collegiate career. But to the frustration of Nunley and disappointment of her teammates and coaches, injuries plagued her early years in Cambridge.
The All-Ivy pick did not have the smooth transition to the college level that many had hoped. As a freshman, Nunley suffered an injury that sidelined her before the beginning of play. The effects weighed heavily on the young player.
“She unfortunately had surgery before coming to Harvard, and she almost decided to stop playing basketball,” Delaney-Smith said. “And then she sort of changed her mind and struggled for two years with the knee and plaguing injuries. She never really played for two years.
Nunley saw limited action as a sophomore. Despite playing in 27 contests, she averaged only 2.6 points, 2.1 rebounds, and 14 minutes per game.
“She sort of was on an offensive roller coaster regarding her ability to put the ball in the net,” Delaney-Smith said. “Which was an irony because she put in a lot of time. She worked really hard, but then she got into her own head”
The Texan entered her junior campaign with playing experience under her belt and a productive offseason behind her. She began to settle into Delaney-Smith’s system and to find her groove.
Although averaging 6.6 points per game to go along with five rebounds per contest is not a stat line that jumps off the page, the intangible lessons learned during a season that saw the Crimson go 9-5 in conference play would lead Nunley to her breakout performance the next year.
“Her [work ethic] was a work in progress, to be honest,” Delaney-Smith said. “She was able to make a turnaround after her sophomore year. What a waste of talent if you don’t have the work ethic to match it, so I think she turned it on.”
After her junior year, Nunley was named co-captain with teammate Finley, and the challenge of winning an Ivy League championship with a young and inexperienced squad fell on their shoulders. Finley, much like Nunley, suffered injuries in her career, and she was sidelined her for the majority of her senior season.
As a result, Nunley had to lead the team on the floor, a task that she grew into.
“With Destiny, I think it was amazing being her co-captain, and we worked well together,” Finley said. “I think she grew a lot as a leader. I don’t think anyone’s ready to have that title or that position coming into it, but I think she definitely grew a lot. And being a vocal leader wasn’t necessarily her strong suit, but it was an area that she definitely grew [into].”
After a 103-87 loss to Minnesota in the first game of the season, the Crimson, led by the senior forward, went on 16-game win streak, a feat not many would have predicted for the team. Nunley went on to average 11 points and 7.1 rebounds per contest while commanding the squad. Harvard went 13-3 in nonconference play, took home the Fordham Holiday Classic, and made it to the second round of the women’s National Invitational Tournament to close out its season.
Although Harvard had an average Ancient Eight mark, Nunley’s leadership and guidance set the Crimson on a path of future success.
“I think they appreciated her honesty and her accountability. When she made a mistake regarding being a leader, she stepped up, and she worked at it,” Delaney-Smith said. “I thought she worked endlessly at trying to be a leader for the team, and that was great.”
Following her breakout year, Nunley earned a lot of interest for her final season of eligibility and made the decision to join the Georgetown women’s team next year.
“Obviously [Nunley is] one of the most fun people to play with,” Finley said. “You definitely want to have her on your team because she’s an unbelievable defender and not a lot of people in basketball like to defend. It’s hard for people to shoot over her. Whether that’s blocking shots or having your back when you get beat on defense, she has your back and is a great player to play with.”
As the Hoyas experience coaching changes, a few questions linger about the direction of the Big East program. But one thing is for certain: Nunley’s ability, perseverance, and drive will make her an asset to whoever takes the reigns next. That coach will be the beneficiary of an athlete who has only begun to hit her stride.
—Staff writer Stuart Johnson can be reached at stuart.johnson@thecrimson.com.
Sections
Though Ted Minnis always dreamed of coaching collegiate water polo, his journey to Harvard was far from typical. Minnis first fell into the sport as a high schooler, growing up in Menlo Park, Calif., and began coaching at his high school alma mater when he was just 21 years old. He loved the game and the opportunity to bestow his knowledge upon younger players.
A young single father, Minnis was also working full-time for the Durham Meat Company, starting his day before 2 a.m. so he could work the early shift and get off work early enough to coach in the afternoon and spend time with his son. At an hour of the night when many Harvard students are still awake, Minnis was already up for the next day, lifting hundreds of pounds of meat into a truck and making deliveries throughout the Bay Area so he could make it to the pool in time for practice.
Minnis’ unique and powerful story of his path to Harvard was first reported by The Crimson in 2012 and was featured in The New York Times this November. However, what makes Minnis a remarkable coach is not his story—it’s his ability to transform every program he touches through his connection to the athletes, and his ability to learn alongside them.
In the two seasons before Minnis came East to take over Harvard’s water polo teams, the men’s team had won a total of only 12 games. This year, the men’s team finished with a 26-6 record, won the conference title, and played in the NCAA Final Four. The women’s team advanced the furthest in program history in its conference tournament, including a road upset of No. 13 Indiana.
“It all started when I got here. The kids that were here immediately bought into what I was saying,” Minnis said. “They wanted to work hard and wanted to be successful, and it was just me coming in and working hard with them.”
Among the first generation to have come up under Minnis’s guidance is this year’s senior class, a group of players that has been instrumental to the program’s recent success.
“This class is so special.” Minnis said. “We talk about how we want learners in the pool, in the classroom, and in the community, and I think they really embodied that and have helped set a roadmap for the future.”
 When Minnis talks about each one of his athletes, his face instantly lights up.
“I can’t speak enough about my kids,” Minnis said. “Joey [Colton] and Noah [Harrison] are All-Americans, and Dan [Stevens] and Viktor [Wrobel]—those two have meant the world to our program, too. Joey is the most decorated player to ever come through this program. I remember the day he called me and told me he was coming to Harvard. I had the flu and was laying on my couch and he was like, ‘Maybe this will make you feel better. I want to come to Harvard.’ I jumped up off the couch.”
For Minnis, he views his relationship with his athletes as a collaborative one. He views himself not as an aloof manager but rather as another member. His determination to make sure his athletes are thriving and living up to their potential extends far beyond the pool.
“He wants the best for the team,” co-captain Joey Colton said. “But he doesn’t just want the best for the team—he wants the best for each individual, too…. Ted makes sure that everyone is doing okay with all the stress of school and being away from family and any other curve balls life throws at you. His compassion and hard work are what create an atmosphere around him that helped push the team and grow as much as it did over the past four years.”
Harrison agreed. As a junior, the Huntington Beach, Calif., contracted mononucleosis and sat out the entire season. He decided to return for a fifth year—the first Crimson water polo player to preserve eligibility by taking a leave of absence.
The decision proved propitious, as Harrison led the team with 86 scores. He gave much of the credit to Minnis.
“Everyone likes to talk about Ted as a coach, especially on the back of this last season, but he was much more than that,” Harrison said. “Ted was also a role model and mentor, and emphasized personal development equally with athletic development.”
This season, the men’s team made history, fighting its way to the top of the East Coast water polo world and making its mark on the rest of the country, as well.
In the spring of 2015, the Crimson tallied 20 wins for the second straight season en route to a third-place conference season. That performance set the stage for this year, when Harvard hit new program highs.
“This group of guys came, and they worked their butts off all spring,” Minnis said. “They came back in September in great shape. And that was huge. All year, we kept saying, we’ve got to work harder if we want to achieve our goals. They never steered from that course.”
All this hard work has paid off in measurable ways for both programs. Next year, the women’s season will open with games against Pepperdine and Stanford, and the men’s team will look to return to the NCAA Tournament.
However, Minnis warns that success brings increased competition as well as opportunity. Underdogs always want to upset favorites.
“We haven’t had a target on our back as a program before,” Minnis said. “I hope we’re going to use that as motivation to continue working hard and come back stronger, faster, ready to take those big swings that the teams from around the country are ready to take at us.”
For Harrison, who was recruited by Minnis in 2012, deciding to take his senior semester off to play an additional season for Minnis was a sacrifice he knew was right for him.
“I couldn’t be happier with my decision to come to Harvard and play for Ted, and I’d be saying that whether he led us to the Final Four or not,” Harrison said. “Over my five years here, it was incredible watching him turn this program around. He brought a drive, focus, and maturity to the team that allowed us to go from being a write-off to being competitive.”
Having a coach who can turn a program around and transform it into a nationally competitive force takes a lot of skill, but even more impressive is a coach who changes the lives of his athletes at the same time.
“He is one of the most honest, genuine, stand up guys that I have ever gotten to know,” Colton said. “And I know just how lucky I am to be able to call him a former coach and a friend.”
—Staff writer Rena Simkowitz can be reached at rena.simkowitz@thecrimson.com.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Ivy League baseball season is grueling. While games only take place over two months, each of the Ancient Eight teams plays about 40 contests.
It’s difficult to learn much about a team from one game or even from a single series. Take Harvard, for example. The Crimson topped Yale 12-7 on Easter Sunday less than 24 hours after falling to the Bulldogs 21-13.
Players rack up close to 150 at-bats over the course of the spring. All-conference picks and seven-hole hitters are separated by an extra knock every 12 or so at-bats. Typically, it’s a challenge to predict future success from a few plate appearances.
However, for sophomore outfielder P.J. Robinson, it took just one game to realize that something had changed following an unspectacular freshman campaign.
“Over the summer, I didn’t play much baseball at all,” Robinson said. “I took a lot of time to work on my body, increase my flexibility. I felt that the break and just working on my body definitely led to my success when I came back to school.”
Harvard trekked down to Washington, D.C. to open its 2017 campaign. After a fall and winter spent in the bubble, the Crimson’s offense would finally be able to tee off outside against pitchers with whom they did not go to school.
While senior shortstop Drew Reid is the only Harvard player to hail from the DMV, the Washington Nationals Youth Academy—where the Crimson opened its season—was a familiar spot for Robinson. The sophomore had spent the summer teaching baseball to children at the Southeast DC complex.
When Harvard coach Bill Decker exchanged lineup cards with Lafayette's Joe Kinney, a few aspects stood out. For starters, the Crimson trotted out six underclassmen. Perhaps most surprising was Robinson’s name penciled into the designated hitter spot and five-hole in the team’s lineup.
On paper, the choice seemed like an interesting one given that the sophomore had hit just .179 as a rookie and had as many strikeouts as hits in his college career to date. However, Robinson’s five at-bats that day silenced any doubts about how Robinson would fit into the lineup.
“From probably the fall onwards, I felt like I was in a much better place than last year,” Robinson said. “From the beginning of the season, I felt a lot more locked in at the plate and very well-prepared.”
Robinson went 3-for-5 with a double, home run, and four runs batted in the 13-1 win over the Leopards. He drove in more runs in those five at-bats than he did during his entire freshman campaign, and the long ball was the first of his college career.
Robinson was not a one- or three-hit wonder, however. The sophomore’s performance nailed down a spot in the lineup. Robinson started all four games that weekend, going 6-for-15 with two doubles to go with a pair of dingers and eight runs scored in the Crimson’s sweeps of Lafayette and Coppin State.
Throughout the season, Robinson remained a fixture in the Harvard batting order. He played in all 20 Ivy League games and all but three of the team’s contests overall.
“We’ve grown a lot as a class,” sophomore outfielder Ben Skinner said. “It’s a combination of us getting more experience and being more comfortable, both on the field and with one another. We’ve been working hard to put our team in a position to bring home an Ivy League championship.”
There’s a joke on the team that whenever a ball is hit in Robinson’s direction, the rest of the team holds its collective breath.
“Defensively,” started Skinner before taking a long pause. “He’s working to get better defensively. He’s a bat that has to be in the lineup, and I think he’s going to work on it this summer to become a better defensive outfielder.”
But not having a set spot in the field has become a recipe for success under Decker. Last season, junior Matt Rothenberg was the team’s leader among regulars in batting average, hits, doubles, walks, on-base percentage, and slugging percentage despite splitting time between designated hitter and both corner infield and corner outfield spots.
Not only did Robinson follow in Rothenberg’s footsteps, but he also one-upped his teammate and fellow Floridian. After Rothenberg set the mark for highest batting average under Decker by hitting .363, Robinson hit 10 points higher. The sophomore rounded out his slash line with a .436 on-base percentage, which ranked second among Crimson regulars, and a .738 slugging percentage, which led the Ivy League and was ninth nationally.
“Knowing that I was going to be in the three- or four-hole was a big confidence builder,” Robinson said. “My teammates and coaches knew that I could perform and help the team win. It was a big confidence boost knowing that everyone was behind me.”
Robinson’s biggest breakthrough may have come in the power department. He hit nine home runs on the season, doubled 13 times, and drove in 34 runs. His nine round-trippers were tied for seventh-most in Harvard history and are the most since Matt Rogers ’09 went deep nine times in 2009. Robinson hit four home runs during the team’s four-game set with Yale, reached base in 13 of the team’s 20 league contests, and had 16 multi-hit performances.
All told, Robinson was the first Harvard non-pitcher to be named to the All-Ivy League first team since 2015 and is the ninth Crimson player to be named a first-team pick under Decker.
While it’s challenging to draw anything substantive from a single baseball game, P.J. Robinson’s performance to open the season was anything but a fluke.
“P.J., he eats, sleeps, and breathes baseball,” Skinner said. “That’s all he thinks about, so no one was surprised when P.J. had a big year.”
—Staff writer Stephen J. Gleason can be reached at stephen.gleason@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
When sophomore Sonia Wang dove into the pool for the 400-yard individual medley at this year’s Ivy League Swimming and Diving Championships, Harvard coach Stephanie Morawski expected no more than a few points from her performance. The goal was simply to move the Crimson up a place or two on the scoreboard.
Instead, Wang delivered a first-place finish, breaking the previous record at Brown’s Katherine Moran Coleman Aquatic Center, while catapulting Harvard to a second place finish overall. And she did it all with a broken back.
“She swam on heart alone,” Morawski said. “She swam for the team.”
Coming off a remarkable freshman year complete with two victories at the Ivy League Championships, All-Ivy honors, a trip to NCAA Championships, and several broken school records, Wang was sidelined for the majority of her second collegiate season. A stress fracture in the lower sacral region of her back kept her out of the pool and in doctor’s offices and waiting rooms as she visited specialist after specialist in hopes of finding a quick route to recovery.
But frustratingly, there was no easy fix for her back pain. Wang was forced to shift her focus from earning a spot on the winner’s podium to simply returning to the starting blocks.
“Last year, Sonia’s role was someone who would get in and win events for us whenever we needed it most,” Morawski said. “It’s very hard to switch from that role to a more diminished role, where it’s not about you winning anymore.”
Over winter break, Wang and Morawski decided that it would be best for the sophomore standout to train through the pain, as she wished to contribute something to her team, even it was only consolation points.
That’s how the Upland, Calif., native ended up diving into the pool on the morning of Feb. 17, participating in the preliminaries for the 400 individual medley, a race that’d she won at the Ivy League Championships a year before. Wang swam cautiously in the preliminaries, managing to sneak into the top eight and qualify for the finals.
“All we were looking for was for her to come back that night and score a few more points,” Morawski said. “That’s all we were looking for.”
Yet the minute Wang came off the blocks, she led the pack of swimmers, touching first at the end of the freestyle leg. Her pace had increased from the morning’s preliminaries, with faster tempo and arm speed.
By the breaststroke leg, Wang had a clear lead and seemed poised to defend her title in her first meet of the season.
“When she was still leading with one lap to go, I knew that she was going to win,” Morawski said. “There is no way that Sonia Wang was going to let anyone pass her on the freestyle leg of the race. No way.”
Morawski’s faith in her swimmer was not misplaced, as Wang touched the wall for a time of 4:14.21, almost four seconds faster than her performance in the preliminaries. It was good enough to top Yale sophomore Destiny Nelson, who finished just a second later. Wang’s performance stunned coaches and teammates alike.
“It was a beautiful race by her, and watching it was amazing,” co-captain Summer Schmitt said. “Just watching her race was kind of unreal.”
Wang’s dominant return to the pool did not end with the 400 IM, as she earned third place finishes in both the 200-yard individual medley and the 200-yard butterfly. Her unlikely victories motivated her teammates, whose performances earned them a silver medal behind the Bulldogs.
“All of the women swam well and swam for the team.” Schmitt said. “We were all doing it for each other—that’s the mentality that we wanted to go into each race with, and it was most clear in Sonia’s race.”
Since the Ivy Championships, however, Wang has still been plagued by her stress fracture, and will rest her back according to doctor’s instructions this summer. As incredible as it was, she hopes not to have to repeat her broken-backed victory but rather return to the pool next semester at full strength. Whatever the recovery process, Wang’s improbable comeback serves as a testament to her determination to overcome any obstacle in her path.
But for Morawski, even more impressive than Wang’s resilience and fight is her selflessness and team spirit.
“Sonia realized that [the race] wasn’t about her, it was about the team,” Morawski said. “That’s why she swam so fast, not because she was trying to make a comeback for herself, or because she was trying to find any sense of glory, it was simply because the team needed points and she wanted to be a contributing member and deliver.”
—Staff writer Leena Ambady can be reached at leena.ambady@thecrimson.com.
Sections
The lead was four.
Harvard freshman forward Chris Lewis had just hit a jumper to give the hosts their largest edge since holding a 12-7 advantage. The clock read 1:19, and the Crimson had the momentum, having outscored Princeton 27-10 after coming out flat following intermission.
Lewis was in the midst of the best Ivy League game of his short college career. The Alpharetta, Ga., native, the highest-rated recruit in Harvard history, had shown flashes of his seemingly limitless talent earlier in the season. He was unstoppable against Boston College in December, racking up 24 points on 9-of-12 shooting and knocking down all four of his free throws in a 74-66 win.
“I just thought [his] effort certainly was big for us, a huge shot in the arm, and a presence on the interior,” said Harvard coach Tommy Amaker after the game.
However, the first-year had struggled since Ivy League play commenced. He combined for just 16 points against Cornell, Columbia, and Penn but appeared to be making up for it with a strong performance in his team’s biggest game.
The four-point lead with 79 ticks to play felt insurmountable. The teams had been trading baskets or stops for most of the game’s final stretch. Neither squad had held an edge greater than four since the 5:59 mark. If Lewis’ bucket wasn’t the dagger, then a stop on the other end surely would be.
 ***
March 10, 2016.
It was Housing Day in Cambridge when the Ivy League’s Council of Presidents announced a decision that would change the landscape of basketball in the Ancient Eight for years to come. The league announced on that cool, cloudy Thursday that, beginning in 2017, it would be adding a four-team conference tournament at the Palestra in Philadelphia for an automatic bid to the NCAA Tournament. The decision was one of the biggest that the league had made in recent memory. #14gametournament was being replaced by #pathtothepalestra.
“This is a terrific opportunity to showcase the depth of our league—and to provide our student-athletes with the always meaningful experience of playing in the postseason,” wrote Amaker in a statement after the announcement was made.
The addition of the conference tournament added a new level of intrigue for a season that was already full of storylines. Princeton entered the season returning 99 percent of its minutes and scoring from a team that went 22-7 the year before. Harvard brought in the highest-rated recruiting class in league history and had three-time All-Ivy point guard Siyani Chambers returning from injury. Yale had key players coming back from a team that upset Baylor in the NCAA Tournament. The teams were picked one-two-three in the conference.
The introduction of the tournament received both praise and criticism from coaches, players, and media pundits. To some, the idea of increased revenue and media exposure and the potential for two bids to the NCAA Tournament made the decision to add a conference tournament a timely one. Opponents argued that the league always sent its best team to March Madness as it was and that an upset at the Palestra would do the league more harm than good on the national level.
***
Talks of the Palestra took a backseat when the Tigers arrived in Cambridge for Saturday evening’s showdown. “Tumultuous” would be one word to describe the Crimson’s five nonconference games leading up to the Princeton matchup.
Harvard’s freshman-heavy rotation had shown its talent as well as its inexperience. First-year wing Justin Bassey had a coming-out party in the team’s first matchup with Dartmouth but went just 1-of-5 from the field the second time facing the Big Green. Freshman guard Bryce Aiken willed his squad to a comeback win at Cornell and emerged as the Crimson’s alpha dog when the game was on the line.
“Obviously they’re comfortable putting the ball in my hands, and I do whatever I can to get the W,” said Aiken after hitting a dagger on the road against Cornell.
For as many highlights as the freshman class had produced, there were also reminders that the seven first-years were just a year removed from high school. A night after downing Cornell, Aiken and classmate Seth Towns combined to go 7-of-25 from the field in a loss at Columbia.
While Harvard bounced between ups and downs, the Tigers had cake-walked through their first four Ivy contests. A first-half scare at Dartmouth on Friday night was preceded by an opening home win against Penn, a thumping of Brown, and a statement win over a talented Yale team.
Despite the looming conference tournament, the teams’ matchup at Princeton a month later, and the fact that the Crimson had yet to put together a full 40 minutes in conference play, all eyes focused on Lavietes Pavilion on that brisk Saturday night. It was Alumni Weekend, and ESPN3 had made the trip to see the two teams that had combined for five of the last six Ivy League championships.
It was the Tigers’ experience versus the Crimson’s raw talent. A Princeton team with seemingly unlimited range versus a Harvard one that had already had 11 different players score in double figures. The visitors’ consistency versus the hosts’ uncanny ability to fall behind and come back. Mitch Henderson’s disciplined Princeton offense versus Amaker’s defense-first mentality.
Any notion of the game being a blowout or a shootout dissapeared very early. The Tigers missed seven of their first 11 shots while the Crimson turned the ball over four times in the contest’s first 10 minutes. The first half’s under-four media timeout saw the teams knotted at 19.
***
It’s not easy to miss Princeton’s Myles Stephens. The Lawrenceville, N.J., native stands 6’5” and is a chiseled 205 pounds. Stephens is arguably the conference’s best defender. However, when scouting the Tigers, it’s easy to overlook the wing, especially on the offensive end.
Stephens is often overshadowed by classmate Devin Cannady, the prolific lead guard who rarely sees a shot that he doesn’t like and is always capable of a big game, like the 29-point performance he laid on Brown.
“One of the keys for us, Cannady—that was a big assignment for us,” Amaker said. “He’s such a good player and such a good shooter.”
Cannady is the slasher while seniors Steven Cook and Spencer Weisz are the snipers. Cook was second on the team in scoring as a junior, and his strong showing to end the season helped make him an All-Ivy League honorable mention. Weisz landed on the All-Ivy second team as a junior, topped the Tigers in three-pointers, and was the conference’s leader in assist-to-turnover ratio.
While Stephens was the team’s most important cog on defense, he was Henderson’s fourth or fifth option on the other end. The sophomore drained a three out of a timeout to spark an 11-5 Princeton run to end the first half. It would not be the last time that Stephens would need to come through with the clock winding down.
***
For Harvard, a six-point halftime deficit was like a 10-point lead. The Crimson had found itself trailing at halftime in four of its five conference games. Harvard was down 19-4 against Penn on Friday night but held the Quakers to 6-of-29 shooting in the second half and ended the game on a 65-40 run.
“We just talked about trying to inch our way and scratch and claw our way,” said Amaker of the comeback against Penn. “We were shell-shocked there at the very beginning. I just thought that we calmed the waters with the leadership of Siyani [and] our older guys were settling us down. I thought that made all the difference in the world.”
Against Cornell, the Crimson was trailing by seven at halftime and did not hold a second half lead until it was up 59-58. In its home matchup with Dartmouth, Harvard entered the locker room down one and stormed back to win by 14.
The Tigers did not miss a beat after intermission, however, coming out on a 10-3 run to grow its lead to 13. But the Crimson fought back with free throws and high-percentage looks around the basket to get back within six with just under 12 minutes to play. Then the ice set in.
***
Amaker has always prided his teams on defense. Steve Moundou-Missi ’15 won Ivy League Defensive Player of the Year as a senior for a team that conceded just 57.6 points per game. Agunwa Okolie ’16 took home the award last season as Harvard held opponents to 40.6 percent shooting from the field.
By February, it was evident that Bassey had carved out a role in Amaker’s rotation. The 10th-year head coach lauded the freshman for his hard work in practice, defensive versatility, and ability to affect the game in a number of ways.
“With Justin starting off, it’s his defense,” Chambers said. “Even though he’s one of the freshmen, he’s one of our best wing defenders. His defense on that end of the floor really helps us.”
As Ivy League play heated up, Bassey’s minutes increased. It became apparent that he was growing into the role that Okolie and Wesley Saunders ’15 had occupied for the past two years—guarding the other team’s top offensive perimeter player.
Bassey was by no means the crown jewel of Harvard’s freshman class. Aiken, Lewis, Towns, and Robert Baker were ranked in ESPN’s top 100 recruits or 247Sports’ top 150. Entering the season, Bassey appeared to fit the mold of junior Andre Chatfield or a young Okolie—an athletic, defense-first wing who did not need to shoulder much of an offensive load. Okolie played nearly 25 minutes a game as a junior but only posted 4.3 points per contest. Chatfield almost exclusively saw the floor last year as a defensive substitution for then-freshman guard Corey Johnson.
After not playing a single minute in the team’s game against Stanford in Shanghai, Bassey was inserted into the starting lineup against Fisher. He scored 14 points and became a fixture in the rotation. Against Princeton, he knew he would have his hands full against an offense that was averaging more than 73 points per game in Ivy play.
***
Any rhythm that the two teams had on offense disappeared as the under-12 media timeout approached. After Cook hit a layup at the 11:29 mark to put the visitors up eight, the Crimson and Tigers would not hit another field goal for another 181 seconds of game action. Aiken missed a pair of threes, senior center Zena Edosomwan turned the ball over, and the team committed three fouls before Johnson finally hit a triple.
For Princeton, the woes lasted even longer. Cannady began the brick parade with a missed three. The Tigers would miss three more triples, a jumper, a lay-up, and a tip-in before Stephens finally hit a triple with 5:59 to play. The cold stretch that saw five different players miss shots was uncharacteristic for a Princeton team that relied on offensive balance. Bassey and company were doing something that no Ivy League team had been able to do—slow down the Tigers.
Chambers scored six of his team’s next eight points after Princeton’s drought ended. The Harvard co-captain was on a roll—he had 17 points on 5-of-7 shooting. More importantly, the game was tied with 2:32 to play.
“I thought he played a tremendous game,” Amaker said. “His floor game was outstanding. He played like a senior point guard should play. It was nice to see how well he orchestrated our team and commanded our attack on both ends of the floor.”
Chambers’ partner-in-crime, Aiken, struggled to find his stroke for much of the evening. However, the freshman kept shooting. He made his second three of the game on what was his eighth attempt to give the Crimson a three-point edge with 2:09 to play. It was the team’s first lead since a 17-14 advantage in the first half. An Amir Bell free throw and Lewis’ jumper made it 54-50.
***
A stop would likely end the contest. With his team up four with 68 seconds to play, Aiken sent a struggling Weisz to the line. The senior made one-of-two to get Princeton within one possession at 54-51. Aiken handed the ball back to the Tigers and gave the guests a chance to tie with 41 ticks left. Rather than holding for a three or taking a quick two, Cannady took a quick three. The shot missed, and Princeton fouled immediately.
Lewis, who was 1-of-3 on the night from the charity stripe, needed to make one to make it a two-possession game. The freshman bricked both.
Still down three, the Tigers went the quick-two route to get within one with 21 seconds remaining. Stephens fouled Aiken, who made the ensuing free throws. Harvard was back up by three with 15 seconds to play.
***
Now Princeton needed a triple. Weisz and Cannady were the team’s three-point specialists, but both were 0-for-3 from deep in the second half. Cook had the hot hand—the senior had 10 of his team’s 23 second half points and had not missed a shot since before intermission.
Bell brought the ball up the floor, and Cannady, Cook, and Weisz all lined up to the junior’s right. Bell dribbled that direction, and Stephens slipped in front of his teammate before the three-point arc. Aiken and Towns pressed up to double-team Bell, leaving Stephens wide open on the left wing. Bell delivered the pass.
Despite being down three with nine seconds to play, Stephens made a beeline for the hole as soon as he caught the pass. Bassey left Cook and headed into the lane. Stephens elevated, laid the ball off the glass, and absorbed the contact from Bassey.
The Harvard freshman laid on the ground as the ball came out of the net and a referee assessed him his second personal foul of the evening. Stephens, a 62 percent free throw shooter, was a make at the line away from sending the game into overtime.
***
The sellout crowd was stunned. The Tigers had scored four of the game’s last five points and now had a chance to extend the game another five minutes. The Crimson had had its chances to put the game away—Aiken had fouled, Lewis had missed a pair at the line, Aiken had turned the ball over, and Harvard had not made a field goal since Lewis’ at the 1:19 mark.
But now, all eyes were on Stephens. The free throw was long, but Lewis was unable to get his body in front of Cook. The Princeton senior corralled the rebound, went up through traffic, and used the backboard to guide in his layup. Tigers by one.
“We practice these situations in practice, but there’s nothing like the game,” Chambers said.
The Crimson, now needing a bucket with three seconds to play, took a timeout. Amaker subbed in Baker to inbound. The 6’10” freshman threw a baseball pass past halfcourt. Lewis elevated and snatched the toss out of the air, pivoted, and found Johnson, who was 2-of-5 from long range on the evening. The sophomore had a clean look just right of center. The ball hung in the air as Baker sprinted down the floor and the other nine players watched.
It clanked off the back rim. Princeton had done the seemingly impossible.
“I don’t know how you draw it up any worse than that,” Amaker said.
—Staff writer Stephen J. Gleason can be reached at stephen.gleason@thecrimson.com.
Sections
The 2016-2017 campaign was essentially a breakout season for the entire Harvard men’s ice hockey team. The group soared to new heights, hogging almost all the available accolades. After a Beanpot victory, an Ivy League title, and the ECAC crown in both the regular season and the playoffs, the Crimson emerged from the NCAA Tournament’s East Regional before bowing out in the Frozen Four semifinals.
All along, Harvard coach Ted Donato ’91 knew that in order for his team to achieve this level of success, individual players would need to elevate their games.
“[Next year] we’ll have to have some guys have breakthrough seasons up front, which sounds kind of similar to what we were saying last year,” said Donato, reflecting on the Crimson’s historic 2016-2017 season. “I think the one part that sometimes gets missed is the improvement that guys make—are they ready for that next step?”
Clearly, Harvard’s players, particularly its rising seniors, were indeed ready for that next step. And no skater took a larger leap than Tyler Moy.
“I think guys like Tyler Moy…just dedicated themselves on and off the ice to getting better,” Donato lauded. “And you saw the rate of improvement. They had good junior years and breakthrough senior years.”
In 31 appearances in 2015-2016, Moy logged seven goals and 12 assists, and his 19 points were tied for sixth-best on the Jimmy Vesey-led Crimson squad. Flash-forward to this season, and the San Diego, Calif., native sat atop his team’s scoring ranks, tied with co-captain Alexander Kerfoot at 45 points. Moy’s 22 goals, including 10 on the power play and five of the game-winning variety, also led the team.
"In the locker room, we didn't really have a shred of doubt that we [had] the firepower to be able to make it very far," said Moy about this season's Harvard team prior to the Frozen Four. "People doubting us and saying that we're not supposed to be as good anymore when we lost Jimmy [Vesey '16], Crisco [Kyle Criscuolo '16], Blackie [Colin Blackwell '16].... I think we've kind of taken that personally and come back to prove a statement."
Motivated by such feelings, Moy stepped up his game this winter. The NCAA All-East Region selection saw his production jump by a staggering 26 points, the greatest year-to-year point differential on the Crimson roster. 
This spike accounted for almost a quarter of the 193 points tallied by Harvard seniors. No NCAA program boasted as high-scoring a cohort of fourth-years. 
Moy rounded out one of the most dominant forward lines in all of college hockey. The trio of Sean Malone, Luke Esposito, and Moy—all seniors—tallied the most points of any line that Donato put on the ice this year.
“The amount of chemistry we were able to have on that line was something I’ll never forget,” Moy said. “It was a great send-off to have my last year have that much success.” 
Contributing to such a high-powered line, Moy always seemed to have an impact on the Crimson’s most important games. The Nashville Predators’ prospect found the score sheet against ranked opponents Boston College, Boston University (twice), Quinnipiac (twice), St. Lawrence, and Union (twice), while notching 11 points in Harvard’s seven playoff games, split between the ECAC and NCAA brackets.
“There’s a lot of guys who work really hard on this team, but I don’t think anyone works harder than [Moy],” said Kerfoot in mid-February after a 6-0 victory over Brown. “I think the improvement in his game over four years has been incredible. He’s a force to play against down low and off the rush; he’s got a ton of skill. He’s been unreal for us this season, and he’s going to continue to be like that down the stretch.”
Moy’s work ethic propelled his game to a new echelon this year—one defined by consistency and reliability. In his junior season, Moy was a relatively streaky scorer, with clusters of points breaking long dry spells. When his stick was hot, it was deadly, but otherwise, Moy stayed quiet. Of the Crimson’s 11 losses that year, the San Diego native was held pointless in eight.
As a more complete senior, working harder than ever in his final opportunity to take his team to the promised land, Moy flipped the script. After opening the campaign with 12 points over an eight-game stretch, the winger never went more than two contests without inking the score sheet. In his final collegiate season, Moy scored a point in over three-quarters of Harvard’s games, including the team’s only goal in its Frozen Four loss to Minnesota-Duluth.

Moy’s breakout year crystallized his future in professional hockey. Just four days after the Crimson’s season concluded, the Predators announced the signing of Moy, their sixth-round pick in 2015, to an entry-level deal.
Moy promptly joined the Milwaukee Admirals, Nashville’s American Hockey League affiliate, and played three games at the end of their regular season as well as two Calder Cup playoff games. In his first taste of professional hockey, he added four points in the three regular season contests. He found the net for his first career goal against the Grand Rapids Griffins, the current allegiance of Criscuolo, former captain of the Harvard program.
“Obviously it’s a pretty exciting time and something you dream about as a kid,” said Moy about his future in professional hockey. “It’s tough to end the collegiate season and career on that [Frozen Four loss], but I couldn’t be more excited to be here in Milwaukee and try to help out the Admirals in any way I can…. It’s a really great opportunity for me, and I couldn’t be more thankful for it.”
—Staff writer Spencer R. Morris can be reached at spencer.morris@thecrimson.com.
Sections
In softball and baseball, being hit by a pitch is an effective way to benefit from a pitcher’s lack of control. Some players, like the Cleveland Indians’ Brandon Guyer, have turned taking hit-by-pitches into an art, compensating for a lack of hits and walks.
During the 2017 season, Harvard softball third baseman Erin Lockhart got hit a whopping 18 times, leading the Ivy League and shattering the previous Crimson single-season record of 13, set by Whitney Shaw ’12. Her 18 times hit by a pitch also tied the all-time Ancient Eight record for a single season.
“[Opposing pitchers] don’t want her barrel to get extended, so they didn’t want to throw her outside,” Harvard coach Jenny Allard said. “They were trying to jam her inside, and they were constantly hitting her in the leg, hitting her in the elbow.”
However, Lockhart certainly did not need the aid of hit-by-pitches to reach base this year.
The Lincoln, Neb., native dominated Ivy League and non-conference pitching throughout the season. On the heels of an unremarkable freshman campaign, Lockhart’s meteoric rise helped push Harvard to a spot in the Ivy League Championship Series, which it ultimately lost to Princeton.
Lockhart managed to get on base in over half of her plate appearances, posting a .507 on-base percentage. She walked 19 times, nearly double the amount of times that she struck out, and she was one of the team’s most consistent hitters with a .333 batting average.
“She has a really good eye at the plate,” Allard noted. “That was part of her struggle her freshman year that she just wasn’t being aggressive enough. This year, she worked on finding that balance between being really aggressive and not swinging at bad pitches.”
On top of leading the Crimson in OBP, the power-hitting Lockhart also finished first in slugging percentage with a .619 mark. Lockhart paced the team in home runs, slugging a total of seven on the year. Freshman first baseman Olivia Giaquinto added seven of her own to compose a formidable one-two punch in the middle of the batting order.
Lockhart’s bat was not always such a force in Harvard’s lineup. As a freshman, she had relatively little impact on the Crimson’s 2016 regular season and playoff series versus Princeton. She slashed .222/.383/.250, collected just one extra-base hit, drove in three runs, and scored five times.
Without a chance at regular playing time due to outstanding performances from other infielders, Lockhart struggled to get going at the plate and in the field.
“Erin got some pinch hitting opportunities, but it really wasn’t enough work to have her get comfortable and be in a regular role,” Allard said. “So this year really, really helped her a lot being thrown into a starting position.”

After her rookie season, Lockhart got her big opportunity following a preseason injury to the Crimson’s incumbent third baseman, Meagan Lantz. It had appeared as though Lantz would be one of Harvard softball’s certainties in 2017.
Occupying the hot corner last year, the sophomore from Parkland, Fla., was one of the Crimson’s most consistent hitters. In her freshman year, Lantz took the reins at third and slashed .323/.375/.577 to go along with seven home runs, 37 runs batted in, 34 runs, and 10 steals. Her single-season home run, runs scored, and RBI totals all rank tied for ninth in Harvard history.
Just as she looked to build on her 2016 success, however, Lantz went down with an ACL injury, and was deemed out of commission for the entire 2017 season. Allard needed a replacement for her sophomore slugger, so she turned to Lockhart, her other second-year third baseman.
“With Meagan Lantz tearing her ACL, we needed someone to step up at third, and so I was just trying to do my part to help the team and get the job done in whatever situation,” Lockhart said.
By the end of 2017, Lockhart had completely reversed her fortunes from 2016. Driving in 35 runs and scoring 22 of her own, Lockhart was involved in many of the Crimson’s key moments throughout the season.
Harvard finished its Ivy League slate against Dartmouth in what was perhaps the most important series of the regular season. With three or four victories, the Crimson would move on to the playoffs. With two or fewer wins, its season was over.
Batting in the top of the fifth of the first game of the weekend, Lockhart took Big Green pitcher Breanna Ethridge deep to extend Harvard’s lead to 5-0. In what ended up as a tight 7-6 triumph, Lockhart’s homer proved crucial. The sophomore third baseman added another long ball in the second game of the series to power the Crimson to a 9-2 victory. In a win-or-go-home context, Lockhart came through in the clutch multiple times.
In the coming years, Lockhart appears primed to hold her position as one of the most threatening hitters in the Ivy League. Maybe the hit-by-pitches will continue, too.
“I guess I do stand a little bit closer to the plate, but I’m not totally on top of the plate,” Lockhart said. “I guess I’m a little bit of a ball magnet.”
—Staff writer Jack Stockless can be reached at jack.stockless@thecrimson.com.
Sections
Gabby Thomas just might be the most prolific racer ever to run at Harvard. She is undoubtedly one of the fastest.
The sophomore has dominated the sprint scene in the Ivy League for the past two years, and as the 2016-2017 season wraps up, Thomas has cemented her place as one of Harvard’s most accomplished athletes.
“Last season I came in not really expecting anything,” Thomas said. “This season I have a lot of pretty concrete goals for myself that I knew I was capable of doing. In that sense, it was a lot more focused and goal-oriented.”
From the first meet of the indoor season, Thomas was already breaking records. She opened the season with a 300-meter dash time of 38.03, a program best. Only one month later, the sprinter claimed the program's second-best time as well, with a 38.60 second sprint in the event.
While Thomas also ran the 60-meter dash in the first two meets of the indoor season, it wasn’t until the Indoor Heptagonal Championships that her dominance was made known. Already holding the school record in the event, Thomas crossed the finish line 7.29 seconds after the sound of the gun, breaking both the school mark and the Ivy League record. The following day, the sprinter was crowned Ancient Eight champ for the second year in a row in the event.
Despite holding program records in both the 60 and 300-meter dashes, the two aren’t even Thomas’ best indoor events—the 200-meter is. It was at the Columbia East-West Challenge in January that Thomas became nationally relevant in the event. Taking bronze at the meet, the sophomore set both a school and personal record with a time of :23.01. The pace ranked fourth among all NCAA competitors at the time.
“I always like watching [Thomas] compete at the highest level because she carries herself with respect and dignity,” said relay partner Zoe Hughes. “A lot of people wouldn’t expect Harvard athletes to make it to things like NCAA Finals, let alone make it to the podium like she did last year. She’s so calm and relaxed about it and just seeing her go through that has helped so much.”
That school record would not stand for long. Again at Ivy Heps, Thomas broke both her own school record and the Ivy League record in becoming the league champion in the event. Finishing a full second ahead of the rest of the field, Thomas crossed the finish line in 22.88 seconds. The effort was enough to qualify her for NCAA Championships.
“Heps is just so much fun, it’s very team-oriented,” Thomas said. “You’re winning points for the team. I didn’t really go to PR in all my events because I was doing so many. It’s just really fun to go out and compete with your team.”
Competing again in the 200-meter dash, Thomas posted a 22.89 second preliminary time, only .01 seconds behind her school and division record, to advance to the finals. In doing so, she became the first Ivy League racer to advance to the finals in the event. She ultimately finished eighth nationally and was awarded First Team All-America honors.
The indoor season, though, was just a preview of what was to come in outdoors. In the very first meet, Thomas took gold in the 100-meter with the fastest time in the East region at that point, contributed to the 4x100-meter relay team that posted the third-best mark in program history, and clocked the tenth-fastest time in program history as a leg for the 4x400-meter relay.
That was child’s play.
The following week, Thomas set a school record in the 100-meter with a time of :11.24. She then proceeded to run a 22.60 second race in the 200-meter. She took the gold, and her time tied the fastest in the world for the 2017 season.
Not one to monopolize only sprints, the sophomore competed in long jump for the first time in the outdoor season and won at the Harvard-Yale vs. Oxford-Cambridge Meet. She also broke a 15-year school record with a jump of 6.1 meters. That mark did not stand for long, as she improved upon that record two weeks later with a 6.27-meter jump.
Next was Outdoor Heps. There, Thomas won every single event that she participated in. She won gold in the long jump, the 100 and 200-meter dashes, helped set an Ivy League record in the 4x100-meter relay, and aided in winning the 4x400-meter relay. Going five-for-five, Thomas was unanimously voted Most Outstanding Performer of the meet.
Even still, Thomas’ season has not yet drawn to a close. In late May, she will compete with several other Harvard athletes in the NCAA Eastern Preliminary Round in Lexington, Ky. Success in the Bluegrass State will bring her to the NCAA National Championships for the second year in a row.
“It’s just a matter of making sure I’m practicing and doing what I have to do to run the best times,” Thomas said. “What I’m personally focused on is making sure that I prepare myself for Nationals at Regionals.”
—Staff writer Cade Palmer can be reached at cade.palmer@thecrimson.com.
