News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The price of free speech is in some cases literal. For the campus speaking engagement and visit of controversial political scientist Charles A. Murray ’65 on September 6, the University spent $12,000 on security from the Cambridge Police Department. Neither is this an isolated incident: Controversial ex-pharmaceutical executive Martin Shkreli and Secretary of Education Betsy DeVos were also met with rampant student protests and security bills that Harvard has not disclosed.
In an ideal situation, an individual’s opinions would not put them or audiences interested in hearing them at risk. But as recent events at the University of California Berkeley and Middlebury College have shown, this is not always a guarantee on college campuses. We acknowledge and appreciate that Harvard is too invested in both its student body and its public image to let either controversial speakers or event safety to be compromised.
The invitation of controversial speakers to college campuses has sparked student protests across the country, some of which have turned violent. Six protests, including the shooting of a protester, haunted just the first four months of 2017. The possibility of violence makes security necessary at campus protest events. And Harvard has been right to live up to this obligation.
Dual concerns for the student body and public image also drive the University to continue holding such controversial and costly events. In an era of increasingly polarized politics, even inviting the Secretary of Education to speak has become a controversial move. Debates on the limits on free speech have therefore run rampant across the country and Harvard has been forced to participate. As an Editorial Board, we recognize that Harvard hopes for its students and its reputation to continue inviting controversial speakers.
As Harvard moves forward, we hope the fractures in our society will begin to heal. But as long as speaking events remain controversial, Harvard will have to spend its money on security.
This staff editorial solely represents the majority view of The Crimson Editorial Board. It is the product of discussions at regular Editorial Board meetings. In order to ensure the impartiality of our journalism, Crimson editors who choose to opine and vote at these meetings are not involved in the reporting of articles on similar topics.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Class Facebook groups are either hilarious or cringe-inducing. There doesn't seem to be an in-between. Just think about it: it's that time of night again, you have absolutely nothing else you could possibly do to procrastinate on that Ec p-set, so you pay a quick visit to the Facebook page. You think: this time I will find some quality content. 
Think again! Here are the types of posts you're most likely to encounter here
Introducing Me 
Hi! My name’s [insert quirky name], and here’s a picture of my ugly dog. Alternatively, here’s some random dog that’s clearly not mine since I don’t know even know its name. I’m posting because I can’t stand the idea of being excluded from anything! I’m from a small town in Iowa you definitely haven’t heard of. Or I’m from New York (the ‘city’ part is implicit).
I’ve been doing this eccentric thing with my spare time since I was just a year old—I put it down on my application, so I might as well put it down here to make sure all of you know I’m a prodigy. I also love saying that I love running, walking, hiking, or any other physical activity. I say I procrastinate all the time, even though I drafted this post before I even got in. I can’t wait to meet all of you, hook up with a few of you, and then promptly forget all of your names!
Just A Good Friend
(Posting for a friend, so don’t judge me for spamming the entire class with crap that people care less about than their roommate’s sleep when a “friend” comes over for the night!) Do you want a sweatshirt with Dean Khurana eating from a bag of plain pistachios on it? No? Well, our crappy marketing team sure thinks so! Come to this obscure hall at this time when everyone—including me—is busy to leave their rooms.
PSA
Hey everyone, here’s a reminder about something important that might actually be useful for those slackers out there. Of course, I’m not doing this because I actually care about you. I just want y’all to know just how organized and helpful I am, so that you affectionately call me ‘mom’ or ‘dad’ and want to be my friend. Cheers! (Also, please like my post and constantly bump it, thanks.)
The “Poor” Concert Goer
Anyone wanna go to the [insert musician name] concert?  Tickets are only like, a couple hundred dollars, and I absolutely love their music. Be my concert buddy! P.S. You will see me complaining about being a broke college student on every other post.
The Club Climber
Hey everyone, there’s this really cool event that’s happening tomorrow, and I swear it’s not something that I’m connected to. What’s that, I just want brownie points with my club? No way! This is a valuable experience that’s definitely worth your time. But if they ask you how you found out about the event, make sure to drop my name.
Lost and Found
I just lost this important item that no one will ever see again. If you’re lucky I’ll have a picture, but most of the time I’ll just give a vague description. This post will be constantly bumped by my friends making fun of me. Alternatively: I just found this important-looking thing, are any of you the owner? I know no one will actually see this post or care about the lost item, but I just wanted to remind myself what a good person I am.
Sections


Does anyone really even know what consulting is? No. But that doesn’t stop scores of snakes — er, students — from taking advantage of the many opportunities Harvard provides for them to sell their soul to the firm they’re best suited for. From networking to more networking, the events hosted by the Office of Career Services and by consulting firms are truly...fascinating affairs. Don’t believe us? Here are some of the things we’ve overheard at recent recruiting gigs:
“Didn't really know what I was gonna do and somehow I ended up in Consulting”
Said by every consultant ever to every other consultant ever.
“You know, Boston has the most consultants per capita in the world”
Mostly due to the wonderful employment opportunities offered by a degree in the Arts and Humanities at Harvard.
“Consulting is sooooooooo fun”
……
“I felt like I couldn't do anything the first two weeks.  You really learn on the job.”
Proof that a Harvard education means as much to the outside world as being the principal of a home school.
“Every day I get to sit and think and present my thoughts.”
Kind of like a Kindergarten show-and-tell, really.
“The first week of my freshman year I was passed out in a ditch.”
CS50?
“We have wine tours.”
But it's Massachusetts wine so you might as well use it as engine fluid.
“My job isn't at all quantitative.”
Sorry, Stat 104. Who needs math to predict market trends when you have Massachusetts wine?
“I took a bunch of straight men to a gay club with mechanical penises on the tables.”
Actually, what?
