News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Wrestling in the first dual meet of his collegiate career, freshman A.J. Jaffe hardly looked his age as he led the Harvard squad with an undefeated day. His teammates could not find the same rhythm on the mat, however, as the Crimson (0-3) fell to Binghamton, West Virginia, and No. 8 NC State at the Pitt Duals.
WEST VIRGINIA 32, HARVARD 9
In the final match of the day, the Mountaineers (2-8) dominated from the outset and posted three decisions and two technical falls, giving the Crimson little opportunity to bounce back.
“It’s a different mindset when we get to duals,” Harvard coach Jay Weiss said. “You have to put up points for the team and wrestle for more than yourself. I think that having that pressure on these guys helps, and will continue to help them as the season goes on.”
The Crimson picked up only a trio of wins against West Virginia, as junior tri-captain Josef Johnson, Jaffe, and senior tri-captain Gajdzik were responsible for their team’s nine points in the competition.
BINGHAMTON 23, HARVARD 16
The contest between the Crimson and Bearcats (4-3) was much closer, as the score was tied at 16 heading into the heavyweight bouts. Then, however, two consecutive Binghamton wins secured the final margin.
“I don’t think we wrestled to our capabilities, I do think we are better than that,” Weiss said. “ But we are going to keep getting better as we keep at it.”
Junior Rico Stormer was the first of the heavies to go down, as he was overpowered by the Bearcats’ Mark Tracy in a major decision. In the following match, Gajdzik nearly put the Crimson back in contention for the lead but fell in a 3-1 loss to Connor Calkins by decision.
“I think that Nick will be the first person to tell you that he wishes he’d opened up a bit more,” Johnson said. “I think we need to work on getting to a place where if you have an early lead, you need to hold onto it and dominate the match.”
Jaffe extended his win streak to two in the meet, posting a commanding 7-2 performance over Joe Caruana, which also gave Harvard its first lead of the day.
“He was able to score points because he stayed aggressive for the entire seven minutes.” Johnson said. “I think he was really receptive to the corner, he listened to the coaches and he did a lot of things that I think the rest of us can work towards as well.”
Johnson, freshman Kyle Bierdumpfel, and senior Jeffrey Ott also notched wins in the loss.
NC STATE 29, HARVARD 10
The match against the Wolfpack (8-1) started on a poor note, as Johnson suffered only his sixth loss this season. Trailing from the beginning, Johnson never regained control of the bout and lost to Chad Pyke, 8-2.
“Going into the weekend I knew that was going to be my biggest test,” Johnson said. “I felt a little slow throughout the day, and I think I let that mental barrier affect me too much. I really think I could have benefitted from a different mindset.”
In the third match of the meet, Jaffe managed to pull Harvard within three points of NC State’s lead. The rookie blanked the Wolfpack’s 141 lb. contender, Robbie Rizzolini, 8-0, to keep Harvard within striking distance after a slow start.
“He looked great this weekend,” Weiss said. “I think he really showed what he could do at Midlands and built on that here. He can compete with anybody. He is just getting better every time he steps on the mat.”
The Crimson was unable to keep this momentum, though, dropping the next two matches as NC State widened its lead. Gajdzik and Bierdumpfel gained points for Harvard, but it was ultimately not enough to close the gap.
—Staff writer Jillian Dukes can be reached at jdukes01@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Harvard men’s squash team continues to roll, building on a strong start to the season by bowling over three nationally ranked squads in its first matches of 2017.
Beginning the new year with a trip to the Philadelphia metropolitan area, the No. 4 Crimson (4-0, 3-0 Ivy League) faced off against Drexel, Penn, and Princeton. Harvard decisively bested each of its competitors, ranked No. 6, No. 7, and No. 11 in the nation, respectively, to remain undefeated on the season.
“We were very pleased with our performance over the weekend,” co-captain Devin McLaughlin said. “Everyone trained hard over the winter break and came out for the long weekend fit and prepared, both mentally and physically. It's always tough to play away, so getting three wins against some very strong teams was great to see.”
The Crimson’s rookies played crucial roles in its success, as Saadeldin Abouaish, Timothy Brownell, Sean Hughes collectively went 8-1 on the road trip.
“All of the guys did well this weekend and got the job done,” fellow co-captain Bryan Koh said. “The three freshmen handled themselves and their squash extremely well, seeing that it is their first matches of college squash. I am very proud of them and good to see they are fitting in well already.”
HARVARD 8, PRINCETON 1
The Tigers (2-5, 0-2 Ivy) began the season with two 8-1 victories against Franklin & Marshall and George Washington University but entered its Sunday match against the Crimson with a four-game losing streak. Harvard helped to continue that streak, as an 8-1 triumph at the Jadwin Squash courts in Princeton, N.J. proved to be far from difficult.
3-0 Crimson wins proved to be the norm, with seven matches producing the result. Junior Madhav Dhingra’s contest, however, was more of a back-and-forth affair. Neither player won consecutive games, and a narrow 12-10 loss in the fifth set was all that kept Harvard from completing a 9-0 sweep of the Tigers.
HARVARD 8, PENN 1
Looking to avenge its 7-2 loss to the Quakers (3-4, 0-1 Ivy) in last year’s CSA Team Championships, the Crimson did just that on Saturday at the Ringe Squash Courts. During its 8-1 triumph, Harvard’s depth proved too much for its opponents to handle.
Each of the seven matches in the third through the ninth positions was completed in just three games. The Crimson won every single one of those matches conclusively. Dhingra’s match against Penn junior Derek Hsue was the closest of those bouts on paper, but its final result, 11-5,11-9,11-8, was still relatively one-sided.
The matches at the first and second positions both went to five sets with Abouaish triumphing and junior Bradley Smith playing to the opposite result.
“It was a relief to have a decisive victory against Penn after our unfortunate loss at Nationals last year,” McLaughlin said. “Those who were there last year definitely had the sting of that loss in their minds as we were playing, which I think helped carry us to victory.”
HARVARD 7, DREXEL 2
In the first competitive action of its three-match road trip, the Crimson bested the Dragons (6-3, 0-0 Colonial Athletic Association) by a score of 7-2 to maintain an unbeaten record in its all-time series against Drexel.
For Smith, the first match against Dragons sophomore Bransten Ming represented an easier test, as he was able to win in four sets. The junior recovered nicely after falling, 11-7, in the first game. By contrast, Koh faced a tougher test than in his match against Penn, pulling out a five-game win against his Drexel opponent. Brownell, Dhingra, McLaughlin, and junior David Ryan all claimed victory in three.
Hughes also nabbed another easy victory, 11-6, 11-6, 11-4 over junior Noel Solomon. With the win, the Newton Square, Pa. native claimed his first ever victory for Harvard less than 15 miles from his hometown.
Abouaish and senior Dylan Murray accounted for the Crimson’s two losses in the Kline & Specter Squash Center at first and sixth positions, respectively.
“These were tricky matches, and I'm glad the boys took care of business,” Koh said. “Against Penn, it was of course nice to get a win over them after last season’s loss. However, we have other tough matches coming up and should get right back to preparing for those to make sure we are in the best position for nationals.”
—Staff writer Jackson M. Reynolds can be reached at jacksonreynolds@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
This past weekend, the Harvard women’s swimming and diving team traveled to Philadelphia, Penn., putting its undefeated conference record on the line against Penn and Brown. After two days of competition, the Crimson (5-0, 5-0 Ivy) came out on top against the host Quakers (7-3, 4-3), 165-135, while more handily overpowering the Bears (5-3, 2-3), 194-106.
The divers put up impressive performances on Friday, with junior Hannah Allchurch taking home gold and silver medals in the three-meter and one-meter competitions, respectively. She was the only diver to break 300 points in the three-meter, finishing with a score of 301.40.
Allchurch was followed by teammates junior Jing Leung, sophomore Katie Russ, and junior Alisha Mah in the three-meter. Meanwhile, in the one-meter, Mah took first and Russ took third. Leung finished in fourth, handing the Crimson sweeps in both board events.
The swimming contingent also saw great success, fueled by its winter training trip.
“Over the past couple of years, I've come to see training trip as a perfect opportunity for our team to bond,” junior standout Geordie Enoch said. “A week with the team, away from the Harvard bubble and away from outside distractions, always helps us become closer and more cohesive than we've been all season.”
Junior Kristina Li echoed this sentiment, explaining the “60-point set,” an exercise emphasizing unity, in which each athlete is assigned an event and a time, and if she finishes the event under the given time, the entire team is awarded a point. The goal is to make it to 60 points as fast as possible.
“This set gave each of us a chance to step up and really race for the team as well as cheer and show our support for each other, which was basically a dress rehearsal for how we want to be at the end of the season,” Li said.
This cohesiveness was apparent in the performance of the team in a range of individual events and relays. In the 400 free relay, co-captain Daniela Johnson, fellow senior Victoria Chan, and and two freshmen, Jerrica Li and Mikaela Dahlke, took home first. Dahlke shone individually as well, taking first and second in the 200 and 100 free, respectively. The rookie was edged out in the 50 free by fellow freshman Mei Lynn Colby for third place, by 0.05 seconds.
Colby also saw success in the 100 back and 100 fly. She followed sophomore Brittany Usinger in the fly, with the teammates coming in second and third, respectively. Her 100 back performance was good for second, behind Kristina Li. Senior Marissa Cominelli came in third in the same event, giving the Crimson yet another streak. Li dominated in the 200 back as well, earning a silver with a time of 2:01.91.
“I think that is something that we do very well, actually. We are able to keep the mood light on deck and just have fun with our races,” Li said. “It definitely paid off because every single swimmer and diver stepped up, which was really inspiring to see.”
On the distance side, senior Willa Wang was the top Harvard placer in the 500 and 1000 free, coming in first and fourth respectively. She missed a second-place finish in the 1000 by slightly over a second but managed to gain nearly nine seconds on the fifth place finisher. However, the senior made up for the narrow loss by taking gold in the 500 free with a time of 4:55.99. She was trailed by sophomore Meagan Popp in third.
Yet another first-place finish came from sophomore Sonia Wang in the 200 IM, where she touched the wall in 2:05.55. In addition, she took third in the 200 back.
Riding on this momentum, the Crimson looks forward to applying its strengths both from the training trip and this meet against two Ancient Eight foes. According to Enoch, the upcoming HYP and Ivy Championship meets will require focus and attention to detail that the team has put to practice in dual and tri meets in conference play.
“In the next couple of weeks, we'll keep working on the small things that make all the difference in races that come down to hundredths of a second,” Enoch said. “Making our turns tighter and putting our heads down for the finish earlier.”
—Staff writer Isabel DeLaura can be reached at idelaura@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
With shopping period just over the horizon, now may be a good time to figure out how to fill those four obligatory slots in your Crimson cart. Maybe you’re on the hunt for a GPA-boosting or Gen-Ed-fulfilling gem, or maybe you have no choice in the matter and want to know what you’re in for. We know scanning through hundreds of Q-guide comments can be dizzying, so Flyby has selected the most, shall we say, illuminating, and of course added our two cents. Here’s how former students frustratedly, fondly, and jokingly answered the classic question: What would you like to tell future students about this class?
ECON 10B: Principles of Economics
The concise: “nothing” “not much” “it's hard”
The honest: “It's Ec10. You're probably taking it either way.”
The textbook: “The textbook. The textbook is the Bible for this course.” “Don't pay full price for the textbook.”
The Mankiw-hacked-the-Q-Guide-system-to-write-this-review: “This is important stuff—should probably be a required course for all citizens of the world.”
SCILIVSY 19: Nutrition and Global Health:
“The only thing this class taught me was how to spell diahrrea [sic].”
COMPSCI 51: Introduction to Computer Science II
“If you have been programming since you were in diapers, please move along.” Looking at YOU section kid!
“As cheesy as it sounds the course really makes you understand the elegance of programming.” *elegance*
“you may die in the class but you'll die with a smile on your face”
“Want sexy code? Take CS51.” Sexy wouldn’t be the first adjective to come to mind...but whatever you’re into, we guess.
VES 70: The Art of Film
“Be ready to travel through time and space to the 20's Berlin, the 30's Paris, the 40's Moscow and the 50's Manhattan! In this course, the past, present and future of film and film history become vivified... and so will your experience of film and its original referent—life!” Yes folks, this class will accomplish the inevitable by VIVIFYing your life.
SCIPHUNV 17: The Einstein Revolution
“no”
“YOU WILL THINK THIS IS A GOOD GEN ED COURSE. JUST RUN. TRUST MY SUGGESTION. RUN.” ALL-CAPS = THEY MEAN IT. RUN.
ECON 1011B: Intermediate Economics: Advanced 
“This class is awful.”
“This class is painful. Only take it if you absolutely need it for your requirement. I hated every moment of it. The psets are horrible, lectures are terrible, and everything else is overly unenjoyable.” Now, don’t be such Debbie Downers!
SOC-STD 10B: Introduction to Social Studies 
“THIS IS THE BEST COURSE I HAVE EVER TAKEN (NOT ONLY AT HARVARD) BUT DURING THE ENTIRETY OF MY LIFE!!!!!!” Chillllll
SLS 20: Psychological Science
“Psych isn't a real science, I knew this going in but decided to give it a try- huge mistake. Get ready to bs a whole bunch of random assignments and read through an incredibly boring textbook. “
“Oh, and every year the midterm is on Housing Day. Dick move.”
“be prepared to get lessons on pinker's ideas”
“I think this course could be more honestly titled ‘The World According to Stephen Pinker.’”
HEB 1310: Hormones and Behavior
“This course is EVERYTHING. It will satisfy you in every single way possible - intellectually, personally, emotionally, etc.” Every single way? ;) hormonally?
Chem 27: Organic Chemistry of Life aka Premed Sucks to Suck
“Can't get out of taking it unless you waste thousands of dollars to take it over the summer and lose out on doing an internship or something.”
“I'm sorry. That's about it. I'm just sorry. You're life sucks, and I'm glad I'm done with it.”
“You're premed? You have to take it. So pray that you'll make it through.”
“Pray. I mean this non-religiously. You're going to need a lot of luck to get out of this. Good luck future Chem 27 students. May the force be with you.”
“Be naturally good at chemistry, and you will do well. If you are a hard worker who is decently good at science, this may not be the course for you.”
“If you're taking this class its because you have to... My best advice is to not be pre-med.”
SW 24: Global Health Challenges: Complexities of Evidence-Based Policy
“psets are annoying but not very time consuming. section is lulz, final is bs, midterm requires some studying (somewhat legit)”
“The material is shallow and it's a class that focuses on teaching someone "how to think", but if you're reasonably decent at graphical literacy, this class will not bring much to you.”
“Overall I recommend, but I haven't taken the final exam or done the policy paper yet.... maybe I should do that and get back to you COME BACK TO THIS”
Stat 104: Introduction to Quantitative Methods for Economics
“It's not a sleep through class.”
“Go to lecture instead of watching lecture videos”
“Great stat class if you need to take one and don't want to hurt your GPA”
“Parzen is literally my hero. I'm sure he doesn't know who I am, but I am contemplating switching my concentration to Statistics because of him!”
CLARIFICATION: January 16, 2016
A previous version of this article referred to two courses by their shorthand (EC1011B and SOC-STD10B). This article has been updated to clarify the full names of those two courses.
