News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Nestled between Lamont Library and Massachusetts Avenue is a small garden that memorializes Thomas Dudley, a founder of both Harvard and the city of Cambridge. Open only between April and October, the garden is a serene space, filled with flowers and ivy. Lamont, on one side of the garden, is emblematic of the stress and hurry of life within Harvard—of last-minute psets, paper deadlines, and all-nighters. On the other side is Massachusetts Avenue, full of the hustle and bustle of life outside Harvard. But neither the stress of the Harvard world nor the turbulence of the world beyond leaks into this garden. Instead, it remains completely separate from the worlds that border it and serves as a refuge from both.
This was not always the case, however. The Dudley Garden of today was not designed and constructed all at once, but rather developed over time. In fact, much of the beauty of this garden could only have emerged from gradual change, and would likely never have existed had the garden been designed at one time by a single hand and preserved as such.
The first piece of the garden to go up was Bacon Gate, erected in 1902 as a major entrance to Harvard Yard. Not long after, in 1915, the first memorial to Thomas Dudley was built: a gate and a clock tower around the corner from the Bacon Gate, on Quincy Street. According to a Crimson article that announced its construction, the Dudley Gate filled the last hole in the fence surrounding the yard. The Dudley Gate had a relatively short life, however, as it was torn down to make way for the construction of Lamont Library between 1947 and 1949.The Memorial Gate was replaced in 1949 with Dudley Garden. A wall set within the Bacon Gate and inscribed with details of Thomas Dudley’s life separated the garden from Massachusetts Avenue, but the Bacon Gate remained open. This likely meant a fairly consistent flow of people past, if not through, the garden. Other than a restoration in 1999, construction of the memorial to Thomas Dudley was at this point complete.
The space of the garden as it is now, however, was not complete until around ten years later, when the Bacon Gate was closed due to illegal activity. The closing of this gate elevated the beauty of both the portal and the garden inside to new levels. Rather than detract from the Bacon Gate’s monumental effect, its closure gave the gate new life, both literally and figuratively. Closing the gate meant that ivy and other plant life could be allowed to creep up it, twisting and swirling beautifully over the brick in the winter and adding flashes of bright green to compliment the red in the summer. In a figurative sense, this new life emerged as the gate was removed from its practical use and became purely aesthetic. Now, it is no longer a gate but a beautiful sculpture, the final visual puzzle piece in Dudley Garden. Moreover, with the closure of the Bacon Gate, Dudley Garden was finally completely blocked off from the traffic and passersby of Massachusetts Avenue, and became the silent, secluded refuge that it is today.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Since the election and inauguration of a president who campaigned for a tougher stance on immigration, we have witnessed escalating activity against undocumented immigrants. Far from being a distant issue, anti-immigrant rhetoric has inspired protest and action in and around Harvard.
Last month, the highest court in Massachusetts heard a case asking whether local law enforcement officers are authorized to detain a person solely at the request of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement.
Even closer to home, six Harvard students spent eight hours in jail last Monday afternoon, arrested after protesting the detention and deportation of undocumented students through a sit-in at the Suffolk County House of Corrections.
These developments are admirable, and we support the Harvard students in their effort. The broken relationship between law enforcement and immigrant communities must be challenged, and we hope legislators in Massachusetts take these pro-immigrant sentiments into consideration when drafting legislation.
Even in challenging political times, our perspectives on our immigrant neighbors must remain unchanged. They are our fellow residents and community members, deserving of the same basic human rights under the law. That was our view in February when argued that the City of Cambridge was right to label itself as a sanctuary city despite punitive action by the federal government; that continues to be our view now. It is critical to prevent unlawful detention of immigrant residents, both in Cambridge and nationwide.
Actions taken by President Donald Trump’s administration, however, have challenged that notion, and law-abiding immigrants now have reason to feel unsafe. In Massachusetts, detainer orders from Immigrations and Customs Enforcement have been used to have local law enforcement hold an individual in custody even after criminal proceedings have been resolved should ICE wish to investigate immigration status or pursue deportation.
Though cases about the constitutionality of these orders are currently being heard in the courts, we are sympathetic to the view that the civil nature of immigration proceedings makes it illegal for law enforcement to detain someone solely on the basis of an ICE order. The Commonwealth must not abandon its necessary commitment to protecting the rights of all of its residents.
Beyond simply the legality of this specific issue, however, these actions by ICE serve to further weaken the already fraught relationship between immigrant communities and law enforcement. This benefits no one, especially when ICE seeks to arrest diligent, law-abiding mothers or fathers dropping their children off at school.
Recently, the lamp posts in Harvard Yard displayed banners reading, “Wherever you are from…you are home.” Indeed, Harvard College brings the brightest students from around the world to study on a campus marked by diversity in nationality, language, and citizenship. This has brought much in the way of discovery and productivity.
Yet for this and other communities to retain their distinctive openness, our elected officials must listen to their constituents who urge them to stand by our legal processes. Our law enforcement, at all levels, must work alongside community leaders. We call on the government to reaffirm the centrality of immigration to our nation and to not neglect its responsibility to provide human rights to all under its protection.
This staff editorial solely represents the majority view of The Crimson Editorial Board. It is the product of discussions at regular Editorial Board meetings. In order to ensure the impartiality of our journalism, Crimson editors who choose to opine and vote at these meetings are not involved in the reporting of articles on similar topics.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
“I always wanted to be prepared for that ‘what if?’ situation. I wanted to be the guy that could walk up to the car crash and do something,” Evan R. Komorowski ’18, the operations chief of Crimson Emergency Medical Service (EMS), says.
He sits at a round table in the EMS “space,” a few large rooms on the sixth floor of the Smith Campus Center. Its walls display posters with CPR instructions, assorted flyers and informational handouts, as well as photographs of smiling student emergency medical technicians (EMTs). Next to him sits Lethu A. Ntshinga ’18, the chief of Crimson EMS, and Danielle A. Seda ’19, the service chief.
Founded five years ago, Crimson EMS trains student EMTs to monitor campus events big and small and act as liaisons between the University Police Department, the University Health Services, and students at the university. Each EMT goes through rigorous training and must complete service requirements to maintain their position.
During the average week, the EMTs monitor between one and five intramural sports games per night and one or two parties per night on weekends. “A large part of what we do is reassuring people that they’re safe here because we’re there,” Ntshinga says.
“Our role is also providing relief to students, in the sense that knowing there are skilled medical professionals here allows them to maybe enjoy themselves a little bit more,” Ntshinga says. “Even on nights when we don’t have patients, we still feel as though we’re serving a purpose.”
This sense of reassurance for the student body is not without sacrifices for the EMTs, who monitor parties and events “until people decide that the end of the party has come,” says Ntshinga. Komorowski and Seda exchange knowing glances, then nod. Clearly “the end of the party” is often quite flexible. Ntshinga says EMTs often bring homework along, as it’s not uncommon for a party shift to last up to five hours.
Even though the EMTs must stay on the sidelines, Ntshinga enjoys monitoring parties. “The shifts that we get to be on at night is the time when people are the most relaxed and the happiest and enjoying their college experiences the most.” Ntshinga says, smiling. She rests her hands on her closed laptop, decorated with a sticker that reads: “People Over PSets.”
Ntshinga likes to “watch my classmates have a great time and to see some of my friends—and see them when they’re not freaking out about a test or the project that’s due,” she explains. “Just taking a moment to take care of their social well-being.”
But serving as a collegiate EMT comes with unique challenges. “The issue is that your patients are your classmates. And that’s something you don’t get in a traditional 911 transporting service—you pick someone up and then you never see them again,” Komorowski explains. “Meanwhile, here, I have had people get very irate with me … and then 8 hours later I’m eating lunch two seats away from them in the dining hall.”
Despite these challenges, Komorowski says he appreciates the skills he has gained through his experience as an EMT. “When you find someone unconscious on the floor of a bathroom, a lot of people just panic,” he says. “But now, going through the training, you get the skillset to deal with that sort of emergency.”
The student EMTs also learn skills beyond medical response. “In EMS in general, there’s no room for self-doubt a lot of the time,” Ntshinga says. “You really need to look at yourself as the authority and trust in your own judgment.”
Sections
This summer it will have been 12 years since I last saw the six-acre plot of land I grew up on. It has since been destroyed by a tornado, flattened by Caterpillars and paved over by enterprising businessmen. But in my head, the quaint two-bedroom farmhouse and the catfish pond, encased by a flimsy wire fence—to keep my sister and me from fraternizing with the “fishies,” as we were inclined to do—still stand there, a nostalgic safe haven.
I was raised in the boondocks of Arkansas. The stereotypes that just popped into your mind? They probably apply.
We didn’t wear shoes when we could help it. My sister and I had a special knack for losing them. About 100 yards from our main house, where my sister and I shared a bedroom and my parents took the master, Grandma lived in a little two-room cottage attached to the barn.
Helping Daddy drive the tractor was a favorite pastime, only bested by swaying on the rope swing Grandma tied up in the oak tree out back. We raised chickens, guineas, and peacocks. Sheep, rams, and cows, too, for a little while. And my best friend was a pet goat named Josephine that I wheeled around in a red wagon everywhere I went. My sister and I liked to play outside in our underwear, splashing around in the barrels Grandma used to collect rain. Mostly we went around naked, but forests on either side of the property kept us from having to worry about onlookers.
Mornings on the farm were always a blur of sleepy eyed Malt-o-Meal breakfasts and last-minute kisses goodbye. They were mornings when I didn’t have to even be alert enough to put on my own clothes or brush my own teeth. Mornings where I watched the tell-tail remnants of the moon sneak back into the clouds from the school bus as the sun steadily washed away traces of the night.
On school days, before it was even light outside, Daddy would carry me, half-sleeping, outside into the chilly pre-dawn mist, down to the car port, and lay me long ways on the bench seat of the two-door Toyota. We would drive down the half mile grey gravel driveway and let the engine idle, waiting at the front gate for the school bus lights to peek over the crest of the red dirt road. I’d climb down from the truck and get on the school bus, the first one to be picked up every morning. The driver would close the door, and off we went. Three more miles down Tycoon Road to pick up my next door neighbor—sitting on her old swinging gate, waiting for the hydraulic bus doors to open and take her out of the woods.
***
These tranquil mornings seem an entirely different universe from my now scattered and hectic routine. I am hardly ever up before the sun rises and I haven’t eaten a proper breakfast since last semester. If I ever enjoy the pre-dawn serenity now, it’s on a sober walk back from the library after a long night that ran into morning.
Those blissfully dark mornings in Centerton, Arkansas seem so idyllic now. I would give a lot for my mom to make breakfast for me unwaveringly, like clockwork, rather than having to walk outside and put myself in potential danger of encountering people before I’ve had coffee.
I miss the indifference of letting someone else pick my outfit in the morning, rather than having to get up and throw on a jumble of my own devising ten minutes before my 9 a.m. Spanish class.
The funny thing, looking back, is that I used to hate those things. I resented that I always had to eat all of what my mom made for breakfast, or that I had to wear the blue skirt instead of the orange dress. Finally being here at Harvard, on my own, has made me realize what I assume all moody teenagers realize at some point: I had it really good back then and I didn’t even know it.
Sections
When the lights go down and the turntable comes alive, Daniel Um ’19—known as DJdUm—straps on his headphones and gears up for a night of mixing music. A popular DJ at Harvard parties, Um takes his talents across the river to universities and nightclubs in Boston on the weekends.
A native of the Philippines, Um said he got his start by creating remixes and covers of popular songs while he was in high school. “I started posting my mixes on YouTube, and people asked me to DJ their events,” he says.
From there, he started honing his DJ skills and became more serious about mixing. Now, the Integrative Biology concentrator is part of the Harvard College Electronic Music Collective—a student organization devoted to “electronic musicians,” including producers, DJs, and beatmakers, who come together, learn new skills, and collaborate on projects, according to their website.
“We noticed the demand for DJs was greater than the number of DJs on campus,” Um says of the group. Um and other members of the HCEMC are trying to cultivate a pipeline for students to become professional DJs. The organization hosts lecture series and invites up-and-coming DJs like Berkeley-born EDM producer KSHMR to campus.
Many of the campus groups that contract for Um’s DJ services get funding from the Undergraduate Council, which provides money for DJs and sound equipment at parties through their grant program. Um says that for him, DJing is a fun part-time job that allows him the flexibility to work events when he’s available.
“Last semester, I was DJing two gigs per weekend,” Um says. “That was a lot.” He pulls up a list of his recent appearances: House formals, cultural club parties, and even nightclubs in Boston. His experience is extensive.
Then Um pulls up a diagram called a “Camelot Wheel” on his computer. An advanced tool for harmonic mixing, the Camelot Wheel and the corresponding key and tempo designations for songs allow DJs to transition between appropriate tunes. “The goal is to make it sound like one long song,” Um explains.
He flicks back and forth between tracks with his software and gives me the lowdown on how he beat matches the song playing through the speakers as he readies the next.
“If people are feeling EDM, then I’ll play more of that. Same goes for Trap or Hip Hop,” he says.
Um says that while individual DJs have varied philosophies when it comes to their craft, he tries to think of his work controlling the music and vibe of a party as something a little more fun.
“In my opinion, it’s more of a celebration with friends,” he says. “DJing is a good way to stress relieve.”
Sections
Welcome to the dream journal of a sleep-deprived freshman. She may or may not wake up in Lamont more often than she does in her own dorm room.
Entry 1: April 9, 2017. 5:23 a.m.
It was another Sunday night, an all-nighter like the rest of them. But this time, something was different. As I finished up my p-set at the crack of dawn, I realized that the some of the lights in the hall had gone out. Within five minutes, they were all out.The security guard at the front of the library was oddly quiet as he rummaged through my tiny bag for the book I was trying to steal. Once deemed innocent, I grabbed the door to exit. It was locked. I turned around to talk to the security guard, but he had disappeared. Suddenly I heard a cackle, and a figure emerged from the darkness. I panicked, kicked the door, and yelled for help. Nothing. I heard the figure whisper, “Uh oh, you moron! You just got Keshed!” The last thing I remember before I awoke was Dean Khurana and about 100 tired undergraduates walking toward me chanting, “Kesh, kesh, kesh.”
Entry 2: April 10, 2017. 3:45 a.m.
The beginning is a little blurry. All I know is that I was naked, surrounded by a hundred other eager freshmen gathering together to run Primal Scream. The time read 11:59:51, and the countdown had just begun. Nine… eight... I am an unusually bad runner, so I should have suspected something was off when I found myself at the front of the crowd, crouching down like Usain Bolt about to run a 100-meter sprint. Seven… six… five… The band was playing loudly. Four… three… Tourists were already recording on their iPhones. Two… one… I take off. All of a sudden, I am transported to center stage of Sanders Theatre. It’s an Economics 10 lecture, and they’re taking attendance, so you know everyone texted their friends to get there on time. I’m on stage with N. Gregory Mankiw as he describes profit-maximization in a perfectly competitive market. The statues laugh and point as I run offstage, bathed in a cold sweat.
Entry 3: April 11, 2017. 7:53 a.m.
Last night, I became the John Harvard statue. That’s right. I was fully stuck inside the bronze man that sits in front of University Hall, one foot awkwardly extended, day in and day out. My brain was there, fully functioning. But I saw what he saw, heard what he heard, and felt whatever it was that he felt. And boy, are those tourists hopeful! They can touch my foot all they want, but only 5.4 percent of them are gonna get in. For a long while, I remained content up there, and it wasn’t until the morning when I realized that I was the statue of more than just three lies. Not 1638, not the founder, not John Harvard, and never ever washed clean.
Sections
The air is that almost-but-not-quite-warm. The kind that has me sweating under my jacket, but not enough to shed a layer. Somewhere far behind me, my mom shouts my name. Her voice echoes in the surrounding hills, as if dozens of moms are looking for me. I ignore all of them.
The leaves are wet. They soak through my jeans to my knees, creating spots I know I’ll be scolded for later. I sit back onto my ankles like a lazy church-goer.
ROSALIE CORRY BADINELLI
It’s a weird feeling for a six year-old kid, to read one of your names on a tombstone. It gets weirder the more you read.
MARCH 5, 1923 - JULY 7, 1994
The year is off, but otherwise, the birthday is mine. No one had told me my grandmother and I shared a birthday. In fact, before that moment, I had never known of anyone who did. I had finally met my first birthday buddy—she was just buried six feet beneath me.
***
In “The Wind-Up Bird Chronicle,” Haruki Murakami writes of Toru, a passive young man living without much purpose in suburban Japan. He is apathetic about his life, including his recently-lost job and his relationships with others—many of which are destroyed over the course of the novel.
After some time, though, Toru begins to feel the consequences of his passivity. In a moment of reflection, he says, “Every now and then I would feel a violent stab of loneliness. The very water I drink, the very air I breathe, would feel like long, sharp needles.... I could hear the roots of loneliness creeping through me when the world was hushed at four o’clock in the morning.”
Maybe Toru could have downloaded a dating app and met someone. His four o’clocks in the morning would have been less hushed. I think he would have still been lonely, though.
***
The room looks like a murder scene. Blood spatter paints the walls, and the thicker globs slide down like egg yolks on a windowpane. When I accidentally step in one of the larger pools, the blood squelches, still warm, under my bare feet. It’s scary, and I’m alone.
My anxiety kicks in, and I start to hyperventilate until the breath suddenly catches in my throat. I try to exhale, I really try, with all of the breathing exercises they taught me to calm down, but in this moment I can’t seem to remember any of them, and the longer I don’t breathe the more the blood spots on the wall start to blend with the light spots in my vision, and it swirls until I see red, just red, and I grab the banister for support, but it’s slick and too sticky, and why can’t I just remember those goddamn breathing exercises.
Eventually, I breathe. Then I run, calling my mom’s name as loudly as I can. I don’t think she hears me.
***
She’s just busy. She was the one who said she was looking for us to be more serious, sure, and yeah, she didn’t tell me about her demanding schedule before I got attached, but she’s a busy person. No problem. I get that, because I’m Chill. Because she’s Chill. We’re Chill.
She likes me, and she likes being with me. She doesn’t want it to seem like her unresponsiveness or her polite “no”s to invitations for ice cream mean she’s not interested. She’s really interested. She’s just busy. I get it, right? How busy Harvard can be? Especially during the spring because of how time flies by while assignments pile up? There’s just no room in The Schedule. Thursday dinner doesn’t work. She has an assignment due this weekend she should really start. But let’s hang soon, okay? She misses me. She likes me, even if she doesn’t see me.
Still, liking me but not seeing me feels a whole lot like not liking me.
***
My dog died this month. Well, we killed him. Euthanized him, I mean. It’s called euthanizing. I think it’s called euthanizing if you pay a professional to do it. No, that’s a contract kill. We contract-killed my dog this month. He was sick in the head, and a danger to us and himself.
When my last dog died, I cried. He had developed a problem with his nasal arteries, and once, he bled all over our house. His nerves stopped working, too, and soon his body followed. Before he was broken, we would snuggle together.
This time around, I still cried, but not because my dog died. I wasn’t very close to him. My younger brother was, and I cried because I knew that 150 miles away from me, he was crying about the loss of his best friend. It wasn’t empathy, though. It was guilt. I hadn’t called him when I heard the news. It’s hard feeling alone with someone else.
***
The housing lottery in Mather House is pretty straightforward. With the exception of a few sophomores, everybody gets their own bedroom. “Singles for life,” the saying goes. Mather students love to brag about all of the singles in our house, partially because it’s one of the only things we have to brag about. The process is a little dramatic and needlessly stressful, but after the dust settles, surprise surprise, we’ve each ended up with a beloved single. And we’re happy. We don’t have to share our most personal space, our most personal lives, with someone else.
Oftentimes, though, I want to.

Sections
Every week for the past year, Fifteen Minutes has published dynamic pieces of reporting for the cover of our magazine—pieces we affectionately call “scrutinies.” Previous scrutinies have delved into difficult, elusive subjects, shaped heated conversations on campus, and challenged dominant narratives of Harvard’s history.
But our cover stories, chock-full of compelling interviews and lively prose, more than simply shed light on pressing issues at Harvard: they can also help you scheme cuties. We, FM’s resident Tinder gurus, are here to guide you from beneath the covers of our beloved magazine to beneath the covers with that hottie you’ve had your eye on—;) ;) ;).
Here are a few lines from the year’s scrutinies that will surely spice up your dating app profiles:
“Some… fear they would not be competitive applicants.” —Hannah Natanson, The Only Veteran in the Room
But you’re worth the SuperLike anyway!
“Built to resemble a naval fortress.” —Ben G. Cort, We The Petitioners: Rewriting the History of Massachusetts's Native Americans
But a sexy naval fortress.
“Following this is a list of gruesome specifics.” —Ben G. Cort, We The Petitioners: Rewriting the History of Massachusetts's Native Americans
*scrolls down*
“Licenses can be exclusive (meaning no more than one licensee can use the invention) or non-exclusive.” —C. Ramsey Fahs, Patent Pending
You’re not really looking for something serious right now, but you’re open to it. Smooth.
“Every Republican here—and there are more than a dozen—just looks… discouraged.” —Laura E. Hatt, Hillary, I Presume?
Left-swipe for the right-leaning.
“The position comes with a short history marked by frequent change.” —Andrew W. Badinelli, Soul on the Line: Sheehan D. Scarborough ’07 and his Office of BGLTQ Student Life
Oh, we bet it does! ;) 
“After all, deciding to leave also means figuring out how to come back.” —Annie E. Schugart and Emma C. Scornavacchi, Putting Harvard on Hold
For that one ex you haven’t quite moved on from.  
“Maybe that alternate state of consciousness is realizing that there is no alternate state of consciousness after all.” —Benjamin D. Senzer and Lucy Wang, It’s High Time: Weed at Harvard
You fancy yourself an intellectual. Let your matches know how insufferable you are ahead of time!
“The well-dressed, polite, Nordic blonde from a family with an income of $20,000 a year and up, living in a swanky suburb.” —Mia C. Karr and Hannah Natanson, The Lightning Rod: Race and Admissions at Harvard
You’re not wearing medals and a tuxedo in your first picture, but you still want people to know what’s up. 
Sections
Annie Jump Cannon was exploring the stars long before her passion for the cosmos led her to Harvard. Born in Dover, Delaware in 1863, Cannon grew up learning the names of the constellations from her mother. From an early age, Cannon was mostly deaf, but this didn’t hinder her study of the sky.
Her interest in astronomy blossomed during her time at Wellesley College. After graduation, Cannon spent a decade at home and travelling before returning to Massachusetts in 1896, this time to the Harvard Observatory.
Under the direction of Edward C. Pickering, a small contingent of women worked as Observatory “computers,” analyzing countless photographic plates that had been collected from various astronomical outposts. Cannon joined their ranks.

But computing was not a job for astronomers in any traditional sense. As described in a 1937 newspaper clipping in the Harvard University Archives, it would have been “a little too much to expect that a woman...could manipulate the heavy instruments and keep a nightly watch on the heavens.”
Photographic analysis, on the other hand, was seen as the perfect job for women—and an economical choice for Pickering, who paid the female scientists wages equivalent to those of factory workers. Pickering believed that “women could be as useful as men to astronomy once the discomforts and manual labor were removed,” but he did not see the computers’ work as true scientific analysis.
Regardless, the work of the female scientists at Harvard Observatory was integral to the advancement of the astronomical field. The spectrum of light emitted by a star can be captured in photographic form. While the span of colors is not visible, the presence or absence of dark lines in the spectrum is revealing: These dark lines can be interpreted to discern whether the star is moving towards or away from earth. Under Pickering, the female scientists focused on the analysis of stellar spectra by means of photographs.
It was through this kind of analysis that Cannon developed a system of classification for the stars. With this classification system, Cannon did a significant amount of compiling for the Henry Draper Catalogue, an index with classifications of over 300,000 stars named in honor of the man who pioneered star spectra photography.
The Draper Catalogue became an indispensable resource for astronomers and physicists, and the classification system that Cannon developed is still used today. Professor W. W. Campbell of the Lick Observatory wrote that “it is impossible to overestimate the value of this catalogue to all students of the stars.”
While Cannon’s system of classification was respected by and essential to the astronomical community, it was dubbed the “Harvard System,” erasing Cannon’s name from its history. The Observatory acknowledged this erasure as early as 1915, saying that her contributions were not properly recognized because she lacked a university appointment.
Cannon only received a permanent position at the University itself in 1938, after 40 years of work. She was, however, the first woman to receive an honorary degree from Oxford University, and was granted a host of other honorary degrees and awards in her lifetime.
Though her peers gradually recognized the scientific impact of her work, Cannon’s own perspective was quite traditional. In a 1935 newspaper clipping in the Harvard University Archives, Cannon said she believed that female astronomers were better at observation work than theory, although she anticipated that women would eventually join men in studying more abstract astronomy.
But Cannon was a strong in believer in scientific opportunities for women. As she asked in a 1933 newspaper article, “Whose eye is brighter than a woman’s?”
The question is a fair one. For more than 100 years, Cannon’s eye has continued to impact the way the night sky is seen.
Sections
I place my fingers on the light switch, ready to pull down. Maybe tonight will be different. I exhale, count to three, flip the switch, and watch my room fade to black. Success.
Well, almost. My cellphone bellows out an obnoxious bvvm bvvm and projects a beam of white light onto the ceiling.
I swear, it’s like she knows exactly when I’m about to go to sleep.
“hey benn can i ask you a quick qqqq??”
Surprise, surprise.
“why was catherine enlightened but not peter??”
I’m sure you’d love for me to tell you the answer, wouldn’t you? I could tell you that Peter the Great is considered by most historians to be pre-Enlightenment because of his blatant disregard of serfdom. I could tell you that Catherine the Great is usually considered to be the first Enlightened Russian monarch due to her easing-up on literary censorship. But why should I? You’ll just go ahead and get an A+ on tomorrow’s test just like you did on all the other tests this year, and I’ll just pinch myself for answering your questions the night before the exam yet again, and you’ll get into Harvard, and you’ll become a doctor, and you’ll cure cancer and save the world while I sit around doing nothing. Not this time, though. This time you’ll get nothing from me. Better luck next time. Good night.
“Sure, absolutely! Peter the Great is considered by most historians to be…”
***
“qqq! do you remember what the phi phenomenon is??”
It’s the illusory perception of motion when lights are stroboscopically flashed in an array—but that’s beyond the point.
It’s a marvel I decided to answer this girl’s questions in the first place: She was my greatest academic rival and worst enemy during all four years of high school. Don’t be fooled by her egregious Facebook Messenger grammar. Believe me, she can sing the body electric better than Walt Whitman. She can swallow a math test with a side of Ticonderogas and spit everything out with all the correct answers, work shown. She’s a genius. And I was absolutely terrified of her.
Providence saw to it that she and I had most of our classes together. Even though our last names were on opposite ends of the alphabet, there were always just enough students between us in the roster to ensure that I was seated right next to her. She sat so close, in fact, that in the periphery of my vision I could see a smug grin wash over her face as she answered that multiple-choice question about the phi phenomenon. And from where she was sitting, she could probably see a grimace wash over mine.
“but how would you know the percentage of light-haired offspring??”
Well first off, we don’t even have to know this until the next test, but if you must know, you would just cross the HH and Hh parents and multiply that probability by 5.24 percent. The solution seems simple, doesn’t it? If I had just stopped tending to her nocturnal question sprees, I wouldn’t have been responsible for doling out correct test answers. It was as simple as that. But it was easier said than done.
We’ve all seen those movies in which the hero is suspending the villain by his neck, about to drop him into the flaming abyss below. It’s the grand finale, and just desserts are about to be served. And most of us probably wince and shudder when the hero, draped in immense power, inevitably gets that look of noble pity in his eyes and decides to spare the villain from his impending demise.
I find the thought of unbridled success even more frightening than the thought of struggling to get there. Indeed, keeping my villain alive just a little while longer kept me struggling, struggling to the bitter end. But she gave me a reason to get up in the morning. I needed her.
When the late-night question session didn’t happen, I grew truly concerned. I grew concerned that, without her, I wouldn’t have to try anymore. That I’d sit still atop a high pedestal as though I’d won everything there was to be won, like a sculpture commemorating something once-great. Something that people would ask about today and forget about tomorrow.
***
It was the night before the last week of high school, and, as it turns out, I had succeeded in all I had set out to do. There were no more tests. No more essays. The congratulations came and went.
I hadn’t heard from my beloved competitor in months. I suppose she realized she didn’t need me anymore after she knew what she’d be doing for the next four years. So I guess that meant that, in a purely cosmic way, I had won. And I felt empty.
I placed my fingers on the light switch, ready to pull down. Maybe tonight would be different. I exhaled, counted to three, flipped the switch, and watched my room fade to black.
Well, almost.
“Hi Ben. I know we’ve had our ups and downs, but I was just wondering if you might want to go to prom with me? (:”  
Sections
At some point during my grandmother’s shiva, while my relatives milled about in the kitchen sharing stories and slices of lukewarm lasagna on paper plates, I walked upstairs. I pushed open the creaky wooden door to her office, and, without turning on the lights, sat down on the red carpeted floor in front of her bookshelf. Its rows filled a wall no wider than seven or eight feet, but I felt more lost than I ever have in Widener Library’s endless, subterranean stacks. I tilted my head to read the names on spines, trying to figure out if she organized her books alphabetically, or by subject, or if she just placed them on the shelves at random. I had sat down in front of the bookshelf many times, choosing paperbacks to cram in my overnight bag, but I had never asked her that.
The heart of my grandparents’ home, on the half-level between the dining room and the bedrooms upstairs, is the living room that hosts my grandfather’s elaborate music system. On Sunday afternoons we would form a half-circle in front of his stereo the way most families do in front of a television set, the notes of Bach or Beethoven or The Beatles filling the air. But if my grandfather’s living room was its heart, then my grandmother’s office was their home’s crowded, whirring brain. The books that often spilled out of it, like so many uncontained thoughts, only hinted at the deep layers of memory buried inside.
My grandmother had twinkling green eyes and an easy smile. After dinner, when my father and grandfather went upstairs to listen to music, she would turn to me and smack her palm on the table. “So,” she would say, “what are you reading now?” She would ask which books I liked, and why, in a tone that demanded a concrete and specific answer: the tone of the English teacher she once was. Sometimes, she brought me paperbacks from the office. Sometimes, I showed her the papers I wrote for school, or the stories I had started to write on my own. Reading was our ritual, our code, the language that only we could speak. It formed an invisible silo around us, a secret cave where I could hide from the dreary suburbia of my childhood. I never thought to ask what sort of solace it provided her.
*****
My grandmother learned the ritual from her father, Irving Novafastovsky. Fleeing pogroms and revolution, Irving fled his shtetl near Kiev for Romania, then France, then Cuba, and then the United States. He had attended religious school only until about the eighth grade, but in America his immigrant wife taught him to read English, and he devoured novels. The stories he told at home on a dairy farm in Lebanon, Connecticut, blended Old Testament stories with Russian folktales and quoted passages from Abraham Lincoln’s speeches. He rattled off dozens of quippy morality tales. A boy, walking with his father, drops a bag of cherries. The father tells the boy to pick it up, but the boy refuses. The father picks up the bag and walks ahead of the boy, dropping one cherry on the ground every few steps. “You should have taken the bag,” he tells the boy.
My grandmother, Frances, was born on October 26, 1932. Unemployment in the United States was at 32 percent. Franklin Roosevelt, with his promise of a New Deal for the American people, won the presidential election in a landslide a couple weeks later. Fran and her sister, Lila, wore dresses made from empty grain sacks; the girls, and their brother, Sheldon, ate milk and eggs from the farm and vegetables from the garden. They weren’t well off, but they had it better than most.
As a child, my grandmother hid in an apple tree with a book instead of doing her chores. In Jersey City, where the family later moved, she was top of her class at Snyder High School,  vivacious and popular, the lead in her senior class play. Once, on the street, a man claiming to represent a modeling agency approached her. But the job would have required straightening her curly hair, so she turned it down.
One day, toward the end of high school, her principal knocked on her parents’ door with a letter of recommendation for New York University. For a young woman from her background, attending college was rare, and attending a private college unthinkable. But she went, commuting from home, working full time during the day. She thought she might study literature, or maybe anthropology—she wanted to know what made people people. But she chose speech as her major, a good, practical subject that might help her find work.
Her plans changed, in her junior year of college, when she met my grandfather, Milton, at a dance at the local Jewish Community Center. Though he had come with a date, a friend insisted on introducing him to my grandmother—he thought, for some reason, that they would bond over their shared love of sports. In fact, neither of them followed sports, but both, thinking the other did, feigned fandom for the evening. She gave him her phone number, and he called her for a date the next day. She kissed him as soon as she got into the car. Two weeks later, they were talking about marriage. The wedding came several months after that, followed by a baby, and then three more.
For most of his life, my grandfather managed clothing stores. He worked six days a week, but it was still a struggle to support four children. So, at the age of 33, my grandmother enrolled in local college to get a master’s degree in literature and a teaching certificate, while substitute teaching at Ramapo High School and the town’s  Jewish day school.
As a teacher she was eminently knowledgeable, extremely thorough, and maybe, sometimes, a little strict. She prepared for her lessons with the same rigor that she expected from her students. Sorting her papers after she died, my father found a principal’s classroom observation report describing one of her lessons on the iconic Soviet novel “One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich”. “Before delving into these challenging studies, you recapitulated an excellent historical background,” the principal wrote. “You have the ability to crystalize a considerable amount of historical data into a relatively brief, yet quite comprehensive synopsis.”
Many of my grandmother’s students loved her—would run into her, years later, and thank her for teaching them to appreciate literature. But, like all teachers, she had misbehaving ones, too. Already exhausted by the never-ending demands of work and family, she felt frustrated by those students, and frustrated by her own inability to reach them.
Sometimes, bouts of melancholy waylaid her. The tragedies of the world—wars, genocides, environmental disasters—seemed to overwhelm her. She preferred dark, gloomy writers—Roth, Hardy, Shakespeare during his third, tragic, period—and she often seemed to internalize their perspectives.
Yet she remained, in her adult life, vivacious, charming, able to strike up a lively conversation with anyone. And as she and my grandfather grew older, their passionate young love developed into the easy intimacy of old age. In their retirement, they traveled all over the world—Italy, Egypt, Israel. Later, when her arthritis made traveling impossible, they were equally content to drive around the Hudson Valley. Wherever they walked, they held hands.
******
I’ve had the life—the privilege, the opportunities—that my grandmother might have had if she were born 60 years later. When I was accepted to Harvard, my parents told me not to worry about the money, or the distance from home.  They told me—and the world told me, too—that I could study whatever I wanted. Of course, I wanted to study literature. Money, marriage, children—those things were far from my mind.
When I arrived at Harvard, I found miles of books waiting for me to read them, and, even better, dozens of other students waiting to talk about them. At Harvard, talking about books was no longer a secret ritual. At Harvard, talking about books was cool. Talking about books was something you did at cocktail parties, at leisurely lunches, late at night with the cute guy down the hall. There was a whole new vocabulary to it, words like mimesis and deconstruction, a whole new code. There were clothes for it, coffee shops for it, a certain disaffected, ironic attitude to adopt. I was immersed in this; I was intoxicated by this; I was, I found to my delight, good at this.
Every few months I sent my grandmother a few lines about the books I read in English classes, sometimes with a paper attached. She always wrote back to me quickly, enthusiastically. I can still read her messages in my email archives. “The Wife of Bath shows us a changing world from the spoken to the written, from royal authority to the authority of the Scriptures, etc.,” she wrote when I sent her an essay I had written on Chaucer. “I just loved reading the paper, not only for what it said, but for the person that presented these wonderful ideas.” She responded even more enthusiastically when I sent her the articles I had begun to write for The Crimson and The Advocate. “I was so moved!” she wrote in response to my first Fifteen  Minutes cover story. “The writing was wonderful.”
I am ashamed to see now that few of my responses to those emails are more than a line. “Thank you so much, Nana! Love you,” was often all I wrote. I was busy, I reasoned. My academic work was getting harder; I had extracurricular positions to seek, fellowships and prizes to apply for, people to impress.
I saw my grandmother for the second-to-last time the summer before my junior year, when we drove together to my cousin’s wedding. I had finally read “Goodbye, Colombus,” one of her favorites, and we talked, for a while, about Roth. She seemed sad, unusually so. A news piece about Syria came on the radio, and she sighed—it made her think about the Holocaust, about slavery, about all the evil in the world. But the next day, at the rehearsal dinner, she held court in the center of the room, brimming with happiness, enveloping everyone in her pride.
A few weeks later, the heart troubles that had long plagued her got worse. Strange symptoms sent her in and out of the hospital, for procedures that never seemed to work. She was having trouble sleeping, breathing, seeing; she couldn’t read. She couldn’t remember the words for things, couldn’t remember what she had done the day before.
My dad told me to call her. I said I would, but a week went by, and then another one. Crimson elections were about to start; I was running for Magazine Chair. A third week went by, and my grandmother was hospitalized for the last time. My dad read her (for she could no longer read it herself) one of my Crimson articles. It was one of the last I’ve written, a lighthearted profile of a cheese vendor in the square. “It cheered her up,” my dad said. “But you should call her.”
When I came home for Thanksgiving, I drove to Columbia-Presbyterian with my parents. My mother brought containers of chicken soup, the only food my grandmother could stand. We entered her room, where she sat, under several blankets, on a chair by the window. My grandfather sat beside her, rubbing her feet because they were cold. She looked shrunken, small: Her hair was unkempt and the lines in her face looked deeper. She gazed out the window, not at anything, particularly. But when we entered, she broke into a wide grin.
She looked at me. “I loved…” She started to speak, but trailed off. Her mouth twitched, as though searching for a word. “The cheese! I loved the cheese!” I knew that she meant my article. I wanted to cry. Instead, I sat beside her. I told her that I had just been elected Magazine Chair. I showed her a picture of the staff, and she smiled. I told her what I was reading in school, even though I knew that she did not really understand. After about half an hour or so, her eyes started to close, and we helped her get into bed. She woke up a few minutes later, confused, scared, screaming—she needed to go to the bathroom, but she didn’t know how to ask.
In the car on the way home, I suggested to my parents, desperately, that we get Nana some books-on-tape to distract her. They agreed halfheartedly, but we all knew that she would not be able to follow a storyline, or perhaps even tolerate the sound. I returned to school, and I got the call a few days later. It was not just heart problems. She had a disease called Creutzfeldt-Jakob which causes the brain’s tissue to degenerate rapidly. Creutzfeld-Jakob is extremely rare; it is always fatal. It turns the cerebrum into something resembling a kitchen sponge, or a bookshelf with half its books removed. My grandmother died just days after her diagnosis.
*******
It is always difficult to see the belongings of a lost loved one: the tube of toothpaste, rolled up for the ease of a hand that will never again grasp it; the clothes laid out for an evening that will never come. But sitting in front of my grandmother’s bookshelf, something else bothered me, too. I realized how many of the books sitting on her shelves we had never discussed. Did she share my love of Edith Wharton? My distaste for Jonathan Franzen? I realized how little I had known about her.
Her bookcase seemed to offer both everything and nothing: pages and pages of words that must have made her think, feel, laugh, and cry, but no clue about her thoughts or feelings, what made her laugh or what made her cry, and why. I searched for some hint of her in the margins, some annotation or haphazard scrawl. But she left nothing, not even a jotted-down phone number, not even a folded-down page.
My grandfather told me to take as many books as I wanted. I brought home a bundle of them, chosen for no particular reason: Hardy’s “Tess of the D’Ubervilles,” DeLillo’s “White Noise,” Morrison’s “Jazz.” I have been going through them, slowly, as college comes to an end. There are not many more grades to earn or prizes to win, no more positions to strive for or people to impress. In the fall, I will go to graduate school, another place with another library, another crowd of people eager to talk about books. I want nothing more than to tell her this; I want nothing more than to tell her what I am reading now.
Sections
Whirrrrrrr. Click.
A record is spinning, the soundboard is lighting up, and punk rock music is piping into the dimly-lit studio. Papers and lists coat a corkboard. A Himalayan salt lamp lends the room its low, warm lighting. Two microphones hover at the ready.
At these microphones stand Monica G. de los Reyes ’17 and Matthew T. Luongo ’17, shuffling through records and inputting computer entries as their show begins.
From 10 p.m. to midnight every Wednesday, de los Reyes and Luongo play punk rock music on 95.3 FM from the Pennypacker basement studio of WHRB Cambridge, Harvard’s student-run radio station. Their show is a part of Record Hospital, the station’s punk department.
“One second.” De los Reyes silences the small studio, already filled with a few visitors, as she and Luongo place headphones over their ears. “We have to announce right now. Standby.”
As the current song plays its final notes, the two glance at each other. This is a routine they know well.
“Hey, everyone,” Luongo begins. “This is Record Hospital on WHRB Cambridge 95.3 FM. I’m Matt—”
De los Reyes leans in. “And I’m Monica, and you’re listening to our show: Baby’s First Mosh Pit.”
Luongo and de los Reyes are nearing the end of their four-year reign over WHRB’s punk rock department, and it’s clear they’ve had a good run.
The pair weren’t always slotted for 10 p.m. on Wednesdays. They’ve held this coveted spot for three semesters, but the two started off, as almost every WHRB comper does, in a much less palatable time slot: the 3:30 a.m. to 5 a.m. shift.
“You feel this human connection talking into the microphone,” Luongo says. “Like, ‘Is anyone listening?’ And you don’t know. They could not be. You just have no idea.”
Regardless of the number of listeners, both Luongo and de los Reyes consider these late hours worthwhile. As seniors now, they light up with quiet pride recounting how they’ve worked their way up WHRB’s ranks.
“At two in the morning the only other people awake are cab drivers and late-night graveyard shift people,” de los Reyes says. That’s not to say, though, that the 10 p.m. shift is bereft of wacky listeners.
The studio’s phone rings three times over the course of the two-hour show. The first time, someone’s speaking nonsense. The second time, Luongo answers and listens for a long moment before holding the phone to his chest and glancing around the room.
“Someone screaming,” Luongo says. The room lets out a collective giggle and passes the phone around. Sure enough, a sustained scream issues from the receiver.
“I’m glad you like the music… Have a good night, man.” Luongo hangs up the phone, shaking his head and laughing.
The third call of the night is someone calling in sick, a friend of the show calling with regrets that he won’t be able to make it tonight. “Oh, that’s my roommate,” de los Reyes says. “He’s always here.”
Members and friends alike spend time in the studio working shifts, doing homework in the many lounges, talking to friends, and rifling through records.
“We use it as a space for a lot of things,” Luongo says. Sure enough, over the course of the show, at least five people duck in and out, either poking heads in to say hello or sinking into the studio’s plush couch to chat.
“It’s a great community of open-minded, explorative, artsy people,” Luongo says.
According to the hosts, the show has become a Wednesday night staple for a whole community of listeners, and has evolved and developed a strong character since de los Reyes and Luongo began as freshmen.
“Punk has a long history of activism and protest,” de los Reyes says. “We try to find people who wouldn’t get air time.” Any band played too often on the radio, even within the narrow window of college punk rock, is out of the question for Baby’s First Mosh Pit.
“It ends up letting us amplify a lot of voices that don’t get amplified,” de los Reyes says. “A lot of members of the station identify as queer, so we have all these really cool queer bands represented because people are bringing in their own tastes and issues that they want to fight for. I try to play as much female-fronted bands as I can, and people of color…. A lot of the time that gets left out of the alternative music scene.”
De los Reyes and Luongo are also more than ready to leave their mark on the music they are so passionate about. As most station members before them do, they each have a unique signature and nickname used for scribbling opinions on records. Often those scrawled opinions comprise conversations that span decades and generations.
De los Reyes (klutz) and Luongo (tugbt) have kept this tradition alive. “People are ruthless!” de los Reyes says, flipping through the records and scanning the comments. WHRB studio members of the past include professors, famous writers, and music industry moguls—all of whom current members can communicate with through pen scribbles stuck to records stacked away in the Record Hospital lounge.
“When you meet old alums, you can be like: ‘What’s your symbol?’” Luongo says. “And you might not know their name, but you’ll recognize a record they wrote on 15 years ago.”
If there’s anything this show proves, it’s the staying power of music. De los Reyes and Luongo will graduate in May, but klutz and tugbt will keep having conversations for as long as Record Hospital is on the air.
As the pair wrap up this Wednesday’s show, they glance at each other with a knowing smile.
“Keep on listening.” And the music starts up again.
Sections
Sleep. We spend almost a third of our lives doing it. It’s incredibly important, yet there is still so much we don’t understand. Why do we need sleep? What happens to our brains during sleep? What function does sleep serve beyond bodily rest?
In attempt to unravel these mysteries, I caught up with two experts from Harvard Medical School, Steven W. Lockley and Robert Stickgold.
Both are currently researching issues related to sleep.
Lockley’s main interests lie in understanding the circadian clock and its relationship with sleep.
Specifically, he works closely with blind people in order to examine how absence of light input affects their circadian rhythms. Sometimes, blind people will develop non-24 hour sleep disorders. For example, in some cases, their clock will be 24.5 hours long—meaning that for them, every day feels like it’s pushed back 0.5 hours.
“It’s like having permanent jet lag, which is very debilitating when the circadian clock can’t synchronize,” Lockley says. “Sleep is a good internal measure of the circadian clock, but it is not the whole story.”
Lockley is also working on two more projects, both funded by the National Aeronautics and Space Administration. One project attempts to identify biological characteristics consistent among people vulnerable to sleep loss. “[We’re trying to] predict who might become fatigued if they have unusual work schedules, or work night shifts,” Lockley says.
His last project involves the impact of light on astronauts at the International Space Station. The results will be used to help NASA design and install new lights with varying wavelengths and intensities, optimized for certain times of the day. For example, he discovered that “low level blue light can help reduce fatigue while driving.”
While Lockley focuses on light and circadian rhythms, Stickgold studies the role of sleep in memory and emotional processing. “While we sleep, the brain is spending the entire night processing recently learned information: stabilizing it, integrating it with older information, extracting patterns from it,” Stickgold says.
He explains that memory is selective. “Sleep processes memories that are inadequately processed during wake,” he says. “Somehow, the brain has the sense that there is more to be gotten out of the information.”
Dreams are even more sophisticated components of memory processing, according to Stickgold. “Dreams help the brain imagine or identify how that information might be useful in the future. We dream about things that have happened in the past to prepare us for the future,” he says.
Though dreams are not always strictly realistic, Stickgold insists they are “metaphorical transformations” that serve a purpose. “If you start paying attention to the dreams and identify the waking sources to your dream, you’ll be able to attribute waking events to the dream,” he says.
These experts are clear: Sleep is important—not just for processing existing information, but for teaching us things we don’t yet know.
“Sleep plays a much bigger role in memory processing that we had expected,” Stickgold says. “We have evolved to form memories so we can take advantage of our past experiences, and use them in the future.”
Correction: December 7, 2022:
A previous version of this article incorrectly identified Steven W. Lockley as a Harvard Medical School professor. In fact, he is an associate professor at the school.
Sections
Securitas guard Bill Oliverio traveled into Boston on Marathon Monday with his brother for the first time since the attack in 2013. That year, he recalls, he’d gone to Heartbreak Hill to cheer on three Harvard students he’d befriended from his post in Claverly Hall.
“We had three girls from here running it,” he says. “So I went in to see them. I had the tracker, and when they passed Heartbreak Hill, I was going to get on the train to go to the finish line to watch them come in, when all of a sudden motorcycle cops come by me way too fast to be anything other than a real, real emergency.”
His nephew, a police officer at Boston City Hall, called to warn him that there were reports of explosions at the finish line. Oliverio immediately called Adams Faculty Dean Sean Palfrey.
“I thought, my girls—I call them my girls. They’re gonna be right at the finish line at that time,” he says. “So I immediately call Sean, the [House] Master, and I say, ‘Listen, she’s due to be at the finish line at that time. When I find out more, I’ll call you back.’”
Luckily, the students weren’t injured.
***
I approach the desk at the bottom of the stairwell in Claverly Hall where Oliverio is seated, shuffling through paperwork. He seems delighted to speak with me. Standing, he moves to find me a chair. He apologizes that there isn’t already one there.
“It’s really—excuse my language—pissing me off because twice this year I put a chair there,” Oliverio says. Then he softens. “It’s really the highlight of my shift, when people stop in.”
Oliverio brings down a chair from upstairs, and I sit down. He says he became interested in the security industry after retiring from his position as a radio technician for the Marine Corps. “It fit with what I was doing and was an easy transition,” he says.
He pauses to wave at a boy on his way outside. “Hey, Andrew!”
Oliverio works night shifts—which run from 4 p.m. to midnight and midnight to 8 a.m—as a Securitas guard in Adams House. Though long, shifts in Adams “aren’t that bad,” Oliverio maintains.
Earlier in his career, Oliverio occasionally worked the night shift in the Yard. “That’s the crappiest,” he laughs. “In the winter, sometimes it’s raining and there’s no place to hide. It’s like probation.” He seems contemplative. “But you go there. You do your time.”
Oliverio considers the night shift in Adams a chance to get to know the residents. One of the girls on the second floor of Claverly Hall is his “consultant” for advice on new movies and TV shows to watch. Sometimes, fellow Patriots and Red Sox fans stop by to discuss the scores of the recent games. Most people, he admits, talk about their schoolwork.
“I try to give these guys advice,” he says. “Not that I know anything about anything. But I see. We sit here, and we see these kids more than the Masters, more than the professors, more than the tutors. ‘Cause all I do is sit here and watch kids in and out all day long.”
Oliverio says he can easily tell when a student has had a rough week. Spotting differences in moods and mannerisms is how he’s able to keep a lookout for the welfare of his “kids—I call them kids,” he says. “Sometimes they get offended when I call them that.”
Oliverio stops mid-sentence to ask a boy walking with a crutch how he’s feeling. “Much better,” the boy says.
Oliverio explains that the boy came into Claverly Hall earlier in the week and asked if Oliverio knew where to get a pair of crutches. Oliverio immediately referred him to another student in the entryway recovering from knee surgery but using only one of his crutches. The students didn’t know each other—one lived on the second floor, the other on the fifth. But once Oliverio introduced them, the first boy was able to borrow the second boy’s extra crutch and walk with some of his weight off the injured foot.
“It’s little stuff like that,” Oliverio says. “Little to everyone else, but to that kid, it’s someone somewhere gives a shit—excuse my language, it’s Marine stuff. That’s how I feel comfortable. But if it gets out of hand, you let me know.”
Sections
A gas station’s white light emanates into an empty lot in the American South.
Masjid al-Haram, the famous mosque surrounding Islam’s holiest site, the Kaaba, is enveloped by skyscrapers. The tallest of those: a clock tower that resembles Big Ben, with a bell that drowns out the mosque’s nighttime call to prayer, isha.
These are some of the images presented in “After Dark: Nocturnal Activities and Public Spaces in the Arabian Peninsula,” a symposium organized by the Harvard Center for Middle Eastern Studies, the Aga Khan program, and the Graduate School of Design. On April 7-8, scholars of history, architecture, design, film, and anthropology gathered to explore nighttime landscapes and public spaces in the Arabian Peninsula and other places with similarly hot climates.

In one panel, a French anthropologist recounts gay cruising at night in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, where public roads in the country are both sites of surveillance and privacy. His fieldwork is fascinating: At one point, the handsome ethnographer describes a sexually tense exchange with a subject, a straight-identified Saudi who rationalized his same-sex attraction in terms of heightened masculinity.
In the last panel, called “New Nocturnal Landscapes,” a scholar discusses the spatial possibilities of camping season—a period during the mild winter months in which Kuwaitis seek refuge and leisure in desert camps. He imagines how the country might design these spaces in the future, presenting enigmatic illustrations of desert lighthouses as a possible blueprint.
The conference was the result of collaboration across departments. Associate Professor of Landscape Architecture and member of the Center for Middle Eastern Studies steering committee Gareth G. Doherty had been talking to William E. Granara, professor of the practice of Arabic and director of Modern Language Programs about ways in which the Center and the Graduate School of Design could collaborate. They decided to organize a conference to better understand how social life at lower latitudes, from the Arabian Peninsula to the American South, changes at night when temperatures fall.
Doherty’s impetus to organize the conference was particular to his own ethnographic research in the region. “I just finished a book on [the color] green in Bahrain,” Doherty says. “[When] the book was in press, I realized all my research was dealing with the daytime, but all my fieldwork was in the nighttime.”
As a scholar of Arabic and Arabian Studies, Granara felt the conference was especially timely. “The Arabian Peninsula is now home to these kind of modern global cities,”  he says.
“Traditionally, this part of the world was of broad academic interest insofar as it was a place in which petroleum was being pumped out, or a contestation through war,” Granara says. “I think this conference is groundbreaking in that it focuses more interesting attention and rigid dimension to Arabian Studies than just petroleum.”
Many of the panelists and conference attendees expressed delight at learning more about the region from another discipline, or about their discipline from another region. Even the organizers of the conference, already well-versed in the topic, say that they felt enlightened. Doherty says he learned more about the relationship between nocturnal activities and space, especially with regard to migrant workers. “We [often] talk about gender, but actually in the Arabian Peninsula, class is a big issue when it comes to public space,” he notes.
Granara was also fascinated by the way “the fabric” of these new cities respond to migration from South Asia, from Indonesia, from China, from Western Europe and the United States. “This diversity of people and cultures has an impact on the way public space is conceived, used, and built,” he says.


Sections
It’s Saturday evening, and even though it’s April, the streets are already dark. Music pours over the fence behind the Bee Club, bathing the Harvard Square Homeless Shelter in a jarring soundtrack of mid-2000’s soft rock.
Raising his voice to compete with the music, Shayn A. Lozano ’18 talks about being a volunteer for the shelter’s “Street Teams.” This is only the second free Saturday night Lozano has had all year. The first time, he’d had to cancel his shift in order to study for a sudden avalanche of midterms.
If no one had been able to cover his shift that Saturday, Lozano says he would have come, midterms be damned.
“I would have come,” Lozano says. “I make this a priority, because if the Street Team doesn’t go out, then these people don’t get hand warmers, they don’t get sandwiches, they don’t get food, they don’t get clothing, they don’t get what they need.”
On a typical Saturday night, right around now (it’s just past eight o’clock), Lozano would be making a beeline past the final clubs to enter the shelter, nestled in a quiet corner that seems far removed from the hustle and bustle of nearby JFK Street. There, he would make sandwiches and fill a backpack with bottles of water and V8, hats and gloves.
Then, Lozano and his fellow Street Teamers would walk the winding route up to Border Café,  down Massachusetts Ave. and Mt. Auburn Street, lingering inside the Harvard Square T stop and the Garage.
It’s a short walk, but it normally takes two to three hours. Street Teamers stop along the way to check in with anyone who looks like they could use a blanket or a granola bar, or help people phone in for shelter bed lotteries.
Another responsibility, though, is listening, and that’s what takes up the time. Lozano cites one recent 45-minute conversation with a homeless man who had once been an all-star javelin thrower and had almost won the Massachusetts state championship. Questions about other conversations yield anecdotes about Korean food, playing guitar, and tai chi.
“People don’t hear these stories, because a lot of us tend to ignore this population,” Lozano says.
Once, for example, Lozano was discussing a movie with a man he encountered on his shift, when the man asked a passing stranger if he’d seen it. The passerby completely ignored him.
“There’s no way you didn’t hear that,” says Lozano. “But for some reason, he’s not worth replying to.”
That’s what brought Lozano to Street Team: discomfort with the disparity between the lives of the homeless in Harvard Square and the privilege within the gates of Harvard Yard. Students have “the ability to go to a dining hall and never get hungry, and our biggest concerns [are] ‘Oh, I missed points on a test’ or ‘I didn’t get that internship,’” Lozano says.
In contrast, Lozano vividly remembers one individual telling him about how their friend died the night before.
Lozano emphasizes that engagement doesn’t have to be time-intensive or involve material goods. He says simply having a five-minute conversation with someone can help them out, sometimes.
Nonetheless, Lozano admits that being a Street Teamer can be “draining.” Lozano points to the prevalence of drug abuse in the square’s homeless population, and dreads the experience of “talking to someone and then seeing them out in the street the next night, completely gone.”
Does he ever consider quitting?
“If anything,” Lozano says with a shrug, “it makes me want to do more. The more need I see, the more drive to give I have.”
Sections
In the 1880s, Edward Charles Pickering, a stout Harvard astronomer whose deeply angled eyebrows recall an angry cartoon character, took on a new project: photographing the entire sky. Using a novel emulsion method, Pickering set about systematically copying narrow slices of night sky onto glass photographic plates.
He planned to use the images to create a catalogue of the stars—he wanted to count them, measure them, and start a classification system.
But as he amassed plates and calculations, Pickering soon found himself with more data than he knew what to do with.
To manage his rapidly growing collection of plates, Pickering took an unorthodox step: he hired a woman. The Harvard Observatory had set a radical precedent only a few years earlier by hiring female staffers, but most of these women worked as observers or assistants.
Pickering offered his hire, Scottish housemaid Williamina Fleming, a much higher-level job: she began working as a part-time computer (someone who “computes”) for the Observatory. Pickering’s initial support helped set Fleming on the path to success: in 1889, she was named the first Curator of Astronomical Photographs and became the first woman to hold an official title at the University.
Throughout his career, Pickering continued to hire women and often promoted them. Until his death in 1919, Pickering typically employed between 12 and 20 women at all times. His unique team of female astronomers came to be known as “Women Computers” or—among those less eager to promote women in science—as “Pickering’s harem.”
Pickering and his team’s work often amounted to a few repetitive chores—making images and physically measuring the diameter of the small circle of light emitted by a few select stars. Astronomical Photographic Plate archivist Lindsay Smith says the women would often use a small tool called a “fly-spanker,” so called because the devices look like shrunken fly-swatters made of glass.
“What it is, is a piece of a plate that has different [star] magnitudes on it,” Smith explains. “They could measure different stars on other plates just by using this tool, because they had marked which magnitude each of those dots represents. They could hold it up to a plate, move quickly, and measure the stars.”
Though the all-female team disbanded in the 1930s, the women computers’ work went on for years—the final photograph was taken in 1992. By that point, the collection comprised more than half a million photographic plates: a visual documentary of a century of sky. Jonathan E. Grindlay first encountered this collection as a graduate student at Harvard in the 1970s. Grindlay soon realized that this century-spanning collection had important implications in a rapidly developing field called “Time-Domain Astronomy,” or the study of how astronomical objects change over time.
Particularly exciting to Grindlay, now a professor of Practical Astronomy and a specialist in Black Holes, was the prospect of using variability in brightness over time to measure supermassive black holes and locate black holes within our own galaxy.
But it was simply impossible to carry out this kind of research manually. There was just too much data to do the mass-scale measurements Grindlay hoped to perform.
“From 1880 to 1992, most of the work involved looking at a miniscule fraction of what’s on all of these plates,” Grindlay says. “What we wanted to do from the beginning was to measure every object on every plate. There could be easily 100,000, maybe 200,000 stars on just [one] plate. They were measuring maybe a dozen objects at a time, but there’s no way you could do it all.”
When Grindlay was a graduate student, computer technology was still new, scanners were slow, and disc space was miniscule. It wasn’t until 2004 that Grindlay got to realize his decades-old dream of digitizing the plates to take stock of every star they held.
Once computers caught up, Grindlay embarked on a mission much like Pickering’s: to digitize the entire sky. Grindlay’s project—“Digital Access to a Sky Century @ Harvard” (DASCH)—now lives in an Observatory building where some of the women computers once worked. The project uses a state-of-the-art scanner to take 60 overlapping images of each slide and stitch them together into a crystal-clear scan.
“We go and we fit coordinates [to the image] that match the coordinates on the sky,” Grindlay says. “Then, we compare every single one of them to existing catalogues, which we now have of the whole sky. We didn’t have that even 20 years ago. And from that catalogue we determine ‘Yes, this is that star in this catalogue,’ or ‘No, it’s a new thing we’ve never seen before.’”
The scanner can process two plates in less than a minute and a half, but even at such speeds, the 13-year-old project is still two to three years away from completion.
Grindlay says when the project is complete, the full century of digital sky will be available for public consumption.
“It’s already open,” Grindlay says. “We’re releasing it as we go. For big projects like this we have data releases, because there’s no way we could look at all this data, you could do so many different things with all this.”
When the last plate is digitized, the DASCH project will have over 1,000 terabytes of data and Pickering’s mission will finally be realized, nearly 150 years after the astronomer first set out to photograph the sky.
Sections
On the evening of Saturday, November 8, 1980, about 70 women gathered at Harvard, carrying signs and chanting, “Women unite, take back the night.” They were readying themselves to participate in Harvard’s first Take Back the Night march, a rally that would become an annual tradition on campus.
“The unending challenges to woman’s self endangers her ability to achieve and function on an equal level with men at any institution of learning,” wrote Elisabeth Einaudi ’83 and Peggy S. Mason ’82, two organizers of the event, in an op-ed preceding the march. “Fighting back is not easy. For, it is not clear on which level women should fight: on the level of the specific attack or on the level of the cultural structure that perpetuates it.”
Mason now describes that first 1980 march at Harvard as “one of those things that I did and I’m glad I did it. I’m really proud of it.”
Take Back the Night was a movement that originated in Philadelphia in 1975. It sought to provide a venue for women to speak out against sexual violence. The march itself first premiered in Boston in 1978 as a demonstration organized by women from numerous community groups, including the Boston Area Rape Crisis Center, where a number of Radcliffe feminists worked part-time.
Before moving off-campus in the fall of 1980 and taking a year off to “basically come out,” Mason says, she became “very involved with the women’s community in Cambridge”—particularly with the Boston Area Rape Crisis Center. She says she saw Harvard’s need for the march, which could serve as a space for women and targets of sexual assault to find empowerment and support.
Einaudi, who served as president of both the Radcliffe Union of Students and Harvard-Radcliffe Students Organized for Security, worked on spreading word of the march. “Liz Einaudi reached out to the local press and got cameras there,” Mary S. Holland ’81, one of Einaudi’s classmates, says. “Then it started to be taken more seriously.”
Bringing the march to campus took on additional importance after an assault that took place at the Radcliffe Quad, Holland says. “We wanted more safety and wanted to be supported,” she says.
The assault Holland remembers took place on September 20, 1980 when a Harvard student was dragged into the bushes near her dorm and raped. According to an article published in The Crimson, incidents like this one sparked a wider discussion of women’s safety on and around campus.
Then-Master of Quad residence North House Hanna Hastings noted that there was a disparity between the lone guard that patrolled the Quad Houses compared to the multiple guards responsible for patrolling the river Houses and the Yard.
On Harvard’s campus, which had only recently become co-ed, sexual assault issues such as these were not uncommon. Even though the seven years leading up to the first march included the University’s establishment of the blue light phone system, the creation of the double-locked door policy, and other precautionary measures, fears of rape and sexual assault persisted.
In their op-ed, Einaudi and Mason commented on how “late-night studying, early-morning jobs, odd-houred athletic workouts and rehearsals characterize student life at Harvard/Radcliffe.” It’s a Harvard routine students today know all too well and, as they argued, “for a woman to limit her participation because of the threat of rape or assault is to restrict her education.”
Even though Mason wasn’t involved in the march again after 1980, the tradition had been set. Although fewer than 100 people attended the march in its first iteration, more than 400 protesters attended the group’s candlelit rally in 1986, just six years later.
Over a few years, the movement itself faced issues and changes. For one, male involvement in the march, which was originally deemed a female-only space for support, sparked much controversy.
In 1988, Anna V.E. Forrester ’88-’89 revealed grievances in a Crimson article titled “Take Back the Podium.” In her op-ed, she insisted that Take Back the Night is not the place for male leadership or spokesmanship. While she applauded the Harvard men who participated in the 1988 march in solidarity with their female peers, she insisted that their role in the march, if any, must be one of bystanding support.
“Women marching separately is an affirmation of women’s power and not a rejection of men,” she wrote. “Organizers did ask men to walk at the back of the procession so that women could lead the march alone. But several men disregarded that request and walked directly behind the leading banner.”
She insisted that such behavior was a hindrance to “true equality of the sexes,” and that before this equality can be reached, “men need to learn what it means to follow the lead of women.”
Iterations of the original Take Back the Night march have continued to take place at Harvard up through the present. Today, campus groups including RESPONSE, the Office of Sexual Assault Prevention and Response, and Harvard Consent Advocates and Relationship Educators put on a version of the event during Sexual Assault Awareness Month in April. The name was changed from Take Back the Night to Hear Me Now in 2016.
“We think that’s a more suitable title for the event because not all sexual assault happens at night,” Ege Yumusak ’16 said in a 2016 Crimson article, “and you could not take it back.”
Sections
Ever wonder what your professors were like during their college years? What about the former Harvard undergrads? Were they Saturday night party-goers or Lamonsters? Bar-hopping or Widener Stack-shopping? FM inquires into the social lives of a few professors during their years as Harvard undergrads.
***
On a typical weekend night during his college years, Fiery A. Cushman ’03, a professor in the Psychology department, could be found in line for pizza at Tommy’s. (The business remains today, although it’s reinvented itself as a convenience store.) Wistful, Cushman recalls the pizza’s trademark sesame seed crust. “Wednesday night through Saturday night, there would be a line around the block,” he says.
Cushman also remembers the Grill, a dive-bar that used to operate where Park Restaurant now stands. “You could write your name on a piece of paper and that was a valid form of ID, so a lot of people were going to the Grill,” Cushman says.
***
When David D. Cox ’00, a professor in Harvard’s Molecular and Cellular Biology department, was an undergraduate, he could be found eating in the Loker Commons (now the Cambridge Queen’s Head Pub) or playing Nintendo 64 with his now-wife in his dorm room.
“I guess that’s sort of a social life,” Cox says. “My proudest achievements were getting a C+ in ‘Rome of Augustus’… [and beating] this last level in Donkey Kong 64.”
***
Susan E. Mango ’83, a professor in the Harvard Molecular and Cellular Biology department, spent her college weekends at the Orson Welles Theater and the Goethe Institute, watching New Wave films that she would later debate with friends.
She did have one alcohol-fueled night––at a Gilbert and Sullivan-themed waltz. There was “a great deal of champagne,” she recalls. People were “trying to waltz while very tipsy, while the orchestra had given up on the instruments because they were very tipsy. They were all singing their parts. And we were sort of twirling around.”
***
Nancy E. Kleckner ’68, a Molecular and Cellular Biology professor, attended Radcliffe in the days before its complete merger with Harvard. She recalls a weekly night in: The House Masters served milk and cookies on Saturday nights, occasionally conducting cozy readings of Shakespeare while Radcliffe students listened in their pajamas.
***
Harry R. Lewis ’68 remembers frequenting Paperback Booksmith, a 24-hour bookstore on Brattle Street. “I would go there in the middle of the night and buy books. And then go back to my room and read them.”
Sections
September 2014 was weird and new and lonely and exciting and tumultuous and stifling. Harvard Yard felt small and humid in a way I hadn’t expected and still can’t entirely explain. During the day, the dark wood paneling of Sever Hall pressed close against my body. At night, the bright scratchy carpet of Lamont Library did the same.
Despite my discomfort, I was a nervous freshman with poor time management skills and papers to write. I continued to attend class (mostly) and spend my nights in Lamont.
Then, one night in October, I began to sweat. I told myself I was hungry.
Advice for those seeking late-night food in Harvard Square: Give up on the historical, the original, the independently owned. Peet’s closes at 9 p.m. Felipe’s closes at midnight most weeknights. The Kong is open until 2 a.m., but the staff does not welcome lone freshmen clutching laptops and exuding sweaty despair. Go for the faceless chain. For example: Slick and corporate and filled with the gentle crooning of an almost entirely white indie playlist, the Starbucks on Mass Ave. stays open until 1 a.m.
So I left the library and headed to Starbucks, where I bought an overpriced cookie and wrote on a couch upstairs until a bearded man with a broom began passive-aggressively sweeping around my feet. Then, reluctantly, I shuffled downstairs.
Outside, the Square was dark and still. The subway had shut down and the metal grate had descended, sealing the underground station with a wall of corrugated aluminum. The academics and young professionals had disappeared. The space was cool, wide, anonymous.
I thought about going home. My Canaday quad was less than a quarter mile away. My roommates would be asleep. Once I’d felt my way to my toothbrush, I could crawl wordlessly on top of my sheets and try to sleep. I pictured the airlessness, the tension, of the return.
I went to Tasty Burger. I claimed a table in a dark corner of the basement, pulled my collar over my ears, and typed by the light of my laptop. Nearby, four dudes in blazers played an energetic game of table tennis. At 2 a.m., the basement closed.
Next, I tried the lobby of the Charles Hotel. I was ejected within 10 minutes. I wouldn’t recommend this.
Finally, at 2:30 a.m., I stumbled across a patch of light. Heat and fluorescence and red-blue-yellow cleanliness spilled out across the sidewalk in a broad half-moon. IHOP glowed with silent vulgarity.
I thought about going back to my freshman dorm, of climbing the narrow concrete stairs and tiptoeing past my sleeping roommates.
The bell tinkled as I entered.
A man in his early thirties guided me to a corner booth and brought me a carafe of terrible coffee. (He works a lot of weeknight shifts; we would come to recognize each other.) When I finished it, he brought me another.
The night passed. I typed and eavesdropped and daydreamed and half-slept with my eyes open. The couple in the booth beside me fought and stormed out. My coffee grew cold. I stretched out in my booth. The remaining patrons—a guy in a suit, a small group of drunk undergrads—trickled out of the diner. My skin cooled.
At 4 a.m., the radio shut off and the man in his early thirties began making apologetic gestures. I gathered my papers, paid for my coffee, and left. The Square was still dark.
I returned to my dorm and fell asleep.
***
That night was the first of many late-night wanders. Even after I grew more comfortable in my dorm, after I stopped noticing the tightness and heat of campus life, I continued to venture into the Square to work. Most nights, I ended up in IHOP. Most nights, it surprised me the way it had that first night: garish lights staining the sidewalk, visible from far down the street, gleaming like a cheesy beacon.
Oddly, there were a few nights I couldn’t find it. I’d circle and circle, but the diner just wasn’t there.
This isn’t entirely surprising. Lights aside, the place is easy to miss: Tucked away on one of those windy streets that run perpendicular to JFK St., its entrance is sunken and angled against a wall. It’d be easy to walk down the wrong street. It’d be easy to walk right past it. I’m sure that’s what happened.
Sections
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
After a 2016 survey revealed that 20 percent of third-year Harvard Medical School students had experienced recent thoughts of suicide or self-harm, the Medical School is taking steps to clarify its policies relating to students’ mental health and clarify stigmas around it.
In an interview Wednesday, Medical School Dean of Students Fidencio Saldana said administrators are taking a “multi-pronged approach” to widespread concerns about mental health at the Medical School.
For one, Saldana said, a Wellness and Mental Health Task Force is currently gathering best practices and formulating plans to improve the Medical School’s culture around mental health. Working with University Health Services director Paul J. Barreira and Chief of Counseling and Mental Health Services Barbara Lewis, Saldana said that Medical School is focusing on prevention and structural improvements to “promote wellness,” including making the first two years of training pass/fail for students in the new curriculum.
The student-conducted March 2016 survey on mental health at the Medical School found that one in five students screened positive for depression, and only one in five of those students reported that they had been treated.
“Even if the numbers [of the survey] aren’t perfect, that problem still exists,” Saldana said. “We need to take that to heart and I feel like we are doing our best to really improve the resources available here for mental health in the Medical School.”
According to mental health advocates at school, some may be reluctant to seek treatment because the Medical School Promotion and Review Board—which can require a student to withdraw or recommend expulsion—can take mental health into account while considering student cases.
Saldana said that he acknowledges a higher mental risk among physicians and trainees due to the stressful nature of the medical profession, but said that mental health information is only used during student evaluations with the consent of the student.
“Any myth like that can undo the positive that we are trying to do,” Saldana said. “Records are never shared without the consent of a student, and mental health issues are not arbitrarily discussed.”
Saldana also helped launch the “Sharing Struggles and Building Resilience” series of talks in November 2016, featuring Medical School faculty and students who discuss their experiences with failure. Saldana said he was “proud” of the initiative, which has “gone a long way in trying to change the culture a little bit.”
“A lot of us have struggles that may range from the usual stress to mental health issues, and that is a part of our world,” Saldana said “We hope to continue those kind of initiatives to try to normalize the idea that nobody goes through life perfect.”
—Staff writer William L. Wang can be reached at william.wang@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @wlwang20.
—Staff writer Alexis J. Ross can be reached at alexis.ross@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @aross125.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
UPDATED: May 4, 2017 at 10:00 p.m.
The collaboration policy in Harvard’s flagship introductory computer science course was sufficiently vague that students accused of academic dishonesty may have unintentionally violated it, according to former students and course staff.
The Crimson reported Wednesday that more than 60 undergraduates enrolled this fall in Computer Science 50: “Introduction to Computer Science I” faced the Honor Council, the administrative body charged with adjudicating issues of academic dishonesty. The wave of academic dishonesty cases stretched the Honor Council to its limit and represents a marked increase in cases from the course this year.
Though the course sums up its policy on academic integrity as “be reasonable,” roughly 20 former students and course staff said it was sometimes difficult to determine exactly what that meant.
One student, whom The Crimson has granted anonymity to discuss confidential Honor Council proceedings, took the course last fall and was subsequently called before the Honor Council. The student said he thought the help he had given his friends fell well within the course’s collaboration policy.
“I thought that I was never breaking the rules. The only times that I worked with other people was when I was helping them with their code,” the student said.  “All the things I was doing seemed under the reasonable policy in the syllabus, that’s what I tried to explain to the Honor Council.”
Consistently one of the most popular courses at Harvard, CS50 is known for an unconventional atmosphere, complete with puppets, flashy promotional videos, and corporate-sponsored events. The course holds crowded office hours several times a week, and encourages students to seek help from course staff, as well as feedback from their peers. CS50 head instructor David J. Malan ’99—who met with Honor Council members to discuss academic integrity within the class—did not respond to repeated requests for comment for this story.
“The class is intended to be very collaborative, very ‘work with your friends, stay up late all night, listen to music,’ and it’s all a big party except you also hate yourself because the p-set is due in an hour,” Mark D. Grozen-Smith ’15, a former CS50 Teaching Fellow, said.
CS50’s website states that “the course recognizes that interactions with classmates and others can facilitate mastery of the course’s material, [but] there remains a line between enlisting the help of another and submitting the work of another.”
Eighteen former CS50 students, though, said they thought this line was unclear at times.
Diondra A. Dilworth ’18, who took CS50, said students new to computer science risk unintentionally coming across answers online when trying to look up information.
“It's really common for people in the computer science field to look to the internet for help, because it is a computer field. For younger users, it might be more difficult to discern what is information that's pushing them in the right direction, and information that’s just actually solving the problem,” Dilworth said.
Dilworth was also skeptical that the dozens of students who faced Honor Council investigation were intentionally cheating. In some cases, code for CS50 problem sets are available online.
“I don’t think people are, like, trying to cheat or anything, it’s encouraged to look for help elsewhere, and sometimes that help just gives you too much of the answer,” she said.
One Teaching Fellow for CS50, who was also granted anonymity to discuss academic integrity cases, agreed that the the policy was too vague.
Derek M. Taylor ’20 said that while he thought instructions from the teaching staff could have been more specific, he is skeptical that there is a clear solution to the policy’s perceived vagueness.
“You have to preserve the idea of something being someone else’s intellectual property versus it being your own. I don’t think ‘be reasonable’ really conveys that idea that well,” said Taylor. “But I think at the same time the CS50 staff behind that shouldn’t stray in the direction of trying to codify and quantify the boundaries, because I don’t think there are boundaries that can be quantified.”
Grozen-Smith took a similar stance, defending the policy’s open-endedness.
“I don’t think that’s really a problem. I think it is vague, but I think it’s also intentionally vague because in certain situations it’s okay to share a couple lines of code,” Grozen-Smith said. “In other situations, this one line of code is the entire problem, so you shouldn’t be talking or even looking at what the person did.”
Raphael Rouvinov ’19, a CS50 Teaching Fellow, said CS50’s course policies are fairly standard across all computer science courses at the College.
Yoav Shaked ’17 also said that getting in trouble with the course was easily avoidable.
“The teaching staff in CS50 is extremely talented. There's so many resources out there for you there's no reason to dodge the system,” Shaked said.
—Staff writer Hannah Natanson contributed to the reporting of this story.
—Staff writer Graham W. Bishai can be reached at graham.bishai@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @GrahamBishai.
—Staff writer Derek G. Xiao can be reached at derek.xiao@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @derekgxiao.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Keezer’s Classic Clothing, a men’s formalwear store that has sold tuxedos to Harvard students for more than a century, is set to close July 1.
Leonard E. Goldstein, the current owner of Keezer’s, is retiring this summer. While the store’s current location has been purchased, Goldstein said he hopes someone will continue to operate the company after he retires.
Goldstein said that about two years ago, people began walking into his store and asking if he wanted to sell his real estate.
“I never called anybody,” he said. “They just offered me a certain amount of money I couldn’t refuse.”
Since its opening in 1895, Harvard students have flocked to Keezer’s to buy suits and tuxedos, and Goldstein said notable alumni like John F. Kennedy ’40 and Conan C. O’Brien ’85 have been outfitted at the store.
Goldstein bought the business in 1978 and moved it to its current 140 River St. location near Central Square in 1985. Several current students said they will miss the store.
The Harvard acapella group Din & Tonics—along with several other undergraduate groups—have purchased all of their suits at Keezer’s since the group’s founding in 1979.
Everett W. Sussman ’19, the Din & Tonics' business manager, said he was upset to hear the news. He said Keezer’s has been a central part of his experience in the Dins, an experience shared with all 245 members of the group.
“I still remember very clearly the day when a bunch of the Din alums along with the current members of the group took me, when I was a new member getting initiated, over to Keezer’s to pick out my tails to be a member of the Dins,” Sussman said. “It’s almost like a sort of ritual ceremony that I’m kind of upset is going to be different.”
To say goodbye, the Dins surprised Keezer’s staff and customers by coming in for an impromptu serenade at the end of April.
“We wanted to at least say goodbye in nicest way that we possibly thought we could at that point in time, which was to go over and give them a little performance,” Sussman said.
Richard M. Feder-Staehle ’18 said his freshman proctor recommended he go to Keezer’s. Since, he said has gone about once a year when he needs something, and recalls once getting dress pants that perfectly matched his suit for $10.
“It’s those kinds of deals that you can’t pass up on,” he said.
Jayant Gopalan ’20 said that he could not believe that Keezer’s was closing.
“I freaked out,” Gopalan said. “I’ve been recommending it to a lot of people as a really incredible place that’s really, really under utilized and not nearly well-known enough for how fantastic it is.”
Brandon N. Wachs ’18, a sports broadcaster for Harvard’s WHRB radio station, said he has gone to Keezer’s for affordable suits to wear during broadcasts. He said he thought Keezer’s suit price and quality were “really unmatched,” and pretty much the only nearby option for the college student budget.
“It is truly irreplaceable,” Feder-Staehle said. “Keezer’s will be missed.”
—Staff writer Alison W. Steinbach can be reached at alison.steinbach@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @alisteinbach.
—Staff writer Katherine E. Wang can be reached at katie.wang@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @katiewang29.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Lisa M. Coleman, Harvard’s first Chief Diversity Officer, will leave her post in July to take on a similar role at New York University.
No replacement has so far been named, according to University spokesperson Tania DeLuzuriaga, and Coleman said she is unsure if the position will remain in its current iteration.
“I don’t think they will dissolve the role,” Coleman said. “I don’t know what it will be called—the thing is these roles morph and change a lot within institutions. It could be separated into several roles. There’s work with students, there’s work with faculty, there’s work with staff, and that work has grown over the years.”
Coleman—who is also a special assistant to University President Drew G. Faust—has served as Harvard’s Chief Diversity Officer since 2010, coordinating diversity-related programs across the University.
“We’ve really developed a lot of partnerships across the school and we have more people who are actually doing this work, so literally boots on the ground, which is really terrific,” Coleman said.
Executive Vice President Katie Lapp wrote in an email that during Coleman’s seven-year tenure, Coleman played an integral role in overseeing and expanding diversity and inclusion efforts across the University. According to Lapp, she oversaw “the growth and expansion of the Administrative Fellowship Program, as well as University Disability Services assistive technologies offerings, and its educational outreach and partnerships.”
Coleman said that there are now more diversity and inclusion officers and committees across Harvard’s schools than when she arrived in 2010.
“There was a lot going on even before my arrival, it’s just what we’ve been able to do now is sort of knit it together,” Coleman said.
When Faust named Coleman to the new position, The Crimson’s Editorial Board heralded the move as a step in the right direction, writing, “Without the oversight the position provides, the need to ensure diversity may have fallen by the wayside.”
But it is unclear if the Chief Diversity Officer position, which centralizes responsibility for diversity initiatives in one University administrator, will remain in its current state now that the role has evolved over the past seven years.
“My job became much bigger from 2010 to 2017, so part of it is to parse out and figure out what we really need at this point,” Coleman said, adding that she sees the changing nature of the role as a mark of success.
Coleman said she imagines that the Presidential Task Force on Inclusion and Belonging, of which she is a member, will offer recommendations in the fall on next steps regarding the Chief Diversity Officer position, among other diversity-related recommendations.
Lapp wrote in an email that the University will take into account recommendations from the Task Force in order to get a “better idea of how to advance our agenda of diversity, inclusion and belonging.” Since the Task Force will complete its work next fall, the CDO position may be left open for some time after her departure in July.
“The work of diversity, inclusion, and belonging should be everyone’s job at Harvard,” Lapp wrote. “Over the next several weeks, I will be consulting with colleagues across Harvard to assess the University’s needs in the next phase of this important work.”
Coleman, an NYU alum, will return to New York to serve as the school’s Senior Vice President for Global Inclusion, Diversity and Strategic Innovation. She will also receive a faculty appointment in addition to her administrative role.
—Staff writer Leah S. Yared can be reached at leah.yared@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @Leah_Yared.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
UPDATED: May 10, 2017 at 1:36 a.m.
The College notified sixty-seven undergraduates on Thursday that they had received the 2017 Thomas Temple Hoopes Prize, which recognizes students for excellence in research and scholarly work.
Awarded annually by the Faculty of Arts and Sciences, the Hoopes Prize is funded by the estate of Thomas T. Hoopes, Class of 1919. According to its website, the award strives honor students by “recognizing, promoting, honoring, and rewarding excellence in the work of undergraduates and their capabilities and skills in any subject.” Though several winning projects were senior theses or senior projects, the award is open to any undergraduate student at the College.
“I was really excited, really happy, and it’s really nice to know that my work paid off in this way,” said History of Science concentrator Udodiri R. Okwandu ’17. “It’s really nice to know that the committee and other people thought that my work and my research question was worth awarding in this way.”
This year’s Hoopes recipients span multiple departments, interests, and concentrations.
Statistics concentrator Yunhan Xu ’17 was awarded the prize for her work employing numbers and statistical analysis in understanding literature, specifically the "Aeneid.”
“I started studying Latin in middle school and then completed a citation here,” Xu said, “so it was really exciting and natural to combine these two disciplines that have been so meaningful to me.”
Other recipients said they held a meaningful connection with their work. David J. Kurlander ’17, a History and Literature concentrator who examined the history of malt liquor in his winning work, said he was deeply interested in the subject matter.
“I had picked a subject that I cared about and one that I didn’t know that much about, but I cared about the era and I care a lot about consumer history and also have consumed some malt liquor and been around malt liquor,” Kurlander said. “I was wondering for awhile now what the story was, and how it all happened.”
The winning projects also included creative and long term works. T. Mattea Mrkusic ’17, who designed a special concentration in Environmental Studies and Human Rights, created a self-described “creative storytelling project about the Pacific island of Kiribati,” and detailed the effects of climate change on its people through a podcast, photography exhibit, online outreach, and written paper.
“The greatest myth of a thesis is that it’s a singular project undertaken by one individual,” Mrkusic said. “It’s really supported by advisors, friends who will deliver hot chocolate to you at 3 a.m., parents, and, in my case, the power of my interviewees.”
In order to be eligible to apply for the award, students must be nominated by their project advisors. Advisors receive a $1,500 honorarium award, and the winning student receives $5,000, an increase from previous years. In addition, winning papers are bound and made available in Lamont Library for two years.
—Staff writer Michael E. Xie can be reached at michael.xie@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @MichaelEXie1.
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction:
CORRECTION: May 10, 2017
A previous version of this article incorrectly stated that Hoopes Prize winners received $4,000. In fact, they received $5,000, an increase from previous years.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency Director Robert Cardillo argued for his agency’s  role at the intersection of earth sciences and national security at a Kennedy School event last month.
NGA, a member of both the Department of Defense and the Intelligence Community, collects geospatial intelligence, including geography, plate tectonics, and any information needed to assist military navigation as well as provide intelligence to policymakers. In addition to military navigation, Cardillo said NGA also provides information that helps plan flight paths for consumer airlines.
“It truly is a global interest. People like to have airplanes take off once and land once,” he said.
When Cardillo started working for the government, public organizations had what he described as a “monopoly” on space and satellites. However, in recent years, more private companies have become interested in space and satellite technology, and Cardillo has seen NGA’s relationship with private companies change as a result.
“Our partnerships were pretty limited—you had to be another government, or a very big company,” Cardillo said. “With the advent of things like Spacex, and Jeff Bezos’ space efforts, it’s just two American-based efforts, but there’s a global phenomenon going on reducing what used to be a pretty firm barrier to space.”
In addition to technological innovations, the development of private space companies has changed the hiring process for NGA.
“In the old days, they used to knock at our door…now I’ve got to go to Silicon Valley,” Cardillo said, “I’ll never compete with a Google salary, I can compete on the mission side.”
To respond to the growing competition for talent, Cardillo pitched the creation of the “GeoCorps,” a two-year program for undergraduates studying science and technology-related fields. Cardillo emphasized that the program does not exist yet but could provide a model for recruiting those who might otherwise go straight to Silicon Valley or other tech hubs.
“Let us really talk to you about how you can take your raw but maturing technical capability and apply it in support of a US national security issue, and then take that, put it on your resume, and then go on.”
Appointed director of NGA in 2014, Cardillo stressed what he saw as the apolitical nature of the agency. Drawing a contrast between NGA and the Environmental Protection Agency, an agency that has been the center of recent heated political debate, Cardillo emphasized the importance of nonpartisan intelligence work.
—Staff writer Lucas Ward can be reached at lucas.ward@thecrimson.com. Follow him on twitter at @LucaspfWard.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
UPDATED: May 6, 2017 at 3:00 a.m. 
A gaggle of eager exhibitionists, reluctant runners, and curious onlookers gathered at midnight Thursday morning in Harvard Yard for the College’s biannual “Primal Scream,” a naked lap around the Yard to commemorate the beginning of final exams.
Brisk temperatures drew more than 100 runners to the Yard, with several towel-clad participants priding themselves on not missing a single Primal Scream.
“I’m just here for the participation medal,” said P.J. LeBlanc ’19. “I’m three for three and might as well run every single one while I’m here.” 
 Seniors Pauline R. Ryan ’17 and Adrienne M. Propp ’17 both claimed to be “eight for eight,” participating in every nude run in their eight semesters on campus.
“It was honestly meaningful—the last opportunity I’ll have to run around Harvard naked,” Propp said.
Self-described “innocent bystanders” Alexander J. Timerman ’20 and Gabriel E. Ziaukas ’20, who watched the event from the sidelines, denied that they purposely came to the Yard to spectate and claimed they “didn’t even know it was tonight.” Nevertheless, they deemed this spring’s Primal Scream a “fantastic event.”
A small group of tourists flanking the event, though, were less shy—several snapped photos as the clothesless herd sprinted by.
Andie E. Turner ’20, who ran the lap, said she was unconcerned about ending up in tourists’ photo albums.
“I’m fine with it. I’m not planning on running for public office, so whatever,” she said. At the other extreme, though, Propp said she “gave someone the finger” as she ran by.
Several students noted that it was unseasonably cold for May, but Matthew I. Miller '18 said the bracing temperatures hardly hampered his speed.
“If it was like ten degrees warmer I could have shaved a couple seconds off, but we came through the finish strong,” he said. “I just wanted to get on the podium for the team—the coach is going to be proud.”
To Turner, the semesterly tradition is an “amazing” chance to let loose before exams.
“I think it’s incredible, it’s community building,” she said. “Everyone strips down the pants that they put on for the general public and people can come back to their animalistic roots.”
—Staff writer Archie J.W. Hall can be reached at archie.hall@thecrimson.com.
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction:
CORRECTION: A previous version of this article incorrectly identified Matthew I. Miller '18. 
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
UPDATED: May 5, 2017 at 12:39 a.m.
Gashaw Clark ’14, an optimistic and adventurous Harvard graduate living and working in California’s Bay Area, died last week in a  biking accident. He was 25.
Clark’s Harvard classmates remember a popular campus figure with an uncanny ability to bring people together.
“We met freshman year. He knew every single person at Harvard. I feel like he had a time turner or something. I’ve been thinking a lot about how much I hated walking anywhere with him because it was never just a quick hello,” Lanier Walker ’14 said. “He was a relentlessly good friend to so many people.”
Born into an Ethiopian family in the Bay Area, Clark attended a French-speaking high school and continued to grow his love of language and world cultures through his college years. He spoke several languages, including French, Spanish, and Portuguese.
During his time at Harvard, Clark was the president of the Black Pre-Law Association, and a member of the Veritas Financial Group, the Black Men’s Forum, and the Spee Club. He was awarded the Whiting Prize from Lowell House his senior year, which is given by the Faculty Deans to a student who “shows loyalty to the House, and makes it a desirable place for interaction.”
Diana L. Eck, Lowell House Faculty Dean, wrote in an email that “due to his ability to speak French, Spanish, and Portuguese, he developed a warm relationship with many of our dining hall and custodial workers. He helped one of them learn to use a computer; he helped another apply for a child care scholarship.”
“We were group partners in Science in Cooking and he ended up getting an internship with Ferran Adrià because he spoke French and Spanish, and then just figured out Catalan,” Walker said.
After graduating with a degree in government, Clark moved to the Bay Area, where he worked at LinkedIn and, most recently, software company Oracle.
On his Facebook wall, peers and friends commemorated him as “a friend whose smile brought joy to all it reached,” and “a gift to the universe.” Several of Clark’s close friends have started a GoFundMe that will fund Clark’s funeral services and other expenses. As of Thursday afternoon, more than $70,000 had been raised through the page.
“Gashaw was a friend and brother to many of us. He was always smiling and laughing and injecting unfathomable (and sometimes unwanted) amounts of energy into every situation,” the GoFundMe memorial says. “He connected deeply with everyone he met-from the young to the old, people of all backgrounds and personality types. He taught many of us how to truly live.”
His friends also created an online document to gather notes and memories about Clark which they plan to compile into a book for his family and friends.
“Gashaw was like a brother to me. Goofy, kind, respectful of everyone. He was the kind of friend for whom you felt truly grateful to have in your life. As men of color growing up and working in Silicon Valley, his existence validated mine,” wrote Noah Bond.
Friends remember Clark  as someone who had a connecting with them with people deeply and instantly. Once, Walker remembered, Clark made fast friends with a security guard at the airport—the two have stayed in touch since, and the security guard was one of many who posted on Clark’s Facebook wall.
Andrew J. Hadad ’14, one of Clark’s closest friends, said they took lots of trips together including a recent one to Trinidad, where Hadad is from and now lives.
In a note to Clark he wrote, “I distinctly remember when you looked at me while we were driving and said, ‘I could definitely see myself settling down here at some point.’ Even though I knew it probably wasn’t true, I was so incredibly excited about the prospect. Growing old together, raising our kids together.”
Services honoring Clark’s life will take place this week in California.
—Staff writer Julia E. DeBenedictis can be reached at julia.debenedictis@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @julia_debene.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
In the midst of a hectic reading period, students took a break from cramming for finals by attending mental health-themed events as part of Mental Health Week.
The series of events marked the Student Mental Health Liaisons’ first full week of programming on issues regarding mental wellness after having hosted a shorter two-day event last year. SMHL collaborated with other student organizations whose “communities may face increased stigma or vulnerability in regards to mental health concerns” to create programming, according to an emailed statement from SMHL director Melanie M. Slone ’17.
Organizers for the event chose reading period specifically to provide students a space to review their mental health habits during a time that many may find stressful.
Director of Indigo Peer Counseling Aakriti Prasai ’18 said that the timing was important when planning for its event, “Reflect & Look Forward.”
“We thought that this semester gets really busy, and people don’t really have space to reflect and look forward,” said Prasai. Indigo sought to provide “a space for people to decorate cookies and chat.”
Indigo recently announced it would start providing peer counseling services again next fall. Other events throughout the week included an open mic, a panel on the health benefits of sleep, and a screening of “Looking for Luke,” a documentary about the passing of Luke Z. Tang ’18.
The screening, co-hosted by SMHL and the Asian American Brotherhood, was one of the more popular events of the week. Dozens of students gathered at Fong Auditorium Tuesday night to watch the documentary.
Sara S. Surani ’18, an Indigo peer counselor, said she attended the screening because she knew Tang personally and was involved in mental health advocacy on campus.
“I think it’s really important to have different events for advocating and ensuring awareness about mental health,” Surani said. “Everyone knows someone who’s affected by mental health, whether it’s a friend or a family member, a friend of a friend, or even yourselves.”
In the future, SMHL plans to continue organizing and hosting a Mental Health Week annually.
Laura S. Chang ’18, part of SMHL’s steering committee, said that she hoped to make Mental Health Week an “established thing where this is a much more regular event that students can recognize and look forward to and just expect in their year.”
Slone called the week a “success,” citing high turnout at several of the events and engagement with topics she described as often stigmatized.
“It was our first Mental Health Week ever, and we think it’s very important that it exists,” she wrote, adding that SMHL is “very much looking forward to improving the week even more in the future.”
—Staff writer Angela N. Fu can be reached at angela.fu@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @angelanfu.
—Staff writer Dianne Lee can be reached at dianne.lee@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @diannelee_.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
A bipartisan spending bill to fund the federal government through this fiscal year “bodes well” for the future of research funding, University President Drew G. Faust said in an interview Thursday.
Passed Thursday, the bill—which keeps government agencies running through September—increases funding for the National Institutes of Health by $2 billion. It also appropriates an additional $2 million in funding for the National Endowment for the Arts and the National Endowment for the Humanities.
President Donald Trump has pledged to slash funding for the agencies, all three of which provide research funding to Harvard. In total, Harvard received approximately $600 million in federal research funding in 2016.
Faust visited Washington, D.C. last week as the prospect of a federal shutdown loomed and lawmakers hastened to avoid it. Congress passed a stop-gap spending measure on April 28 to avert a shutdown for a week, before approving this longer-term bill. 
Trump has pledged to sign the bill by Friday.
Faust said she was “really glad” to see increases in NIH funding for the 2017 fiscal year. "I think the Congress spoke with a rather bipartisan, resolute voice in favor of the things that I’ve been arguing for, so that was a very good sign," she said.
After the 2016 presidential election, Faust pledged to escalate her political advocacy efforts. Her trip to Washington, D.C. in April was her third visit to the capital in 2017. On previous trips, she met with Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer, and Speaker of the House Paul Ryan, among other lawmakers.
Faust said she sees the spending bill as a sign her lobbying efforts are bearing fruit, since the lawmakers she has met with this spring advocated on behalf of preserving research funding.
“A lot of the people who were most vocal in that debate, people who were in the movement forward of that measure, were people that I’ve seen,” Faust said. “It was good to see that they were advancing the arguments that I had hoped they’d advance."
While in Washington, D.C. last week, Faust met with Senator Al Franken, Senator Maggie Hassan, and Congressman Scott Taylor. Franken and Hassan are both members of the Senate Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions (HELP) committee, which oversees legislation relating to research funding and student loans, among other higher education policy priorities.
Taylor—who received a degree from Harvard Extension School in 2014 and is currently working towards a master’s—is a member of the House Appropriations committee. Faust said she hopes Taylor will advocate for higher education funding in that committee.
“If he could have any influence in advancing that case in appropriations, it would be extremely valuable,” Faust said. “So I want to make sure he understands what matters to us, and what matters in terms of national policy to universities more generally."
The next budget fight will come after Trump releases his full 2018 budget proposal later this month. The budget blueprint, or “skinny budget,” Trump issued in March eliminated funding for NEH and NEA entirely, and cut funding for NIH and the Environmental Protection Agency by around 20 percent and 31 percent, respectively.
Harvard faculty and administrators warned that this proposal would be “devastating” to the University and the future of research in the United States—NIH alone gave Harvard $415 million in 2016 for health-related research.
At a faculty meeting Tuesday, University Provost Alan M. Garber told faculty members that administrators were working to ensure that Trump’s proposed budget cuts do not become a reality.
In an interview Thursday, Faust said the fiscal year 2017 spending bill gives her hope that members of Congress will protect research funding for 2018.
“I don’t know where things will land ultimately, but I think there is a very strong level of support for NIH that we’ve just seen with an increase in the ’17 measure, so I think that bodes well,” Faust said. “I hope they continue to be strongly supportive of these measures."
—Staff writer Claire E. Parker can be reached at claire.parker@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @ClaireParkerDC.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
In December of 2016, one of the 54 teaching fellows for Computer Science 50: “Introduction to Computer Science I” realized a student in his section had likely cheated on a class problem set. The teaching fellow alerted senior course staff immediately.
CS50 senior preceptor Douglas R. Lloyd ’09 promised the teaching fellow that he and other course instructors would work quickly to investigate the cheating allegations. In the meantime, Lloyd emailed the teaching fellow that he should grade the student’s problem set as though nothing had happened.
“When I raised the complaint, they said score it as if this were not an issue and then we’ll go back and zero it out if it ends up being a case of plagiarism,” said the teaching fellow, who was granted anonymity by The Crimson because CS50 course staff are instructed not to speak to the press about the class.
More than 60 students enrolled in CS50 last semester were accused of cheating in the course and appeared before the Honor Council, the College’s administrative body that hears academic dishonesty cases, The Crimson reported Wednesday. One of the most popular classes at the College, CS50—led by head instructor David J. Malan ’99—boasted 636 fall enrollees, meaning roughly 10 percent of the course faced academic dishonesty charges.
But because of the way CS50 reviews cases of academic dishonesty, students likely did not learn of cheating allegations against them until months after they potentially violated course policy, according to several CS50 course staff. The former staffers and one former student said they believe the current course method of checking for cheating disadvantages accused students.
Near the close of every semester of CS50, course staff run an algorithm that compares current enrollees’ work on class assignments to other students’ code and to code available online, according to five current and former class teaching fellows. Course policy asks teaching fellows not to inform students that they may have cheated on assignments, according to two former teaching fellows in the course.
After examining assignments flagged by the algorithm, Malan submits cheating cases he deems legitimate to the Honor Council, a body of roughly 30 students, faculty, and administrators that adjudicates academic dishonesty cases at the College. The bevy of CS50 cheating cases this past semester placed a heavy burden on the Honor Council, stretching the organization to its limits, according to two individuals with direct knowledge of the investigations.
Though he did not respond to multiple requests for comment from The Crimson, Malan outlined his approach to reviewing cheating allegations in an email to The Boston Globe Thursday. He wrote that he and course staff review students’ submitted assignments for probable plagiarism.
“We cross-compare all of those submissions against each other and also compare them against several years’ worth of past submissions via an automated process, the result of which is a list of ‘matches,’” Malan wrote.
Malan told The Globe that he and some staffers review these matches “with their own eyes” and find “those matches that do, in all of our eyes, seem to suggest an act that the course deems not reasonable.”
Students may also turn themselves in for potential academic dishonesty. In 2014, CS50 introduced a “regret clause” allowing students who violate the course’s academic integrity standards to face only course-specific penalties—meaning they would not appear before the Honor Council—if they report the violation within 72 hours.
“With students now encouraged to take ownership on their own, we’re also more comfortable referring cases to the council once that window has passed,” Malan told the Globe.
Some students and former teaching staff in the course said this approach to flagging academic dishonesty makes it difficult for students to realize they have may have cheated.
One student who took CS50 last fall and was subsequently called before the Honor Council said he found the course’s disciplinary system “very frustrating.”
“There’s this thing after the course that I didn’t know about until it happened to me where they say, ‘Oh, gotcha, we ran your problem sets through a scanner and found some matches so we’re sending you to the Honor Council,’” the student said.
The Crimson granted this student anonymity to discuss confidential Honor Council proceedings.
“It’s frustrating because you think you’re done with the semester and then you’re not,” the student added. “They don’t let you know that you’re doing anything wrong until it’s far too late.”
Mark D. Grozen-Smith ’15, a former CS50 Teaching Fellow, said he agreed that the late timing of Malan’s review can disadvantage students.
“That’s a good criticism for people who didn’t realize that what they’re doing is unreasonable,” Grozen-Smith said. “I think being able to direction-correct along the way would be helpful.”
Four current and former CS50 teaching fellows reached by The Crimson agreed that Malan’s approach to finding cases of academic dishonesty is concerning.
CS50 also operates a version of the course online and at Yale.
—Staff writer Hannah Natanson can be reached at hannah.natanson@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @hannah_natanson.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Serving as Harvard baseball’s 144th captain implies more than stellar performance on the diamond. Rather, as teammates and official recognition attest, what makes senior catcher Josh Ellis truly special are his off-field characteristics.
Ellis’ contributions to Harvard baseball and the community at-large have earned him the distinction as one of thirty candidates for the 2017 NCAA Senior CLASS Award in college baseball. To qualify, candidates must have excelled in four areas—community, classroom, character, and competition. Additionally, students are recognized for their ability to “to use their platform in athletics to make a positive impact as leaders in their communities.”
“We have a rock behind the plate in Ellis,” head coach Bill Decker said. “I am so happy to have had three years with him, being able to see him every day with the way he carries himself. He does it on the field, the classroom, the community, and for all his teammates and friends. He is just a special person.”
In 2017, the captain has delivered on the baseball field, largely in the role as the leadoff hitter for the Crimson. Coming in as a sophomore transfer from Bowdoin, Ellis went through numerous ups and downs, battling injuries before finding a solid role on the team.
When the opportunity came in his junior year, Ellis performed at an exceptionally high level as the new starting catcher for the team. Earning an All-Ivy League honorable mention, Ellis finished second on the team in batting average at .304 while tallying 35 hits and driving in 12 runs. Defensively, Ellis threw out nine of 22 base runners, among the highest pickoff rates in the Ivy League.
This year, the captain has maintained impressive statistics. As one of the fastest baserunners on the team, Ellis took advantage of his leadoff role with six stolen bases, including a steal at home in his final game against Dartmouth. Over the course of the season, Ellis knocked in 10 RBIs while notching a .274 batting average.
In speaking to his demeanor on the field, many of his teammates credit his energy and discipline behind the plate and his noticeable confidence at bat. Further, teammates repeatedly bring about the word “character.” That term, whatever it means, has resonated through the Harvard dugout and contributed to Ellis’ selection as captain after just two years with the Crimson.
“Josh is amazing, one of the greatest kids I know,” junior outfielder Austin Black said. “He’s done a great job with the team, and everyone loves him. It has been an honor to play with Josh.”
In reciprocating these comments, Ellis also attributes his success as a leader of the team to the contributions of many of the underclassmen, who have taken on tremendous responsibility in guiding the Crimson throughout the challenges of the season.
“It has been a really cool experience as a leader for the team,” Ellis said. “The team really welcomed me with open arms, and it is obvious there are many different leaders on the team beside myself, including many of the freshmen. The way that they carry themselves just makes everyone better.”
The personal qualities that Ellis has been lauded for on the baseball field have directly carried over in his academics and community work.
During academic hours, Ellis takes on a heavy course load by concentrating in neurobiology; over the summer, he will apply to medical school. Expressing an interest in mental health, Ellis conducted research over the summer in 2016 on a six-week fellowship to Haiti. As a result of this experience, Ellis has learned French and Creole to better understand the needs of the local community.
“I think one of the most important things I have learned in Haiti is the importance of listening,” Ellis said. “It’s been something that has helped on and off of the baseball field. In order to have a fully functioning team, people need to be happy and comfortable. That doesn’t happen unless people can readily share their experiences about what is happening in their daily lives.”
After his graduation from Harvard, Ellis will return to Haiti this summer as he continues his work with the Saint Rock Haiti Foundation. With his focus in mental health, Ellis has specialized in establishing a mental health clinic in Saint Rock and expanding the communications within the community over this increasingly concerning issue.
“I started going to Haiti almost ten years ago initially with my church to a little part of Haiti called Saint Rock,” Ellis said. “It was mainly medical-touristy in the beginning, and we would only be able to send a few doctors in three or four times per year. Later on, after a couple great fundraisers, we were able to hire a large medical staff and have a larger role for the community.”
Today, the medical program which Ellis helped initiate has seen over 40,000 patients since its inception, receiving over $300,000 in financial support in large part due to the fundraising efforts from those like Josh.
“Just being there first off and showing commitment to the community...means a lot,” Ellis said. “Having these interactions with the people there has been a really valuable experience for me.”
Even through all of his post-baseball plans, Ellis added that he is still looking forward to staying involved with the sport in some capacity. With his playing days likely over, Ellis still envisions himself taking more of a leadership role around baseball.
“I love the game, but I think my body is telling me to hang it up,” Ellis said. “But I am thinking about potentially going back and volunteering at my high school as an assistant coach. I definitely will not be a stranger to the game.”
A stranger to baseball or not, Ellis will leave a noticeable hole on the team when he graduates this spring. Conversely, in speaking of what baseball has meant to him, Ellis focused on something beyond simply balls, strikes, and the scoreboard.
“I have learned so many great life skills through the game of baseball,” Ellis said. “It has been a wonderful experience, and I have taken away so many things from baseball, like being a better communicator and listener. I look forward to staying involved with the sport in the near future.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
With four games left in its season and a playoff appearance on the line, Harvard counted on contributions from its entire team to sweep Dartmouth and win the Ivy League North Division this past weekend.
Perhaps no player in Crimson was more valuable than freshman pitcher and first baseman Olivia Giaquinto. In the final series of the season, Giaquinto flashed signs of brilliance both at the plate and on the mound to be named this week’s Athlete of the Week. The freshman also earned the Ivy League Rookie of the Week award.
“She did great,” said junior right fielder Maddy Kaplan. “She stepped up for us a couple of times here and really just came into her own and just looks really confident at the plate and on the mound, so I’m really happy for her.”
Along with sophomore third baseman Erin Lockhart, Giaquinto was a constant power threat throughout the series. Of her seven hits, which came in just 12 total at bats, five went for extra bases.
Three of those extra base hits were three-run home runs, and two came in consecutive innings in Harvard’s playoff-clinching game. These homers proved crucial, as they gave the Crimson the lead and provided insurance runs for pitchers Katie Duncan and Taylor Cabe. The other big fly was crucial in Harvard’s first win of the weekend, as her three-run bomb provided the Crimson an early lead in what eventually culminated in a close 7-6 victory.
“She was really a hot bat, really dialed in,” Allard said. “It was tremendous how she made adjustments and how she figured out how to get to contact, and she’s just got such good power. She hit a couple home runs against Yale, but this was the most consistent I saw her swing her bat in a series.”
After Harvard clinched an appearance in the Ivy League Championship Series against Princeton, the team still had one contest remaining in the regular season. Allard tabbed Giaquinto with the start, and she delivered her most electric performance of the year in the circle. The freshman perplexed the Big Green’s hitters through four shutout innings, allowing just four baserunners in the process.
“Olivia has gotten some innings for us before,” Allard said. “She’s done a good job for us in the circle. It was nice to start her and have them see somebody different.”
Making the adjustment from high school to college softball is no easy task. Only the best softball players make the jump from high school ball to play for Division I programs, so accordingly even the best college freshmen must go through periods of transition.
Making such an adjustment while at the same time being expected to provide immediate value on offense, in the field, and in the circle is exponentially more difficult. However, Giaquinto has been up to the task this season.
“We’ve put a lot on her with needing her bat in the lineup and having her play first, and then again with the injuries to our pitching staff having her get loose and be ready and available,” head coach Jenny Allard said.
After sophomore reliever Sarah Smith was lost to injury, Giaquinto had to step up as the primary bullpen option behind the duo of Cabe and Duncan. Couple her newfound pitching responsibilities with her routine appearances at first base, and Giaquinto all of a sudden had a lot on her plate for a rookie.
In all, Giaquinto smacked six home runs in her freshman campaign, tied with Lockhart for the team lead. She slashed .284/.356/.556 on the season, scored 14 runs, and drove in 17.
In the circle, Giaquinto made four starts and four relief appearances. She had two outstanding starts, one of which was the final game against Dartmouth. The other came versus Longwood at the Long Beach State/Fullerton Tournament. In that game, Giaquinto fired 4.1 innings of one-run ball, allowing two hits and striking out two.
“Her grit and work ethic is terrific, and she just goes out there and she does everything she can do,” Allard said.
—Staff writer Jack Stockless can be reached at jack.stockless@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
As the semester is winding down, you may find yourself stuck with $75 dollars in Board Plus and no ideas on how to spend it. You can only get so many LamCaf lattes. If you’re looking for a little more than Kind Bars and Pop Tarts, give the Barker Cafe a shot, located on the first floor of the Barker Center.
Sandwiches
If you’re tired of D-Hall food and are craving an eight dollar fancy grilled cheese, this is your place to go. The sandwiches here range from breakfast sandwiches to tasty-arugula filled ones. We recommend trying one of these bad boys out before the semester ends. Downside is they’re super expensive, but it’s a great way to start emptying out your Board Plus account. Also, they’re so good that they sell out by the afternoon, so get there early!
Pastries
From cookies to chocolate filled Brioche muffins, the baked goods at Barker are pretty decent. They’re all imported from the local bakery Hi-Rise, and are much better looking than the ones sold at LamCaf. Plus if you’re craving something chocolatey, the cookies are 95% chocolate chunks. What more could you ask for?
Beverages
If you’re looking for an iced coffee to pair with the warm spring weather, Barker is probably not the place to go. But, if you’re down for regular coffee or tea, then Barker is for you! The line moves fairly quickly too (thanks to the very polite and pleasant staff), so grab a cup before your Barker Center Hist & Lit seminar.
Events
The Barker Cafe also hosts cool things like Harvard band performances and poetry-readings, so often times you can get a show with your latte. There are plenty of places to lounge, from comfy reading chairs to intimate tables, so even if nothing’s going on, you can still chill and do some work. Lots of cool things go on, so be sure to check it out.
So, what are you waiting for? Head over to Barker Cafe to start burning through that excess Board Plus you have thanks to the HUDS strike #TBT.
