News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
This Saturday marked the end of a season of historic parity in Ivy League football. And it ended with a single champion.
In front of a raucous crowd of 51,426, Yale dominated Harvard, 24-3, to claim its first outright title in 37 years. The Bulldogs (9-1, 6-1 Ivy) held the Crimson to 26 rushing yards and scored touchdowns on all three red-zone trips to seize the 134th playing of The Game.
The contest concluded a wacky year in the Ancient Eight. Last week, seven teams—including Harvard—remained in the running for a league title. Now only one stands atop the peak.
“This is more than just a win for Yale,” Bulldogs coach Tony Reno said. “This was a complete culture change. People showed how football should be played.”
The death knell sounded with 12:04 left when freshman running back Zane Dudek punched in a two-yard score.
On an 81-yard drive that took 4:50, the Bulldogs tore holes in the Crimson defensive front. Backup running back Melvin Rouse II escaped for 25 yards and then another 11. On first-and-goal, the Yale offensive line pushed forward two yards, and in waltzed Dudek.
That touchdown illustrated the moral of the game. Offensively and defensively, the Bulldogs bullied Harvard (5-5, 3-4) in the trenches. After a sluggish start, the Yale run game picked up 118 yards. Dudek led the way with 25 carries for 64 yards.
Meanwhile, the Bulldogs defense held runners to an average of 0.8 yards per carry. The absence of leading rusher Charlie Booker didn’t help. The junior running back sat out with an unspecified injury. Yale, which entered as the league-leader in sacks, substantiated that reputation with six quarterback takedowns. All told, the Crimson failed to score a touchdown in consecutive weeks for the first time since 1986.
“The bottom line is [that] Yale is a terrific football team,” Harvard coach Tim Murphy said. “They’re by far the best football team in our league. They have no real weaknesses, and they deserved to win.”
By mid-afternoon, only a smattering of fans colored the Crimson section. By contrast, the Bulldogs side remained full until the final whistle, at which point students stormed the field.
Yale could celebrate a remarkable turnaround. In 2016, the Bulldogs crawled to a 3-7 record. However, the Elis closed the year with a 21-14 shocker over Harvard. Yale rode the momentum of that upset into 2017, exceeding a predicted fourth-place finish en route to the Ivy championship.
Harvard, meanwhile, slumped to a 5-5 record a season after going 7-3. Navigating a storm of injuries, the Crimson finished with a sub-.500 record in conference play for the first time since 1999.
“I want to say how proud I am of our kids,” Murphy said. “We’ve had our share of challenges this year, week after week, sometimes under difficult circumstances. But our kids have just been incredible to coach.”
On Saturday at the Yale Bowl, early play settled into a defensive battle, with Harvard nursing a 3-0 lead after 15 minutes.
Eight minutes into the second quarter, the Bulldogs got on the board with a 54-yard touchdown drive. Most of the yardage came when wide receiver JP Shohfi split the safeties on a 46-yard post-and-run. The Crimson forced third-and-goal, but Rawlings lofted a gorgeous fade to Shofi to seize a 7-3 lead.
The competitive first half turned disastrous when Murphy dialed up a pitch-option 10 minutes into the second quarter. Starting at the 16, freshman quarterback Jake Smith darted forward about five yards before shoveling an errant pass to freshman running back Aaron Shampklin.
Defensive back Malcolm Dixon scooped up the fumble and raced 19 yards for a 14-3 lead. He circled the Yale bench and raised his arms to the roaring crowd.
Two plays later, the nightmare repeated. Smith ran another pitch-option, and Shampklin lost another lateral. Defensive end J. Hunter Roman recovered the fumble at the Harvard 38, setting up the Bulldogs with 4:24 left.
The Yale offense advanced inside the 10 after converting a fourth-and-eight. But the Crimson halted Dudek on consecutive runs to set up a decision for Reno. One second remained on the clock, and eight yards separated the Elis from the end zone.
Reno went the safe route, electing for a 25-yard field goal that sent Yale into halftime with a 17-3 advantage.
Furthering a season of quarterback controversy, Smith got the nod for Harvard. He slotted in for fifth-year senior Joe Viviano, who started versus Penn last week.
Smith finished 9-for-16 for 83 yards. He was replaced by Viviano in the fourth quarter, after Dudek had pushed the lead to 24-3. Seven Crimson completions went to junior wide receiver Justice Shelton-Mosley, who totaled 77 yards. At times, the lithe junior seemed to be the only source of Harvard offense, using quick footwork to beat defensive backs off the line.
“He’s our best player,” Murphy said. “It’s been really tough getting the ball to him because he’s seen so much double coverage…. He’s such a champion that he just took it up somehow another notch today.”
After the hosts wasted their first set of downs, Shelton-Mosley spearheaded the Crimson’s lone scoring drive. He caught three passes for first downs and moved Harvard to the nine.
That’s when the drive sputtered. Yale’s touted defensive line stopped two rushes, and defensive end John Herubin swallowed up Smith on third down. Sophomore kicker Jake McIntyre converted a 29-yard field goal to give Harvard a 3-0 lead.
All afternoon, the Bulldogs sought to minimize the effectiveness of Shelton-Mosley, who entered the game leading the FCS with 18.8 yards per punt return. On kickoffs, Yale squibbed the ball up the middle, and punter Alex Galland sent high kicks down the sideline. Shelton-Mosley could only signal for fair catches and watch as the score crept from 7-3 to 14-3 and then 17-3 to 24-3.
The wide receiver did a lot of watching because the two teams did a lot of punting. The Bulldogs and the Crimson combined for significantly more punting yards (621) than offensive yards (459).
The third quarter, which exemplified those statistics, could have put an insomniac to sleep. Harvard and Yale punted seven times, and neither team scored. By that point, the onus lay on the Crimson, which already trailed 17-3.
That deficit obscured a staunch defensive performance by Harvard, especially in the first half.
With 10:46 left in the half, a short punt by Schmid set up the Bulldogs in Crimson territory at the 49. But Hutton ended the threat with an interception. The captain found himself in isolation coverage on a long post, and he stuck with his man to grab the underthrown ball.
In the first half, Harvard held Dudek to 24 yards on 11 carries. And besides Shohfi’s long grab, no Yale play topped 16 yards.
“You try to stop the run,” Hutton said. “Our defensive staff really made a great game plan for us to cut back on their [running plays].”
The problem was, the Bulldogs defensive line proved even more suffocating. After 30 minutes, Smith ranked as the Crimson’s leading rusher. He had seven yards. As a team, Harvard had run 17 times and netted six yards.
No relief came when Smith dropped back to pass, as Yale rushers imploded the pocket. The Bulldogs recorded three sacks before halftime and generally made Smith miserable. Viviano fared no better, as the senior tossed two interceptions.
On Saturday in New Haven, Conn., clouds gathered early, and they never receded. Few silver linings existed. Still, by the time the final whistle sounded, Crimson seniors had earned the right to reflect on their past four years.
“[My teammates] have taught me so much, much more than I could ever teach anyone else,” Hutton said. “Coach Murphy changed my life, and he did all that through recruiting me and then exposing me to these coaches and these players. I’m so thankful for that.”
—Staff writer Sam Danello can be reached at sam.danello@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
This weekend, all eyes turned to New Haven, Conn., as Harvard football clashed with Yale in “The Game”. While classmates were enjoying the annual festivities, however, the No. 13/11 Harvard men’s hockey team was up north battling No. 7/6 Minnesota in back-to-back contests.
After dropping both games to the Golden Gophers (9-4-1, 3-2-1 Big Ten), it is safe to say that this season has not started the way the Crimson (2-5-0, 2-3-0 ECAC) had envisioned it.
Returning to Cambridge empty-handed tainted an otherwise exciting weekend for the Crimson’s Minnesota natives, freshmen Henry Bowlby and Benjamin Foley, junior Jacob Olson, and tri-captain Jake Horton.
“Good to see family and friends again and play…in front of a familiar atmosphere that I grew up going to games at, so it was fun,” Bowlby said. “I know a lot of the guys on the other team, grew up with a few of them…so it was tough shaking their hands after the loss.”
The pair of defeats marks the second straight weekend for which Harvard has no points to show, despite solid performances from the team’s top forward trio—Bowlby and junior forwards Ryan Donato and Lewis Zerter-Gossage—and a stellar game on Saturday from tri-captain goaltender Merrick Madsen.
The last time the Crimson dropped its fourth straight bout was February 7th, 2015, in a season that still saw the squad reach the NCAA Tournament.
MINNESOTA 2, HARVARD 1
Until the final seconds of the game, Harvard channeled the old adage, “bend, not break”.
“You got to be able to play in front of hostile fans,” coach Ted Donato ’91 said. “And you need to be able to bend and not break. We did it for a lot of the night, but [that’s] not good enough.”
Facing an onslaught of shots from Minnesota, Madsen stood tall in net and kept his team in the game. The Arizona Coyotes prospect faced 16 shots in each of the three regulation periods and set a career-high in saves with 48. Only sophomore forward Rem Pitlick was able to solve Madsen in regulation.
“Our goaltender was outstanding,” coach Donato lauded. “It’s frustrating losing a game when he plays that well…. We have a lot of faith in him, and unfortunately on the last goal, we don’t give him a chance to make a save.”
Regulation was not enough to determine a victor, and the teams entered overtime notched at 1-1. Ultimately, Gophers captain and 2017 Hobey Baker finalist, Tyler Sheehy, spoiled Madsen’s record night.
Junior forward Brent Gates Jr. curled at the goal line and found Sheehy on a cross-crease pass. Madsen couldn’t get over to the far-side pipe quick enough, and the Mariucci crowd was erupting moments later.
After conceding four straight goals to start Friday’s game, the Crimson hoped to open on a more positive note the next night. Though, while Harvard had some quality chances early on, Minnesota mainly contained the Crimson attack and racked up a sizable lead in shots on goal. Through one period, this disparity was nine; through 40 minutes, it grew to 19.
In terms of sheer quantity of chances, Saturday’s overtime bout was a tale of two teams. On one hand, Harvard was held to its lowest shot total since it tallied just 11 in a shutout loss to RPI on February 1st, 2013. On the other, the Gophers finished with their highest shot total since January 17th, 2015, in a win over Wisconsin.
“Regardless of the shot totals, I thought we had a lot of dangerous chances as well,” said coach Donato in support of his team’s effort. “I like the way our team battled, and it’s a good team on the other side…. They just kept coming.”
Of the few positives coach Donato can extract from the game, freshman forward Henry Bowlby’s play of late is certainly one of them. The Edina, Minn., native potted the Crimson’s only goal on Saturday in front of a hometown crowd and looks to be clicking nicely on the team’s revamped top line.
“It’s no secret that every kid in Minnesota has a twinkle in [his] eye for the U [of Minnesota],” coach Donato said. “For a guy like [Bowlby] to be able to come in and play well and score a goal each night, I think is pretty special.”
Coach Donato switched Bowlby with sophomore Ty Pelton-Byce, who opened the season in Harvard’s top-line left wing spot, before the Cornell game in Ithaca, N.Y., last weekend. Bowlby now has two goals and an assist in three games playing alongside Donato and Zerter-Gossage on Harvard’s first forward trio.
MINNESOTA 4, HARVARD 2
After falling to 2-3 last weekend, Harvard’s immediate goal was to return to .500. Nevertheless, the team failed to do so after a zealous third-period surge became a case of too little, too late.
Unlike the second game of the series, Friday’s clash saw a more even distribution of shots. Nevertheless, the Gophers jumped out to a statement 4-0 lead after two periods.
“All night long we were just a little bit tentative,” coach Donato said. “We didn’t play with a lot of conviction. I thought in the third [it was] a little bit better...but if you play a good team, you can’t spot them a number of goals.”
Gates and Pitlickboth inked the score sheet in the first frame before senior defenseman Steve Johnson and freshman forward Casey Mittelstadt piled it on in the middle period.
The shifty Mittelstadt, who ranks as the second highest NHL Draft pick in this year’s NCAA player pool, finished the weekend with three points and took full advantage of the wider, Olympic-style ice sheet at 3M Arena at Mariucci.
“I think it’s an adjustment for any team when they come up to the big ice surface,” coach Donato admitted. “Certainly, they have some guys who get around the ice well…. But that’s not something that’s surprising to us.”
Unhappy with the result of the first 40 minutes, the Crimson came out for the final frame with a determined energy. Harvard carried play in the third, the only period all weekend in which the Crimson outshot Minnesota.
Less than a minute into the frame, freshman forward Jack Badini tallied his first career goal and jumpstarted the offense for his team.
Fellow freshman Reilly Walsh skated into the zone before turning his back to the defense at the right circle. He found a trailing Badini in the high slot for a one-time snipe that beat Gophers goaltender Eric Schierhorn five-hole.
Donato added Harvard’s other goal and, after tallying a helper on Saturday, has picked up a point in every game so far this season.
That was all the Crimson’s late-game push could muster, however. The contest ended at 4-2, as Harvard paid the price for another lackluster start.
Coming off its second winless weekend, the Crimson now risks dropping off the USCHO top-20 for the first time in 78 weeks and will almost certainly fall out of the USA Today poll for the first time in 61 weeks.
—Staff writer Spencer R. Morris can be reached at spencer.morris@thecrimson.com. Follow Spencer on Twitter @SMorrisTHC.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections


We get it—it’s hard to live down Harvard’s second loss to Connecticut’s premiere unaccredited arts and crafts school. But we compiled a list of even worse failures to distract you from this dark time.
Thanksgiving homework deadlines
There’s a special place in hell for every professor who thinks we have nothing better to do than submit psets over our hard-earned break. Can they not?
Getting rejected by the PSK’s bouncer
To be fair, even Mark Zuckerberg couldn’t get into the Phoenix, so the game was rigged from the start. Just accept that you weren’t dressed skimpily enough, or don’t have any high-society friends, and move on to a more inclusive but similarly gross Pfoho bell tower party.
Eliot swipers catching you eating interhouse
An even bigger L than the latter, as River House dining halls are more exclusive than any party.
Missing the shuttle
Getting Quadded is a glaring L in of itself, but missing the shuttle and having to take an embarrassing minutes-long uber to the Science Center is beyond shameful.
Not getting off the League’s waitlist
The League dating app was designed to offer the truly deserving a chance at cuffing people worthy of their status. Dating someone outside the Ivy League bubble is in such poor taste. But if you didn’t get accepted into its prestigious dating pool, maybe you should stick to lowly Tinder for now with all its Babson baes and B.U. biddies.
B in Hebrew Bible
“The Hebrew Bible” is considered to be one of the easiest classes at our fine institution, so getting anything lower than an A in this gem is so sad. How did you even get into Harvard?
Going to Yale
Sure, losing to the New Haven’s Elementary School is a humiliating experience. But in the end, nothing will beat the L Yale students took after getting brutally rejected from Harvard.
Hey, we might have lost at sports but at least our notion of a social space doesn’t include a seedy nightclub full of random townies looking to shove their tongue down your throat.
