News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The selfie is a popular phenomenon where people use their smartphones to take photos of themselves. Even though people of all genders can and regularly do take selfies, selfie culture is culturally dominated by women. The Chainsmoker’s hit song “#Selfie” was voiced by a woman, stock photos of selfies mainly depict women, and the face of selfie culture—the “queen of selfies”—is Kim Kardashian. A study even found that the average 16-25 year old woman spends over five hours a week taking selfies.
However, selfies are also the subject of much ridicule and criticism. Multiple articles have concluded that people who take more selfies are more likely to be narcissistic and psychopathic. Other articles have extrapolated that selfie-takers are vain. And many people seem to agree that selfies are a “manifestation of society’s obsession with looks and its ever-narcissistic embrace.” Selfie culture, according to some people, threatens the very moral fabric of society—destroying marriages and ruining friendships.
It’s not a surprise that selfie culture, which is dominated by women, is also criticized for being shallow and foolish at best, destructive and dangerous at worst. Anything that is popular among women, especially young women, is immediately devalued and ridiculed in society. It is only natural that this misogynistic disapproval of all things feminine would spread to taking selfies as well.
The many derisive articles and social media posts about Snapchat’s dog filter and flower crown filter are a good place to see this disapproval manifest itself. These two extremely popular selfie filters are often referred to as the “hoe filters”—a term that slut-shames women for committing the crime of feeling pretty in a photo with a digital flower crown on their head.
But the antipathy directed toward the Snapchat filters is indicative of something more than just the usual devaluation of femininity. It reflects a deep-rooted discomfort that many people experience when women raise a camera to their face, take a photo of themselves, and appreciate how good they look.
Of course, women are expected to look good at all times. Society demands that prettiness is the “rent you pay for occupying a space marked ‘female’.” But it is deeply unsettling when women actually become aware that they look good. When women don’t know that they’re beautiful, that is, in fact, “what makes you beautiful,” as the popular One Direction song goes. Over and over again, the message is reinforced that women must be breathtakingly beautiful, but they must also be completely unaware of their own beauty.
This message reflects a larger underlying belief in society that women’s beauty is only intended for male consumption. After all, the only reason why women wear makeup and put on short skirts is for male attention—which is why they’re “asking for it” when they get catcalled or sexually assaulted. Why else would a woman go to such efforts to cultivate her appearance, if not for the benefit of men?
Laura Mulvey’s theory of the male gaze explains how, in much of visual arts and literature, the world is depicted from a masculine point of view, and women are portrayed as nothing more than objects for male pleasure. The lingerie-clad women in Victoria’s Secret advertisements, for example, are intended for the male gaze, as they pose sexily and flash “come hither” smiles at passersby, titillating the male viewers with their beauty.
As far as I have noticed, there have been very few complaints from men about these advertisements, nor the women depicted in them. But the moment one of these women raises a smartphone towards herself, dressed in the same lingerie and flashing the same coquettish smile, their attitudes change. The very same men who had lusted after her body now say things like “I’ll never date a girl who posts half naked slutty selfies,” and write long-winded articles about how “chicks that need to affirm their desirability on almost a daily basis with yet another selfie” are such an “incredible turnoff and an enormous red flag,” and some men even threaten to “beat the shit outta my girl” if she were to post scantily-clad selfies on social media.
This hypocrisy, however, is nothing new. Before smartphones were even invented, John Berger made this exact same observation in “Ways of Seeing,” remarking: “You painted a naked woman because you enjoyed looking at her, put a mirror in her hand and you called the painting ‘Vanity,’ thus morally condemning the woman whose nakedness you had depicted for your own pleasure.”
Society condemns women for taking selfies because the act of taking a selfie is deeply unsettling, even subversive. What’s frightening about selfie culture is that it shows that women do not need men to validate their beauty. It reinforces the radical concept that women’s beauty does not, in fact, belong to men; that women do not, in fact, dress themselves or wear makeup solely for men; and that women are actually autonomous individuals who exist outside of the male gaze.
And this is at the heart of the criticism surrounding selfie culture. In one of the many articles about selfie culture, one man says: “I don’t think it has anything to do with guys, which makes it a little pathetic. It’s not like they’re looking for our approval—they’re looking for each others.’”
When women take selfies, they are subverting the male gaze. When women enjoy their own beauty, they are no longer the objects of consumption but rather the subjects. And when women take selfies, they make it abundantly clear that they do not need men, nor the male gaze, in order to feel beautiful.
Nian Hu ’18 is a government concentrator in Mather House. Her column appears on alternate Thursdays.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
In the wake of growing calls for change and a sexual climate survey revealing shocking results, Harvard has prioritized issues of sexual assault. However, the University’s words and actions on this matter are incongruous. While administrators’ attempts to institute sexual assault prevention training and create a committee to find effective solutions are laudable, they have not put enough weight behind policies, resulting only in what a recent Crimson news analysis called "checkered progress".
The College has historically granted the 12 residential Houses a great deal of autonomy in an attempt to maintain independence and informality. However, this has led to uneven implementation of programs. For instance, while Lowell House called for prevention discussions in the wake of the climate survey, other Houses did nothing. This is unacceptable. Excuses about the decentralized nature of the College-House relationship should not prevent upperclassmen from receiving valuable information surrounding serious events that happen on campus and remain unchecked.
When sexual assault occurs, students often must turn to administrative bodies such as the Office of Sexual Assault Prevention and Response for guidance and support, while student groups such as Consent Advocates and Relationship Educators work to educate and provide prevention training. Given the important work they do, these groups are understaffed and underfunded. Harvard must provide additional funding and administrative support. In the wake of the disturbing sexual assault statistics, students often only have these groups to which to turn, and need many more than the five counselors OSAPR currently staffs.
In addition, sexual assault prevention training should be necessary and strictly enforced for all Harvard students. While the the current online module the College has implemented is a welcome first step, it is not particularly effective: only two-thirds of undergraduate students have actually completed it. One-third of the student body should not be allowed to skirt a system designed to affect important change on this campus. Rather, the College ought to heed the report and implement small groups to discuss sexual assault prevention training among peers. However, regardless of whether an online module or small-group peer education is implemented, Harvard must ensure and enforce a 100% completion rate for these trainings.
The College must also test to see if the steps they take ultimately have measurable and positive effects on student life. One way to track change would be to institute campus climate surveys to measure progress among the student body at least every two years.
Measurable improvement will make Harvard a safer place. We cannot stand by when cases of sexual assault are reported, but simply checking off boxes and calling our work done is not enough. Harvard administrators must work diligently, with the assistance of students, to create more effective policies on sexual assault prevention.
This staff editorial solely represents the majority view of The Crimson Editorial Board. It is the product of discussions at regular Editorial Board meetings. In order to ensure the impartiality of our journalism, Crimson editors who choose to opine and vote at these meetings are not involved in the reporting of articles on similar topics.

Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
I am an immigrant from a Muslim-majority country. The act of journeying from poverty or oppression to seize something better in a foreign nation is not simply courageous; it is a desperate last resort. My parents risked everything—their education, their livelihood, their family, and their happiness—to come to the United States for the possibility of opportunity.
They were never given a guarantee, nor did they ever assume one, but they saw potential in the United States that they realized their home country simply did not have—largely a result of a damaging colonialist and imperial history (if only we were concerned about illegal immigrants back then!). For this reason, the “temporary” immigration ban is not simply unfortunate—it is unethical.
I understand that American democracy stands as a beacon of hope for other nations to one day follow. However, those nations that lack  the stable government we are privileged to have are struggling through the aftermath of a destructive history—one that has largely been influenced by Western powers like the United States.
An immigration ban of the sort proposed by President Donald Trump does little but stigmatize those nations and their people further. It villainizes innocent civilians whose only mistake was being born in an underprivileged country. The justification for this ban is that it uses protective measures to avoid any and all future terrorist measures. Ignoring that the ban does not actually target the countries that have produced the greatest number of terrorists, it essentially works on the principle that if we remove all potential for danger, danger will not happen.
Baby-proofing America is perhaps best left for helicopter parents, not presidents. The rhetoric used to support the ban is hypocritical when compared to the Trump administration’s other policies. By this logic, guns should be banned, especially when gun violence causes a thousand times as many American deaths as terrorist attacks do. Clearly, guns are a greater threat to American safety and democracy than “radical Islam”. JFK died from a bullet wound, not a suicide bomb, after all.
The ban also unjustly bars the immigration of individuals who have already been approved for visas—many of whom have already undergone a thorough and lengthy vetting process. Many of these people have lived in the United States for several years without any cause to warrant their expulsion from this country. Many people who work at and attend Harvard run the risk of never being able to return if they decide to visit home.
This ban is simply a political maneuver that seeks to provide a trophy for the current administration in their attempts to keep unrealistic campaign promises at the expense of defenseless populations. Like a shiny object dangled in front of a puppy, executive orders like the ban do little but distract us from our actual issues. Let's also not forget that it simultaneously ostracizes an entire religion through discriminatory language.
Fortunately, the need for much of this conversation becomes null and void after the judicial rejection of the ban. The federal court’s ruling on the order and its reinstatement designates it as an unlawful act, so to continue to advocate for it ultimately denies our system of checks and balances. While the court avoided confronting the religious discrimination that underlay the initial motives for this ban, to pretend that these policies don’t target specific populations is both naive and dangerous.
It takes us down a possible path to repeating history—similar arguments of protecting the safety of Americans led to Japanese internment camps. While I doubt that we will and hope that we do not repeat this mistake, I worry that by not acknowledging the parallels, we run the risk of getting close enough to cause irreparable damage.  This ban not only ostracizes foreigners, but also Americans like myself, who see it as a rejection of our identity and as ignorant of our civil rights.
I hope to remind us all of who we are, what we fundamentally believe in, a moral task that should not be so difficult to understand. Trump’s immigration ban may not have been heartless, but it surely was not selfless, nor does it propose a rational solution for the issues it seeks to address. To believe that it does, one must first abandon American principles of fairness, equality, and freedom. It seems that with executive orders such as this one, the current administration stands as a greater threat to American liberties than Muslim immigrants.
Tasnim Ahmed ’17, an inactive Crimson editor, is a Psychology concentrator in Adams House.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
National holidays range from the meaningful, like the recently celebrated President’s Day, to the downright absurd, like Public Sleeping Day. As we approach the month of March, FM takes a look at some unique national holidays you should add to your calendar. Here are some of the most bizarre holidays we found, with a few fictitious ones thrown into the mix. See if your discerning eye can determine the real holidays from the fake ones.
1. Run Up the Flagpole & See If Anyone Salutes Day,  January 2
2. Thank a Mailman Day,  February 4
3. If Pets Had Thumbs Day, March 3
4. National Kermit the Frog Day, April 13
5. Eat What You Want Day, May 11
6. Embrace a Communist Day, June 20
7. National Teddy Bear Picnic Day, July 10
8. Sneak Some Zucchini Onto Your Neighbor’s Porch Day, August 8
9. International Talk Like A Pirate Day, September 19
10. International Moment of Frustration Scream Day, October 12
11. Swing From a Chandelier Day, November 7
12. National Netflix and Chill Day, December 30

Fake holidays: 4, 6, 11, 12
Sections
Sections
I began my career as a parasite at a young and tender age.
Most lower-schoolers make or break playground friendships based on peers’ clothing (Limited Too: unacceptable), their aptitude for Wall Ball and Four Square (admission: I was crap at both), and the content of their lunchboxes (fruit roll-ups: ideal). My only requirement, however, was that any friend of mine had to have younger siblings.
My overtures were innocent enough. Once I identified my sibling-rich targets, I offered extra turns on the jump rope, doled out the Go-Gurts from my lunch,  and gave playful pokes during naptime. Results were usually swift, and I earned many coveted play-date invitations.
My mother dropped me off at my new friends’ houses, leaving me after the time-honored parental injunction, "Behave yourself." She needn’t have bothered.
From the moment I stepped in the door, I was the perfect guest: polite, clean, placid. I never failed to say "please" and "thank you." I entertained my friends’ younger siblings, involved them in games, asked their opinions, comforted them when they cried. They grew to love me; they met me at the door with presents covered in Elmer’s glue.
Their parents came to love me, too, exclaiming that I was so patient, so kind, so understanding with the younger kids. Mothers wondered, pointedly, why there weren’t more children like me.
Perhaps because most children don’t have a little brother whose ashes sit on a shelf in their mother’s bedroom.
My baby brother David and I were both preemies, both born too early, both suffering health complications. I survived them; he didn’t. David died in the hospital when I was two years old, after a few short months of life. He will be buried with my mother when she dies.
I never saw David alive. As soon as I grew old enough to understand what the death of my brother meant, I became obsessed with other people’s siblings.
I hung on to my friends’ families like a tick, gorging myself on the bad blood shed between siblings. I treasured every insult, every favorite toy broken accidentally-on-purpose, every slammed door, every settled score.
I culled the results of my parasitic feedings as though I were compiling a case: Natanson v. Universe, the compelling argument as to why one girl is owed one little brother.
I felt sure that, eventually, the powers that be would realize their mistake, would realize these ungrateful tyrants didn’t deserve their younger siblings. They would see that I—so unfailingly good with kids—was born to be an older sister. In the end, they’d have to give my brother back.
I was wrong. No matter how approving or compassionate I was, it wasn’t enough for my friends’ younger siblings. It wasn’t my kindness or approval that they longed for, but their older brother’s or sister’s. I was baffled.
Now, I understand. The conflict, the sticky-fingered pinching, the hot tears: all indelible marks of belonging. Intimate knowledge of one another permitted these brother-sister pairs to irritate at will, to push exactly the right buttons at exactly the right moments—and, finally, to see these fights for the privileges they were. Their whole lives, they’d never fight like this with anyone else. And I’d never fight like that with anyone at all.
Today, when my best friend complains, "My little sister is such a brat," I commiserate disinterestedly. I feel no resentment, none at all.
Well, almost none.
Sections
One block past Darwin’s, a line of classic Cambridge homes runs along Ash St.—mundane shingles alternate with pedestrian Queen Annes.
One lot stands out. From the sidewalk, all you can see of 9 Ash St. is a tall grey wall. The odd rectangular building behind the barrier is invisible to passersby.
This elusive abode was the home of famed architect Philip C. Johnson ’27 while he studied at Harvard’s Graduate School of Design in the 1940s. Johnson, born to an affluent family, purchased the property and designed the house soon after coming to campus.
9 Ash St. eventually served as Johnson’s thesis project. Known as “The Philip Johnson House,” it was the stylistic precursor to his famous “Glass House”—a building made entirely of glass—in New Canaan, Connecticut.
Johnson believed architecture should be visible, but also personal, a “design of interiors.” His work reflects this duality: He designed both a house of glass, bare to the world, and a hidden home, safeguarded by a nine-foot wall.
Johnson was already well-known when he arrived at the GSD. After graduating from Harvard College with a degree in Philosophy and Greek, he served as a curator at New York City’s Museum of Modern Art, and co-wrote “The International Style” with renowned architect Henry Russell Hitchcock.
During Johnson’s time at the GSD, 9 Ash St. became as a social hotspot for Harvard’s architectural community, with famous architects often dropping in for dinner. Johnson loved the attention and maintained a high profile in the architectural world for the rest of his life.
Despite his own visibility, Johnson left much unseen. During the 1930s, he grew fascinated with Nazism, but hid his far-right proclivities from the public. He helped secure American residence for several German architects during the war, but later recanted his Fascist sympathies.
Johnson’s aesthetic is as hard to pin down as his politics. Ever the chameleon, Johnson demonstrated great fluidity in his art, moving from pure Modernism to a style that blended modern and classical elements.
He was the mastermind behind some of the most recognizable buildings in America, including Manhattan’s Seagram Building and Lipstick Tower, as well as the Crystal Cathedral of Garden Grove, California. Over the course of his career, Johnson earned such honors as the Gold Medal of the American Institute of Architects and the highly prestigious Pritzker Architecture Prize.
Considering these awards, it’s no shock Johnson soon moved on from the little rectangular house at 9 Ash St. His nascent genius, however, remains preserved—if only we could see it. So what’s in that house? Hard to say. A few Cantabridgians? Some appropriately modernist furniture? An apple-cheeked garden gnome or two? And perhaps, the faintest reflection of a sprightly, bespectacled, 35-year-old Johnson, plotting to transform city skylines.
Sections
I started calling myself a runner when I broke my first high school track record as a sophomore. I had always been a student athlete, but that kind of success was new to me. As a sprinter, my races were 100 percent in my hands. I had no one to rely on, to push me mid-race, to make my legs move faster. It was all on me, all the time. The wins felt great. The losses were devastating.
When people would question what I enjoyed about running in circles, I would try to come up with a cover for the truth: It felt good to be good at something.
Then, in my junior year of high school, my grandfather passed away. The day after his service, I started to suppress my grief. The indoor track season began, and I returned to a team that lacked older runners, where the role of leader fell to me by default. I felt crushing pressure to succeed.
Every athlete gets nervous—nerves indicate a passion for your sport—but I wasn’t just nervous. I was anxious. I began getting physically ill after my races. My times slowed slightly and my coach accused me of not running my hardest. I pushed my body harder and my body revolted: I began to get sick before and after races.
I broke school records, but I don’t remember any of them. All I can remember are the constant trips to the bathroom between each of my four events (the maximum amount allowed for an individual athlete).
On meet days, I would sit in class, my uniform constricting my breathing under my clothes, and attempt to summon a freak storm. Later in the day, I’d sit on a yellow school bus with my forehead pressed against the seat in front of me, hoping for a fender-bender to stop the bus. I would silently pray for help.
My parents noticed my distress and brought me to multiple specialists to address what appeared to be a purely physical affliction. I removed dairy and gluten from my diet and attempted to push my under-fueled body to new physical limits. I would eat five slices of a Red Delicious apple over the course of an eight-hour meet, knowing it wouldn’t be enough to sustain my body, knowing I’d get sick regardless. When I competed at the Indoor New England Championships that year, I nearly passed out after my race. Our relay team achieved a new personal record.
Junior spring, in what should’ve been my second-to-last outdoor season, the bad got worse: I began getting sick during my races. Even during the 100 meter dash, a single straightaway on the track, a race I would run in 12.3 seconds, my body would fail me. I would run through the finish line, off the track into the bathroom to clean myself up in an embarrassed panic. I was winning races, but that meant nothing compared to the fact that the race was over.
By November of senior year, I was seeing a counselor. She encouraged me to reevaluate my priorities before returning to track for the indoor season. I was stubborn, and returned to the team.
On the first official day of practice, my coach approached me as I agonized over our impending workout. She told me that she had been reading up on my issues and that to regain my confidence, better my times, and to stop getting physically ill, all I had to do was “feel the fear and do it anyway”. She refused to acknowledge my deteriorating mental and physical health unless I was truly unable to compete.
I continued to get sick throughout meets and sometimes even at practices until finally, at the second-to-last meet of the regular season, I had a breakdown in the stands. I felt desperate and powerless. I told my parents I wanted to quit, right then and there.
Prior to that moment, I had never opened up to them about the depth of my turmoil. I thought I was protecting them. They had their own grief, three kids, jobs, sick parents and an extensive list of other stresses. When I cried to them that day I didn’t hold back. I needed someone to tell me it was okay to stop.
I’d known long before this moment that my loss of the control of my bodily functions was the physical manifestation of my emotions, but in that moment, I verbally acknowledged it. I admitted defeat.
I finished the season anyway. When it was over, I called the coaches from the colleges I was still interested in. Each of them was willing to support my decision. My teammates also gave me their blessing. My coaches were less than thrilled, but I took the power back. With an abundance of support from the people who mattered, I chose not to compete in my final outdoor track season.
When I got to college, I introduced myself as a potential walk-on to the track and field team. Athletics were the only familiarity in an abundance of new and confusing experiences, and I frantically tried to reestablish my connection to the structure and pressure of being a student athlete. Then I started to train for track tryouts. The sickness returned during even the lightest workouts.
I no longer identify as a runner. My medals and plaques are in a box under my bed 100 miles away from my college dorm room. When I think about my brief running career, my throat catches. I want to remember everything I have accomplished, but I’m constantly reminded of the obstacles I failed to overcome. Grief and anxiety are familiar now, and I have the tools to keep them on the margins of my day. I still can’t run, though.
Sections
There had to be some kind of catch. In FM’s weekly meeting, one writer mentioned she had received an e-mail from a startup promising free food in the Square. Sign up, it said, and she could send a voucher to friends for chips and salsa at El Jefe’s. What seemed like a surefire scam was actually Grant W. Burgess’s startup, Forward, founded in June 2016.
We decided to investigate Forward for ourselves. We went on the website and emailed each other gifts to Tealuxe, a local tea company in Harvard Square. Using the coupons on our phones, we successfully claimed our strawberry lemonade and Earl Grey iced teas without a hitch.
At the tea shop, we meet Burgess, who brightens the dimly-lit store with his vibrant yellow Forward T-shirt and an exuberant smile. As we sip our free drinks, he tells us more about his company.
“Forward is a gifting app,” he explains. “Essentially the way it works is you give your friend a coupon or treat from local businesses. You go with them to get that free item, and the business gets a potential new customer, just by giving away a cup of tea.”
After graduating from Williams College in 2008, Burgess went to work at Google in Kendall Square, where he did sales and account management for online advertisers. But he felt like something was missing. “I don’t think that working in a big company was for me,” he says. “I loved Google and its mission, but it wasn’t my personal mission.”
After leaving Google in Sept. 2012, Burgess traveled to New Zealand and worked on GenieWallet, a recently-launched rewards program for local businesses. Burgess’s favorite part of that program was that consumers could gift some of their rewards to their friends. “The problem is, guess how many people used this feature?” Burgess asks. “Zero. Which was so unfortunate, because that was the best thing about it.”
Forward was born. Inspired by GenieWallet, Burgess moved back to Boston to found his own start-up that would draw out people’s philanthropic instincts.
“We have this selfish part of our brains and this altruistic side,” Burgess says. “We live in such a consumer society where you’re always looking for that free thing, so my whole eureka moment for Forward was, what if there’s nothing in it for you?”
At the core of Forward is the idea of giving for the sake of giving. “It’s such an important part of what makes us happy, but we weren’t doing it enough,” Burgess says. He hopes that Forward will motivate people to connect and engage in acts of kindness.
And, although it may not be obvious at the outset, Forward can be just as rewarding for businesses as it is for consumers. Tealuxe has participated in the program since the summer, and General Manager Jennifer Fryar explains that Forward “hasn’t hurt our business in any way, and, if anything, it’s done great things for it.”
With Burgess’s partnership, Fryar set aside a limit of 30 teas to give away per month. Tealuxe lets Forward customers pick one of those free teas from their daily brewed selection, which is their most inexpensive line of goods. That way, Tealuxe isn’t losing any money—and, in fact, it’s gaining customers.
“I figured it would bring more people in,” Fryar says. “We rely mostly on our regulars and a lot of college students, so we figured it would be like a word-of-mouth kind of thing.”
So far, it seems like it’s working. “Most of the people who come [to Tealuxe through Forward] have never been here before,” Fryar says. “It’s really unique to see them come in, pick a tea, kind of look around and soak it all in, and then you do see them start to come back. Not all of them, but some of them do—they become regulars.”
Burgess says he wants to continue advancing Forward over the next several decades. Forward is currently a web-based app, but he’s working on integrating the company with Facebook Messenger. It would allow customers to send gifts to their Facebook friends through the Messenger app. “We’re always thinking about experimenting with these different ideas to let people tap into the more altruistic side of them, and make Forward a more understandable system,” he says.
In the future, Burgess would like the company to grow and spread to more cities and small businesses. Currently, Forward has a network of 30 businesses in the Boston area and recently partnered with two small companies in San Francisco. The long-term goal, he jokes, is “gratitude world domination.” In five years, he wants 10 million people using “whatever Forward becomes.”
For now, Burgess is focused on spreading positivity in Boston. He strongly encourages Harvard students to take a break from their busy lives and try out some gift-giving. “If you want to be happy… don’t just think about getting this good degree from Harvard and making money,” he says. “Hopefully, Forward is the reminder that being nice to someone is what it’s all about.”
Sections
For most Harvard students, introductions are easy. The Harvard equivalent of the handshake is a well-worn routine: List off your House, your concentration, your class year. But after 12 months on campus, Mark Bode ’17 still did not know how to introduce himself. He recalls meeting new people and wondering, “‘Am I a sophomore? Am I a junior?’ Sometimes I would say both.”
Bode is one of a small group of undergraduates pursuing advanced standing, meaning he will graduate this spring after just three years at Harvard.
The advanced standing program—available to students who scored a five on at least four Advanced Placement classes in high school—grants those who qualify 32 Harvard credits, equivalent to eight classes. Students who activate advanced standing can either graduate early or apply for a fourth-year master’s program in select fields.
Although Harvard catalogues make reference to “advanced standing” at least as far back as 1826, the modern version of the program began roughly half a century ago. In his book “The Harvard Century,” historian Richard Norton Smith ’75 writes that the 1955 reformulation of advanced standing marked part of a larger institutional shift at the University.
During the 1950s—which Smith calls a decade of upheaval for Harvard—administrators pushed to change the school’s mission from educating the American gentry to cultivating the most academically promising American men. Harvard established the advanced standing program to help its students progress to high-level studies as quickly as possible.
Back in the 1950s, “a fifth of all incoming freshmen” participated in Advanced Standing, according to Smith. Today, far fewer students take advantage of the program. Associate Dean of Undergraduate Education Noël Bisson declines to disclose the exact number of students currently pursuing advanced standing at the College, but says the contingent is “tiny.”
Bisson says she has no general explanaion for why students choose to activate advanced standing.
Bode is candid about what pushed him to pursue advanced standing: “money.”  He describes his family’s financial situation as “comfortable,” but says four years of a Harvard education would have been prohibitively expensive. Before Bode ever arrived on campus, he says, he and his parents considered advanced standing as a way to make Harvard affordable.
“I was given a choice,” he recalls. “[My parents] said they could afford three years, and if I wanted to go into debt for the last year, I could do that.
“But I’m interested in public service, and those jobs don’t pay back debt quickly, so I decided that graduating in three was the right way to go,” he says.
Computer Science concentrator Christi S. Balaki ’18, on the other hand, says she activated advanced standing for what she terms “sentimental reasons.” Balaki, who will pursue a fourth-year Master’s degree after completing her undergraduate course requirements, says career considerations did not factor into her decision.
“I’m going into tech. You don’t need to have a Master’s in tech. No one cares,” she says. “My parents didn’t go to college, and it means a lot to me to graduate from here. That’s a friggin’ big accomplishment. Going from zero to Harvard College—that means a lot. But it also means a lot to me that I have the power to graduate with a Bachelor’s and a Master’s.”
Though Bode and Balaki say they do not regret choosing to pursue advanced standing, both note that the program requires significant sacrifice.
Bode says he realizes that leaving Harvard before his senior year—the academic and social pinnacle of college life for many undergraduates—will cost him personally.
“This is my last year, and it was just this past fall that I felt like I was really hitting my stride, and so I only get one year of that instead of two,” he says. “That’s the sacrifice that I’m making by doing this.”
He pauses. “That lost year of really being in stride, is that really worth $65,000?”
Bisson says that advanced standing also  enacts a severe academic penalty: It means less time for a thesis, less time to study abroad, and fewer opportunities to take “interesting” classes.
This sacrifice proved to be too much for Larry Zhang ’18. Zhang, a Computer Science concentrator, initially planned to pursue a fourth-year Master’s degree in that field. After a few months, though, he decided he wanted to dedicate more time to extracurricular activities. Zhang deactivated his advanced standing and will now graduate with a Bachelor’s degree in May 2018 along with the rest of his class.
“There’s so much more out there that I want to do. There are so many other courses that I think are interesting, and I think advanced standing would take a lot away from my Harvard experience,” Zhang says. “It’s also just a lot of work. I wanted to enjoy my college experience more.”
Bode says he never took more than four classes in a semester to fulfill his requirements for graduation. At the end of this semester, he says, he will have taken all the required classes for both a Government concentration and an Economics secondary. But Bode says he never had much room in his schedule for anything else: when he graduates, he will have taken just six General Education classes and four electives.
In order to graduate with a master’s degree, Balaki says she will have to do “significantly more work” than she would have to do if she graduated with just a Bachelor’s degree. She adds she will need to take five Computer Science courses at the graduate level.
But Balaki is undeterred. “I think I can pull it off because with CS, it’s more experience—Do I know how to debug this, can I do this? I will have more experience coding,” she says. “I wasn’t as confident before, but now I am.”
Sections
The hours, and sometimes days, that precede any important trip of mine are always tinged with a palpable anxiety.  The feeling originates within me and emanates outwards, infecting anyone within a 50-foot radius.
My roommates and parents bear the brunt of it. Though my roommates generally try to avoid me during this period, the cool, levelheaded ones will occasionally poke their heads into my doorway like kindly cuckoo clocks to ask if I’ve packed yet, or remind me how many hours are left until I really ought to call an Uber.
My parents long ago accepted that calling is futile (I never answer) and settled for sending me a barrage of texts that range from cautionary to threatening. Invariably, everyone is apprehensive and agitated. I imagine they feel as though they’re watching a desperate car attempt to parallel park in a space that is clearly too small.
The source of everyone’s stress: I am dreadful at departures. Plane, train, bus, you name it. If it’s a vehicle designed to transport people across distances and I’m supposed to be aboard it, then I am almost certainly elsewhere. The phenomenon is so time-tested, it could be its own subset of Murphy’s Law.
It’s not like I have a pathological fear of high-speed travel or anything. I’m just horrifyingly bad at it.
My freshman year of college, I tried to take a Megabus from Boston to New York City for Thanksgiving. I missed my first bus from South Station by mere minutes. That was irritating, but not entirely unexpected (I’m a serial underestimator of travel times), so I acquiesced and purchased a ticket for the next bus, slated to depart in 30 minutes.
Within five minutes, I realized that this new bus was departing from North Station—not South. Spurring myself to action, I scrambled frantically into an Uber after failing miserably to hail a cab. Twenty minutes later, I burst into loud, inconsolable sobs in the back of my Uber driver’s Toyota Camry when I realized I would never make it across town in time. After buying two more bus tickets (at triple the price of the original), I finally managed to board a stale, NYC-bound bus whose weary conductor didn’t so much as blink at me, let alone ask for my ticket.
This was the first in a series of travel faux pas that would come to characterize my college career, demarcating it into discrete chapters. Like semesters, but easier to keep track of.
I’m pretty nostalgic, for example, for ‘The Period Before I Stayed Out So Late That I Slept Through My Early Morning Flight.’ Sophomore spring was also generally good and blemish free—I call it ‘Post-Missing The Bus Back to Cambridge from the Harvard-Yale Game, but Pre-Arriving at the Airport for a Flight That Was Canceled.’ Then there was ‘The Year That I Left My Laptop at Airport Security,’ which was just as tumultuous and unpleasant as it sounds.
Every once in a while, my roommates like to poke fun at me by tallying up all of the novel, innovative ways that I have managed to sabotage my own travel plans. I allow it because they’re not entirely wrong, and, when it comes down to the dreaded departure time, they all have an endearing habit of continuously inconveniencing themselves to help me get wherever I’m struggling to go. (Here’s looking at you, Nora!)
In any event, I like to imagine there’s still hope for a person as travel-inept as I am. After all, it has been a whopping six months since my last major blunder.
Niels Bohr once defined an expert as someone who has made all of the possible mistakes in their field. By Bohr’s definition, I have a decent shot at becoming the premier authority in travel by the time graduation rolls around.
Sections
FM: What brought you to the Doris Salcedo exhibition?
ED: Actually, I came across Doris Salcedo’s work at around the same time I began writing “The Art of Death”. My mom had passed away and I was trying to figure out what to do next, I was grieving, and it just so happened that there was a show on her work in the Perez Museum in Miami, which is a couple of miles from my house. Maybe it was just the state of mind I was in at the time, but it spoke to me very powerfully.
Coincidentally, I got a call from Mayra Rivera to speak about Salcedo’s work [at Harvard]. And I thought it was just too perfect for me to just ignore and walk away. So that is the backstory of that day, but of course, once I accepted the invitation, I began delving a lot deeper into the work, which is not just work about mourning, but also about political violence. She’s done work in Colombia where she has interviewed children who’ve lost their parents and in Los Angeles where she has interviewed parents who have lost their children, [which] I think is such a great act of commitment to her process.  She says that her work starts with interviewing a victim of violence.
There’s so much in her work that also speaks to the current moment about borders and civility. We both come from countries [Haiti and Colombia] that people speak of in very specific ways and that are spaces where we have to fight hard to counter negative talk.
FM: From reading your work, I imagined that you might have considered writing an “Art of” structure or memory or time because all feature prominently in your work, but what you have done is original. Was death and mourning something you wanted to write about, or did you intend to write a sort of craft book?
ED: I was talking to a writer and poet Kima Jones, who now also works as a publicist. She was interviewing me, and we were talking about books that we love, specifically of “Sula” by Toni Morrison, which I talk about in “The Art of Death”. The title of the lecture is from the last line of Sula, which is: “It was a fine cry—loud and long—but it had no bottom and it had no top, just circles and circles of sorrow.” She said I had to read this book by Carl Phillips, the poet, and it is in the series, which I had never read before. And I was at this point where I couldn’t take on a bigger project until I addressed my grief at losing my mom. It was sort of perfect timing. I sought them out and I wrote a one-page pitch.
FM: It’s sub-headed “Writing the Final Story”. So it is at once moving on and a final story?
ED: There’s a quote in there from a book by Don Delillo, and one of the characters says “All plots tend to move deathward.” So whether it is a love plot, whatever the narrative is, that’s the end of the story, for that person, as we know it. There is work also in our traditions as people of African descent that takes us past that point in our belief systems, through memory and naming. But in a day-to-day way, that is the end of most people’s stories. It could have almost been “Writing the Final Story?”, because the book also does that kind of questioning. Is death the final story?
FM: You mentioned seeing Salcedo’s work first in Miami and then with “Moonlight”’s recent Oscar win. Have you thought more about Miami as a setting and cinematic space?
ED: When I came from Haiti when I was 12, we lived in New York. I have only been living in Miami since 2002, so for a native Miamian that is still recent. It was such a wonderful thing to watch the movie and recognize Liberty City. And the playwright, Tyrell, one of my friends was his teacher in high school! I’m really happy that it gives people the desire to see Miami. Miami has an extraordinary history, in terms of the African diaspora and the first people who settled there from the Bahamas. South Florida in general is not a story that is often told, but has made big strides.
It was also wonderful to see that focus. When Tyrell said representing the 305, everybody in Miami knew what that meant. There’s kids in that movie who go to the same schools. Liberty City can sometimes be, like a lot of poor neighborhoods in the country, underserved, but it is really wonderful to see it represented that way. There are fewer representations of, for example, black Cubans in mainstream cinema, even the scene with Kevin making rice at the diner. I mean, that’s so Miami! I’m excited to see these stories being told.
Miami is full of stories, because it is also where so many people from all over the world come together. It’s such a powerful mix. It’s a melting pot, but at the same time a place where a lot of people are afraid. We have a lot of new arrivals. Recently, the mayor of Miami-Dade has aligned himself with a movement trying to make our police into an immigration force. The struggle continues, but at least it’s sunny.
FM: You once quoted Audre Lorde as saying poetry forms “the quality of the light within which we predicate our hopes and dreams toward survival and change, first made into language, then into idea, then into more tangible action.” How do you relate self-care, language, and resistance? Self-care is thrown around a lot, but I guess the way Audre Lorde conceptualizes self-care is more related to resistance, in that it is really tied up in issues of struggle, so how do you see language and resistance relating?
ED: I think probably we are hearing a lot about self-care these days. I think it is in part especially black women have cared so much for others, sometimes at the detriment of ourselves. I think there’s a kind of awakening in that. Like in an airplane, if you are not getting any oxygen, you can’t help someone else put their mask on. We’ve had a little bit of readjustment in that direction. It was incredible for me. I’ve been re-reading Audre Lorde and The Cancer Journals, for this book on death. You learn a lot also about taking care of yourself from someone who is not well, because when we are well we are not thinking so much about our health. When you’re not well it is sort of all you think about. She does a lot of reflection. She’s a great example in the sense that even when she was sick self-care to her didn’t mean exclusion from the community. It was renewing and refueling for the inevitable struggle. It was never walking away.
Every time I read her I get something different out of it: the power and the brilliance of her thought, but also her notion that we take care, but we’re also part of the community, balancing those two things. Young women should read her! It’s such powerful work, and can be read in so many ways, too.
FM: Veering into craft, I read a couple of your most recent stories, “Ghosts” in The New Yorker and “Quality Control” in the Washington Post. Both protagonists are in the media. Pascal is a news writer and Jess is a journalist. What possibilities arise in writing characters who are also storytellers, by profession or otherwise? What drew you to that? What challenges or excitement do those stories present?
ED: Because you are a storyteller and I am a storyteller. That is what we do. It is still a mystery to me how stories get written, frankly. That’s why sometimes we have a lot of writers writing novels about writers. In the Jess story, it’s funny you asked because I am writing a longer version of it, where it is more nuanced. The story was much longer, but we chopped it to 2000 words. I am writing it as part of a much longer short story collection I am working on.
I’m finding Jess is still a writer, but not a war reporter, more of a freelance writer trying to make a name for herself, [and] she has another job on the side—she’s invited to this for a week by the First Lady. They have a deeper friendship but from childhood. I think those stories might be boring to outsiders, but I think writers are really intrigued by that. It gives us the opportunity to look at the process from another layer.
FM: With multiple levels of storytelling, creating realistic dialogue becomes more of a challenge, especially when your characters are probably speaking in a different language. So how do you manage that? Can you offer any advice?
ED: Some people have an excellent ear for it, different dialogue, dialect. I just want to try to get it across. Realistic dialogue is unintelligible. It is still a construction anyway, so you just want to convey the best of the character. I try to give each character a verbal tic, something they do so that even if you don’t have the tag you would realize that was the person speaking. A lot of people have those things, the “you know what I mean?”, the intonations. I had a teacher that made us do transcripts of actual conversations and edit [them] and that was really good training.
Sections
Even at dusk, finding a seat in Gutman Library was nearly impossible. It was early May 2016, and as the sun went down the room began to buzz with finals week energy. Students in armchairs scribbled in notebooks, swiped through PowerPoint slides, and whispered in hushed tones across wooden tables.
Nikki M. Daurio ’19-’20 had secured a table and sat clicking through lecture slides on her laptop. Her biology exam was 15 hours away, but as Daurio reviewed the semester’s lectures, her memory felt blank. Having spent the semester dealing with health challenges including depression, viral meningitis, and perpetual headaches, Daurio could not recall even attending certain lectures—much less the material covered.
“That’s when it kind of came crumbling down,” Daurio recalls.
Tears filled Daurio’s eyes as she looked around the library. Everyone seemed to “have it together,” she remembers thinking. She knew that if she elected not to take her final exam, her transcript would reflect unsatisfactory grades and she would have to take a semester off––something she had been dead set on avoiding.  
As a respite from the stress, a friend of Daurio’s—who had taken time off from Harvard herself—took Daurio across the street to L.A. Burdick’s for hot chocolate. This escape from the moment of panic granted Daurio space to think. By the time they finished their drinks and talked through the possible benefits of time off, Daurio had decided it might be the right path for her after all.
“A weight lifted off my shoulders knowing that I didn’t have to stress anymore and that I was going to be able to focus on getting healthy,” she says.
Daurio is far from alone in her decision to take time off from Harvard. According to numbers released by the Administrative Board, a body of administrators responsible for enforcing policies outlined in the Handbook for Students, 242 students took voluntary leaves of absence in the 2014-2015 academic year, the last year for which those numbers were released. Fifty-four others were required to take a temporary leave for academic or disciplinary reasons. This amounts to about one in 20 students leaving Harvard every year.
But no two stories are the same. Some students leave to take time to reflect. Some leave to pursue internships, performance careers, work at start-ups. Some leave to relieve financial burdens. Some leave to recover from depression, anxiety, or eating disorders.
The process for requesting a leave is intentionally straightforward. Resident deans, who serve as liaisons in that process as well as representatives on the Ad Board, provide students with information and guidance. They aim to emphasize the benefits of a step back from Harvard life. The message is often that a temporary leave is an option—maybe even the best option—for many students.
“Everyone has eight semesters here,” says Assistant Dean of Academic Integrity and Student Conduct Lauren E. Brandt, who is also Secretary of the Ad Board. “Those are things we really want them to have and look back on without regret.”
That’s not to say there aren’t roadblocks that come with the process of leaving and returning. Students who leave must cancel and replace housing, coordinate often complex financial situations, and, in some cases, find employment. The decision to leave can also be emotionally fraught: The vast majority of Harvard undergraduates—86 percent—graduate in four years. To leave is to take the road less traveled.
Students like Daurio have also found difficulty in the process of returning. Conditions of leave are determined on an individual basis, so students who choose to explicitly disclose their reasons for taking time off to the University may face special conditions or additional hurdles. For those who have taken leaves for mental or physical health reasons, it may be necessary to petition the Ad Board and complete health assessments before a return can be granted. For some students, this can feel like a burden.
Challenges aside, many students who take time off ultimately find it beneficial. “I think the vast majority are happy they went on leave,” Associate Dean of Academic Integrity and Student Conduct Brett Flehinger says. The decision to leave can be jarring, but many find perspective and recovery in time away from Harvard.
“I would do it again in a heartbeat,” Daurio says. “It was just really nice to get away from the university, reevaluate myself. I worked very hard to get healthy.”
It doesn’t all happen in a heartbeat, though. Navigating a leave of absence—both the exit and the re-entry—can be riddled with challenges.
“I felt like I wasn’t taking advantage of anything here,” Jillian A. Scyocurka ’18-’19 says. After several complications following ACL surgery, Scyocurka, who had been recruited for lacrosse, decided to stop playing. Feeling stuck and burned out without the structure of an athletic schedule, she found herself constantly unengaged. “Since we only have eight semesters, I feel like it’s such a waste of my time when I could come back and get that whole period back,” she says. Scyocurka decided to take a leave of absence.
Others make the decision more reluctantly, after exhausting the mental and physical health resources available at Harvard. For Daurio, that meant seeking mental health services in order to try and recover without having to leave school.
“I was dead set against leaving,” Daurio says. “I did not want to leave whatsoever.” Leaving behind friends, the water polo team, and House life, she says, felt like dismal prospects.
At the same time, Daurio felt that the mental health treatment she was receiving through Harvard’s Counseling and Mental Health Services was inadequate within her busy schedule of academics and athletics. “I would say, ‘Oh this is a problem and this is a problem and I’m feeling suicidal,’ and the therapist would just be like ‘Oh, our time is up, I’m sorry you’re feeling that way,’” Daurio says.
Chief of Counseling and Mental Health Services at University Health Services Barbara Lewis stresses that there are therapists available from 8 a.m. into the evening every weekday. Students’ busy schedules, however, can become obstacles to making appointments.
“I haven’t met a Harvard student who isn’t busy,” Lewis says. “We do have providers in the community who work in the evenings, and we have some providers who work on the weekends. So we can work with a student if we know that there are really issues of accessibility to us.”
“Often it’s because getting the appointment isn’t as high a priority as doing some other thing,” Lewis says.
Before making the decision to take a leave of absence, Daurio had admitted herself to McLean Psychiatric Hospital in Belmont, Mass. After eight days at the hospital, Daurio thought to herself: “You know what? That fixed me. I’m better. I can handle this.”
But Daurio’s pre-exam breaking point in Gutman was just weeks later. Soon, Daurio received permission from the Ad Board to delay two of her exams and decided officially to take time off—giving her the summer and the following fall semester to take a step back from Harvard.
A student may declare a leave of absence before the seventh Monday of the semester, in which case, their transcript for that semester is effectively wiped clean. These students have the option to return in time for the following semester. But after the tenth Monday and until reading period, students declaring a leave must also take the following semester off. Between the seventh and tenth weeks, cases for returning the following semester are individually decided by the Ad Board.
In the often emotional process of deciding to leave, a student’s primary resource is their resident dean. Resident deans act as liaisons between students and the Ad Board. They serve to provide support in decision-making as well as the logistical legwork that follows, from cancelling housing to communicating with the Financial Aid Office.
“We purposefully make it really, really easy for students to go on leave,” Lowell House Resident Dean Caitlin M. Casey says. “It is my job at that point to help walk you through what a leave looks like. What are the advantages and disadvantages of a leave? What does it look like for your academic world? What does it look like for your schedule? And then we hopefully come to a decision.”
This intentionally simple process allows for students to quickly and easily set the leaving process in motion. “I told [my resident dean] one day I wanted to leave,” Scyocurka says, “and within a few days I cancelled my housing and was ready to go.”
“We want that bar to make that choice to be low,” Casey says. Cancelling housing and working out financial obligations can come after a student has left Harvard, and are usually handled by a combination of the student, the student’s family, and the resident dean.
Scyocurka was taken aback by the simplicity of it all. “I did not imagine it would be that easy.”
Emmanuel J. Kelly ’20-’21 is one of two people from his Greensboro, North Carolina high school to ever attend Harvard. After being recruited for football, Kelly realized within the first few months of his arrival on campus that he didn’t feel prepared for Harvard’s demanding academics. He ended the semester with unsatisfactory grades in both Culture and Belief 39: The Hebrew Bible and Economics 10a: Principles of Economics. An unsatisfactory grade, as defined by “Information for Faculty” guidelines, is anything below a C-.
Over winter break, Kelly learned that his two unsatisfactory grades meant he would be placed on academic review, forcing him to take a year off of school. As the Handbook for Students states, students who “fail to meet the minimum requirements ordinarily will be required to withdraw for two terms whether or not their previous record was unsatisfactory.”
Kelly is part of a unique group of students away from Harvard: those who have taken time off without a choice.
Twenty-nine students each year, on average, are required to withdraw on academic review, according to Ad Board statistics from the 2014-2015 academic year. If a student receives two unsatisfactory grades in one term, they are typically required to withdraw for two semesters, as in Kelly’s situation. A student can also be required to withdraw if they receive one unsatisfactory grade each semester for two consecutive semesters, according to guidelines described in the Harvard College Handbook for Students.
According to the Ad Board, the required leave isn’t meant to be punitive, but rather to serve as an opportunity for students to address barriers to academic success. “Most cases of academic difficulty have little to do with a student’s ability,” the Ad Board’s website says, “but rather are related to personal or medical problems or circumstances that are almost always best resolved away from school.”
Cases related to academic review and disciplinary infractions can lead to “requirements for withdrawal,” while temporary breaks for mental health, physical health, and other personal reasons constitute “leaves of absence,” which can be either “voluntary” or “involuntary.”
Medical circumstances in which a student’s behavior poses a direct threat to others or themselves is also grounds for an involuntary leave, but Flehinger says such cases are extremely rare. Separate from the Ad Board’s requirements to withdraw as a result of academic or disciplinary action, an involuntary leave can be required of a student due to any of eight reasons listed in the handbook– including criminal activity, failure to register and enroll, or an unpaid term bill.
Students in these cases have the option to change their status from involuntary to voluntary leave. Involuntary leaves are rare in the first place, according to Flehinger, and this added option  means that an overwhelming majority of leaves are termed voluntary. “It’s a matter of just changing the classification, as opposed to the expectations,” Brandt says.
Students traditionally cannot, however, change the status of academic or disciplinary requirement to withdraw.
For students who leave involuntarily, it can be difficult to feel as if they are no longer in control of their college timelines. Many also feel a sharp sense of missing out on Harvard life. Back in Greensboro and two months into his time off, Kelly cites friends still at Harvard as his main source of support.
“I’m at home and it’s the last place I want to be,” Kelly says. “If it wasn’t for them talking to me every day and letting me know that everything’s gonna be alright, I don’t know if I could get through the year.”
During her time off, Daurio started a mental health blog, Stopping the Stigma, and worked with the Green Ribbon Club, a mental health education nonprofit. Kelly works as an assistant to a Harvard alumna, the CEO of Dudley Beauty Company, and hopes to start coaching youth football as well. Scyocurka backpacked and farmed throughout Europe. Nick F. Barber ’17-’18, an inactive Crimson editor, worked for a public defender’s office in New Orleans and then for the Louisiana Campaign for Equal Justice. Lara C. Tang ’18-’19, an inactive Crimson editor, volunteered at hospice and trained for yoga teaching certification in India. Sam F. Reed ’18-’19 worked an eight-to-five job for a defense contractor.
Students who leave are often busy, and there’s a reason for that. Though students have the freedom to choose their specific pursuits, in many cases, taking up some form of work, study, or service while on leave is not a choice—it’s a requirement.
Many students who take leaves for health reasons, whether mental or physical, are assigned sets of guidelines for their time off. These guidelines, called “UHS riders,” are sets of prescribed personal and medical requirements that lay out what must be completed during students’ time off in order to demonstrate stability before their return to the College, according to Casey. These guidelines are assigned as conditions of return on an individual basis, or may not be assigned at all. It is up to the discretion of the Ad Board and resident dean to determine whether or not a student will be assigned a UHS rider.
Casey says that one purpose of these requirements is for students to “demonstrate a period of stability” during their time off through work or another activity. While holding a job is the most common way for students to fulfil the UHS rider, full-time volunteering and taking classes at other universities are also viable options.
Students required to withdraw for academic or disciplinary reasons are held to similar regulations. According to Ad Board policy, these student must hold a “full-time, paid, non-academic job in a non-family owned or run business for at least six consecutive months before petitioning for readmission to the College.”
Flehinger, though, says that he believes it isn’t always important for students to have an exact plan for fulfilling work requirements before deciding to leave, especially if they are facing health issues.
“A lot of students worry about, ‘What will I do on my time on leave?’” Flehinger says. “Actually, that’s not really the question. The question is, ‘Should you be on leave?’” Deciding what to do with that time, he says, should be a secondary concern.
Though resident deans play a significant role in the withdrawal process, once a student is unenrolled from the College, their ties can be fairly limited. Though it depends on the specific relationship between student and dean, students including Daurio, Reed and Barber, among others, report little to no communication initiated by Harvard.
“I have had students who totally went off the radar when they went on leave and just needed a break from Harvard, needed a break from everything,” Casey says. “And I have students who are in regular contact—sending me email updates with pictures of what they’re doing.”
For some, this case-by-case approach can skew too hands-off. Barber, who took a voluntary leave of absence, says that no administrator checked in with him during his time off. At one point, Barber says, his house administrator stopped answering his emails about housing.
“I think there should be more check-ins from people: ‘Why are you doing this? Is there something that the support structure at Harvard is not offering?’” Barber says.
Questions like these are often valuable for students leaving to consider, and their time away lends the space for reflection.
When students are ready to pass back through Harvard’s gates, they face a new set of decisions and timelines. Students are required to notify Harvard 12 weeks in advance of returning to school, but housing forms are due weeks before that.
And students who leave for medical reasons and carry a UHS rider must face more complicated hurdles to return. At the very least, the administration requires an interview with UHS and a petition to the Ad Board to determine whether a student can be deemed ready to handle the challenges that life at Harvard presents.
Students required to withdraw for academic and disciplinary reasons must earn the full vote of the Ad Board before re-enrolling at Harvard. Ad Board policy also states that re-entry for students who have withdrawn for academic or disciplinary reasons is “not automatic,” meaning that more required time off can be deemed necessary.
When a student required to withdraw for academic standing returns, the student’s official status becomes “on academic probation,” meaning they cannot receive any unsatisfactory grade their first semester back. An unsatisfactory grade while on academic probation can lead to either another requirement to withdraw  or a permanent withdrawal.
The interview with UHS and a student’s overall assessment, based on factors including letters from employers, can result in conditions that must be followed for a term—and sometimes for the rest of a student’s time at Harvard.
Lewis calls the re-entry interaction between the student and UHS “more of a conversation.”
“It’s about the student’s perspective on what lead to their leave, how they’ve progressed in treatment and growth through the activities they’ve done when they’ve been away, and then a discussion about what they think they need for support when they come back to the College,” Lewis says.
After her leave of absence, Daurio returned to campus and moved into Kirkland House two days before the Ad Board convened to discuss her petition to re-enroll. Assuming her petition would pass and with plans to attend a Wintersession program, Daurio sent an email to her resident dean, Soha Bayoumi, announcing she’d arrived back on campus.
Bayoumi was not pleased. “I have to say I’m frustrated by this news, as I thought I had clearly explained in our previous email exchange that you’re not expected on campus until your petition to return is heard (and approved) by the Ad Board,” wrote Bayoumi in an email response to Daurio. Bayoumi said in an email to The Crimson that she is unable to comment on specific students’ cases.
The Ad Board approved Daurio’s case on the condition that she signed a contract with her treatment team. “A contract is really a way for [the Ad Board and resident dean] to keep track of the student and whether they’re continuing to get the support they need,” Lewis says.
Lewis says that a small percentage of students returning from a leave of absence are on contracts. Though Daurio’s situation is not one every student experiences, she still raises concerns about the obstacles of re-entry as a whole.
“The events surrounding your return to campus before the Administrative Board’s vote have caused concern about the support system that you have moving forward,” states Daurio’s contract, which is addressed to Daurio from Bayoumi.
The return process and contract left Daurio surprised and upset. “It felt like they were completely disregarding the eight months I’ve worked on getting healthy and getting coping skills,” Daurio says.
“Please understand that we all want you to succeed at Harvard,” the contract reads. “At the same time, we need to be sure that you are taking appropriate steps to address the problems that you have experienced.”
The contract requires Daurio to remain on her prescribed medications and attend a set number of appointments and workshops through UHS. It states that Daurio’s UHS treatment team is not expected to disclose specific information, but still must confirm with the College that the treatment plan is being followed.
The contract also notes that Daurio may choose to stop the treatment plan, revoke permission for the treatment team to speak with Bayoumi, or stop communicating with Bayoumi about the status of the treatment. “Needless to say, we hope that you will not make such choices,” it continues. “If you cannot meet these conditions, then the College will need to re-evaluate whether you may continue to be enrolled and in residence.”
When Daurio’s home psychiatrist suggested the contract be void after one semester, the Ad Board refused the suggestion. Daurio will be bound to the contract as long as she is at Harvard.
Logistics aside, returning to campus after time away can involve complex personal and emotional hurdles.
Reed, who took time off for a combination of academic and financial reasons, says the hardest part of re-entry has been the difference between college life and life in the working world. During his time off, “there was a very distinct separation between work and home,” Reed says. “It was pretty cut and dry. You do work when you’re at work, and you don’t when you’re at home.”
Going out into the working world and coming back to a hectic, unpredictable college schedule can be jarring. Barber echoes the distinct differences between time away and time at school. “It was doing one thing very intensely,” Barber says, referring to his employed time away. “Which I realized was what made me feel better, whereas when you’re at Harvard, I think we’re wired this way from high school to take on lots and lots of things.”
Upon re-entering, students have access to University support systems including the Accessible Education Office. If the student provides thorough clinical documentation as requested by AEO guidelines, the AEO consults with UHS, the College, and the student to make appropriate accommodations, such as helping students communicate with professors and obtaining necessary extensions.
But ultimately, Harvard boasts a 98 percent graduation rate. This means that despite the challenges both in leaving and coming back, almost all students who leave Harvard return, re-assimilate, and eventually process out of Johnston Gate as graduates.
In late August 2016, Daurio was at home in Orange County, Calif. She watched everyone return to school from afar on social media.
“This is the first time in my life that I’m not there,” she remembers thinking. Her elementary school friends, her high school friends, her Harvard friends—all were moving into dorm rooms and stuffing their backpacks with notebooks, while Daurio remained at home.
But occupied with her nascent blog and recovery efforts, Daurio was plenty busy. “Seeing what I was able to gain from taking time off and away from school?” Daurio says, reminiscing. “So much better than that brief, unsettling period.”
“People have really benefited from having the opportunity to think back and ask themselves: What do they want to get out of this place?” Brandt says. Despite the turbulence of the withdrawal, some agree that the benefits of a break from Harvard outweigh the drawbacks.
“I think I have a much clearer sense of how I want to be in this space and how I want to be at Harvard,” Barber says.
For those who follow the traditional track, perspective can be elusive. High school bleeds into freshman year and quickly becomes eight straight semesters with little time to breathe. For those who take time off, a sense of balance can become much easier to grasp.
This week will mark the seventh Monday of the semester, meaning that for some students, the deadline to take a leave of absence is fast approaching. If they choose to leave, they’ll contact their resident dean, fill out the paperwork, and head home almost immediately.
After that, the road will become less clear. Before a student can pack up their things and move back into their dorm, they’ll have to navigate a complex re-entry process. There may be contracts. There may be Ad Board negotiations. There will be readjustment to the demands of life at Harvard.
After all, deciding to leave also means figuring out how to come back.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
New architectural renderings of Lowell House released by the University Wednesday offer a glimpse of plans for the House’s renovation, including a new student common space, screening room, a mix of hallway and in-suite bathrooms, and new decorative elements.
Lowell will be the fifth House in the Faculty of Arts and Sciences’ more than $1 billion House Renewal project to renovate the upperclassman residences. Construction will begin this summer, and is expected to be completed by the fall of 2019.
The north wing of the complex will be renamed Otto Hall after German real estate mogul Alexander Otto ’90, according to Lowell Faculty Dean Diana L. Eck. A new senior common room, building lobby, and large student lounge available for social events will be also be part of the reconstructed wing.
“It will be a commodious space for social gatherings—for parties and all sorts of things that really provide space for students in the House,” Eck said.
Building additional student social spaces in the Houses has been a common feature of the House renewal project as College administrators push to re-center social life in the Houses.
The House will retain its iconic bell tower and include an elevator to the seventh floor tower room after renovations, which are scheduled to begin following Commencement. The House will also be fully accessible—an administrative priority for House Renewal.
Other new additions to the House include a screening room with retractable seating for 75 people, an art and dance studio, and a practice area specifically for the Lowell House Opera.
Merle Bicknell, assistant dean for FAS physical resources, said the House's large size, historic architecture, and lack of access to major streets complicates the project and necessitates two years of construction.
“Everything has to be on a crane, and be lifted over Lowell House, and into the courtyard,” Bicknell said. “Looking at the constraints, and the construction market in Boston which has boomed, conditions have just changed and we realized that we really needed to do this in two years.”
Bicknell added that a new workshop with computer modeling and 3D printing capabilities has the potential to serve as a hub for students travelling from the Allston campus. In 2020, much of the School of Engineering and Applied Sciences will move across the Charles River to a new complex.
Suites will make up 72 percent of rooms, with the remainder being hallway singles. The House have a mix of in-suite and hallway bathrooms. Lowell will also retain a squash court and the traditional appearance of its library after reconstruction, according to Bicknell.
Bicknell said future House renovations will eliminate hallway doubles after a report found the configuration was unpopular among students.
She said that—like to Winthrop House’s soon-to-be completed project—renovations to Lowell will also eliminate the current need for overflow housing in the DeWolfe St. apartments, allowing all students to live in the House once construction is finished.
Although many of the House’s facilities will remain after construction is complete, the Lowell Bouldering Wall in the basement of A entryway and the Harvard Community Garden on Mt. Auburn St. will move to the Radcliffe Quadrangle.
David R. Friedrich, the College’s associate dean of students, said the bouldering wall will be installed in the Quadrangle Recreational Athletic Center by fall 2017 after students expressed strong support for retaining the structure.
—Staff writer Junina Furigay can be reached at junina.furigay@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @junina_furigay.
—Staff writer Kenton K. Shimozaki can be reached at kenton.shimozaki@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @KentonShimozaki.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
As the Faculty of Arts and Sciences works to address a “concerning” lack of diversity in the body, some have turned to astronomy professor John A. Johnson’s efforts as an example of creating opportunities for historically underrepresented minorities.
Johnson points to his work at the Banneker Institute—a program under the Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics designed to support students of color studying astronomy—as an important step to help welcome students into the field.
But for Johnson, who founded the Banneker Institute, these effort begin with more humble gestures. During nearly every lecture, Johnson says, he tells his students that "no one is born an astrophysicist."
For students of color—traditionally underrepresented in the physical sciences—Johnson says it's an important reminder.
"There are a number of obstacles that a student of color will encounter when they are in a historically white institution like Harvard," Johnson said. "One of the biggest problems is that everyone that they interact with is in a society that constantly sends a message that the intelligence and that the industriousness of black people is less than that of white people."
Working in a field that tends to focus on far-away phenomena, Johnson strives to incorporate issues that hit a little closer to home for many of his students. His classes can vacillate between solar systems and social justice, ultimately acting to promote what Johnson terms a “program of anti-racism.”
"We are pushing the aspects of society that actively and passively and historically exclude people of color from the enterprise of science," he said.
According to Johnson, the Banneker Institute—named after African American astronomer Benjamin Banneker—is specifically geared towards students of color who are interested in pursuing graduate degrees in astronomy.
One such student, Juliana Garcia-Mejia ’17, said her time at the Banneker Institute last summer gave her a new perspective on navigating academia as an astronomer of color. The institute offers a ten-week summer program for undergraduates from around the country.
According to Garcia-Meija, the institute offered her guidance in both astronomy and navigating social issues like racial discrimination.
“It’s not as though social justice is a component of Banneker,” she said. “Social justice is Banneker.”
In addition to instruction and research, students at the institute’s summer program participate in “social justice Fridays,” which include a public speaking lesson and discussion of readings, Garcia-Mejia said. Johnson also hosts Sunday dinners for the participants to socialize.
“The program is designed to provide students with a standard summer research experience...but it also has a key component where we teach them about race and racism and how that affects the field of astronomy and how that is inevitably going to affect their experience in it,” Johnson said.
Involvement with the Banneker Institute extends beyond the summer. Garcia-Mejia said she and the rest of her cohort presented research at a conference in early January, and that the Institute assigned her a graduate student mentor that helped her through the graduate school application process. In addition, she has remained in touch with the students that attended the Institute, many of whom do not attend Harvard.
“We support each other to the extent that most of us rely more on that academic network that [the network] at our own institutions,” she said.
Johnson’s work with mentoring minority students in the sciences has not gone unnoticed. In a presentation about hiring female and minority faculty members at last month’s faculty meeting, Dean for Faculty Affairs and Planning Nina Zipser highlighted Johnson’s work.
In an interview following the meeting, Faculty of Arts and Sciences Dean Michael D. Smith again mentioned Johnson.
“In some places the pipeline of candidates coming out of graduate school programs are very strong and if our pools are not reflective of the same demographics, that’s an issues for us, and there’s a set of actions items that we can take to try and address that,” he said. “Other places, there’s just not enough underrepresented minorities going into this field for graduate school, and then what can we do as an institution to encourage our undergraduates to think about that as an opportunity.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
With Housing Day just a week away, House Committees and students have spent the past month gearing up to welcome freshman to their upperclassmen residences—and from t-shirts and sunglasses to whipped cream and cigars, many Houses are sparing no expense.
According to Adams HoCo Co-Chair Ryan M. Ward ’18, for example, newly-minted Adams residents will be presented bowties, sunglasses, roses, cigars, and hand-pressed letters from Bow and Arrow Press.
“Pressing the letters themselves is like a seven-hour process,” Ward said.
Mather House, meanwhile, spent approximately $3,500 to $4,000 on Housing Day supplies, with most of the funds going towards t-shirts and food, said Phillip M. Ramirez ’18, co-chair of Mather HoCo.
Another tradition is the creation of House videos—often remakes of songs or parodies of movies—released in the days leading up to Housing Day. Although the videos feature members of the House, the theme of the video is typically kept secret in an effort to build excitement and suspense for its release.
“[We’re] trying to keep it mysterious,” Winthrop HoCo co-chair Danielle O. Strasburger ’18 said.
In addition to creating excitement around Housing Day, the videos are a way to get more members of the Houses involved in preparations.
“None of us on HoCo are very video savvy, so we try to outsource the video to residents of the House who have a lot more knowledge,” said Leonard C. Murphy ’18, a Mather HoCo co-chair.
Beyond creating videos and purchasing novelty items for Housing Day, several HoCo chairs say they've spend the weeks preceding the event rallying House pride.
“We want to get the upperclassmen really excited,” Strasburger said. “A lot of people think this is only freshmen, but we think it’s a good time to just capitalize on House spirit.”
Preparation builds up to Housing Day itself, when members of all 12 upperclassmen Houses run into the freshmen dorms early morning, rouse freshmen from their beds, and welcome them to their new homes. While some Houses wear their custom designed Housing Day t-shirts, others choose to go all out with their attire.
“Our attire is the most distinct,” Ward said of Adams House. “We don’t have speedos, generally don’t have headbands, and things. It’s more like, classy.”
Despite friendly rivalries between many of the Houses, though, many HoCo chairs emphasize that there's no such thing as a bad House.
“Freshmen who get a House they aren’t familiar with will come to love it; they just don’t know it yet,” Strasburger said.
As HoCos build excitement in their respective Houses, many freshmen remain unsure of what to expect on Thursday.
“All I know is next Thursday, earlier in the morning, it’s gonna be like a really noisy event going on in the Yard,” Raul Cuevas ’20 said.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered

UPDATED: March 5, 2017 at 1:13 p.m.
Harvard faculty spoke about the intersection of faith and scholarship, posing questions of meaning and purpose in academia at a panel hosted by the Harvard Chaplains Wednesday evening.
The faculty panel featured Harvard Law School Dean Martha L. Minow, Indo-Muslim and Islamic Religion and Cultures professor Ali S. Asani ’77, and Astronomy professor Owen J. Gingerich. The panel is the first in a series—called the Meaningful Life Initiative—aiming to broadcast various ways in which professors involve their spiritual backgrounds in their work.
Getzel Davis, chair of the university programs committee for the Harvard Chaplains, said he chose Asani, Gingerich, and Minow to speak at the event because of the religious influences behind each professor’s career path.
“We found a group of professors who all mostly teach, from an academic perspective, not about religion, but whose perspectives on their work are deeply informed by their spiritual and ethical convictions,” Davis said.
He added that the panel looks to engage with differences in each scholar’s faith traditions.
“We’re not trying to find the lowest common denominator, but really we try to find where we have real difference, but ability to teach each other and grow from exploring that together,” Davis added.
The discussion was moderated by Karen-Alexandra Nogues ’18, who asked the panelists about the influence of their respective faith traditions in their academic and professional lives. According to Nogues, the panel looked to provide an opportunity for students who are starting their careers to hear personally from faculty members about their paths towards meaning and purpose.
“That’s what we’re really trying to get at with this discussion— how are they making a difference, are they feeling like they’re living fulfilling lives in their various careers,” Nogues said.
The panelists spoke about a variety of academic and faith-based issues, each relating to their professional background. Minow, who teaches constitutional and public law, spoke about the abilities and limitations of the legal system, citing the rights-based system of American law and the duty-based system of Jewish law as influential in her work.
“A right is meaningless if there isn’t a duty on the other side,” Minow said. “I don’t think of [Judaism] as a faith tradition so much as a way of life.”
Asani spoke about the importance of breaking down religious illiteracy and stereotypes within his scholarship and teaching, testifying to the importance of faith in a contemporary context.
“Religion is just seen as an ideology, or an identity, and people forget that religion is also faith,” Asani said. “Those faith perspectives are often forgotten when people start thinking about religion as political ideology, construct, orthodoxy, or a use for power. Religion is some kind of an ‘ism,’ and faith is drowned out.”
Wednesday’s event ended with a question and answer period between panelists and undergraduates.
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction:
CORRECTION: March 5, 2017
A previous version of this article incorrectly stated the title of Getzel Davis. In fact, he is Chair of the University Programs Committee for the Harvard Chaplains
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Since University President Drew G. Faust appointed a committee last spring to research Harvard’s ties to slavery, some of the professors on the committee have helped to organize a conference about the relationship between slavery and American universities that will take place this weekend.
The committee has also been in conversation with Faust and formed a list of recommendations, according to History professor Sven Beckert, who leads the committee with fellow History professor Evelyn B. Higginbotham. Pusey Library will also host an exhibit about Harvard’s relationship with slavery.
“We don’t see the conference as the end but as the beginning of what would be a broader conversation,” Beckert, who is one of the conference’s chief organizers, said.
Harvard’s historical relationship to slavery came to the fore last year when Law School students demanded that the school change its seal, which bore the crest of a former slave-owning family. The Corporation, the University’s highest governing body, eventually decided to retire the crest.
But Beckert’s interest in ties between slavery and Harvard extends back a decade, when he began teaching a seminar on Harvard and slavery.
“At this point we knew almost nothing,” he said. “I wasn’t sure what was going to come out of it.”
What resulted was a book of research by undergraduates, published in 2011. Beckert and his students unearthed the names of four slaves who worked on Harvard’s campus in the 18th century, and last April Faust dedicated a plaque to them.  Faust said in an interview with the Harvard Gazette that she has provided funds for a researcher to continue some of the work Beckert and his students started.
According to Beckert, Faust decided to convene the committee and plan a conference around the same time. While several members of the committee have helped plan the conference, the committee’s work extends beyond the two-day long event.
On Thursday, representatives from universities around the United States who have also done research about their institutions’ ties to slavery will gather at the Radcliffe Institute for Advanced Study. Representatives from Brown and Georgetown, which recently made the decision to give preferential admissions status to the descendants of slaves the university sold in 1838, will attend the conference, according to Beckert.
Friday’s event is public, entirely sold out, and will feature a keynote speech by journalist Ta-Nehisi Coates.
“The whole genesis of the conference was to bring the attention of the community here at Harvard to this part of Harvard’s past, to explore it more fully, and to understand the ways other institutions have responded to the history of slavery in their environments,” Faust said in the Gazette interview.
Beckert said he hopes attendees leave the conference with a better understanding of how slavery shaped Harvard’s history, and the history of a nation as a whole.
“We need to engage this, not just to be better historians,” he said. “We need to acknowledge this history as a way to be able to move forward.”
—Staff writer Mia C. Karr can be reached at mia.karr@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @miackarr.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
UPDATED: March 2, 2017 at 5:48 p.m.
Four retail experts shared their perspectives on the changing role of physical space in the retail industry to a packed audience at the Graduate School of Design's Piper Auditorium Wednesday.The event, hosted by the Design School as part of its public lecture and conference series, featured panelists from eyeglasses maker Warby Parker, Harvard Business School, and other retail industry experts.
Several of the panelists said many traditional brick and mortar retailers are beginning to lose market share to their Internet-based competitors.
“Sears is no longer relevant, J. C. Penney has lost its identity, and there is nothing distinctive about Macy’s,” said Rajiv Lal, professor of retailing at Harvard Business School.“Just about every retailer that we speak to, and if you ask them what keeps them up at night, they’ll say Amazon,” added Eric Symon, vice president of the global retail business unit at Needham-based software company PTC.Despite the recent dominance of e-commerce companies, the panelists were quick to note that brick and mortar stores were still relevant for the retail industry.“While digital spaces seem to dominate the many quantitative metrics of retail performance, it’s physical spaces that increasingly qualify matters of brand experience and loyalty,” said Jesse M. Keenan, a lecturer at the Graduate School of Design who moderated the panel.Symon echoed Keenan’s remarks.“You’re seeing a lot of traditional brick and mortar retailers closing locations. Interestingly, you see a lot of e-commerce retailers that are opening brick and mortar stores. So it’s not just about brick and mortar, it’s about what they’re used for,” Symon said.The panelists credited much of the resurgence in the popularity of brick and mortar operations to the integration of technology into the in-person shopping experience.This integration of technology has also allowed customers to customize and design their own preferences, eroding the power of retailers to develop trends, Symon said.“In the last five years, there has been an absolute phenomenal shift in power in retail. It used to be that retailers and designers could determine what people were going to buy. That has flipped entirely on its head, and the power is in the hands of the consumer,” said Symon.Despite the recent closures of many retail companies, the panelists were confident that the retail industry is still strong.“I don’t believe retail is dying. I think that a lot of current retail is mediocre and mediocre retail should die,” said Neil Blumenthal, the co-founder and co-CEO of Warby Parker. “We need to be a lot more thoughtful about customer experiences.”
—Staff writer Renwick M. Wilson can be reached at renwick.wilson@thecrimson.com.
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction:
CORRECTION: March 2, 2017
A previous version of this article incorrectly attributed a quote to Jesse M. Keenan.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Following a split with Ivy League foes Cornell and Brown at last weekend’s ECAC Championships, the Harvard women’s tennis team ran away with a 6-1 win over Boston University on Saturday morning at the Murr Center.
“I was very pleased with the overall level we showed,” Harvard coach Traci Green said. “We’ve been working really hard in practice on our doubles and the progress definitely showed. Everyone was very aggressive at the net and we were running the plays that we practiced.”
For just the second time this spring season, the Crimson began the match by winning the all-important doubles point. All three Harvard (5-5) pairs won their matches to give the Crimson a one-match edge over the visitors (3-4).
“Winning the doubles point gives you a tremendous advantage going into the singles,” Green said. “Knowing that your team only needs three singles victory is an amazing feeling. That was a definite boost for us winning that point, but more importantly, we played the way we wanted to play.”
Despite the lead, Harvard did not lay off the gas once singles play commenced. Sophomore Erica Oosterhout and captain June Lee made quick work of their opponents at the top two positions.
“I think we did a good job of coming out with a lot of energy and also maintaining that and not being as up-and-down, which is something we’ve been working on,” Lee said. “We came out with a lot of confidence and energy and we had a pretty solid day.”
Oosterhout took down the Terriers’ Iryna Kostirko, 6-0, 6-3, in what was her fifth consecutive victory. The Tampa, Fla. native has not lost since Jan. 29 against Florida State.
“She never gives up,” Lee said. “All of her opponents are tough, there have been a couple close ones and she’s been handling the pressure that comes with that very well. She keeps plugging away regardless of what the score is.”
Lee lost just one game in defeating BU senior Barbara Rodriguez in two sets. Junior Annika Ringblom was the only Crimson player to lose on the day, falling to Terrier freshman Clara Falxa, 6-2, 6-0, in the No. 5 spot.
Sophomore Sabrina Xiong made her presence felt in her first singles match of the spring season. Xiong is a staple for Harvard in doubles, teaming up with Ringblom to pick up a win earlier in the day.
“It was great to have Sabrina back out there on the singles court,” Green said. “She had been battling a few injuries. She played a very solid first set and got down 3-0 in the second set and it didn’t phase her at all. She just battled her way all the way back and next thing you know, she’s shaking hands.”
The Crimson’s two freshmen who played in singles action impressed on Saturday. Jenna Friedel and Irene Lu picked up victories at the third and fourth singles spots, respectively. Friedel bounced back from a loss against Cornell to drop BU sophomore Remi Ramos, 6-2, 6-2.
Lu is now 6-3 in nine spring singles matches after besting Terrier sophomore Sabrina Faybyshev, 6-2, 6-7, 10-4.
“Having those back-and-forth matches is really good,” Lee said. “You’re not going to be having them every day, so how do you handle the stress and the pressure when it has been a close match? You get what it’s like to see being the last match on or the clinching match so it’s really good to experience that early on as a freshman.”
—Staff writer Stephen J. Gleason can be reached at stephen.gleason@thecrimson.com.






Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
KAYLEY LEONARD, WOMEN’S SQUASH
Sunday afternoon in the championship game for the Howe Cup, the Harvard women’s squash team (15-0, 7-0 Ivy) defeated No. 2 University of Pennsylvania (13-2, 6-1 Ivy) to win the Crimson’s third-straight national championship with an important early win from No. 3 sophomore Kayley Leonard. The championship win also secured the Crimson’s second straight perfect season, and 38th consecutive win since losing to Penn in 2015. Following two strong opening wins by seniors Dileas MacGowan (No. 9) and Katie Tutrone (No. 6), Leonard came back from a 6-10 deficit in the fifth set, winning six consecutive points for an emphatic 12-10 win in the deciding match for Harvard to gain a three match advantage. Leonard’s five set win maintained the Crimson’s momentum into the second set of matches with Harvard securing a 7-2 win and another national championship.
SETH TOWNS, MEN’S BASKETBALL
As Harvard (18-7, 10-2) defeated Yale (14-10, 6-5) and Brown (12-16, 3-9), on Friday and Saturday respectively, freshman forward Seth Towns had a standout performance both nights. Friday night against Yale, Towns posted 18 points, his 15th time posting double-digits this season, as well as eight rebounds. The Columbus, OH native combined with freshman guard Bryce Aiken for 40 points against the Bulldogs.
Towns continued the double-digits streak by posting 16 points on Saturday against Brown with eight rebounds. The win against Bears gave the Crimson its best home record of 11-3 since 2014-15.
GABBY THOMAS, WOMEN’S TRACK AND FIELD
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Harvard men’s basketball team is undefeated in its last six contests, but the sting of the one loss in the past month hasn’t gone away.
Before the Crimson (18-7, 10-2 Ivy League) strung together six wins to guarantee at least a No. 2 seed in the inaugural Ivy League tournament, it lost a heartbreaker to Princeton (19-6, 12-0) at home, 57-56. It wasn’t just the close score that made the loss tough to swallow, but the fashion in which it happened.
With Harvard in the driver’s seat, only one of a pair of free throws, a non-foul, a box out, or a three-pointer needed to go the Crimson’s way to hand Princeton its first Ancient Eight loss. Instead, Harvard failed to execute and senior Steven Cook put the nail in the coffin as he scored the winning basket off a missed Tigers free throw with just seconds left on the clock.
This weekend, Harvard will get a chance to avenge its last second loss and potentially hand Princeton its first conference loss of the season when they meet on Friday night in New Jersey. Next, the Crimson will head to Philadelphia where it faces Penn (12-13, 5-7) on Saturday.
“We’ve moved past [the Princeton loss] but I’m not sure that it’s gone away,” Harvard coach Tommy Amaker said. “Princeton’s very good and obviously has had a tremendous season. That was one game, I’m sure they felt the same way we felt, we didn’t close and they took advantage of it.”
Since the loss to the Tigers, though, the Crimson has improved its ability to close out games, winning its last six games by a margin of just under 11 points per game. The stretch included two victories over Ivy rival Yale, a win over Columbia (who bested Harvard in January), and a 19-point rout of Brown.
The winning ways have come largely as a result of more consistent play from Harvard’s freshmen on both ends of the floor. On offense, freshman guard Bryce Aiken—the Crimson’s leading scorer—is averaging 18 points per game since the Princeton loss. Classmate Seth Towns is netting an average of 16.5 per contest. While the pair has been tasked with bearing more of the scoring burden as sophomore guard Corey Johnson has battled illness, the pair has also improved their offensive efficiency and playmaking.
While Aiken and Towns have without a doubt performed well in Johnson’s absence, Amaker is looking forward to hopefully getting his sharpshooter back to full strength this weekend. Johnson is currently shooting at a 43 percent clip from behind the arc, good for fourth in the Ivy League
“He’s such a weapon and a threat because of his three-point [ability],” Amaker said. “He’s shooting as high a percentage as anyone from the three-point line and he can shoot it from really deep. He stretches the floor for us, meaning that someone really has to be on him on the offensive end, you can’t sag off, you can’t lose him.”
Harvard currently owns the top offense in the Ancient Eight during conference play as it is averaging 75.1 points per game, while Princeton owns the top defense, holding teams to just 56 points per game. The Crimson is second in scoring defense in conference play, but allows nearly 10 points more per game than the Tigers.
“They try to force you when they’re doing silly stuff on the offensive side,” Towns side. “They don’t really foul too much, they’re not going to bail you out and that’s something we’ve definitely gone over.”
With the stingy Tiger defense, Amaker is also wary of Princeton’s ability to score in transition off of turnovers, something that plagued his team the first time these two faced off.
“Transition is the best time to get threes because it’s a broken floor, you’re not back and set, things get a little chaotic if you don’t communicate,” Amaker said. And if you don’t have a sense of urgency to get back and find people, they hit open threes.”
After facing the current top seed on Friday night, Harvard turns around just 24 hours later to face Penn, who has been a different team since the Crimson last saw them. After starting league play 0-6, the Quakers have put themselves back in postseason contention by rattling off five straight victories before falling to Columbia last Saturday.
With the possibility that Penn’s postseason hopes could come down to the result on Saturday, the Crimson can expect the Quakers to come out swinging.
“They have elevated their confidence by winning some tough, tight games,” Amaker said. “We’ve done the same thing. The belief is there, you can see it and i think that’s something that’s happened for Penn and it’s served them really well.”
Staff writer Theresa Hebert can be reached at theresa.hebert@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
People love to bet on sports, particularly in March.
In fact, just one year ago, the American Gaming Association—the face of the U.S. casino industry—forecasted that more than $9 billion worth of bets would be placed on the 2016 edition of March Madness alone.
Now, there’s a number of collegiate athletic tournaments held in March which loosely label themselves as part of this yearly madness. But the AGA of course was referring to the spring cash cow for the NCAA, casinos, and undercover bookies alike—college’s men’s basketball tournament.
Degenerates, don’t be discouraged. Even if you’re not a basketball fan, you have plenty more outlets to let your money ride on college athletics. And as The Crimson’s resident expert on all things men’s hockey, I’m writing this for you, hockey handicappers.
Before going any further, I’ll enter my disclaimer here. Please don’t let a student journalist convince you to “let your money ride” on college hockey games simply because he has a passion for following spreads. Said journalist by no means condones any form of illegal gambling. And for what it’s worth, said journalist does not even possess the funds to practice what he pretends to preach.
Anyway, once the NCAA men’s hockey tournament rolls around, several sportsbooks will release championship odds for each of the field’s 16 participants. For instance, after cracking the Big Dance as a three-seed last season, the Harvard men’s hockey team had 12/1 odds of winning it all according to Bovada, the king of all online books.
But with conference tournament season upon us, the people deserve more. So without further ado, I now present to you a handful of (fictional) odds explaining who is most likely to take home the Whitelaw Cup as king of the ECAC.
1) HARVARD - 2/1
I cover the Crimson icemen fairly and objectively, not as a Harvard homer. But no matter how you peer through the looking glass, it’s hard to come up with a determination that the Crimson (22-5-2, 16-4-2), now ranked second in the country, is anything but the clear favorite.
Since undergoing a temporary nose-dive in the PairWise over winter break, Harvard has won 10 straight contests and has yet to lose a game in more than six weeks. Goaltender Merrick Madsen is rolling, the bottom two forward lines are becoming regular contributors, and Lines 1A and 1B, as coach Ted Donato ’91 likes to call them, haven’t missed a beat.
As one of four teams with a first-round bye, the Crimson will need four wins—two at the Bright-Landry Hockey Center next weekend and two more in Lake Placid—to capture its second Whitelaw Cup in three seasons. And while there are a handful of teams that can give Harvard a run for its money, the Crimson won’t match up with any of them as the underdog.
2) UNION - 6/1
After practically leading the league from start to finish, the Dutchmen (23-8-3, 16-4-2) were 5:01 away from wrapping up the top seed for the fourth time in seven seasons Saturday night inside Lynah Rink. But one Mitch Vanderlaan equalizer later, Cornell pulled out a tie, and Union’s road to a championship is now only that much harder.
As the two-seed, the Dutchmen—ranked sixth in the nation—may have to go through both the Big Red and the Crimson should they get to Lake Placid, rather than letting the two old rivals duke it out for themselves in the semis and awaiting the winner in the championship.
That said, the Dutchmen carry a top line capable of winning a title almost on its own. Union’s scoring offense ranks fifth in the country, largely thanks to Mike Vecchione and Spencer Foo, who sit just one and three points off the pace of the nation’s leading scorer, respectively.
3) CORNELL - 8/1
If Cornell and Harvard were to meet in the championship game, think there’d be fish? In a few week’s time, there’s a reasonable chance we find out. But the Big Red (18-6-5, 13-4-5) can’t be thinking that far ahead. Ranked 10th in the PairWise, Cornell should be a lock for the NCAA tournament as long as it takes care of business at home next weekend in the quarterfinals.
A perfect February (6-0-3) put the Big Red in this position. It’s also worth noting that two of those games came against Union, whom Cornell will likely need to beat again in order to reach the championship game.
4) ST. LAWRENCE - 20/1
Once the ECAC’s defensive stalwart, St. Lawrence (16-11-7, 12-6-4) at one time looked like the real deal. These days, not so much. The Saints went 1-4-1 during the month of February, just barely edging out Quinnipiac for the final first-round bye. However, once the Bobcats—who I’d give 16/1 odds to win the tournament—dispose of Brown this weekend, the Saints could be in trouble inside their own building.
THE REST
Beginning next Friday, the four teams above will host best-of-three sets against the four teams who survive the tournament’s opening weekend. Speaking of which, it’s time for some picks—featuring game odds (not series odds) concocted by a real sportsbook.
12) BROWN at 5) QUINNIPIAC
This Quinnipiac team is a far cry from either of the school’s star-studded squads from the last two seasons. But even so, the Bobcats (-1095) could turn this into a bloodbath.
Brown (+565) is effectively the worst team in college hockey, second only to the Purple Eagles of Niagara University, who have no business being any good. The Bears haven’t won in over a month and they’re on their way to their worst season in almost 30 years.
But fear not, Brown fans, because Bears’ forward Charlie Corcoran recently told The Brown Daily Herald that one of Bruno’s last two losses “definitely” served as a “wake-up call.” So you better forget about those 23 defeats. Anything can happen come playoff time. Well, almost anything.
Pick: Quinnipiac in two
11) RPI at 6) CLARKSON
Ever the optimist, RPI coach Seth Appert has proven to be an absurdly positive thinker. So much so that after an 8-2 loss to Harvard last March—one that knocked the Engineers from the postseason—Appert put reporters on their heels.
“I thought we were really good,” he said. “Really good, as crazy as that sounds. I think we probably carried the play and we probably had the better scoring chances.”
Then after RPI dropped to 3-17-1 following a 5-1 loss at Harvard earlier this season, Appert was at it again. The coach rattled off three surefire keys to make the Engineers contenders—ones that have been uttered by just about every coach ever: staying positive, staying together, and staying focused.
“We believe that if we do those things, we’re going to give ourselves a great chance to win in March and earn a trip to Lake Placid,” Appert said.
Shockingly enough, I do think RPI (+365) steals a game against Clarkson (-555). Thankfully, that means we’ll get one extra set of quotes from the Appert of our eye. But no more than that.
Pick: Clarkson in three
10) COLGATE at 7) PRINCETON
Chasing its first winning season in six years, Princeton has played some quality hockey on its way to the finish line. If it weren’t for a pair of tight road losses to RPI and Union over one weekend, the Tigers would have an unblemished record over their final 10 games.
Meanwhile, when Colgate’s not playing in its shiny new rink—home to the loudest, and presumably the only, train horn in all of college hockey—the Raiders are a meager 2-11-3.
Nonetheless, Princeton (-385) hasn’t beaten Colgate (+265) in any of its last eight tries. On the road, the Raiders might just extend that streak to nine, but their run dies before hitting double digits.
Pick: Princeton in three
9) DARTMOUTH at 8) YALE
A year ago, Dartmouth stunned second-seeded Yale in consecutive games at Ingalls Rink to reach Lake Placid. This season, the two sides meet in the same venue one round earlier, much to the dismay of Eli supporters.
Barring an impressive tournament run, the Bulldogs look to be on their way to their first sub-500 season in 10 years. Yet in two games against Dartmouth (+170), Yale (-230) won by a combined margin of 11-0. This time, expect the margin to shrink, and from the perspective of a Harvard fan, the results to stink.
Pick: Yale in two
—Staff writer Jake Meagher can be reached at jake.meagher@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @MeagherTHC.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
