News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The short stories in Deb Olin Unferth’s “Wait Till You See Me Dance” vary in length from a single paragraph to twenty-five pages. Though structurally diverse, all the stories ooze melancholy. The anthology includes the tale of a woman whose life feels duller because she has limited her time online and the story of a couple who has travelled to fifty-eight countries but have no home, among countless others. Every story has a fair amount of sadness, and because of the short length of the majority of the stories, this anthology doesn’t permit for more than a one-note depressing reading experience.
The anthology is split into four parts, each roughly forty pages in length. The first part consists primarily of longer narratives, while the second part is mostly composed of stories of two to three pages. The third part returns to the longer accounts while the fourth reverts back to shorter pieces. This is an interesting method, but this alternate lengthening of the stories only highlights how Unferth’s longer short stories are of a much higher quality than her shorter pieces.
The longer stories, including “Wait TIll You See Me Dance” and “Voltaire Night,” are the strongest pieces in the anthology: The stories are fleshed out, the characters are portrayed in more death, and the author’s main purpose is clear. The shorter pieces, however, fall short. Their short length makes it nearly impossible for a reader to form an attachment to a character. Each story ends in sadness, and the sole purpose of these narratives seems to be to evoke sorrow in the reader. These repeated stories of grief are too short to establish a substantial connection to plot or character. This emotion alone is not a strong enough emotion to carry an entire half of an anthology. Unferth’s shorter pieces lack the depth and connection to the reader that make her longer stories so enjoyable.
The best story in the book is “Voltaire Night.” This story follows a teacher of a late-night writing class, who at the end of each semester takes her students out and has them recount the worst thing that ever happened to them. The plot mimics a storyline from Voltaire’s “Candide,” causing a student to dub the outing “Voltaire Night.” The narrating teacher’s present woes help explain Voltaire Night’s creation and the Voltaire Nights themselves. The second half of the story is dominated by a student whose deeply depressing “worst tale” won Voltaire Night and all future Voltaire Nights. This story is excellently written, and it intricately weaves the narrative of the class with the story of the teacher’s life. In the middle of a student’s story, the narrator states, “I didn’t know this yet, but by the time of the last Voltaire night, things were beginning to take a slow turn for the better for me.” These interruptions of the present give information about the narrator’s past and future. Although the ending is sad, the story poses an interesting question about terrible situations. Are bad things good solely because they allow a person to “win” when sharing sad stories? Do they make people stronger? Or are bad things simply bad? This story was simultaneously touching, intriguing, dismal and thought-provoking.
An interesting aspect of Unferth’s style is her common use of questions within her stories. Her first piece is almost completely composed of rhetorical questions such as “Why couldn’t she be more likable?” and “What was the problem?” This approach is not limited to just the first story—almost every piece uses this stimulating style to engage the reader. This uncommon technique draws readers in with its unusual tone. By forcing these questions on readers, Unferth engages them on a deeper, more thought-provoking level as they are forced to think about the purpose of each particular narrative. Questions such as “After all, what is the point?” and “Were they illusions?” bring the reader closer to the real issues of the pieces. Unferth sets herself apart with this distinct, easily recognizable style.
Unferth has a particular style and noticeable tendency towards bleak topics. While each story is unique, they all have the same somber mood and tone. Although her longer pieces are enjoyable, her shorter stories evoke too much sadness to outweigh their shallow plots. All in all, the second and fourth parts of this anthology are worth the read, while the first and third are not.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
I went to my first queer event when I still thought I was straight. The summer after eighth grade, while at a residential camp, a queer girl who lived down the hall invited me to a camp-sponsored discussion on BGLTQ issues. The event was open to everyone and was meant to be an informative panel where leaders could give an overview of different sexualities and genders and queer campers could talk about their experiences. During the discussion, I quietly listened to the speakers and took mental notes of my questions so I could Google them later. I left feeling concerned about the lack of BGLTQ equality in the world but empowered to learn more about it and do whatever I could as a cisgender and heterosexual (aka cishet) ally to change that.
A week later, two queer people in my hall were hosting a small queer get-together in a dorm room. I wasn’t personally invited, but, eager to be supportive in my role as a newly minted ally, I showed up anyways. Other allies had the same idea, and the event quickly dissolved into a Q&A session where the few self-identified queer people in the room felt obligated to explain their identities to a large group of curious allies. I didn’t notice how exhausted they were because I was too focused on my own questions, my own learning, and my own experience as an ally. I invaded their space and prioritized my desire to perform allyship over their need to build community.
Fast forward five years, and I no longer identify as a straight ally. When I attend queer events now, my main goal is to join a community where I feel safe and accepted. Everywhere else, being straight and cisgender is the dominant norm, so it’s important to create spaces that are centered around queer experiences. But, of course, that’s not always their only purpose. Another key function of queer events is to build solidarity and support for the queer community, and sometimes that comes from other queer people, and other times it comes from allies. In this way, allies can play a role in the BGLTQ movement without being members of the BGLTQ community.
Just as in any movement, allies should be careful about the role they play and how they take up space. They should also make sure to listen to members of the movement they’re supporting (in this case, queer people) to determine how they can best support them. This means that if you are a queer person, do all you can to make your voice heard. And if you’re an ally, use your privilege to lift queer voices, support queer people in the ways they ask you to, and then step aside. Allyship should not be centered around the allies themselves, but rather on the marginalized groups they’re supporting. If your allyship is about you, you’re not helping the cause in the way you think you are.
One way that allies can be mindful of space is by being thoughtful in deciding which queer events to attend. Pride parades are probably the most inclusive, and allies should feel free to participate. Similarly, events that are centered around activism and education on BGLTQ issues are also usually open to allies. But allies should be more cautious about attending queer parties and social events, such as Queer Prom or Hotspot. For many queer people, these events are a great way to meet other queer people, as they can interact with cishet people at every other social event. And, undoubtedly, with niche affinity groups or anonymous support groups, you really should be queer to join.
Allies should also consider why they want to go to a particular queer event. Obviously, if their queer friends invite them to attend (as a friendly plus one or as a partner), no further questions need to be asked; go right ahead. To my queer peers who prefer such events to be completely closed, consider that some queer people don’t have other queer friends, and it can be daunting to attend events alone. They might want to bring a cishet friend for support. But, allies that weren’t invited by a queer person need to be more reflective when deciding whether they should attend. For example, a cishet couple wanting to attend a queer dance together for “fun” might want to think twice, especially given that nearly every other dance is catered to them.
It’s okay to not know what the right move is. When unsure, allies should ask someone who is a part of the community. Of course, not everyone in the queer community will have the same opinion, but the important thing is that allies recognize that they are entering a space that is not their own and listen to the people who do own that space. If an ally gets offended when they’re asked not to attend a queer community event, I’d urge them to recognize that these events are more than just social outings for queer people. It’s comforting to be surrounded by people who understand a part of your identity on a personal level, where you don’t feel pressured to explain yourself.
These events also serve as places for closeted queer people to find community without outing themselves to our wider society. But what if a cishet person shows up? Suddenly, that queer person is outed without warning or consent. Speaking from personal experience, coming out to cishet people feels very different from coming out to other queer people. Perspectives like these are hard to come to as a straight ally, which is exactly why it's a good idea to ask first. While your intentions might be good, your actions may be harmful.
More work and dialogue needs to be done on improving allyship. There are no easy answers, but I hope we can all start by asking more questions.
Becina J. Ganther ’20 is a Crimson editorial editor in Wigglesworth Hall. Her column appears on alternate Thursdays.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Ex-President Park Geun-Hye’s political party was once the dominant, de facto ruling force in South Korea. They were popular―especially in the countryside, rich districts of Seoul, and among elderly people who espouse liberal democracy against the North. The innermost coalition of Park loyalists wielded significant power, sometimes going so far as to threaten fellow party members who “betrayed” the President.
I recall my own grandmother preaching to me: “Never put yourself out there and speak against President Park. You’re just a student. It’s too early for you to formulate any political stance. I know you don’t like the pro-Park faction, but they mean well for our country.”
Yet now they are at the brink of total collapse, with their leader potentially facing a jail term of up to 45 years for a corruption scandal that revealed how she gave a Rasputin-like political confidant immense influence over the inner workings of the government. A prisoner’s dilemma has unfolded as the former President and her confidant await their verdict. Will they remain as best friends, or will one rat out the other? Even K-dramas aren’t this dramatic.
The remaining supporters of Park have called this latest judicial decision a “witch hunt,” calling candlelight vigil protesters North Korean sympathizers. But this rhetoric has already fallen out of favor with the vast majority of Koreans. With an emergency election fast approaching, people want to move past the dark times and welcome a new Korea.
Many young Koreans today refer to their country as a living hell, but shy away from political processes. We tell ourselves that our vote doesn’t make a difference. But we must refuse to enter into this trap of self-defeatism. As a Chinese saying goes, the Yangtze River’s waves push people ahead from behind. And time and time again this Platonic truth holds true: Those who are too smart to engage in politics are punished by being governed by those who are dumber.
In order to guarantee that Korea will change for the better, we must carefully assess all five presidential candidates across the full spectrum. Different voters have different visions of leadership. Some desire hard-liners who can tame the establishment; others, cool-headed conservatives who can preserve socioeconomic order. But whoever gets elected on May 9, we must ensure that they channel all their energy into normalizing the broken nation.
There are subcontractors who get paid under minimum wage, working mothers who struggle in a workaholic, patriarchal society, and LGBTQ+ Koreans who still face legal discrimination. And something is seriously wrong when migrant laborers from Vietnam are exposed to abusive environments and 63 percent of senior citizens struggle below the poverty threshold.
All of these issues require our solidarity in solving, but when mainstream politicians are too busy playing their power game, marginalized voices are barely heard. Candidates cannot and should not waste precious time on constructing political frames that get us nowhere. They should instead set aside the name-dropping and smear-campaigning and focus on reconnecting with the will of the people. Our President is no more than a civil servant whose employment contract ends in five years. The era of career politicians is coming to an end, and it’s high time for top authority to maintain humility. We’ve already seen from Park’s faction how an obsession with power can end up.
A country’s zeitgeist is determined by what the majority of the population happens to believe in. The new zeitgeist in Korea is one of civic democracy, and recognizing the power of those ordinary neighbors around us. A total of 16 million Koreans have taken to the streets since October—in a country of little over 50 million. Korea’s struggle for a mature democracy sets an impressive example for the rest of the world and the role of young people.
We want to live in a new Korea where nobody will have to tell us that it’s reckless to make our stance, demand our rights, and fight for another’s.
Jaehyun Park ’19 is an economics concentrator in Lowell House. 
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
While the return of the newly renovated Cabot Science Library has pleased many Harvard students, one place is conspicuously missing: Greenhouse Cafe. The beloved eatery will be replaced by Clover Food Labs, a decision that has prompted mixed student opinions. While we appreciate the new features of the library, we are disappointed in the administration’s choice to substitute Clover for Greenhouse Cafe.
We acknowledge that there are those who enjoy eating at Clover, but the niche vegetarian chain likely does not represent the preferences of the student body as a whole. Greenhouse Cafe offered a variety of foods, such as Starbucks coffee, chicken tenders, burritos, sushi, and pizza. Especially since the nearest Clover location is only a short walk away, the addition of Clover in the Science Center has done little to add to the range of dining options that students have.
This highlights an unfortunate lack of student input in the decision. While focus groups were formed in late 2015 to solicit feedback on the proposed design, there was no mention of a change in food offerings. In fact, Faculty of Arts and Sciences spokesperson Anna Cowenhoven told The Crimson in an emailed statement from June of 2016 that those in charge of the renovations planned on re-opening the cafe. Given that administrators considered student input for major renovations to the Houses and Memorial Church, the lack of feedback in this case is disheartening.
Moreover, while students could use BoardPlus—funds for eating out provided by the dining plan—at Greenhouse Cafe, it is still unclear whether Clover will have that same flexibility. We are concerned that this decision will reinforce class barriers by removing a key affordable payment option for low-income students. Given that Cabot Library’s new renovations stem from Harvard’s Common Spaces Initiative, a program meant to create areas for collaboration, it would be ironic for Clover’s omission of BoardPlus to make the space less open. We urge the administration to negotiate with Clover such that students can use BoardPlus to pay for their food.
This staff editorial solely represents the majority view of The Crimson Editorial Board. It is the product of discussions at regular Editorial Board meetings. In order to ensure the impartiality of our journalism, Crimson editors who choose to opine and vote at these meetings are not involved in the reporting of articles on similar topics.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
On March 30, roughly 30 students and faculty gathered in the Arthur and Elizabeth Schlesinger Library to spend the afternoon glued to their computer screens, fingers flying across keys as they wrote and edited articles on Wikipedia.
This is the library’s annual Wikipedia “Edit-a-thon,” in which participants gather to write new Wikipedia entries and update and expand already existing articles.
Lead Schlesinger archivist Jennifer Gotwals has organized an edit-a-thon at Harvard every year for the past five years, giving each event a different theme. This year’s theme was “Game Changers,” focusing on female athletes. Attendees spent the afternoon posting and expanding articles about women who achieved prowess in their sport but never received much recognition.
Gotwals says she organized the event to combat what she called a “gender imbalance” in Wikipedia’s content as well as the ranks of its editors. Wikipedia itself reports that 90 percent of all Wikipedia editors are male.
“I felt like we at the Schlesinger library could do some work to change that,” she says.
Gotwals adds she wanted to emphasize female athletes in particular to complement an upcoming conference on sex and sports slated to take place at the Radcliffe Institute April 7, titled “Game Changers: Sports, Gender and Society.”
Students and faculty remained at the edit-a-thon for two hours Thursday, surrounded by over 100,000 tomes devoted to the history of women in America. Quiet laughter mingled with conversation as students spread books on tables and flipped through encyclopedias, searching for relevant facts.
Occasionally, participants took breaks from their work to grab snacks from a table by the wall—the Trader Joe’s espresso brownies were the first to go.
Annika L. Gompers ’18, a member of the women’s track team who also participated in the edit-a-thon, says she found creating Wikipedia articles easier than she expected.
Gompers wrote an article about Theresa Manuel, a black basketball player who also ran track. Manuel competed in the 1948 Olympics, making her the first black woman to compete in Olympic javelin and the first African-American woman from Florida to compete in any Olympic category.
“It wasn’t too hard to find news article sources, and putting them together to make a Wikipedia article will be helpful for people who use Wikipedia as a one-stop-source,” Gompers says.
Max H. Moulton ’18, who attended the edit-a-thon, says he thinks the event was a “fantastic idea.” Moulton spent the afternoon composing an article about Aeriwentha “Mae” Faggs Starr, an Olympic track runner who won the gold medal for the United States in the 4 x 100 meter relay in the 1952 summer games.
Moulton says he does not understand why Starr’s success has garnered comparatively little attention on Wikipedia.
“I think Wikipedia is where most people will go first for their information, so it’s a shame that all this great information about her history and her successes has never been documented in a way that would be more accessible,” he says.
Moulton adds he believes that one of the benefits of making information about female athletes more accessible is that in the future, these women “may inspire more people.”
Gotwals agrees, emphasizing that Wikipedia is user-friendly and should be accessible to anyone with Internet access. “Everyone has the skills to enter and engage with [Wikipedia] as a source and be empowered to add information,” she says.
Gotwals adds that she considers the recent edit-a-thon an unqualified success, earning the largest turn-out to date. Moreover, most attendees were “actively engaged,” doing research and writing for the duration of the event, she says, which “was not always the case” in past years.
Gotwals says she thinks programs like the edit-a-thon are an important step towards accomplishing gender parity. “We’re trying to build a space for what we want to see,” she says.
Sections
Last weekend, Expressions, Harvard’s student-run hip-hop dance group, presented their semesterly show “EXtra.” FM has obtained a list of rejected alternate titles. Read on to see what might have been.
EXoskeleton
Dancers wear styrofoam lobster claws. There’s a lot of crabwalking.
EX-boyfriendDancers spell out SCREW YOU, KYLE to a soundtrack of hysterical sobs mixed with Taylor Swift.
EXocytosisA “molecule” bursts through a wall of other dancers, while ATP beachballs zoom around the stage.
EXhaustionYou just want to call your mom and go to sleep, but you have three papers to write and some breakdancing to do.
EXpulsionThose papers didn’t write themselves!
EXistentialA mass of dancers labelled THE ABYSS stares accusingly at the audience while a disembodied voice raps Thus Spoke Zarathustra.
EXtinctThe plié-ing dinosaurs are poignant, but the audience doesn’t start openly weeping until the heartbreaking dance of the ivory-billed woodpecker.
EXcommunicationSeparation of church and pirouetting reprobate, set to the tune of “Halo” by Beyonce.
EXorcismThat one weird kid from section is dragged, puppet-like, across the stage, while they chant—is it Latin? Is that a man-sized cross that they’re carrying out of the wings? Oh God, oh God, oh—
EXpecto patronumHarry, yer a hip-hop dancer!
EXfoliationIn this extremely tactile piece, dancers spin on the floor and shimmy against walls until their skin is baby soft. You’ll clap so hard that your palms will be, too.
EXtreme Makeover: Home EditionAfter much commotion, Ty Pennington yells, “Bus driver, move that bus!” Three dancers with frozen grins move aside to reveal a cardboard house. You find yourself tearing up.
EXxon ValdezThe year is 1989, and dozens of black-clad dancers fan out across a blue stage. They hug dancers dressed as whales and octopuses, who mime convulsive, slow-motion deaths.
ECZemaDancers wear red, stand against a flesh-colored background, throb gently. You’re itching to get out of there quicker than you can say “atopic dermatitis”.
EXclusive single-gender social organizationsDancers in salmon-colored shorts sip warm beer until Dean Khurana chases them offstage to Coldplay’s “Fix You”.
Runners-UpEXtremely Loud and Incredibly CloseEXothermic reactionEXhumedEXtortion
Sections
Through the walls of Sanders Theater, snippets of Bach’s “Mass in B Minor” mixed with the jostling of video game controllers and the theme song of “Super Smash Bros. Melee.”
The tables of Annenberg, Harvard’s freshman dining hall, had been pushed aside to make space for several large projectors and a massive Twister board.
Thomas A. Dingman ’67, Dean of Freshmen, scoped out the competition. “I’ve heard Dean Shapiro is bringing her A-game,” Dingman said, referring to Resident Dean of Freshmen for Crimson Yard Catherine R. Shapiro, his colleague and soon-to-be Smash Bros. rival. He paused to ruminate on last year’s nail-biting victory. “I had a big win over Dean Shapiro, so I’ve come back to make sure I keep the trophy,” he continued.
A collaboration between the Freshman Intramural Program and the Harvard College eSports Association, LANnenberg 2017 provided an arena for gaming experts and novices alike to show off skills gleaned through late nights of procrastination in an effort to win glory for their dorms.
Unlike traditional intramural offerings, LANnenberg consists entirely of virtual challenges: The event includes Super Smash Bros. and “League of Legends” tournaments. Events like LANnenberg provided an opportunity for the eSports Association to increase its visibility on campus.
“I think that the really cool thing about this—doing it through the intramural program—is that it’s a great way to reach kids who are not already affiliated with an e-sports league,” Leopold V. Bottinger ’20, a participant in the tournament, said. More than 100 students registered in this year’s competition.
According to Benjamin N. Iuliano ’18, co-president of the eSports Association, events like LANnenberg provide a positive social outlet for students.
“These [games] are things people will already do in their dorm rooms anyway, so it’s giving them a way to also come together, to meet one another, to really sort of grow a community,” he said.
Freshmen, several wearing dorm t-shirts, cheered as Dingman—playing as Luigi—battled Shapiro in Smash Bros. The grudge match had begun. Live, play-by-play commentary accompanied the action.
With much of the game locked in a tie, Dingman scored a resounding victory with one final, exploding egg. Within moments of Shapiro’s crushing defeat, her younger son, Robert, challenged Dingman in a match to reclaim the family’s honor.
Several participants and spectators agreed that LANnenberg provided a welcome break from midterm season.
Tyler F. Moulton ’20, in the middle of a Twister round, recognized the appeal of events like LANnenberg for those less interested in traditional sports.
“There’s always events like this where you meet people that you’ve never met before,” Moulton said. “Because even though it’s a kind of a small school, there’s still two thousand of us.”
Students continued to trickle into Annenberg, munch on nachos, and pick up controllers throughout the evening. Citing other events this year, including an intramural spelling bee and innertube water polo match, Dingman praised the event and those like it.
“[Freshman Dean’s Office Department Administrator] Brandon Edwards and his undergraduate leaders have been brilliant in trying to bring people out,” Dingman said. “It’s all about participation and making sure people have a chance to get away from their problem sets and have fun.”
Sections
A group of filmmakers believe that Asian-American mental health deserves more media attention. To bring that issues to light, the team recently released their film “Looking for Luke,” a documentary about the 2015 suicide of Luke Tang ’18.
Tang, who died in September of 2015, was a member of the Asian American Christian Fellowship at Harvard and served on the boards of the Harvard Interfaith Forum and the Harvard Undergraduate Mathematics Association. Hundreds gathered to celebrate his life at a memorial service in Memorial Church later that month.
Directed by Eric I. Lu ’09 and edited by Elaine Coin, the film explores Tang’s death and its impact on his family, his friends, and the College community. The filmmaking team includes executive producers Gene V. Beresin and Juliana H. Chen, both psychiatrists at Massachusetts General Hospital.
“Looking for Luke” was kickstarted by a grant that Chen received last year as part of her child and adolescent psychiatry fellowship from the American Psychiatric Association. Lu says that his mission is “to make films that heal.” He was already working on various films with the Clay Center for Young Healthy Minds at Massachusetts General Hospital when Chen approached him about using her grant to create a film highlighting Asian-American mental health.
“As soon as I got the grant, I knew that I wanted to target Asian-American families. Within the Asian-American community, there can be a lot of misunderstanding and stigma around mental health,” Chen says. “There’s not a lot of dialogue around it, and so families and kids aren’t presenting for care.”
With the support of the APA grant and the Clay Center, “Looking for Luke” was born.
About six months after Tang’s death, the team flew to New Orleans to interview Tang’s family and friends. “Luke's parents wanted a chance to tell Luke's story from their own perspective, with all its layers and complexities, and that was what the film did,” Lu says.
One of the goals of “Looking for Luke,” Chen says, is to destigmatize the act of seeking help for mental health issues. “How do we make it embedded within the four years of college, not just when someone is struggling and in trouble?” Chen asks. “How do we as a society redefine success, wellness, and how do we make emotional and mental health part of the conversation?”
Beresin, who also founded the Clay Center, considered these questions as he wrote and performed the soundtrack for the film. “We have to be creative. We have to think of the different avenues that we have to keep [the conversation] alive and running.” He thinks discussion groups, journaling and writing groups, photography, and art are “the most powerful ways that we can keep these issues alive. What we really do need is a way to tell our stories—it really is about narrative. It’s kind of like what Luke said: We all have our own stories.”
Beresin says that in today’s society, people only think about psychiatry when it comes to “a school shooting, a terrorist disaster, or some kind of horrible tragedy.”
“Psychiatry is brought in as an outlier, and then we’re called on the media,” he says. “The amount of air time that mental health gets is incredibly small.” That lack of exposure was part of what originally motivated Beresin to found the Clay Center three years ago.
Since the trailer for “Looking for Luke” came out, the team has received requests to hold screenings all over the country—including at universities like Brown, Yale, MIT, and Stanford. The film has also garnered interest from national organizations like the American Foundation for Suicide Prevention and the National Alliance on Mental Illness, as well as universities in Shanghai and Australia. Jeremy Lin, who is in the film, tweeted to his followers about “Looking for Luke.”
The film has particularly attracted the attention of Asian-American and Christian organizations on college campuses. As a first-generation, Chinese-American child and adolescent psychiatrist, Chen brought a personal, family-oriented perspective to the table—a focus on the challenges of the immigrant narrative, and the culture gap between Asian-American youth and parents. But she wasn’t surprised by the film’s reception. “I’ve had students ask me, how can I start talking to my parents? How do I change the way I talk to my parents?” she says. “Parents have been asking the same kind of question.”
She continues, “There’s a gap, and people are hungry for a solution. This film can hopefully feed that hunger and get people talking.”
Tang’s parents have been vocal about their son’s death, and were highly involved in the production of the film. After Tang passed away, his parents created the Luke Tang Memorial Foundation—a tool to help other parents identify signs of mental illness in their own children.
“I personally was blown away by Luke's parents' openness as they talked about their regrets and mistakes, from not taking Luke's initial suicide attempt seriously to not knowing Luke was suffering so much,” Lu says. “Initially, I thought this film was going to be about Luke's story. But the more I talked to the parents, the more I realized this film was actually about the parents' story and their own journey of dealing with the suicide of their son.”
The team hopes to use Tang’s story to inform a wide range of people about mental health. With the release of “Looking for Luke,” Chen hopes the film will encourage people to break the silence around mental health. “My greatest fantasy would be that part of the film’s impact would become obsolete, because people would already understand this,” Chen says. “If this film can help educate families and kids, and help relieve one kid’s suffering, or save a student’s life, then I think it all would have been worth it.”
Sections
Cambridge. It’s a city that goes by many names: “The Athens of America”, “The City That Never Sleeps”, and, when fully translated to English, it’s loosely “The City of Angels.”
However, one of its many establishments of higher education, Harvard, is hardly heavenly. In this spicy cesspool of scandals and sin[gle-sex social organizations], one group stands out as defenders of life, liberty, and the few parts of the American Dream that aren’t deeply imbedded in racism and sexism: The Superhero Task Force on Inclusion and Belonging.
Our friendly neighborhood dean rests at his desk, tired from walking a mile in the shoes of his valiant friends and vanquished foes. Suddenly, a bright light spills into his room. When he peers out of his window, he sees the STFIB symbol lighting the night sky.
Immediately, he undergoes a transformative experience, becoming the vengeful vigilante known as Captain Community.
Captain Community makes his way to Task Force headquarters, where his exclusion-fighting comrades await him. Empress Endowment is recovering from a long day of fundraising in an ice bath filled with cold, hard cash.
“We’ve got trouble, gang. The Mt. Auburn Menace is recruiting henchmen to join his syndicate of drugs and nepotism,” Empress Endowment says. Earlier that evening, she had spotted a herd of suited sophomores sheepishly making their way to the river. “And more importantly, almost 90% of them are rich, white males.”
On cue, the heroes spring into action. “Your empire of exclusivity must end, Menace,” Captain Community cries.
The Mt. Auburn Menace, clothed in salmon shorts and armed with his daddy’s American Express, simply laughs. “Who will stop me?” he asks. Empress Endowment charges into the fray.
“One more step and I’ll tell my father to cancel his annual alumni fundraising dinner.” Empress Endowment pauses and begins to sweat. “Also, I’ve already notified the Digest protesters of your presence.” Empress Endowment flees the scene.
The Mt. Auburn Menace smirks. “Looks like it’s just you and me, Captain Community.” He pauses dramatically. “You know, you and I aren’t too different. We’re both just trying to provide the best for organizations that historically discriminate against minorities. If you joined me, we could rule the world.”
Captain Community sighs. “That may be true, but you and I have one major difference.”
“And what’s that?” the Mt. Auburn Menace asks. Captain Community beams. “My organization accepts a slightly higher amount of low-income students.”
Going in for the kill, he activates his special power: subcommittee creation. “I’ve just submitted a proposal for the creation of a committee that in 15-24 months may eventually pass legislation that administers penalties to your members,” he proclaims. “It’s over.”
“Curse you, Captain! In two to three years, my organization might see a campus initiative that causes a slight inconvenience to our members!” the Mt. Auburn Menace cries, sulking back to his million-dollar property.
The crowd erupts. “Another day saved thanks to the Superhero Task Force on Inclusion and Belonging!” they cheer.
Sections
When I turned six, my family threw me a “Brady Bunch” birthday party. Partygoers posed in a homemade Brady Bunch grid and threw footballs at Carol’s vase (but not at Marsha’s nose!). Our little plastic playhouse doubled as Tiger’s doghouse. We blasted “It’s a Sunshine Day” and “Keep On Dancing,” and we strung beads in our doorways like Greg once did in his attic bedroom. My mom arranged for Barry Williams, the actor who played Greg, to call and wish me a happy birthday. Anne B. Davis, famous for her stint as Alice, sent me a signed photograph. (Oddly, there’s one in the the FM office, too.)
I watched every episode of "The Brady Bunch" back in those days. I liked the plots—sweet, resolvable, funny. I liked the theme song—catchy, peppy, explanatory. I liked the characters—witty, friendly, realistic. I liked the plaid skirts and the word groovy and the bright colors and the bell-bottom pants.
But the plots, the theme song, and the characters were not, in retrospect, the real reasons I tuned in, nor were the fashion and lingo of the 1970s the show’s main draws. It was the fullness of the family that pulled me in, rerun after rerun, in my afternoons after elementary school. I watched “The Brady Bunch” because I wanted a bunch of my own—a big family that burst at the seams of a sprawling house. (A dog would have been nice, too.) At my home in Philadelphia, I had a mom and a dad and a brother and a sister, but the rest of my relatives were scattered across far-flung places like Memphis and Atlanta and Los Angeles. I learned of a great-uncle in New Jersey at his funeral. I found it was more doable to turn on the television and watch a big family than to hop on a plane and have one.
I have long perceived the death of my dad’s parents, both of whom died long before I was born, as one of the most brutal robberies of my family tree. A portrait in the living room gives me a vague sense of their appearances, but I would not recognize them if I bumped into them on the street.
A decade after my Brady Bunch phase, during a family trip to Los Angeles, I asked my dad if we could drive by his childhood home—a small house in West L.A. separated from the street by a squarish lawn. We had performed this ritual on previous visits to California: We would roll up to the house, and my mom would point out my dad’s old bedroom window. My dad would declare, “Well, now you’ve seen it,” and we would drive away.
This time turned out differently. “Could we ring the doorbell?” I blurted out.
To my surprise, my family agreed. My dad killed the engine. We walked up to the porch. One of us pressed the doorbell. A few seconds ticked by. We didn’t say anything. A lawnmower buzzed down the street. The whole thing started to feel like a bad idea. Then someone cracked open the rickety screen door. “I lived here from 1960 to 1975,” my dad said to the face. “I’d like to show my family the house.” The door swung open, revealing a short old man named Don. He was a kindly widower, and more trusting of the five jet-lagged folks before him than I would ever be.
We stepped into the tan-colored living room, furnished by a large portrait of Jesus on the wall and a musty smell in the air. It was the living room, I thought, where I would have had sleepovers had my grandparents lived long enough to host them. Don and my dad, strangers beforehand and afterwards, gave us a tour.
After a lifetime of feeling slighted by the smallness of my family, by the short lifespans and faded pictures and unspoken stories that have blurred my connection to my own genealogy, I found myself surrounded by my grandparents’ memories. I sat in the den that my grandfather had built by hand. I saw the niche that my grandmother made into an office. I walked into the garage in which my grandfather kept his workbench. I peeked into the backyard where they threw family gatherings. Their shadows seemed to paint the walls; their footsteps seemed to track the floors. In those 30 minutes, utterly weird and somehow magical, I felt immersed in the spirit of the couple whom I had always longed to know.
This story does not have much of a redemptive conclusion. I have not seen "The Brady Bunch" in years. (Though I did see Barry Williams in concert in Branson, Missouri.) I still could not recognize my grandparents on the street. I never got a dog. But as I toured my dad’s childhood home that afternoon, I felt a little closer to the Zauzmer bunch that could have been and to the Zauzmer bunch that already is. Although my Zauzmer bunch has sprouted fewer roots than the Brady one did—fewer roots than I always wished it would—it is the best, most wonderful bunch I’ve got.

Sections
In 1902, a young woman sat in a lawn chair at the dog kennels of J. Latimer Mott surrounded by her Radcliffe College classmates. A group of dogs were brought out together, but one, a Boston Terrier named Sir Thomas, trotted up to the woman and laid his head lovingly on her knee. She could neither see the dog nor hear its gentle whine as she laid her hand on its blockish head, but their connection was immediate. For 22-year-old Helen Keller, Tom was her newest companion. 
Tom was a gift from a number of women in Keller’s 1904 class at Radcliffe, to help ease Keller’s sorrow following the death of her dog the year prior.
As the story of Sir Thomas shows, Keller was well liked and greatly respected by many of her peers. But some questioned her ability to keep up at a school like Radcliffe. In a correspondence between Keller’s proctor Ella J. Spooner and a friend, Spooner alluded to the disbelief expressed by many community members at the time.
She quotes an unnamed person: “Why don’t they say outright that Miss Sullivan is entering Radcliffe instead of Helen Keller, a blind, deaf and dumb girl.”
“Miss Sullivan” is a reference to Anne M. Sullivan, Keller’s longtime tutor and friend. Sullivan, originally a teacher at the Perkins School for the Blind in Watertown, was called by Keller’s father to their home in Tuscambia, Alabama, in 1888. From then on, Sullivan remained with Keller through her years at Perkins and after she was admitted to Radcliffe in 1900.


The two worked well together. Sullivan’s experience working with blind students prior to Keller, coupled with her young pupil’s natural intelligence, resulted in a very quick intellectual transformation for Keller—and, with that, fame for both of them.
Keller’s accolades range from being the first female recipient of Radcliffe’s Alumnae Achievement Award, to traveling extensively through Europe and Asia, to advocating for and educating people about the reality of living with disabilities.
She spent a majority of her adult years working with the American Foundation for the Blind, where she touched the hearts of those who worked with her. “Perhaps there lay her true genius,” wrote executive director M. Robert Barnette in the AFB’s forty-seventh annual report, released shortly after Keller’s death in 1968. “With her wisdom to free men’s minds from age old doubts about a place in society, not only for the blind and deaf-blind, but for all who were disabled.”
Nowhere is this more evident than in personal letters between Keller and her loved ones. Keller’s words evoke someone who is at once passionate, graceful, and sincere.
To a former teacher who was losing her eyesight, she once wrote, “I cannot imagine one with such quick eyes as entering the shadows. But the quiet way you speak of it makes me believe that you have the faith to bear whatever happens…. If you can only keep your thoughts towards the Inner Light, your dark hours will shine with undreamed stars.”
Keller exhibited the same compassion for those close to her and strangers alike—a compassion born at Radcliffe. “True college education acquired is a trumpet call to discover our finest capacities and turn them to achievement for the enlightenment and liberation of others,” Keller defined in her acceptance letter of the Alumnae Achievement Award. And indeed, Keller’s lifelong pursuit was the liberation of disabled members of society.
Keller’s approach to education centered around making all students feel comfortable in their abilities to live and be active, valuable members of society. From learning how to navigate busy city streets, to applying makeup, there was no task left unlearned.
Keller’s is a name we know well: She is famous for her blindness and deafness, brought on by a bout of Scarlet Fever in infancy. But above all, she was one of many women who fought for an equal opportunity to enjoy life for those born into a world that doesn’t cater to those who can’t see it.
Sections
Woolapalooza is an annual celebration of all things sheep. Hosted by the Massachusetts Audubon Society, the event is held at Drumlin Farm in Lincoln, Mass. At the expansive farmyard grounds, lively youngsters darted from sheep barn to craft cabin, ogling animals and pointing at yarn. Most of those in attendance were parents or the very young—including the sheep, some of whom were only a few days old.
Though Drumlin Farm runs a number of year-round activities, “essentially everything is special for today,” according to Mimi R. Palmore, the farm’s marketing and interpretation coordinator. One of the day’s unique events was the extremely popular “sheep to sweater trail,” which reproduced every step of the wool-making process, from cleaning and carding the wool to dyeing and spinning it.
Though wool spinning may seem enchanting, wool experts are careful to distinguish their trade from depictions in tales like “Sleeping Beauty.” “That wasn’t actually this kind of wheel,” clarifies Marianne Neuman, a “teacher-naturalist” working one of the wheels. “That was a wheel that was used for spinning linen, which comes from flax.”
Other participants seem equally passionate about wool. “In our modern day… we’ve gotten away from some of the ‘earlier human roots’ way of eating and clothing ourselves and sheltering ourselves,” says Susannah Elliott, another teacher-naturalist. “So it’s neat to expose people to some sort of old-school human endeavors.”
Palmore emphasizes that education is the primary goal of Woolapalooza. “We like to show people the full process of where their things come from… where their clothing comes from, where their knitted beanies come from,” she says.
At that moment, the sheep-herding—Palmore’s favorite activity—began. In a nearby pasture, a woman set her Border Collie loose in a sizable pen of scattered sheep. After a few minutes, the tiny dog had driven his much larger compatriots into a small, fenced-in area. Palmore watched, mesmerized.
Then, at the end of the event, disaster struck: A small girl burst into tears.
“If you don’t stop crying,” her mother threatened, “I won’t take you to that other sheep farming festival next month.” The child fell silent.
Sections
Last year, Harvard University Dining Services declared March “recipes from home” month, calling for submissions of nostalgia-infused meals to serve to Harvard diners. Not all those submissions made it to the serving line, though. FM imagines some less savory and more emotionally-fraught submissions.
Spaghetti Divorci
My mom made this the night she and my dad said they were splitting up. Just your basic spaghetti dish. Takes two cooks: the first cook makes whole wheat pasta, al dente. The second cook tells the first to live a little, and that regular pasta will do, whereupon the first cook makes the second cook leave the kitchen because the second cook never helps around the house anyway and should really stay out of other people’s business. The second cook leaves and sets up shop in the mini-kitchen in the basement. While the first cook begins to heat up the tomato sauce, the second cook makes alfredo sauce downstairs. Students eating the dish get to decide which sauce they want, which is fun and not guilt-laden at all because the cooks aggressively remind students that they shouldn’t worry, it totally doesn’t mean they’re picking which cook they like best. Definitely doesn’t. Does not.
Pop-Pop Popcorn
Invented by my sister for when our grandfather, Pop Pop, comes over. Any kind of popcorn will do—we’ve made the dish successfully with microwave and stove-popping varieties—as long as you burn it to a crisp. The recipe is a one-two punch: First, it’s so crunchy that you can’t hear the racism he’s throwing at you over the noise; second, it tastes horrible, so if whatever he’s saying makes it past the sound barrier, you can’t focus on it anyway.
Hans’s Spam Statement Sandwiches 
My stepdad Hans made us eat these babies three meals a day for an entire month so he could post about it on his blog as performance art protesting how many spam emails he received. All you need is two slices of bread and spam for the middle. You can add mayonnaise or lettuce if you want, although according to Hans that “ruins the integrity” of the dish. Up to you.
“You're Adopted” Cheeseburgers
We don’t eat cheeseburgers in my family because we keep Kosher, which means you can’t mix dairy products and meat. The idea behind that is that you’re not supposed to boil a calf in its mother’s milk. (In this scenario, the calf is the hamburger and the mother is the cheese.)
So my mom thought of this cute news delivery thing where she served me a burger with that fake soy cheese stuff on top. I was like, “Duh, we can’t eat this because it’s a tiny cow family and God doesn’t like when we do that,” but she was like “No, we actually can,” because it’s not a real cow family that we’re eating, because the cheese was from a different mother: a soybean. Just like me! Because I was adopted! Surprise! Turns out I’ve been a confused calf living with fake soybean parents my whole life and didn’t even know it. Haha. Sorry, am I oversharing? My mom says I share too much with people I don’t know. My fake mom, not my real mom. Haha sorry, I’m sorry, the recipe is just a burger with soy cheese.
The Dish We Make for My Annoying Cousin Who Makes a Big Fuss at Thanksgiving If There Aren't Any Gluten Free Options, or Whatever His Diet Is This Year
Peas. It's just peas. No seasoning. Suck on that, Lester.
I Think There is a Ghost Living in the Left Soup Container 
Yeah, this isn't a recipe, but every time I try to tell someone on the HUDS staff about it, we’re within earshot of the soup ghost, so I don’t know how else to make contact. I’m not trying to be melodramatic, but every time I try to get ravioli soup, I hear a disembodied voice yelling at me and it’s really messing with my dining experience. Please check it out. Thank you.
Sections
Lt. Shachar Erez originally enlisted in the Israeli Defense Forces as a female candidate, despite the fact that he identifies as male. He was nervous—at the time, Erez did not anticipate that the military would accept and support his transgender identity.
After Shabbat dinner at Hillel on March 31, Lt. Shachar spoke about his experiences as the first openly transgender soldier in the IDF at an event hosted by the Jewish/Queer advocacy group BAGELS.
“I grew up in a Kibbutz, a small, liberal community in the countryside of North Israel,” Erez says. “It was a very liberal community.”
When he was three, Erez remembers asking his parents to shave his head. At five, they helped him get rid of all the dresses and skirts in his closet.
“My two wonderful parents pretty much went with everything I asked,” Erez says.
Nonetheless, Erez says he had limited access to information about the BGLTQ community. Growing up, Erez says he never heard the word “transgender.”
“I remember looking in the mirror one day, when I was ten years old, and thinking, ‘This is not my body, it’s the body of some girl. I’m ruining the body of some girl.’ I felt disconnected and a little guilty,” Erez says. “I didn’t think my inside truth could exist in the outside world.”
Years later, when a friend explained the term “transgender” to him, Erez’s first response was: “You can do that?”
Looking back and laughing at his initial skepticism, Erez points to that moment as the first time he realized he was not alone.
“Finding out that there was a definition for [how I felt] was the missing piece of the puzzle,” Erez says.
Erez decided he wanted to sit down with friends and family members to explain he was transgender and to give them the opportunity to fully understand his identity. After these conversations, Erez says he felt free to openly live as a man—that is, until he joined the military.
Erez says he chose to enlist as a female candidate in part because he did not want to decrease his chances of being successful in the IDF. From a young age, Erez knew he would join the military. Israel has a mandatory draft, and Erez says duty to one’s country was always strongly emphasized in his family.
But soon, uncomfortable with his decision to serve as a female, Erez realized he could not “go back to the closet.” The need to be honest with himself and with military authorities prompted Erez to drastic measures: he approached his commander, a 19-year-old Jewish orthodox woman who had never met a transgender person before.
Shaking, Erez told her he was transgender. Her response was, “How can I help?”
Rather than wearing the official, gender-specific combat uniform, Erez’s commander granted him permission to wear only his IDF work uniform, an outfit that is constant regardless of the wearer’s gender. Erez says he was shocked to find genuine acceptance and care among his military comrades.
“They saw me for who I am,” Erez says. “They treated me just like everyone else.”
Now in his fifth year of service, Erez has taken on a new role in addition to his already demanding job as commander: he is working with the IDF’s Gender Affairs Office to help them understand the issues transgender people face in military service. Erez says he feels he must actively promote welcoming policies and attitudes towards transgender people both inside and outside the IDF.
Erez says he is fortunate not to have experienced the discrimination that many BGLTQ individuals endure in the military. He explains he hopes to advocate for fair treatment of every soldier—no matter their background.
“There is always someone who can use my experience,” says Erez. “There is something bigger going on here than just me.”
Sections
The birds are singing and the world is blue. The street lights haven’t come on yet.
I seldom see the birds; I just listen to them. Their chatter is a familiar chorus against a familiar backdrop: I know they’ll be out, and singing, when the day is almost done and the April air takes on a certain coolness. They congregate beneath the bushes beside the Leverett towers, and so on my walk from Dunster to wherever I may be going at 6 p.m.—today, to a late section—I can hear them.
I don’t know what they’re saying. That sparkling jumble of noise, though, makes me hopeful. The sky is cloudless. It’s spring.
***
I recently finished my English creative thesis. It ended up being a collection of three creative nonfiction essays, each based on a different place—Kona, New Orleans, and Marin County. All three places are deeply intimate to me: I come from a family of Kona coffee farmers on my mother’s side, my father’s father grew up Creole in New Orleans during the Jim Crow era, and I was born and raised in Marin.
I called the project Postcards from Home, because postcards capture a particular person in a particular place at a particular time. In my introduction, I explained that I’d spent much of last three years feeling distant from Cambridge, Massachusetts, and that I’d instead conceptualized those other places as home. I used my thesis as a way to escape, then, as a way to transport myself to where I felt more myself.
I hadn’t yet had the time to reflect on all that Cambridge has given me.
***
Harvard isn’t an easy place. It seems to run on anxiety, which first struck me when I moved into a too-small dorm room on a muggy August day more than three years ago. People were competitive, and craved success, and refused to slow down. They worked hard, and they worried about working hard. They were brilliant. It seemed that people were always trying to forget that this isn’t necessarily a happy campus, or even a city.
Throughout my time here, I’ve often thought about the first line of Allen Ginsberg’s “Howl”: “I saw the best minds of my generation destroyed by madness.” It seems dramatic, but I have seen those closest to me struggle silently here. I have struggled in my own ways, too.
A couple of friends left. Many stuck it out. Everyone has been challenged by Harvard, and a few, I feel, have been broken by it. Others have thrived and made the most of their near-four years here. But looking back, most of us, I think, would not have done things differently.
***
I’ve had two best friends since freshman year. We’re an intensely loyal trio, and people often lump us together because we’re rarely without each other. We’ve all lived together since sophomore year; we spend our breaks together; we know the others’ lives well—families, old friends, past loves.
My freshman year, I almost never ate in Annenberg without either one of them, and I spent more time in their dorm room than I did in my too-small one. They spent most of that year listening to me complain about how much I hated Cambridge and how much I missed California. They never tried to convince me otherwise; they put up with me, consoled me, quietly tried to make my time here more enjoyable.
Now they both roll their eyes every time I bring up California. They tell me they get it, I love where I’m from, there’s no place better. I chuckle back, because they know me too well. But lately I’ve felt the urge to correct them. I feel a desperation take hold—I want to shake them, want to tell them how much they’ve made this place mean to me.
I want to tell them that if I never left California, I would have never known what it means to have friends and roommates so close. I would say every struggle has been worth it because of them.
***
When I decided to become the editor of this magazine, I did it because I loved the magazine and I loved to edit. I also did it because that’s what I’d spent most of my life doing: reaching for the highest rung, trying to get to the top. I knew I wanted to pursue journalism after college, and I knew that being FM Chair was a logical step in pursuing that.
I didn’t realize that the experience would give me an inexplicable sense of purpose, that it would make me profoundly grateful for The Crimson, and for Harvard. Every week, my co-chair and I, along with the rest of the staff, made something we believed in. We loved the magazine like our child.
On Tuesdays, I’d emerge from 14 Plympton and breathe in the cold Cambridge air—just stand there and feel exhilarated and breathe it in. Then my co-chair and I would walk to the corner of Plympton and Mill Street, hug goodnight, and remind each other how much we loved FM. I never slept well on Tuesdays, coming off that high.
***
I live in a suite with six friends. We have a common room on our first floor, and our singles sit off a long hallway up the stairs. I can recognize each roommate by his or her steps up those stairs—they are either soft hops or clunky stomps or thumps accompanied by whistles. These sounds have become home to me.
We are all able to spend more time together these days, now that extracurriculars are over and our theses are turned in. I love it when we all end up in a room, splayed out on one of the beds, just talking; doing nothing together comes easy.
How could I ever hate this place, when it gave me them?
***
The birds sing at dawn as they do at dusk. I wonder if it’s because the sky is the same those 12 hours apart: murky blue, as if it were lit by an impossible star somewhere between the sun and the moon.
I first heard the birds at dawn in my freshman year, when, in the last weeks of school, I stayed up late drinking with those two best friends and then talking with a boy. The birds sounded like they were just outside my too-small dorm room’s window, though they must have been on the ground somewhere far below.
Their song was familiar somehow. It was bright and brassy and alive, and it made me hopeful. It was spring then, and this place was just beginning.
Sections
Yeah, I ride my bike through Harvard Yard. I sit right up on that seat and zoom past the PLEASE WALK YOUR BIKE signs with the sheer animal power of a goddamn cheetah. That’s right, I just did a wheelie down Widener steps during wintery conditions. Catch me if you can, HUPD, because I’m covered head to toe in bike grease and moaning like a demented swamp monster.
Wait, did you feel that breeze through your hair? Oh, that’s right, you don’t know the freedom that comes from travelling between Sever and Boylston at an average speed of 9.6 m.p.h., you pathetic pedestrian shitbag. The air feels so much more viscous at that velocity, and you bet your ass I don’t wear a helmet.
Yeah, I don’t just take forks from the dining hall. I use an intricate arrangement of stolen silverware to wallpaper my dorm room, and let me tell you–the feng shui in here is insane as hell. Room inspectors just walk in and feel so goddamn at peace that they stop paying attention to all 80 of my toasters and other regulated appliances. I may have replaced my bed with a hot tub full of HUDS dishes so I can revel in my wealth like Scrooge McDuck, but believe me: I’m mindful as hell.

The rules just don’t apply to me, an Economics concentrator. Yeah, I’m stealing the Oxford English Dictionary from the library, page-by-page, then stuffing each sheet of paper inside my mechanical pencils like a cigarette or something. Catch that, Lamont bag checkers, because I’m the George Soros of library-based arbitrage. Do you know the resale value of the Oxford English Dictionary? It’s non-trivial!
Canada Goose? More like Canada Moose. That’s right, I replaced my entire wardrobe with raw moose pelts like I’m Bear Grylls. I may have been kicked out of my poetry seminar because I wouldn’t stop howling at the moon while drinking unfiltered animal blood, but I guess that’s what passes for “free speech” these days at Ivy League institutions. Tolerance means tolerating people of different opinions, and Peter Sacks would do well to understand that.
Look, I’m a libertarian. I eat that anarcho-capitalism shit up like a cat coughing up a furball, but in reverse. Sure, there is a cost to liberty. Yesterday I was hit by a bus because I don’t respect your pisskidney liberal bike lanes, Cambridge. Talk about a nanny state! I’m like George Washington because I’m a lover of freedom and a patriot. Also like George, I no longer have teeth.
Do I act out because my parents care more about their hedge fund than they care about me? Maybe, but I can’t hear my own pain over the crunching of my bike tires. I filled those puppies right to the brim with Marshmallow Mateys, because I don’t follow the rules.
Sections
When the first shots of the Civil War rang out at Fort Sumter on April 12, 1861, civilian soldiers mobilized from all corners of a divided nation. Harvard students were some of the many to heed the call.
One of these military units, the Twentieth Massachusetts Volunteer Infantry, was nicknamed the “Harvard Regiment” for its close ties to the College. If not fully a misnomer, the nickname at least mischaracterized the true composition of the force. According to Civil War historian Richard F. Miller in his book “The Trouble with Brahmins”, about half of the regiment was foreign-born. The leadership, however, better reflected the epithet: Seventeen of the regiment’s 36 officers had connections to Harvard.
Among the many Harvard students and graduates in the Harvard Regiment, several names stand out––for better or for worse.
Paul J. Revere, Class of 1852, carried the namesake of his famous grandfather but garnered praise in his own right. An unidentified friend described him in an 1867 letter as “brave, even among the bravest,” a man with “coolness, and sound sense, and a sentiment of honor that never failed.”
Norwood Hallowell, Class of 1861, was a white abolitionist who went on to command a primarily black regiment. According to Miller, Hallowell earned a nickname: “The Fighting Quaker.”
Henry L. Abbott, Class of 1860, crafted a legacy as one of the war’s most famous soldiers and tacticians. He was also xenophobic: He wrote to his mother that “the more foreign a regiment is, the more cowardly it is.”
Infused with patriotic vigor and
more than a little racism, the Harvard
Regiment boarded a train and made its way south.
In a letter dated September 15, 1861, Revere, writing from Poolesville, Maryland, just before the Twentieth faced battle the first time, detailed the allure of an unfamiliar land. “The country is very beautiful,” he wrote. “The trees are very fine; all the trees that we have at home, except elms and maples, and many that we do not have,—ever-green-oaks, gum-trees, and many others. The oaks are the finest that I have ever seen.”
But Revere’s idyll was short-lived. On October 21, 1861, the Union army endured a major defeat at the battle of Balls Bluff. The Harvard Regiment suffered 281 casualties, according to William F. Fox’s book “Regimental Losses in the American Civil War.” Revere survived but was taken prisoner, as was Colonel William R. Lee. The Harvard Regiment was left depleted and demoralized.
From that point on, the regiment continued on a tumultuous course. Leadership changed hands many times, and infighting grew within the ranks.
Tensions heightened in December 1861, when members of the Harvard Regiment imprisoned fugitive slaves and returned them to their oppressors. A letter delivered to Massachusetts g\Governor John A. Andrew noted that an officer had ordered “a Sergeant and a file of men with loaded muskets to escort the prisoners to their supposed owners.”
By the end, the Harvard Regiment had fought in most of the major battles of the Civil War. It had suffered through the carnage of Antietam and Fredericksburg, fought to repel Pickett’s Charge at Gettysburg, and helped to ensure a final Union victory at Appomattox.
The Harvard Regiment returned to Boston in 1865, shortly after the Confederate surrender. It had incurred more casualties than any other regiment from Massachusetts, and all but four regiments from across the Union.
Eventual-Supreme Court Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes Jr., Class of 1861 and also a member of the Harvard Regiment, reflected on the unit in an 1895 Memorial Day address. “The Twentieth,” he said, “has shrunk to a skeleton, a ghost, a memory, a forgotten name which we other old men keep in our hearts.”
Contrary to Holmes’s remarks, construction on Memorial Hall began soon after the war. Today, the towering Hall stands as a monument to the Harvard affiliates who died fighting for the Union.
Sections
Just 24 years ago, in 1992, Melissa E. B. Franklin became the first woman to receive tenure in Harvard’s physics department. She remained the only female professor in that department for a full three years, until Mara Prentiss was tenured in 1995.
Today, sun streams through the glassy windows of Franklin’s spacious office in the Lyman Laboratory building. Franklin has just finished resolving a research dilemma with an undergraduate student; diagrams and complex mathematical equations scatter the chalkboard that spans an entire wall. Her day is finally slowing down, and her voice is heavy with exhaustion. She leans back in her swivel chair, reflecting on her experience as the first tenured woman in Harvard’s physics department. For Franklin, the feeling of being the only woman in the room was nothing new.
“Did I ever have a woman professor?” She pauses for a moment, thinking back on her long academic career. “Undergraduate… No. Graduate… No. You know, I never really thought about it, though,” she says. “It was a good strategy, just to be kind of clueless.”
At an administrative level, Harvard’s Office of Faculty Development and Diversity has been tracking the state of diversity among faculty across the University by releasing annual reports ever since 2006. Later this month, the new annual report for the 2016-2017 year will be released. Ahead of that report, I spoke to faculty members like Franklin who have firsthand experience with issues of representation and diversity in their respective fields. These professors say that their positions can be both isolating and empowering, bringing unique challenges but also opportunities for leadership. Their stories provide a window into what it’s like to be an underrepresented minority professor at Harvard, an old and powerful institution that has openly struggled with faculty diversity in the past and present.
The most recent statistics published in the Office of Faculty Development & Diversity’s 2015-2016 annual report show that Harvard has made some progress in diversity and gender parity among both tenured and tenure track faculty over the past 10 years. From 2006 to 2016, underrepresented minority candidates increased from 10 percent to 11 percent of tenure track faculty and from 5 percent to 8 percent of the tenured faculty. (In its report, Harvard cateogrized minorities who are not Asian as “underrepresented.”) Over the same span of time, the percentage of women in Harvard’s tenure track increased from 35 percent to 38 percent and the percentage of tenured female professors increased from 20 percent to 26 percent.
According to Judith D. Singer, a professor of education and the senior vice provost for Faculty development & diversity at Harvard, as of this year, over 39 percent of Harvard’s tenure track faculty are women. Minorities make up 22 percent of both tenure and tenure track faculty combined, 61 percent of whom are Asian or Asian American and 39 percent of whom are Black and/or Latino.
In an emailed statement, Singer wrote that the Office is deeply committed increasing the diversity of faculties across the University. “The Office of Faculty Development and Diversity works closely with faculty colleagues and deans across the University to enhance our recruiting efforts to ensure that we keep the institution productive, creative, competitive and successful,” Singer wrote. She added that each new faculty search “provides a strategic opportunity to reshape the faculty.”
For Franklin, these faculty statistics have personal meaning. The increasing number of tenured female faculty in the physics department has created a stronger sense of community for her. “It actually makes a big difference,” she says. “There are times when there’s more than one woman in the room.” She jokes that “there are definitely more people in the bathroom, and you can have conversations in the bathroom now.”
“It’s still pretty small numbers,” she says, “but you definitely get the sense that there’s some kind of solidarity.”

But Franklin’s experience at Harvard wasn’t always like that. She can still vividly recall the discomforts of her first years as a professor at the University. “People thought I should go slowly, and not be too vociferous during faculty meetings at the beginning,” Franklin remembers, shaking her head and chuckling. “They were all guys.” She says it was hard to tell whether that advice was predicated on her gender, or something else.“That’s the problem with having small numbers. You don’t know if anything has to do with you,” she says. “Maybe I talk a lot… or maybe it was surprising to have a women’s voice [in the meeting].”
That was back in the early 1990s. Since then, according to Physics Department Chair Masahiro Morii, Franklin has been joined by four tenured and two associate female colleagues in the physics department, which he says is home to about three dozen professors. Although Franklin is quick to note that other women were always present as assistant and associate professors, she has remained one of only a handful of women in the physics department through her entire career.
Nevertheless, other underrepresented faculty members at Harvard say that existence here can still feel very lonely. Just 4 years ago in 2013, John Johnson, Professor of Astronomy, became the first African American to receive tenure in the physical sciences at Harvard. He is still the only African American Astronomy professor at Harvard today, and, as of 2016, he is one of three black tenured professors in the natural sciences.
“My experience at Harvard is that any time I attend any faculty event, it’s very rare that I’m not the only black person in the room,” Johnson says. To Johnson, it feels like a constant reminder that his acceptance into a profession dominated by white men, and at Harvard more generally, is “more or less conditional…on me being so exceptional in what I do.”
In the 2012-2013 academic year, the Office for Faculty Development & Diversity conducted the most recent University-wide Faculty Climate Survey. That survey revealed that 43 percent of women disagreed “that the climate for female faculty in the School/Department is at least as good as for male faculty,” compared to 20 percent of men. Women also felt, more than men, that they had to “work harder to be perceived as a legitimate scholar” and that they “feel excluded from an informal network.” Furthermore, the data revealed that 39 percent of “underrepresented minority” (URM) respondents disagreed with the statement that “the climate for minority faculty in the School/Department is at least as good as for non-minority faculty” compared to 21 percent of non-URM respondents. URM respondents also felt that they had to “work harder to be perceived as a legitimate scholar.”
Johnson clarifies that “in the astronomy department, I have been welcomed and respected. I’m treated as an equal.” In fact, he cites Harvard’s astronomy department community as one major reason for his transfer from the California Institute of Technology to Harvard in 2013. However, he maintains that “I don’t always feel welcome campus-wide, and my particular experience with that is not unique.”
Timothy P. McCarthy ’93, who is a History and  Literature Lecturer and public policy lecturer at the Kennedy School of Government,  says he knows few other openly BGLTQ faculty at the Kennedy School and in the  Faculty of Arts and Sciences, this feeling of solitude is all-too familiar. McCarthy acknowledges that “as much as I love teaching and working at Harvard, I’m also quite lonely here.”
McCarthy notes that “ironically, I know I’m not alone in feeling lonely. I’ve heard that over and over again­­—from queer faculty [and] faculty of color.” In particular, he points to conversations with BGLTQ faculty “who have come here and [said] ‘I don’t know if this is the place for me.’ I don’t know how many people are willing to say that on the record, but I will say that for them.” Sometimes, he says, being a gay faculty member at Harvard can feel like being “a party of one.”
That’s not the only challenge that underrepresented faculty members face at Harvard. Some professors who are minorities or women in male-dominated fields say that their positions come with additional burdens. Speaking about diversity is just one of the many added expectations that encumber minority voices at Harvard. Because they are pioneers in their fields, professors like Franklin, Johnson, and McCarthy are often asked to serve on panels and diversity committees, take part in recruitment initiatives, or mentor students to an extent that they say their counterparts are not.
It’s a huge responsibility, according to Johnson. The work falls disproportionately on faculty of color, and, he says, it often goes unnoticed by other colleagues. “You’re either going to have to turn away a large number of students of color who are going to seek you out for support, mentorship advising, guidance… or you’re going to have to take on a lot of extra responsibility,” he says. “That’s not an easy decision for anyone.”
Johnson cares deeply about mentoring students and says he has embraced his role, but he acknowledges that it can be tiring. Continuously hearing students of color question their role in the sciences because of stereotypes or lack of representation can be a “burden,” he says.
“There’s a real pragmatic reason to hire more faculty of color,” he says. “If you’re going to tout the diversity of your undergraduate population, then you have to support them as well.” He thinks having a more diverse faculty would provide that kind of support.
McCarthy agrees. Many BGLTQ students want his advice, both academic and personal, because they can relate to him. “It means we shoulder that burden,” he says, “and we do that unpaid and unappreciated labor far more than [others] do.” While, like Johnson, he has welcomed that work, he also says that he can’t forget that “there are hours and even days added onto my weeks and months and years doing this kind of work that is not part of my formal job. And it’s because I am a ‘diverse’ faculty member.”
Nina Zipser, the dean for Faculty affairs and planning at the college, said in an emailed statement that “we take very seriously the service impact on our underrepresented faculty. We watch this closely and work with department chairs to relieve faculty from being too overburdened, and we do our best to recognize exceptional citizenship.”
Johnson credits the success of his academic journey to one of his college professors. As an undergraduate, Johnson had a professor who took particular interest in him and became his mentor. “That was enough to make the difference for me, I think,” Johnson reflects. “He gave the message that one day I’m going to have to choose between Harvard or Princeton or Berkeley for graduate school, and nobody else talked to me that way. Nobody else encouraged me that way.”
Even so, Johnson almost left his graduate program at UC Berkeley on two separate occasions. As a student, he remembers feeling,“if you’re a person of color, you’re going to have to basically be superhuman [to enter academia.]” Both times, he had jobs lined up elsewhere; all he would have had to do to leave school was fill out some paperwork.
Decades later, Johnson sometimes wonders why he never left academia. “It was probably just my stubbornness,” he said. “My family is full of stubborn people and as a kid, I was never allowed to quit… so I thought if I signed up for the PhD program, I was going to get my degree.”
That “stubbornness” has served Johnson well as one of the only black professors tenured in the natural sciences at Harvard. He says that even today he feels haunted by negative stereotypes that cast African Americans as unable to do the kind of work he has pursued. As a result, he finds that he often has to “simultaneously push back against those stereotypes in my moments of deepest doubt and push through in my work.”
Johnson says he’s particularly unsettled by homogeneity within the STEM (science, technology, engineering, mathematics) fields.
Notably, faculty diversity at Harvard varies greatly by field. According to the 2015-16 report, tenured women make up larger percentages of the social sciences and the humanities (30 percent and 34 percent, respectively) than the natural sciences and engineering (17 percent and 15 percent). Underrepresented minority professors constitute 15 percent of the social sciences, compared to their much smaller representation in the natural sciences, humanities, and engineering (5 percent, 6 percent, and 2 percent, respectively).
According to Zipser, the FAS has worked particularly hard to increase diversity in the STEM fields and has seen improvements, particularly when it comes to gender. Over the past three years, the college has hired five tenure-track junior faculty women in Physics, Earth and Planetary Sciences, and Chemistry. The Mathematics department is trying to offer positions to three women, and the Statistics department recently hired a tenured female faculty member.
Franklin says that the physics department is “not diverse at all.” “There’s a lot of white men,” she says. In particular, Franklin notices a striking dearth of racial diversity, noting that the department has no African-American tenured professors. “It would be nice to be more diverse and I think we should be… but things really don’t change that fast,” she says.
Her observations align with a national pattern: a 2014 American Institute of Physics study of university physics and astronomy departments found that only 2.1 percent of faculty are black. Half of those African American faculty members are employed at historically black colleges and universities.
For Johnson, this is an indication of broader structural inequality. “We don’t live in a meritocracy. There is some set of structural forces that prevent black people from entering into the academy at the professor level,” he says. “And that’s an uncomfortable truth for most people.”
For their part, department heads at Harvard say they have worked to combat the dearth of women and minority professors in STEM. As chair, Morii oversees the search process for new candidates. Although he doesn’t have final say over who is hired, Morii says that he “complains if the committee is only looking at the kind of candidates who look like themselves.” He also avoids limiting the search to overly narrow subsets of the discipline, saying that “the narrower you set the field, the less likely you’ll be to find women and minority candidates.” In Morii’s three years as chair, the last two junior faculty hires have been female.

Chair of the Astronomy Department Avi Loeb recently wrote an opinion piece for Nature Magazine about the importance of competing interpretations and diverse viewpoints in the sciences. Loeb oversees the search process for new faculty in the astronomy department. “I try to do that in a way that sets a tone that promotes diversity,” he says. “I don’t just do that because ethically it’s the right thing to do. It has a practical purpose. Having people from different genders, different ethnic backgrounds, gives us the best chance of arriving at the truth and solving the academic problems that we approach in our research.” But because candidate searches are limited to the number of open professorships, he says, departments may be slow to change despite best intentions. Singer also pointed to low rates of turnover and retirement among professors and limited creation of new faculty positions as reasons that “the composition of the faculty changes slowly over time.”
Zipser said in an emailed statement that she works with various Faculty of Arts and Science departments to ensure “best practices” in faculty searches. As part of those efforts, she collaborates with Mahzarin Banaji, who is chair of the psychology department and the Senior Adviser to the FAS Dean on Faculty Development. Banaji authored a report which contains concrete suggestions for best-practice hiring techniques that will minimize bias. According to Singer’s annual report, department chairs and search committees are asked to use her report as a guide for hiring.
Johnson and Franklin say that it is important for female students and students of color to see themselves reflected in the composition of the faculty. This is particularly important, they say, for encouraging a cohort of young scientists.
“You often find students who have never had a women professor,” Franklin observes. “There are a lot of really smart women who are good at physics and could go into physics but don’t, and more female professors could change that.”
Johnson says professors of color can help encourage students of color to enter academia. “You can not only be an undergraduate and earn your degree here, but you can aspire to be on a faculty.”
Tania Fabo ’18, who studies Human Developmental and Regenerative Biology, is the President of the Harvard Society of Black Scientists and Engineers. The group serves as both a social and professional space for black scientists at Harvard, giving them a place to work on problem sets, share academic work and research, and engage in networking opportunities with speakers and scientific professionals.
“Teacher diversity is important because I feel like it’s part of this broader envisioning process, whereby you’re able to see yourself in a certain position by seeing someone that looks like you or has similar experiences as you in those positions,” Fabo says.
In her three years at Harvard, Fabo says she hasn’t had any black professors. This is par for the course: according to Fabo, the HDRB department has no black professors.
In response, Tabo recently went beyond the Harvard community to find a mentor she could relate to, shadowing a black neurosurgeon at Brigham and Women’s Hospital. “That’s something I would never have found if I hadn’t gone above and beyond to reach outside of the Harvard community,” she says.
McCarthy’s office is small, warm, and homey. It’s well-decorated with framed pictures, stacked books, and Yankees paraphernalia. A black dog paces the floor at McCarthy’s feet, licking his hands with frantic energy before eventually falling asleep. McCarthy was a History and Literature concentrator at Harvard. After getting his PhD from Columbia in 2005, McCarthy returned to Harvard’s campus to establish his career as a joint lecturer at the College and the Kennedy School. He’s been teaching here ever since.
McCarthy advocates for a type of diversity that Office of Faculty Development & Diversity data doesn’t cover: BGLTQ diversity. “It’s no secret that Harvard does not spend as much time thinking about diversity when it comes to sexuality or LGBTQ faculty in the same way that it does with respect to gender, specifically as it relates to women, and faculty of color,” he says.
Singer wrote that issues of climate and diversity for all faculty “including women, minorities and members of the LGBTQ community” are a point of ongoing work for the Office as well as the University-wide Task Force on Inclusion and Belonging, on which she also serves.
McCarthy clarifies that he believes it’s essential that Harvard prioritize the hiring and tenuring of women and underrepresented minorities. However, he says he sees the hiring of BGLTQ faculty as a “both/and” situation – he thinks Harvard can still improve in “prioritizing the recruitment of LGBTQ faculty and the retention of them, because this is not a place where we feel a robust sense of community and inclusion.”
McCarthy says that he has many students at the Kennedy School who come from countires where BGLTQ people are persecuted or discriminated against. Many times, he is the first gay adult in an authority position whom these students have ever encountered. “I’ve had students that come to my office hours and say they took my class because they were wondering what it was like to be taught by a homosexual,” he says. “I’m the only homosexual that some of my students have ever encountered in real life.”
He thinks this type of exposure has a meaningful impact on many students, especially for those who will go on to shape public policy in their home communities. “It’s not just LGBTQ students that benefit from having us around,” he said. “It’s also people who have never been exposed to that, and thoughts and actions can change as a result.”
McCarthy says he has always tried to mentor and support students as a minority member of the faculty. More recently, McCarthy has begun to turn his own academic study towards BGLTQ people. He has also begun to advocate for devotion of more resources to BGLTQ and sexuality studies at Harvard,  which he believes should be a department. He believes creating more opportunity for study of these subjects could bring in an influx of more diverse faculty. He cites the success of the Department of African and African American Studies, which garnered “stunning faculty, tons of money, central locations.” He watched the department experience a “renaissance” during his time as an undergraduate with the arrival of Professor Henry Louis Gates Jr.
Meanwhile, Johnson says he’s taking lack of diversity among STEM faculty and students into his own hands. “My particular way of coping… is my activism,” he says. “I’ve made up my mind that I’m going to use my position and my prestige within the community… to speak out.”
In the summer of 2015, Johnson founded the Banneker Institute, named for Benjamin Banneker, an influential African American astronomer. The Banneker Institute is a summer program that identifies, trains, and mentors promising graduate students of color. The program aims to combine social activism with the astronomical sciences.
With the help of the Banneker Institute, the Astronomy Department has made strides toward diversifying its graduate student pool. According to Johnson, seven of the department’s 63 graduate students are black, and two more black students have just been admitted. “We quadrupled the number of black students that have ever been in our department,” Johnson says, “and we did that over three years.” Johnson says that over half of these black graduate students came from his program.
McCarthy shares Johnson’s focus on stewardship and mentorship, adding that Harvard faces particular responsibility. “Other schools have resource constraints that Harvard doesn’t have. We should be at the front of this,” McCarthy says. “There’s still much more work to do.”
-Franklin describes her role in Harvard’s progress toward diversity with a football metaphor, explaining that she envisions herself as a blocker––a member of the team who helps the quarterback achieve success. “I feel like a lot of the bruises I have are those kind of bruises that just come with the territory,” she explains, “but it makes everything better for women later.”
Sections
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Joseph R. Biden Jr., the 47th Vice President of the United States, will be the College’s 2017 Class Day speaker.
Biden represented Delaware in the U.S. Senate from 1972 to 2009, when he became Vice President of the United States under then-President Barack Obama. Since departing the White House, he and his wife, Jill Biden, established the Biden Foundation to promote educational programming and policy analysis in a wide array of areas, including cancer research, economic inequality, and higher education.
Biden will speak to graduating seniors from the Class of 2017 in Tercentenary Theatre on May 24, one day prior to the University’s 366th Commencement exercises. Facebook founder and Harvard dropout Mark E. Zuckerberg will return to campus the next day to deliver the Commencement address, Harvard announced last month.
“I am honored to be invited to be a part of this special day at Harvard. Today’s generation of students is the most engaged, the most tolerant, and the best educated in the history of the United States of America,” Biden wrote in a press release Wednesday. “I am grateful for the opportunity to speak to this year’s graduating class about the great power they hold to shape our nation’s future.”
The six-term U.S. senator visited Harvard’s Institute of Politics in 2014, where he spoke candidly about American foreign policy and the future of the United States. The University of Pennsylvania named him the Benjamin Franklin Presidential Practice Professor in February, and he will lead the Penn Biden Center for Diplomacy and Global Engagement, the university’s new Washington, D.C.-based center focusing on diplomacy, foreign policy, and national security.
“It is an absolute honor to welcome Vice President Biden to Cambridge for Class Day,” Avni Nahar ’17, program marshal on the Senior Class Committee, wrote. “His decades-long career in public service is incredibly inspirational for all of us as we consider the impact we want to make in our communities as citizens and citizen-leaders post-graduation.”
Biden was selected by a subcommittee chaired by Nahar, an inactive Crimson Blog editor, and Victoria H. Jones ’17.
The tradition of Harvard College seniors inviting a guest speaker began in 1968. Class Day speakers are often graduates of the College and have included a cast of actors, comedians, politicians, and journalists. Last year, actress Rashida L. Jones ’97 reminisced about lighthearted memories from her undergraduate years while calling for political action when she spoke to Harvard’s seniors at Class Day.
Recent speakers have also included actress Natalie Portman ’03, Facebook executive Sheryl K. Sandberg ’91, NBC television anchor Matt Lauer, and former U.S. President Bill Clinton.
In addition to Biden’s address, the Class Day exercises will include the Harvard and Ivy orations given by graduating seniors and presentation of the Ames Award.
—Staff writer Kenton K. Shimozaki can be reached at kenton.shimozaki@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @KentonShimozaki.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Some professors are anxious about the financial future of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences after a recent announcement that they will receive a 1.5 percent compensation increase for the coming year, a bump that falls below the current of inflation and last year’s raise.
Government Department Chair Jennifer L. Hochschild said she and her colleagues are “annoyed” with the current financial situation.
“We would like to hire more faculty, we would like to have smaller sections, we would like better compensation,” she said. “There’s all kinds of things we would like to spend money on. Cognitively, we understand that that’s not possible because they’ve told us that, but emotionally it just doesn’t seem right.”
The relatively small increase—which, when adjusted for a 2 percent inflation rate, effectively amounts to a pay cut—is the result of budget difficulties FAS has faced this year, according to Dean of FAS Michael D. Smith.
“More than half of the FAS’s annual operating budget is funded from endowment distributions, and in the year ahead, we will experience zero growth in those distributions,” Smith wrote in an email. “Also, between strategic investments and ongoing support of our operations, we have all but exhausted our unrestricted reserve balances, which in the past have provided a modest financial cushion.”
In fiscal year 2016, HMC returned negative 2 percent on its portfolio, a loss that, together with other financial flows like the $1.7 billion HMC distributes to fund University operations, combined to an almost $2 billion drop in the endowment’s total value. FAS currently has “effectively zero reserves, according to Smith, putting further financial strain on its budget.
Both the modest pay increase and the poor endowment performance have concerned some professors.
Professor of Japanese History  David L. Howell said the endowment has caused Faculty “frustration” and “disappointment.”
“As soon as I heard about the bad endowment I was pretty much resigned to a low raise. I was afraid there would be no raise,” he said.
Professors also said they were worried about how the fiscal shortcomings could hinder the ability of some departments to hire new professors.  While Smith said that FAS is not currently expanding the size of its professoriate, Classics professor Richard F. Thomas said he remains concerned about merely replacing departed Faculty members.
“My greater concern for somebody at my career stage, particularly as I see colleagues retiring, is that we’re not really renewing at a sufficient rate to remain competitive with our peers in terms of tenure,” Thomas said. “If our competitors are not dealing with deficit and compensating their faculty at a much higher level than we are, it doesn’t take too much thinking to realize where that leaves us.”
History Department Chair Daniel L. Smail was also troubled at the prospect of future rate of Faculty hires given FAS’s current financial woes.
“I think we’re all very worried about what will happen,” Smail said. “We look purposely at the rate at which faculty have been retiring, departing faster than the rate at which we’re replacing them. Money is money, you can’t make it up.”
Smail also said he fears the modest compensation increase will have a larger effect on more junior faculty members in his department.
“I worry about younger people who are struggling to get by,” he said.
—Staff writer Joshua J. Florence can be reached at joshua.florence@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @JoshuaFlorence1.
—Staff writer Mia C. Karr can be reached at mia.karr@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @miackarr.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
An online Harvard Medical School course that focuses on opioid abuse treatment and prevention has drawn over over 7,500 enrollees since its launch on March 27.
Individuals from over 100 countries have enrolled in “OpioidX: The Opioid Crisis in America,” with the majority hailing from Brazil, United States and Canada, according to Sarah E. Wakeman, an assistant medical school professor who was involved in the creation of OpioidX.
 Created with a team of physicians, researchers, legal experts, pharmacists, and individuals affected by opioid epidemic, the OpioidX course provides its audience with the molecular science of addiction as well as historical context of opioid abuse. The course also teaches actionable steps such as preventing opioid overdose deaths or helping affected individuals gain access to proper medication and treatment.
The course will provide continuing education credits to professionals who work in human resources, and approval for credit in other profession fields is currently being filed.
“There are many ways that we need to be addressing the opioid crisis, which is an epidemic of unintended death due to untreated opioid addiction,” Wakeman said. “The opioid use disorder and death from opioid use is really the public health crisis of our time.”
According to the National Institute on Drug Abuse, over 33,000 individuals—including 1,751 in Massachusetts—died in 2015 as a result of opioid overdose, which Wakeman said was “easily preventable.”
The program’s launch came around a year after a group of Medical School students calling themselves the Student Coalition on Addiction demanded curricular changes at the School to better equip students to treat opioid addiction. Then-Dean Jeffrey S. Flier, in an interview with STAT News , rejected the students’ demands and said the Medical School did not “agree with the idea of taking pledges with what to put in our curriculum.”
Second-year Medical School student Siva S. Sundaram, a member of the Student Coalition on Addiction, is now a discussion moderator for OpioidX. Sundaram said that he was “impressed” with the depth of course, which features individuals who were affected by addiction.
“I think [the course] is a way of taking a deeper look at a topic that is getting a lot of press but without a lot of depth,” Sundaram said. “It’s a way to learn about what it is like to experience opioid addiction…and a way to humanize the person, to help fight some of the stigma still pulling us back.”
Sundaram said that he encourages Harvard undergraduates to “flip through the course” given that Harvard is “embedded in one of the largest centers of the opioid crisis,” which isn’t always apparent to many undergraduates.
“There is real but slow improvement,” said Sundaram, “but it is really important for people to understand what is going on in the community.”
—Staff writer William L. Wang can be reached at william.wang@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @wlwang20
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Kennedy School Lecturer Jorrit J. de Jong discussed possible solutions to bureaucratic inefficiencies and his new book "Dealing with Dysfunction" at a talk at the Ash Center for Democratic Governance and Innovation on Wednesday.
"Dealing with Dysfunction" consists of a series of 14 case studies conducted by the Kafka Brigade, a research group co-founded by de Jong. De Jong described how his group studies organizations.
“Even if the symptoms are similar, the underlying causes of bureaucratic inefficiencies can be very different,” de Jong said. “Therefore, if you want to do something about it, you have to really do the diagnosis first before you start suggesting remedies.”
Although it can be time intensive to conduct research that treats each case individually, de Jong stated that broad solutions such as eliminating bureaucracies are not effective.
“The bureaucracy was created to uphold certain values that are inherently attached to democratic government,” de Jong said. In addition to preventing nepotism and promoting accountability, de Jong added that bureaucracy is important.
Matthew R. Andrews, a Kennedy School professor and a panelist, responded to de Jong’s argument and reiterated that bureaucracies are not inherently bad. He added that bureaucratic inefficiencies are not created to make life hard for people, but rather are a side effect of cultures and states changing their rules over time.
“[Bureaucratic inefficiency] isn’t necessarily an indication that an organization is against you,” Andrews said. “It is this kind of intersection of views that conflict, layers of solutions that have emerged over time in response to specific issues, that over time kind of create I guess a cornucopia of madness.”
While de Jong stressed that every case of bureaucratic dysfunction is unique, one of the common themes amongst the cases he examined was a difference in values between departments within the bureaucracy.
“You see at the level of the structure that there’s problems with alignment and coordination and as a matter of statecraft there’s an issue of what are we really trying to accomplish here [as an overall organization]?” de Jong said.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Union organizers and the University resolved 62 of the ballots that remain under dispute from a November unionization election during a National Labor Relations Board hearing, leaving only 252 challenged ballots in an election that could determine the fate of Harvard’s student unionization effort.
During the eleven-day hearing, both sides agreed 35 of the challenged ballots—ballots from voters whose eligibility is disputed—were ineligible, but 27 were eligible.
[Read here for an in-depth explanation of the Harvard unionization effort.] 
The sides also presented arguments about the eligibility of the remaining 252 challenged ballots during the hearing. If the NLRB decides to count enough pro-union votes in the election—which remains too close to call—the board could rule that eligible students may collectively bargain as the Harvard Graduate Student Union-United Auto Workers.
Before the November vote, Harvard and the union effort signed a pre-election agreement stipulating some voters would vote under challenge. In December, a preliminary vote count for the unionization election showed there were more votes opposing unionization than supporting it, but the margin was smaller than the number of unresolved challenged ballots: 1,456 students voted against forming a union, 1,272 voted yes, and 314 challenged ballots remained unresolved.
Days after that vote count, both the union and the University filed objections to the election with the NLRB. Harvard argued about the eligibility of one vote, while the union argued the whole election was unfair and the NLRB should call for a re-vote.
The NLRB heard evidence about unresolved challenged ballots as well as the objections each side filed during the recent hearing.
Voter eligibility arguments presented during the hearing centered around two main groups of disputed voters: first-year graduate students in the Organismic and Evolutionary Biology department in the Faculty of Arts and Sciences and teaching assistants at the Graduate School of Design.
“I explained my role in helping students with their coursework, that this was part of my job description,” S. Gavin Ruedisueli, a Design School teaching assistant, wrote in an emailed statement. “If helping students learn coursework, grading problem sets, and explaining answers to students doesn’t qualify as teaching, I don’t know what does.”
In its post-hearing brief, Harvard wrote Design School teaching assistants provided “an aggrandized explanation of their responsibilities.” The University also argued these graduate students do not fit the definition of employee released by the NLRB in an August decision that allowed Columbia graduate students to hold a unionization election.
"Graduate students make many kinds of vital contributions at Harvard. The August NLRB decision and the subsequent election agreement, however, only applied to certain types of positions,” FAS spokesperson Anna Cowenhoven wrote in an emailed statement. “The hearings were intended to determine whether certain positions met the criteria established by the August decision and the election agreement."
Lawyers representing the union also argued that all six first-year OEB students whose votes are disputed should have their ballots counted.
“In the 2016 fall semester all six were conducting research in the labs of their dissertation advisors as were the six others in their G1 cohort who did not cast ballots,” the union’s post-hearing brief reads.
The University argued that first-year OEB graduate students do not generally conduct research so the NLRB should not consider them student-workers.
“When they come in in their first year, they are not working for the faculty member; they are not working on the faculty member's research,” Rachel E. Munoz, a lawyer representing Harvard, argued. “G1s, when they come in, they are taking classes. They are getting oriented to the lab, into the department.”
Both sides filed post-hearing briefs by the April 3 deadline. NLRB hearing officer Thomas A. Miller and Regional Director John J. Walsh, Jr. will review these briefs and release a decision about the challenged ballots and both sides’ objections.
—Staff writer Caroline S. Engelmayer can be reached at caroline.engelmayer@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @cengelmayer13.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Undergraduate Council representatives are making a more concerted attempt to hold office hours this semester in an effort to better comply with the body's own requirements.
Article II of the UC’s bylaws requires its members to hold weekly office hours, as well as host study breaks once a semester for their Yard or House. Rules Committee Chair Evan M. Bonsall ’19 said many members of the UC were not aware of this rule and neglected to hold office hours before this semester.
“For some reason, that had stopped being part of the UC’s institutional memory that this was something that we were supposed to be doing according to our own rules, which is definitely not acceptable,” he said.
UC President Yasmin Z. Sachee ’18 said the UC recognized this provision in the fall and has been more deliberate in mandating representatives to speak with their constituents.
“We realized that in the fall, I think, that office hours were a mandatory thing in the constitution,” she said. “I’d say this semester there’s been a definite effort.”

But Bonsall said that despite progress made this semester—he said that current UC leadership has been “proactive” about mandating office hours—the Council still struggles with getting both representatives and other students to attend them.
“The biggest problem that we’re dealing with right now is just trying to make sure everybody’s actually signing up for office hours,” he said.
Student Relations Committee Chair and Dunster House representative Victor C. Agbafe ’19 said he wasn’t aware of any enforcement mechanism prior to this recent effort.
“I had heard that it was done in the past, but beyond I guess using the Secretary to check, there wasn’t really any second mechanism to make sure people were doing it,” he said.
UC members now sign up for office hours on a shared document organized by Agbafe and UC Secretary Ruiqi He ’19, according to Agbafe. However, there is currently no punishment for skirting the bylaws, as members are exploring different ways to hold office hours, He said. For example, small groups of representatives choose to hold office hours by House or neighborhood, and not individually.
“I think because we’re kind of in a transition period where the UC has never really done office hours or enforced them as much before, we’re still kind of just like letting people try it out, feel it out,” He said.
Bonsall added: “We’re trying to comply with the requirements of the bylaws as best we can.”
Cabot House representative Christopher B. Cruz ’18, along with Currier House representatives Anna M. Raheem ’19, and Ziko McLean ’18, held office hours together in the Quad in past weeks. Cruz said he sees office hours as paramount to representing his constituents.
“Students come to us wanting to talk about University-wide issues, but also the local issues that are affecting them in their houses,” Cruz said.
Such issues include a charge to integrate Charlie Cards and Harvard IDs. Students also said they were concerned with Currier’s recent loss of pool cues, according to Raheem.
“We had to coordinate with the House administrators to reintroduce [the pool cues],” Raheem said.
Looking ahead, Sachee said members should go beyond the listening sessions and instead try to truly engage their constituents.
“It’s not just sitting in the dining hall—it’s about going out there, doing outreach to your community, and showing your community what the UC is doing,” she said.
—Staff writer Andrew J. Zucker can be reached at andrew.zucker@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @AndrewJZucker.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
UPDATED: April 13, 2017 at 9:11 p.m.
Professors and students at the Law School gathered on Tuesday to argue whether aggressive acts by international states should be included under the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Court.
The panel explored accountability for the illegal use of force, in particular focusing on victim representation and which institutions should have jurisdiction to bring aggressive state actors to trial.
Harvard Law professor Alex Whiting and Middlesex University London professors William Schabas and Donald Ferencz spoke on the panel. Law School Dean Martha Minow and Law School professor Gerald L. Neuman '73 also spoke at the event.
In a pre-recorded video shown at the beginning of the panel, the only remaining prosecutor from the Nuremberg Trials Benjamin B. Ferencz spoke about his career in international criminal law and his role as Chief Prosecutor in the 1947 Einsatzgruppen Trial in Germany.
Ferencz reflected on the effects of aggression in international politics.
“The supreme international crime is committing aggressive war. It is a crime against humanity and should be condemned as such,” he said. “It’s time for the young people to be brave, have courage.”
The event continued with references to essays written by symposium contributors, including members of the Harvard International Law Journal that organized the symposium. Marissa R. Brodney, an executive editor of Harvard International Law Journal, wrote an essay on the designation for victims of aggression.
“The symposium explores what has always been a relevant question and has become an increasingly relevant question in our current geopolitical moment” Brodney said.
Neuman, Whiting, and Ferencz discussed the jurisdictional complexities of ICC, which was established in 1998 to investigate war crimes, crimes against humanity, and genocide.
Schabas, who has authored more than forty books on international criminal law, emphasized the limits of institutions.
The discussion shifted when an audience member questioned the power of the United Nations Security Council to respond to acts of aggression and what role the General Assembly could play.
Schabas, answered that involving the General Assembly would necessitate reforming the Charter of the United Nations of 1945. Still, he argued that having the Security Council make the decision on how to react to aggressive states presents an “unfair situation because it concentrates the authority in five permanent members.”
The symposium was recorded and will be published online alongside the essays already available online. The Harvard International Law Journal will host another day-long symposium on international law next week.
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction:
CORRECTION: April 13, 2017
A previous version of this article incorrectly attributed two statements to Alex Whiting. In fact, William Schabas made the statements. It also incorrectly omitted Donald Ferencz, who also spoke on the panel.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
UPDATED: April 13, 2017 at 1:41 p.m.
Harvard Dorm Crew plans to shorten its work day and include extra advising sessions in its Fall Clean-Up schedule next semester, a modification program captains say is intended to help incoming freshman participants better transition to College life.
The change comes at a time when students and administrators have called for the creation of a three-day summer pre-orientation “bridge program,” titled the First Year Initiative, aimed to aid first-generation and low-income students in their adjustment to Harvard. Dean of the College Rakesh Khurana recently struck down that proposal, disappointing some students and members of the Undergraduate Council.
Administrators—including Freshman Dean’s Office employee Katie W. Steele, who oversees undergraduate pre-orientation programming and helped develop the First Year Initiative—say the changes to Dorm Crew are independent of student calls for a summer bridge program for first generation students.
Dorm Crew, a student-led division of Facilities Maintenance Operations, employs scores of students to perform custodial jobs for on-campus housing. Fall Clean-Up, run by Dorm Crew, is one of five pre-orientation programs offered to incoming freshmen, who arrive on campus several days before the school year officially starts.
The Crimson’s survey of the Class of 2020 found that more than half of incoming Fall Clean-Up participants come from families with a combined income of less than $125,000.
Previously, Fall Clean-Up participants cleaned dorms for over eight hours per day and covered the cost of their own meals, though students eventually received more than $400 in payment for their services.
Under the new system, undergraduate attendees will work for six hours instead of eight, the College will pay for all participants’ meals, and Dorm Crew leaders will undergo further leadership training, according to Dorm Crew co-head captains Ali A. Elreichouni ’17 and Michael P. Dybala ’18. The two captains said they made these changes in collaboration with the Advising Programs Office, the Title IX Office, and the Office of Sexual Assault Prevention and Response.
Dorm Crew participants will also be required to start the program one day earlier—to make up for their shortened work day—and will attend advising sessions in the evenings, including talks with student captains.
“We’re working on setting up panels with a bunch of different captains, who could sort of answer any academic concerns, social concerns, or extra-curricular concerns that students may have,” Elreichouni said.
Savannah N. Fritz ’17—who proposed an earlier, longer version of the First Year Institute that was also unsuccessful—said she met privately with Khurana, Steele, and Dean of Freshmen Thomas A. Dingman ’67 on Monday and discussed the proposed changes to Dorm Crew. Khurana requested the meeting a few days after he and Dingman attended a tense, public 45-minute question-and-answer session with UC members and undergraduates about his decision to reject the First Year Institute.
Fritz said that, during the half-hour meeting, she felt that Khurana, Dingman, and Steele listed alternative measures—including the updates to Dorm Crew—they were taking “instead” of the proposed summer program for low income students.
“I got the impression they were doing it instead of this program because I was pressing them on why we couldn’t do this program, and they were like, ‘Oh, we’re doing other things, for example, this Dorm Crew thing,’” Fritz said.
But Steele said the changes to Dorm Crew are independent from the College’s response to calls for a bridge program, though the alterations share similar goals.
“Certainly I would say, to the fact that we are very committed to those goals, that everyone feels a sense of inclusion and belonging at the start of Harvard, no matter how they start or when they start, so it’s definitely connected to those goals,” Steele said.
Elreichouni said the Dorm Crew updates are not geared specifically towards first generation or low income students, but are meant to improve the Fall Clean-Up experience as a whole.
Discussing their reasoning for rejecting the proposal at last week’s UC meeting, Khurana and Dingman promised the College would make efforts to improve and render pre-orientation programs more financially accessible.
Fritz said she found the decision to add in extra programming for Dorm Crew participants, coupled with Khurana’s refusal to endorse the summer bridge program for low-income students, disappointing and “problematic.”
“It shows that the College is willing to recognize that students would benefit from pre-term, pre-freshman year exposure to this type of programming, but they’re not willing to adopt any program that does fully that,” Fritz said.
“Instead, they’re saying, ‘We’ll provide students with it, assuming they’re willing to also scrub toilets,’” Fritz added.
Khurana declined to comment on Fritz’s criticisms Wednesday afternoon.
He and Dingman penned an op-ed Wednesday defending their rejection of the First Year Institute.
—Staff writer Hannah Natanson can be reached at hannah.natanson@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @hannah_natanson.
—Staff writer Graham W. Bishai can be reached at graham.bishai@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @GrahamBishai.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered

Life after Harvard—it’s a goal that many students invest time, resources, and energy into pursuing. The future is an exciting unknown. The possibilities of what it holds can drive students through problem sets, finals, and everything in between.
From all over the world, young people come here to learn. And all over the world, graduates scatter to use new knowledge in the best ways possible.
For 10 former Crimson baseball players, life after Harvard has led to the same place—professional baseball. As the alumni take to diamonds around the globe, they are not only bolstering the Crimson name but also following dreams that, for some, date back to early childhood.
“Harvard definitely is a place that promotes excellence in whatever you do,” said former Crimson infielder Jake McGuiggan. “Just being able to be around so many people, not only students and professors but also other athletes that were striving to be the best at what they did, really gave me the mindset to try to get better at baseball and work harder to get to the next level once I was out of school.”
BRENT SUTER ’12
Brent Suter, a left-handed pitcher from Cincinnati, earned first team All-Ivy honors during his senior year at Harvard. Thanks to that performance, Suter was drafted in the 31st round of the 2012 Draft by the Milwaukee Brewers.
The 27-year-old made his major league debut on Aug. 19, 2016, at Safeco Field in Seattle. He is the only former Crimson player currently on an MLB team’s 40-man roster. Suter completed the 2016 season with a 3.32 ERA in 14 appearances with the Brew Crew. In 2017, he has made three appearances out of the Milwaukee bullpen.
NICK GRUENER
After arriving at Harvard in the fall of 2013 out of Miami Palmetto High School, right-hander Nick Gruener spent three seasons with the Crimson before he was drafted last June in the 22nd round of the MLB draft by the Baltimore Orioles.
“I decided I would stay for the fall semester, and then take the spring semester off to come play,” Gruener said. “I’ll come back and graduate in the fall. It’s been a pretty awesome experience living out the whole boyhood dream.”
The righty recorded a combined ERA of 4.28 during his time at Harvard, with a career best of 2.76 last season as a member of Harvard’s “Two Aces” starting rotation. Gruener posted 122 total strikeouts in his three seasons, 49 of which came during his junior campaign. His performance on the mound earned him a second-team All-Ivy selection.
“I think what Harvard taught me in general is just how to have an open mind about everything,” Gruener said. “That’s probably the number-one thing that everyone learns there because there are students coming from all around the country and all around the world. It was the same way when I came into the program with the Orioles.”
TANNER ANDERSON ’15
Tanner Anderson came to Cambridge from Tampa, Fla. While playing for the Crimson, the right-handed pitcher posted a combined ERA of 5.41 and struck out 59 total batters. Despite his stats not jumping off the page, Anderson earned second-team all-Ivy honors after his sophomore season.The righty was selected in the 20th round of the 2015 MLB draft by the Pittsburgh Pirates.
Since entering the professional ranks, Anderson has played on four minor league teams. The Harvard alumnus has posted a combined ERA of 3.39 in 51 games. Anderson began his 2017 campaign with the Altoona Curve, the Pirates’ Double-A affiliate.  In his first start of the season, he scattered five hits and one run over five innings of work.
SHAWN HAVILAND ’08
Shawn Haviland’s time at Harvard came to a close almost a decade ago, as the right-handed pitcher was drafted in the 33rd round of the 2008 MLB draft by the Oakland Athletics. While pitching for the Crimson in 2006, the Farmington, Conn., native was the Ivy League Pitcher of the Year.
Since entering the next stage of his career, Haviland has been on eight minor league rosters in eight seasons. The right-hander has worked his way through the ranks to the Triple-A level, where he has spent the last three seasons performing. Haviland is currently pitching for the Pawtucket Red Sox, the Boston Red Sox’s affiliate.
SEAN POPPEN ’16
After putting on his Harvard jersey for the final time last spring, right-handed pitcher Sean Poppen graduated with a degree in chemistry and physics. During his time with the Crimson, the Chesapeake, Va. native totaled an ERA of 4.39 in 39 appearances and recorded 175 strikeouts. He ranked fourth in the Ivy League with 47 strikeouts after the 2016 season.
Poppen was selected in the 19th round of the 2016 MLB Draft by the Minnesota Twins. He is currently furthering his baseball career at the Single-A level with the Cedar Rapids Kernels of the Midwest League. Poppen maintained an ERA of 2.70, while striking out 57 batters last season.
FRANK HERRMANN ’06
A right-handed pitcher out of Rutherford, N.J., Herrmann was an honorable mention for All-American in 2005. He signed with the Cleveland Indians the following year.
The former Crimson standout spent four season pitching in the minor leagues, before making his major league debut in June of 2010. Herrmann then pitched three seasons with the Indians and spent last summer with the Philadelphia Phillies.
Herrmann will be taking the mound in Japan this year, as he signed with the Tohoku Rakuten Golden Eagles in November. This season will mark the first for the 32-year-old in the Nippon Professional Baseball League.
MIKE MARTIN ’15
Outfielder Mike Martin ’15 was selected for All-Ivy honors three times while playing in a Crimson uniform. In his senior season, the Buffalo Grove, Ill., native hit .301, stole 19 bases, and scored 30 runs.
Martin was drafted in the 33rd round of the 2015 MLB draft by the Oakland Athletics. The former Harvard standout is now playing Single-A ball for the Beloit Snappers of the Midwest League, where he may have the opportunity to face his former teammate Gruener.  Martin has recorded close to 200 at-bats over the past two summers and hit .298 on the 2016 season. The centerfielder led the Snappers with a .372 on-base percentage and drove in 20 runs.
JAKE McGUIGGAN ’14-’15
Jake McGuiggan received two All-Ivy selections during his career with the Crimson and was a captain as a senior. The Hingham, Mass., native hit .347 with 26 RBIs in that final year and was the steadiest contributor in a loaded Harvard lineup. Following his time in Cambridge, McGuiggan has since played in both the Canadian-American Association and the Atlantic League.
McGuiggan hit .219 in 2016 as a member of the New Britain Bees. The middle infielder appeared in 56 games and posted 43 hits and 31 RBIs.
“I’m heading down to New Britain this week to join the team again for my second season with the Bees and my third season overall,” McGuiggan said. “Playing at the Division I level gave me the confidence as a ballplayer where I knew I might have the skills to play at the next level.”
DANNY MOSKOVITS ’13-’14
Right-handed pitcher Danny Moskovits came to Cambridge from Newport Beach, Calif. Beginning in 2014, Moskovits pitched in the Canadian-American Association through last season.
The righty saw action in 22 games during the 2016 season on the rosters of two Independent League teams. Moskovits started 16 games, pitching for the Sussex County Miners and the Laredo Lemurs. He recorded 46 strikeouts in 96.2 innings, with an ERA of 6.24.
ERIC EADINGTON ’10-’11
Left-handed pitcher Eadington signed with the Los Angeles Dodgers as a free agent after graduating from Harvard in 2011. The Corona Del Mar, Calif., native pitched for five minor league teams over the course of five seasons, before joining an independent league last year.
Eadington worked his way back from his second Tommy John surgery to pitch for the Gary Southshore Railcats and Winnipeg Goldeyes last season. The former Crimson pitcher had nine saves in 47 innings and fanned 66 total batters.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Do you consider yourself a fashionista? Do you like looking at hot people? Style mavens and human beauty aficionados rejoice, as April is Harvard’s most ~fabulous~ month. After all, April 15 and 22 mark the dates of Harvard's most premier fashion shows—Identities and Eleganza. However, if you’re #basic enough to enjoy salmon shorts and Vineyard Vines or still a clueless freshman, you might still be confused.
“Wait a second—Identities and Eleganza aren’t the same thing? Why are my friends all of a sudden posting weirdly edited pics of them "smizing" intensely?”
Don’t worry, we are here to fill you in with the freshest details about the absolute crème de la crème of glamour on campus.
First and foremost—Identities and Eleganza are NOT the same thing.
Eleganza is a fashion and dance show founded in 1994 by the umbrella organization Harvard Black C.A.S.T. The show is not just about pizzaz and oozing sex appeal; Eleganza models razzle dazzle for a cause. The show toutes its inclusivity and diversity, and donates all the proceeds from the 2000+ tickets sold to the Boston Center for Teen Empowerment. In this show, the clothes are less important than the electrifying atmosphere and high energy moves. 
Identities, on the other hand, is a younger and more classic runway show. It’s a showcase of creativity and style centered around the Leadership of the Arts Award and is known for its inventive themes (this year’s is “Fashion + Technology”) and fancy VIP goody bags. In line with this year’s innovative theme, the show’s keynote speaker is Ivan Poupyrev, the team lead for Google's wearable tech launch “Project Jacquard.”
They do have similarities though.
Both shows, like everything at this college, are extremely selective—only those with the most symmetrical faces and hottest moves make the cut. Despite not favoring people without the swag of an American Apparel employee (#RIP we’ll miss you AA), Identities and Eleganza are still committed to diversity. Representatives from both shows recently discussed issues of representation and inclusivity during a town hall meeting.
Sections
Face it: it’s hard to make connections. Whether it's LinkedIn, Tinder, Bumble, or even real life. When staring down your dating prospects on the “professional network,” here are the four types of guys you will meet and how you can use each of these connections to your advantage.
The guy who just made his profile and forgot about it
His profile picture is probably his high school senior photo, if he even has one at all. He barely mentions anything about achievements, jobs, and maybe even his full name (how else are you supposed to Instagram stalk him to see if it’s worth sliding into those DMs)? He either quit in the middle of making his profile and doesn’t care anymore or forgot his password. Might not be the greatest person to connect with.
The guy who fakes it until he makes it
This is that guy who lists himself as CEO of a company…a company which doesn't exist yet. We're an advocate of reaching for the stars but always make sure to check if said company is legit and what else he does on the side.
The guy who does the absolute most
This guy has published so many LinkedIn articles about topics you’ve never even thought about for more than a fleeting moment. He's published all the awards he's received since elementary school, even the award given to best line leader in the first grade. In each post, he mentions all his interactions with somewhat famous people, even if he just happened to know someone who is a second cousin of said famous person. Unfortunately he probably has a lot of connections, so it wouldn't hurt to be in his circle. Smash that “Connect” button.
The guy you actually want to connect with
He’s the one in the career or sector of your dreams. He’d be a perfect mentor, boss, or even associate to you. Connecting with him would open up a whole new world. But you will wait weeks for him to connect with you or even read your earnest appeal that you practiced through OCS sessions. If he actually responds, it will be at the worst possible moment like when you actually have an internship or when you are about to graduate. Alas, 'tis better to have loved and lost than never to have loved at all.
