News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
I read several articles this week about San Francisco, where some now wish to boycott all firms associated with the border wall. According to officials in an interview with KTVU, the justification for this is that these companies’ actions would be divisive and not in accordance with San Francisco’s values: “basic principles of compassion and dedication to human rights.” This sounds reasonable, but I have a few problems with it.
First of all, I fail to see what makes San Francisco so compassionate. Are we now imputing values to a city? A city with a murder rate, rape rate, burglary rate, and so on? Obviously, the entire city isn’t pristine, nor is every individual in the city. What we’re really talking about is the opinion of the group of people pushing the legislation–and I’m not sure why their interpretation of values should take precedence over everyone else’s.
Secondly, why is a border wall a rejection of compassion or human rights? It’s a security measure. Are metal detectors in stores a rejection of compassion and human rights? I mean, yes, it displays a certain level of cynicism, and we can discuss whether it’s an effective policy measure, but in no way does it seem blatantly immoral to me. I grew up nearly 200 miles from the border, and we still had problems with undocumented immigrants trespassing on people’s property. We can argue over immigration laws at a later date, but it in no way seems wrong to me to enforce the laws that we have—and no one can do that but the government. Private charity and “compassion” can’t solve this particular problem.
That’s not what really bothers me about this issue. There seems to be a much more glaring problem here. These people have decided that their city will not do business with those who violate their moral code. I take some issue with this because I’m not sure a public institution can have a moral code, but my larger issue is that this seems to be an even stronger version of the argument made by some Christians who don’t wish to participate professionally in gay weddings or provide their employees with contraceptives and abortion funding due to their moral convictions.
When Christians do this, they are “prejudiced” and “intolerant,” and when the people of San Francisco do it, they are heroic and progressive. When the same argument is accepted for one group of people and rejected for another, I think we have license to assume that what is at stake is not the argument itself. The divide seems to be that whoever agrees with the people in charge has the right to act and do business according to their beliefs, and whoever does not agree with the people in charge does not have that right. And this trend, if allowed to go far, becomes very disturbing.
So much for the West Coast; let’s go east. Last year, we at Harvard received an email from University President Drew G. Faust concerning unrecognized single-gender social organizations. The email stated that such groups encouraged practices that were “unwise” and “unenlightened,” and worked against “core institutional values.” Thus, anyone participating in such a group could neither hold leadership positions in College-recognized groups or athletic teams nor receive endorsement for certain fellowships.
This is upsetting for a lot of reasons. First, it is social engineering: the move is described as “culture change.” The leadership of Harvard doesn’t like the morals of its students and has decided to leverage its control over their resumes to change this. Because apparently, despite being adults in an institution designed to help us forge our own paths and discover new ways of thinking, we can still be penalized for hanging out with the wrong friends. It’s also funny that the “Harvard community’s” values apparently clash with those of a significant number of students.
Saint Augustine wrote that for years he prayed “Lord, make me chaste,” then secretly added “but not yet.” I would submit that today we declare “we welcome everyone,” then secretly add “but not them.” This coercion of values is especially disturbing when the only values that anyone seems to care about are tolerance and non-discrimination. In the articles and the email, these words came up over and over again as “core values.” No other values merited a mention: truth, integrity, honor, prudence, temperance, justice—all forgotten.
Our country was founded on the belief that freedom of thought and respect for the free exchange of ideas are not worth giving up in the name of comfort or security. Are we now willing to give these things up in the name of a tolerance that extends only to those who agree with whoever is making the rules? In other words, tolerance in name only?
Lauren R. Mandaville ’17 is a joint Philosophy and Near Eastern Languages and Civilizations concentrator living in Pforzheimer House.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Undergraduate Council’s announcement regarding procedural changes in the creation of student organizations is an interesting development, given recent discussions of how student groups impact student life. The decision amended the UC’s Constitution to give its Rules Committee the authority and responsibility to “review and recommend” student organizations, as well as a partnership with the Office of Student Life to determine the criteria for the application vetting process. This is a welcome change, but one that must be exercised with great caution.
Of the 442 recognized independent student organizations, we believe there are many whose admission criteria and active status ought to be more heavily scrutinized. Certain clubs have comp processes that are unreasonably difficult or demanding; others rely heavily on popularity contests and unfair methods that do not serve as adequate markers for admission. Another concern is that many clubs do very little, and “unchecked growth” in the amount of student organizations is actually detrimental to student life. Given financial, space, and student-club relations concerns, the UC must make sure that recognition is granted appropriately.
By giving themselves the responsibility to approve student organizations, the UC Rules Committee has agreed to take a larger role in shaping the way that clubs are organized, created or disbanded on campus. This responsibility is necessary not only when judging when a club is created but in keeping clubs’ actions and comp processes accountable through the UC's recommendations to administrators. The UC stands to fundamentally reshape the club creation process, a potentially beneficial development, but only should this result in greater change and responsibility within student groups.
While we encourage efforts the UC will take in this direction, we caution them from assuming too much authority over which clubs are created or disbanded. This could potentially be abused to prefer certain student groups over others. Given that this has been voiced as a concern already, we would urge the UC to use discretion in setting the scope of their decision-making.
This staff editorial solely represents the majority view of The Crimson Editorial Board. It is the product of discussions at regular Editorial Board meetings. In order to ensure the impartiality of our journalism, Crimson editors who choose to opine and vote at these meetings are not involved in the reporting of articles on similar topics.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
A wave of relief flooded over me as I watched Obama's inauguration in my fifth grade science class. I was one of three black students in my grade and the only black student in the classroom, a fact no one ever dared to say out loud, but that silence nonetheless was off-putting. As a kid, even though I couldn’t process why, I knew I never wanted to draw any attention to my race. But, as Obama came onto the screen and started his speech, I realized that the only other person in the room who looked like me was the President of the United States. I felt comforted knowing I was no longer the only one. Suddenly, the idea of standing out because of my skin color didn't seem negative. I didn't need to look like everyone else or worry about fitting in. I could achieve anything and become anyone, just like Obama.
Five years later, I had another “Obama moment” when I realized that I was queer. Coming to terms with my sexuality has been a complicated and sometimes painful process, but one day,  while watching Ellen, it dawned on me that she was gay. Of course, I’d known that for years, just like I already knew that Obama was black. But before, Ellen’s sexuality was little more than a trivia fact; in the context of what I was going through, it became a novel and crucial revelation. Ellen wasn’t straight. Neither was I. We shared that identity. The second thing I realized was that she seemed happy. She hosted a successful talk show, married a wonderful woman (and took adorable wedding photos with her), and was well-liked by the public. If Ellen could be happy, what’s stopping me?
Another trailblazer for LGBTQ representation is Laverne Cox, the first trans person to grace the cover of Time magazine, be nominated for a Primetime Emmy, and have a wax figure in Madame Tussauds. Her visibility has made her a role-model for thousands of trans people, especially those who may know only cis people. Additionally, as a black person, she pushes back on the whitewashing of queerness.
The existence and success of people like Ellen Degeneres and Laverne Cox are a good start, but what about within our media? A seemingly obvious place to look for queer role-models is in movies, but that’s been pretty fruitless.  In 2015, only 17.5 percent of 126 major movies released that year contained queer characters. Now, 17.5 percent may seem high compared to the 3.8% of Americans who identify as LGBTQ, but that’s assuming that each movie only has one or two characters. If you consider that most movies have dozens of characters, that leaves the percent of LGBTQ characters out of total characters at much less than 3.8 percent. These might seem like just numbers, but to me, it’s about my identity. When I can’t see myself reflected anywhere in a billion dollar industry that’s churned out millions of characters, I don’t feel heard or included. No one should feel like like they have to overcome all odds just to be who they are.
While it’s an important goal to include more LGBTQ characters in movies, it’s equally important to improve how they’re portrayed. Some people think that including the “token” queer person (often the problematic “gay best friend” trope) is the epitome of representation. But we need to demand more. Where are the characters with complex personalities that serve a role in the plot besides comic relief?  The characters who are any of the other letters in LGBTQ besides “L” and “G”? The characters who are also racial minorities, religious minorities, non-affluent, or plus-sized? The characters who look or think  or exist in the world in any way outside of the ones we usually see, characters who don’t fit the Hollywood formula of creating nearly identical white, thin, cis, middle-class roles with a dash of gayness sprinkled in for “diversity”? Where are the characters whom I can point to and say, “That’s me.”?
I distinctly remember a conversation in high school when one of my friends asked me why I wasn’t more out. The explanation I gave was that I didn’t want people to stereotype me and thus diminish the other parts of my identity. But an equally pressing reason, which I didn’t know how to articulate at the time, was that I didn’t understand how my queerness fit into my other identities. Because I couldn’t find any role-models who could relate to me on multiple levels, I struggled to figure out how to be queer. I hid in the closet for way longer than I wanted to because no one showed me the way out.
It would be helpful to also see more noticeably queer supporting roles and extras. Maybe it’s the two women in the background of a scene, holding hands as they subtly saunter down the sidewalk. Or the co-worker who uses they/them/their pronouns. Or the main character’s friend recounting his weekend trip with his boyfriend. At first glance, these characters might seem useless or even trivializing of queer people. But, if you look more closely, you’ll realize it’s the exact opposite. Even if their relevance to the plot is negligible, the fact that these characters are on-screen, that they exist, that they’re portrayed as a normal part of our society, is groundbreaking. It’s a small change that can make a world of difference to the LGBTQ community.
Becina J. Ganther ’20 is a Crimson Editorial writer living in Wigglesworth Hall. Her column appears on alternate Thursdays. 
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Chelsea Vuong ’20 is thrilled to be living in Hollis Hall for her freshman year. The dorm’s spacious double rooms provide ample space for her to practice walking in figure eights, she explains. Sometimes, when she has the room to herself, she props two full-length mirrors against the wall and watches herself strut.
Vuong is preparing to walk in venues grander than her makeshift Hollis catwalk. Since she was 12, she has competed in several beauty pageants in her home state of California and, since she came to Harvard, in Massachusetts.
Last week, Vuong was crowned Miss Middlesex County, beaming at a crowd of 300 in a YMCA auditorium in Stoughton, Mass. Now, she’s eyeing the Miss Massachusetts title, which she will compete for in July. If she wins at the state level, she will be on track to compete on the Miss America stage.
Vuong has left some pageants with a crown, others empty-handed. (Her victory at Middlesex County came after a loss at the Miss Boston pageant in February.) Regardless of outcome, there is something of a formula to each show.
In offstage and onstage interviews, she brandishes her knowledge of current events and promotes her platform: empowering homeless youth. For the talent portion of the pageant, she plays classical music—often Chopin—on the piano. For the “swim” and “evening” categories, she models the requisite attire while walking in a figure-eight shape onstage.
“For swimsuit, they’re looking to see how healthy you are, to see if you’re toned, to see if you are exuding confidence even if you are just in a bikini,” Vuong explains. “For evening, it’s about elegance and grace.”
If she wins over the judges, Vuong stands to win thousands of dollars in scholarship money. The Miss Massachusetts title touts a $10,000 prize. The national crown comes with $50,000.
But the competitions are not without their costs. Evening gowns can be priced upward of $1,000. When Vuong competed in local pageants in California, her parents covered travel expenses for driving across the state. Now thousands of miles away from home, Vuong occasionally flies back to California to practice interview questions with Crystal Lee, her mentor and a former runner-up for the Miss America title.
“It’s time-consuming, but it teaches her something she cannot learn from school,” says Vuong’s mother, who signed her up for the Junior Miss Solano County pageant, Vuong’s first, seven years ago. “I really do think it’s worth it.”
On a day-to-day basis, pageant preparation mandates a certain number of lifestyle changes. Vuong begins readying herself for pageants up to four months in advance. She aims to practice piano for an hour and a half each day in Harvard’s music building—but she’s been less fastidious about it since winning the Middlesex title.
Vuong works out regularly, cuts carbs out of her diet, and constrains her daily calorie intake because she “can’t eat certain things” when preparing to model swimsuits. Her Annenberg meal of choice consists of lettuce, chicken, fruit, and water. As she emphasizes repeatedly in our interview, however, securing the crown is about more than just looking good.
“I have to be very on top of my news—I’m constantly reading about the economy, politics, any murders or anything,” Vuong says of her preparation for pageant interviews. In the Miss Boston competition, she was asked to name ways to “erase all homelessness” and found herself unequipped to answer.
“In pageants, there’s still that stereotype where you need to be that perfect person, even if, realistically, there isn’t a simple answer,” she admits.
Although she says that preparation is “stressful,” Vuong insists that pageants offer unparalleled opportunities for confidence-building, travel, and making friends. Titleholders usually make regular appearances at community events and fundraise for local causes.
The broader conversation surrounding beauty pageants, however, is less rosy—and mired in contentious debate.
In a 2014 episode of “Last Week Tonight,” for example, satirical news anchor John Oliver lambasted the Miss America Organization for exaggerating the amounts of scholarship money winners receive. He also critiqued the pageant for promoting values he deemed archaic, emphasizing that contestants must certify that they have never been married or pregnant in order to compete.
“Last Sunday, one of the weirdest annual events on television happened yet again,” Oliver said in the episode, pointing to the visual contrast between a fully-clothed male host and the line of bikini-clad women behind him. “It was very difficult not to think, how the f*** is this still happening?”
Oliver’s criticisms are hardly new. In 1968, the New York Radical Women, a feminist activist group, staged a “No More Miss America!” protest in Atlantic City, throwing high heels and bras into a symbolic “Freedom Trash Can.” In their manifesto, the Radical Women decried the “ludicrous ‘beauty’ standards we ourselves are conditioned to take seriously.”
Still, Vuong and others in the pageant circuit maintain that the tradition is an empowering one. Lee says the contestants who win titles embody “the ideals of a modern woman.”
“The thing that people don’t know is that Miss America is about empowering women to get a higher education, to support community causes, and most importantly, to give college students scholarship money,” Vuong says. “It’s more than just walking around in a swimsuit.”
Vuong is careful to draw distinctions between the Miss America pageant and the Miss USA pageant, the latter of which was formerly owned by President Donald Trump.
“The reason I didn’t compete for Miss USA instead of Miss America is because I was very hesitant toward Trump
and the way he ran that organization. He was looking for the tallest girl, the skinniest girl, the girl who looked the prettiest,” Vuong says. “With Miss America, it’s about the girl next door: the girl you can always talk to, the girl you can rely on, the girl who wants to make a difference.”
The Miss USA pageant consists of a two-minute interview, swimsuit modeling, and eveningwear modeling. Miss America contestants have to raise $100 for charity before competing, sail through a 10-minute offstage interview, nail an onstage interview question—and then model swimsuits and eveningwear.
In the search for America’s top “girl next door,” the swimsuit and evening categories are justified by somewhat phrenological explanations. From a quick figure eight walk on stage, Lee says, judges “get a feel for a person’s personality, the choices she makes,” and whether she “lives a healthy lifestyle.” Echoing her mentor, Vuong says a contestant’s bikini body attests to her “willingness to make sacrifices” and “willpower.”
“Pageants are a way to do something different,” she says. “I see it as a more fun way to get scholarship money.”
Although she attributes her confidence to her experiences onstage, Vuong says she was initially hesitant to tell her peers at Harvard about her most time-consuming extracurricular. She feared that people would make assumptions about her career as a “pageant girl.”
“The stereotype is that you are super cocky, you’re only about yourself, you want to look pretty all the time and have a crown,” she says. But Vuong has big dreams beyond sashes, bouquets of roses, and the Miss America stage.
After she competes in the Miss Massachusetts contest, Vuong plans to steel herself for another kind of pageantry, one that is perhaps more familiar to her Harvard peers: the investment banking recruitment process.
“I love finance: Goldman Sachs, JP Morgan,” Vuong says. She has a 400-page guide to investment banking that she plans to tackle once the Massachusetts competition is over. “The more I talk about it, the more I realize I should accept the fact that I am a pageant girl, that I should stand up to it, so I can prove people wrong.”
Sections
The insanity of 2016 and chaos it left in its wake have shattered my sense of comfort and security. This is why I believe that it is perfectly reasonable to rely on “Dick Clark's New Year's Rockin' Eve” for all aspects of my identity.
It’s not that I can’t handle change, or that the world is too difficult for me to handle. Since the 2006–07 edition of “Dick Clark's New Year's Rockin' Eve,” Fergie of The Black Eyed Peas has presented the prerecorded concert segments from Los Angeles. Her gradual replacement of Dick Clark may have been a sign of the coming end of the American way of life, but I was willing to go along with it because I am an adult, thank you very much.
But when I recently discovered that Richard Augustus Wagstaff "Dick" Clark Jr. tragically passed away on April 18, 2012, I was furious. Everything about my life is a lie. Why didn’t I notice that Ryan Seacrest has been the sole host of “Dick Clark's Primetime New Year's Rockin' Eve with Ryan Seacrest?” Why didn’t I notice that the smiling visage of AMERICA’S OLDEST LIVING TEENAGER was no more? Was I blinded by love? By fear?
It’s a cold, cold world. It’s a world where Mariah Carey’s management has the nerve to attack Dick Clark Productions due to the failure of her in-ear monitors during the 2016-17 edition of “Dick Clark's Primetime New Year's Rockin' Eve with Ryan Seacrest." Don’t they understand that Dick Clark Productions is all we have left? That Ryan Seacrest is all there is? That all that awaits America is death and economic decline?
When I look up at the 45 monitors around me, each precisely synchronized and repeating every single episode of “Dick Clark's New Year's Rockin' Eve,” I cannot help but think of myself as a hero. I do not look away for a single moment. As long as I’m alive, Dick Clark will live on. America, you will survive.
Sections
“Eat what bugs you.”
The brightly colored packaging of Chirps chips seems innocuous enough. Made from cricket flour, containing 20 grams of protein per bag, Chirps chips are the newest bug-infused snack on the market.
Founded by recent Harvard alumnae Rose W. Wang ’13 and Laura E. D’Asaro ’13 in 2014,  the brand is now gaining traction. Wang and D’Asaro have appeared on popular TV shows like CNBC’s “Shark Tank” and are working to bring their products to people across the country.
Like another famous Harvard startup, Chirps chips had its start in Kirkland House. Wang and D’Asaro met as freshmen in Straus Hall and lived together as upperclassmen.
The idea for Chirps chips, they say, took root one summer when the roommates were half a world apart: D’Asaro was studying abroad in rural Tanzania while Wang was living in Beijing. One hot day, D’Asaro stopped by a street vendor who was selling fried caterpillars. An off-and-on vegetarian, D’Asaro remembers asking herself whether the local fast food dish counted as meat.
She decided it didn’t. “My first thought was: it tastes like lobster!” D’Asaro says.
In Beijing, Wang was also eating bugs. After trying a fried scorpion on a dare, Wang says she, too, became interested in the idea of eating insects.
“Hey, this tastes like shrimp,” Wang remembers thinking. “This lightbulb went off.”
Wang says she returned to campus determined to understand why people hold certain attitudes about food and culture—and to see whether she could change their minds.
“The cool thing about insects is you can raise insects in cities, unlike most proteins,” Wang says. “That’s cool because you can bring the chain between farm and table much closer.”
Wang adds that insect farming also helps combat food waste: The excess food produced in cities can be reused as food for protein sources like crickets. If crickets feed off urban food waste near their manufacturer, transportation costs also dramatically decrease.
Wang and D’Asaro began to experiment with insect-inspired foods while still at Harvard, eventually moving their trials off-campus to local pitch contests. Armed with seed money from the Harvard Innovation Lab, the two tried out their food on test audiences at both Harvard and M.I.T. Soon afterward, Meryl F. Natow ’13 joined Wang and D’Asaro to help launch Six Foods, the company that today sells Chirp chips.
A few days after I spoke with Wang and D’Asaro, I had the chance to try a Cricket chip myself. The snacks became so popular following Wang and D’Asaro’s appearance on “Shark Tank” that it’s taken several weeks for me to recieve my own cricket-infused shipment.
Gingerly opening the BBQ-flavored cricket chips, I’m deeply aware of the spectacle I might be making to curious onlookers. Like D’Asaro, I don’t eat meat; and I’m still unclear whether the chips are, in fact, truly vegetarian.
Insects are still animals—right?
Putting my principles on hold for the moment, I bite into a Chirps chip. The cricket flour crunch is quite good. It actually tastes almost identical to Doritos, but with a zesty BBQ flavor. The chip is also rich with the caramelized and smoky flavor that I associate with eating meat.
As I savor the Chirps chip sliding down my gullet, I marvel that Wang and D’Asaro have managed to create a snack this tasty in the few short years following their graduation from Harvard. But their path to success did not always run straight.
While searching a successful insect-based snack, the two tried everything from mealworm tacos to cricket sushi.
The hardest part of the process, Wang and D’Asaro say, were the long months they spent pestering the United States Department of Agriculture to approve their license for production. It took nine months before the federal agency, which oversees food safety and farming, finally conceded: Wang and D’Asaro could start commercially selling their bug chips.
“We had every certification under the planet and they had to say ‘yes,’” D’Asaro said.
With the federal government on their side, Wang and D’Asaro faced a new challenge: convincing people to buy into the idea of eating bugs. Over the past few years, the blockmates have worked to bring Chirps chips into homes across the United States.
In April 2014, the two raised more than $70,000 in a Kickstarter fundraising campaign. As of May 2015, Chirps chips were being sold in co-ops in Boston and Seattle, and Wang and D’Asaro were in talks with big-box stores, Popular Science reported.
But when Wang and D’Asaro gathered in their Kirkland house dorm room a few years back, it all seemed so unlikely.
Wang describes her decision to become an entrepreneur like this: “Imagine telling your mom, ‘I’m going to find a way to make pigs fly.’”
Sections
From March 24 to 26, Harvard hosted the 2017 Ivy League Vegan Conference—and there wasn’t a sign-wielding animal-rights picketer in sight.
“We really are focusing not on trying to convert or influence people’s personal ideologies,” says Nina Gheihman, a Ph.D candidate in Sociology and co-organizer of the conference. Instead, the conference presented itself as a platform for educational outreach and academic dialogue, attracting an audience less radical than one might expect: Students, academics, vegans, and non-vegans were all welcome at the event.
“‘Vegan’ is… not necessarily the best word because it does have this activist association,” Gheihman says. “The reason we use the word ‘vegan’ is because it’s just the most familiar colloquially. It’s a mouthful to say ‘plant-based’ or ‘bioethics.’”
For Gheihman, “veganism” is an easily accessible term to describe the intersection of many related fields—among them sustainability, environmentalism, animal rights, and food security. “The purpose of the conference is to open up a dialogue about the potential power of plant-based diets to address the heaps of global issues,” she says.
The Ivy League Vegan Conference is described by conference organizers as an “event concept,” meaning that there is no single event-organizing body. Instead, an affiliated organization at each participating school, such as the Harvard or Cornell Vegan Societies or the Yale Animal Welfare Alliance, spearheads the organization of each conference. The first was hosted by the University of Pennsylvania in 2012, and this year’s event, held at Harvard, was the largest yet with over 300 attendees.
The Harvard Vegan Society, a club open to students across all of Harvard’s schools, organized this year’s conference. Gheihman serves as the club’s president, and Matthew N. Hayek, who just completed a Ph.D in Environmental Science and Engineering at GSAS, is the club’s vice president. Both played a central role in organizing this year’s Ivy League Vegan Conference.
Reflecting the conference’s mission, a diverse line-up of speakers were invited to discuss a number of topics pertaining to veganism. On Friday, Law School professor Cass R. Sunstein spoke on behavioral economics and public policy. Another Law School professor, Kristen A. Stilt, addressed export practices of farmed animals. Saturday and Sunday featured various presentations and panels exploring topics from aquaculture and ocean ecology to biotechnology and its effects on public health.
This year was the first year that sponsorship played a role in the conference, and it left a corporate fingerprint. Stationed at the conference’s entrance in front of a shimmery pink curtain, Unicorn Goods, “the world’s largest vegan store,” sold clothing and accessories. Whole Foods provided lunch on Saturday and Sunday, and Purple Carrot, a plant-based meal-kit service, sponsored Saturday’s reception. These sponsors, organizers say, are helping make the idea of a plant-based diet more visible in everyday life.
“Right now, veganism is seen as this fringe movement and the [Ivy League Vegan Conference] is a really good concept to legitimize the idea of veganism and make it into a mainstream academic issue that’s worthy of serious engagement,” Hayek says. “It was incredibly important for us to highlight for people what the future of food tastes like. It tastes great.”
Sections
Aquarius (January 20—February 18):
Your strong social skills combined with your passion for intellectual discussion will help you thoroughly enjoy an abroad program in [insert European country here]. You’ll discuss art, literature, and music, and will not let anyone else get a word in edgewise. You will have many friends, though they’ll all call you an arrogant smartass behind your back when you ditch them later that evening to read Chaucer aloud to yourself while nursing a glass of Cabernet.
Pisces (February 19—March 20):
You will hit the open road in a powder-blue 1968 Volkswagen van. You will have no plan or destination because it doesn’t matter, man. Life is beautiful; the ocean is beautiful; humanity is really something, isn’t it? You feel badly for your friends in 9-5 finance jobs because you could never be tied down. You’re free as a bird, or rather, as a fish (that’s your sign, after all). But, like, one of the cool, inedible ones.
Aries (March 21—April 19):
Your enthusiasm and optimism make you perfect for an internship at a startup. You have a can-do attitude and are willing to take risks. However, your impulsiveness and self-confidence will irk your co-workers who are just trying to streamline their #efficient app. Try not to be the teacher’s pet (for once). You will spend most of the summer sitting on your exercise ball chair in a North Face fleece, wondering why you’re still single.
Taurus (April 20—May 20):
The Taurus is inherently predictable. You already have an internship at Goldman Sachs. You’re an Ec concentrator. You’ve already signed to sublet from that random girl from high school who goes to NYU. You planned all of this with little effort in mid-November and then proceeded to tell your friends that you “don’t get why summer stuff is such a big deal.” Fuck you, Taurus. Fuck. You.
 Gemini (May 21—June 20):
You’ll probably decide in August. Maybe.
Cancer (June 21—July 22):
You, the ever-emotional Cancer, will attend an acting conservatory and will be convinced that everyone hates you. You’ll channel your pain into your “craft.” After all, it is ~always~ about you. And you just want to find someone who will care about you and treat you how you deserve to be treated: worshipped, obviously. You just have a lot of feelings (coupled with too many TMI Instagram posts).
Leo (July 23—August 22):
Camp counseling will perfectly satisfy both your insatiable energetic tendencies and your constant need to be the center of attention. You love a large crowd and having many admirers. You’ll pretend to be embarrassed at all the friendship bracelets and lanyards you receive, but you won’t be. Nothing says “cool” like being adored by spoiled 11-year-olds whose parents are off in St. Barts. You can’t help it that you’re the Queen of Camp Point O’ Riverlaureltakahood. You’re also obviously the one who sneaks the booze into counselor campfires.
Virgo (August 23—September 22):
Virgos view the world in black and white, right and wrong. You will spend the summer doing research for a Computer Science professor, filling your days with lines of code. You’ll enjoy the routine of staying in Cambridge and your predictable schedule. Sound boring? It is. But since you’re secretly 65 years old, you’ll be happy. Well, as happy as a Virgo gets. Soft smiles all around.
Libra (September 23—October 22):
Your keen sense of justice paired with high energy make you perfect for an internship at a law firm. You appear cheerful on the outside, but your inner darkness will allow you to be a shark in the courtroom. You’re all about the balance. You’ll probably pair this intense internship with some early morning Bikram Yoga. Your indecisiveness may even cause you to drop the internship and become a certified yoga instructor instead. Your parents won’t mind, right? Namaste!
Scorpio (October 23—November 21):
Scorpios are intense, intelligent, egotistical, and not afraid to fight. This makes you perfect for politics. Ignore the outrage from your classmates—“How dare you work for this White House?!”—because you want power. You’re the Frank Underwood of the Zodiac and you’re always looking for the next promotion or valuable connection. You’ll also have a torrid affair with a prominent Senator during your time in D.C. If you thought your intensity was only work-related, you were mistaken.
Sagittarius (November 22—December 21):
You’ll spend the summer hiking through national parks, getting in touch with the outdoors. You’re an optimist, so you’ll figure out the whole job thing, eventually. Even though you’re a graduating senior. Who has not even thought about what they want to do. You probably haven’t even finished your thesis research. But it’ll all be alright. You won’t even consider believing otherwise. So you’ll just keep BS’ing Hebrew Bible until you can head for the hills. Literally.
Capricorn (December 22—January 19):
Your selfish arrogance is perfect for a job in Silicon Valley. You’ll head straight to [insert Google, Apple, or Facebook here] and pitch all the brilliant ideas you’ve accumulated over your 21 years of life. That’s old AF in tech, so you better get on it. You’ll be the kid on your project team that is the “ideas man,” but does none of the code and tries to take all the credit. Bop to the effing top, my friends.
Sections
Opium once pervaded campus life at Harvard: Throughout the 1800s, its black smoke kept the university’s veins flowing with green and its faculty and students perpetually dazed.
Many of Harvard’s 19th-century heroes and villains were inextricably linked to the drug. In “The Imperial Cruise: A Secret History of Empire and War,” historian James Bradley shows that many of Boston’s elite families—Cabot, Lowell, and Kirkland included—sustained their wealth through the opium trade.
Of all the families implicated in the drug trade, Bradley argues, the Cabot family was the most nefarious. The Cabots profited from the slave trade. They sent privateers to attack ships from imperial powers and sell their spoils. Finally, while operating in China, they caught wind of the lucrative opium export business. Elated, they brought the trade back to Boston. Within a few short decades, the Cabots had formed an empire, cementing their status as Boston’s elite, the Boston Brahmins.
In “Treason in America: From Aaron Burr to Averell Harriman,” Anton Chaitkin writes that the syndicate had grown to span across several additional notable families including the Coolidge family, descendants of Thomas Jefferson; and the Forbes family, ancestors of former Secretary of State John Kerry.
Chaitkin also reports that these families had become deeply embedded in the Harvard hierarchy. At the beginning of the nineteenth century, members of these families were treasurers for Harvard, directors for the Harvard and the Massachusetts Bank, and even the president of Harvard College. Though Harvard students may not have been frequent users of the drug, the disreputable businessmen of its trade were ever-present.
From Harvard, the opium trade spread throughout New England. According to Bradley, Yale University’s infamous Skull and Bone society was funded by the Russels, the most successful family of opium dealers in America. Columbia’s Low Memorial Library was also named after a key member of the family. Even Princeton’s first large benefactor, John Green, funded his contribution through the opium trade.
Even undergraduates were eager to deal themselves into the lucrative opium trade. In “The American Disease: Origins of Narcotic Control, David F. Musto” reports that student-run opium “joints” began opening from Boston to New York.
In 1888, Harvard freshman Frank Mills told the Boston Daily Globe that “Life at Harvard would not be complete until [he] had experienced some of the effects of opium.” The interview marked the perfect zenith of opium’s reign on Harvard’s campus.
Then, the opium trade boiled over. Almost immediately after Mill’s interview, he overdosed on the drug. His death became public news, and public sentiment began to shift.
Newly concerned about safety, undergraduates began to police one another for signs of opium usage. By 1906, “Good Government Clubs” had spread across the New England area. One such club, at Syracuse University, launched a three-month operation that ultimately disbanded several opium dens and spurred 13 arrests. Other campuses, including Yale and Harvard, sent anti-opium delegates directly to President Franklin D. Roosevelt.
On July 1, 1908, President Roosevelt elected Hamilton Wright as the first United States Opium Commissioner. Wright’s job: To target the few opium dealers and pharmacists still remaining in the Unites States.
Unfortunately for the Cabots, the Lowells, and the Kirklands, Harvard’s appetite for opium would neve recover.
Sections
The Currier “Half-Man” Suite:
The Currier “Half-Man” Suite is easily one of the most sought-after dorm rooms at Harvard, and the selection process is highly competitive. The suite is usually awarded to a lucky group of 10 male seniors who feel as though they have each been reduced to “half a man” as a result of their personal inability to meet modern society’s expectations of unbridled machismo. Just a two-minute walk from the dining hall and replete with stinging reminders of the polarizing gender roles intrinsic to the media-ridden culture in which we live, the Currier “Half-Man” is an extremely convenient, emasculating, and cozy place to call home.
Hollis 14:
Hollis 14 is remembered for housing rebel troops during the infamous Second Boer War of 1899, fought between the British colonial empire and Dutch South Africa. This freshman dorm room was the site of a widely-celebrated incident in which four Orange Free State soldiers poured a cauldron of boiling, soapy water out of the window onto the encroaching British soldiers below, staving off a major advance by the colonial aggressors and securing key diamond deposits for at least 29 days thereafter. Past residents claim they can still feel the indelible perversion of a rich, centuries-old African civilization being ravaged by rampant 19th-century European colonialism.
The Mather N+2 Suite:
The renowned Mather n+2 Suite is a novel take on the coveted n+1 housing system. Composed of a common room, three singles, and a fourth room containing zero occupants, the n+2 lends community spirit and personal space while fostering a physical manifestation of the abstraction of human life as we know it. This room is usually awarded to three seniors and one sheer absence of life-essence. The one-of-a-kind doublet orientation of the suite allows occupants to grind out problems sets in their own private space, play Hungry Hungry Hippos with their suitemates in the open common room, and question the epistemological uncertainty of whether their fourth suitemate, or lack thereof, actually exists. Located near the top of the Mather high-rise, the n+2 is notorious for its breathtaking view of the sunset along the Charles River, the perfect backdrop to an eventual and inevitable existential crisis.
Kirkland H34:
Of Harvard’s long list of impressive alumni who went on to do amazing things after their college years, perhaps none are as impressive as billionaire Gill Abets, who ingeniously invented Nickelodeon Gak in his sophomore dorm room. Passersby walking through the Kirkland courtyard can still see the original chemical formula for the incredible, squishable, squashable, squeezable, stretchable, bounceable, ploppable, poppable stuff written in marker on the dorm room window in 1992. Legend has it that Abets, with the hope of inspiring future generations of college students, hid early prototypes of the Gak in the walls of the dorm room. This explains the green, cottage cheese-like discharge that trickles from the ceiling during the summer months.
The Lowell Spire:
Literally the spire on top of the Lowell bell-tower. This spacious 4.5 square-millimeter double is as comfortable as it gets, with an ergonomic Swedish design and an unparalleled view of the Lowell rooftop just a few feet below. The Lowell Spire is a campus favorite for hosting parties, being painfully and fatally impaled by a giant metal rod, and holding casual get-togethers with friends. Accordingly, former “Spirites” reflect on the markedly close bond that can only come from the shared experience of having one’s vital organs skewered by a decorative, tetanus-laden iron barb.

Sections
Wandering through the grounds of Cambridge Rindge and Latin School, Will H. MacArthur ’20 eagerly waves to friends and teachers. Though he only graduated from the high school last June, the native Cantabrigian, 18, hopes to soon have a hand in shaping the education of his former classmates.
Now a student two blocks down the street at Harvard, MacArthur is eyeing a return of sorts: He is planning to run for the Cambridge School Committee, a body that oversees school policies and budgets for the district of roughly 6,500 students.
If elected in November 2017, he would be the youngest school committee member by far. But MacArthur says that as a product of the Cambridge Public School systems and his year at Harvard, he has unique insight into the issues facing students today.
“I think it’s really helpful to be a student,” he says. “Even though I’m no longer a CRLS student, the mindset of being a student, I think, is definitely helpful for putting myself in the shoes of a lot of people.”
That philosophy is reflected not only in his own age but also in the team of high school and college students supporting him. Over the next few months, the campaign team will help MacArthur compete against a field of at least 10 candidates for six positions on the board.
Cambridge municipal elections are unique among American voting systems. School committee members are elected to serve two-year terms through the single transferable vote method. Cambridge uses ranked choice ballots combined with proportional representation to elect the members of Cambridge’s school committee and city council.
This system is familiar to MacArthur, who convinced the CRLS student government to adopt a similar voting method while he was in high school. He says he thought having a voting system that mirrored municipal elections would give the young people of Cambridge practical insight into the inner workings of local politics.
“I’m really into teaching people in Cambridge about our city and even just how it works,” MacArthur says. “When people learn about Cambridge, they’re generally excited about it.”
MacArthur’s passion for Cambridge does not blind him to its flaws. He says he is running for school committee, in part, to address concerns of racial and socioeconomic inequality in the district.
MacArthur says he thinks CPS needs to prioritize closing gaps in equity and opportunity within the district. For example, he remembers that, while a student at CRLS—the only public high school in Cambridge—he felt that there were not many students of color in advanced level classes.
“My primary focus is on Cambridge,” he says. “It’s been super interesting to see what’s working really well in the schools, what’s continuing to work well in the schools, what’s changing for the better and what’s changing for the worse.
Pointing to a billboard on the edge of the CRLS campus facing Cambridge St., MacArthur reads aloud three words featured on the sign: “Opportunity, Diversity, Respect.”
“Those are our three school goals and I think, as a district, we need to focus much more on how the three come together and how opportunities are distributed to everybody,” he says.
MacArthur says he has tried to connect with voters about their concerns over the last few months. He holds office hours every Friday where students, teachers, and community members have discussed a wide range of issues: everything from sports, to classes, to living in the Trump era.
“There’s definitely a gap to be bridged between people who are making decisions in the district and people who are feeling decisions in the district,” MacArthur says. “The times I’ve heard people say the most candid stuff is when I’m talking to people who don’t know I’m running for school committee.“
MacArthur is not taking off time from Harvard to run his campaign. But he says he plans to take a leave of absence if elected.
“The reason I’m not taking time off now to run is I think that what goes on inside the classroom is super interesting and informs what I’m doing with my campaign,” he says.
MacArthur says he intends to concentrate in either Sociology or Social Studies at Harvard and will eventually go into public service—a goal he says would be partly realized by winning a position on the Cambridge School Committee.
MacArthur says he has always wanted to give back to those around him.
“I’ve wanted to do something in public service for as long as I can remember,” he says. “That’s shifted somewhat from wanting to be a firefighter-astronaut, when I was five, to doing this right now.”
Sections
The letter was slipped under my door, delivered by an unseen hand at an unholy hour. My secretary woke me at the crack of four in the afternoon with the sharp retort of knuckles on wood. I bolted upright from my desk, jostling a half empty PBR can onto the floor and filling the room with the stale smell of cheap beer.
“Have you been to class this week?” my secretary asked, shaking his head disapprovingly. He pulled the shade up and dropped the letter onto my desk before taking his leave.
I shielded my eyes, and popped a CVS brand painkiller into my dry mouth. I had bought these with the last of my Crimson Cash from the strike. Funds were tight, but at least I wasn’t $2,000,000,000 in the hole, like our endowment.
It felt like a deaf man had taken up residence behind my eyes and was trying to learn how to play the drums, but at least I’d be starting the day with good news. Finally, the Bee Club had realized that I would make a fine addition to their circle of sisters. Well, not all good news. I would have to kiss my dreams of being a Rhodes Scholar lacrosse captain goodbye, but what were the odds of that anyway?
I slipped my knife out of my jacket and slit the letter open. Always carry a knife. You never know when the dining hall is going to run out. The handle of this particular number was Vrancean wood, a gift from Faust after I helped her out of that messy Romanian Forest deal.
Roger Bacon.
I flipped the paper over, looking for more, but that was it. Roger Bacon? Who the hell was Roger Bacon?
Maybe my secretary was right. I really should attend a lecture. But I smelled a case, and I’ve never know ol’ Benjamin G. “Diddy” Cort to turn down a case. I slipped my pal Magnum and his buddy Marlboro into my pocket and headed out the door. Where I was going, I’d need backup.
***
John was built like a bull, but he had the memory of an elephant. After I saw him manhandle a particularly persistent tourist last year, I liked to give him a wide berth. His face clouded over when he saw me coming towards him through the line. I think he likes to give me a wide berth, too.
Annenberg rang with the din of hungry masses. “Hey Sarah, how’s your mom’s leg?” John rattled off as he snatched an ID card from a reaching hand.
The dame—Sarah, I presumed—gaped. “What’s wrong with my mom’s leg?”
“Oh Sarah, you really should call home more,” John tutted. He swiped her card. I sidled up next to him. He turned to me. “What did I tell you last time I saw you?”
“Come on Johnny, you know that wasn’t my fault,” I replied. “How was I supposed to know that the Red Spice Killer was calling from inside the house?”
“I told you never to talk to me again,” he said, answering his own question. “Hey Carl, tough luck at that party Saturday. Let’s go for someone a little more in your league next time?” Carl went beet red as his friends tittered around him.
Freshmen. I scowled, pulling my lapels up over my ears as my head pounded.
“I know, Johnny, but you owe me, remember? After I roughed up those goons they sent to break up the strike?” I smiled my best smile. My ex tells me my best smile makes me look like a rabid squirrel. My mother says it makes me look like her little princess. It’s hard to know who to trust these days. “Look, all I want to know is who Roger Bacon is, and where I can find him.” I slipped a Marlboro from my jacket and handed it to him. “Come on Johnny, kid doesn’t even have a Facebook. You’re the only one who’d know.”
John relented, the fight going out of him like a Divest protester caught in a light shower. If you’re looking for somebody on this campus, John is your man. He knows everyone who passes through this hall, and most importantly, he loves to show off. He lit the cigarette and took a long drag. “Roger Bacon? Yeah I know him,” he said. “Junior year, Cabot House, Folk and Myth concentrator. Funny thing is, you’re not the first guy to come asking about him.” Oh? I leaned in close. “Last seen leaving Lamont, last Thursday, five in the morning.”
I thanked John and left him to his business. I don’t normally deal with Lamonsters, but maybe this one time I’d make an exception.
***
I hit the streets to do a little bit of leg work. I met my boy Steven Catalano behind the Mather HUPD station where he told me our friend Bacon wasn’t the first fellow to go ghost outside of Lamont this past week. He gave me four more names: Norton, Agrippa, Valentinus, and Becher. I called in a favor at the Registrar and bought myself five minutes to peek into their files while the secretary “went out for coffee.” This case was eating through my favors like a crooked cop through a box of donuts. But something had been hounding me ever since I got this letter: a discomfort lodged right at the tip of my spine. I had a feeling that I was onto something big, and I had only been wrong six and a half times before.
A quick peek confirmed what I had already suspected: The entire Folk and Myth Department had disappeared. All five of them. I checked the course catalog to see which course the professor was offering this semester. “From Lead to Gold: The Alchemists Through History.”
Before I could beat feet with what I’d learned, I felt a heavy hand fall onto my shoulder and squeeze me like a wet rag. “You’re in over your head this time, Cort,” a deep voice intoned, reverberating through my bones like the the T under Mass Ave. I gulped. Looks like he was right.
Will our hero make it out of the Registrar’s office alive? Which of Cort’s nefarious villains is behind this recent bout of kidnapping? What do they possibly intend to do with the entire Folk and Myth Department? And who wrote that letter!? Write in your answers to magazine@thecrimson.com and one lucky winner will be picked at the end of this scintillating story arc!
Sections
The subject line read: “Meet the Fall 2016 IOP Fellows in Kirkland.” Tom and Verena Conley, Kirkland’s beloved Faculty Deans, were hosting their semesterly dinner for the Institute of Politics’ incoming Resident Fellows. As always, they had reserved spots for undergraduates—the first Kirklanders to sign up would get to join the private reception.
Though most emails I receive over the Kirkland-Open listserv are met with a mindless “mark as read,” this one caught my eye. I had seen posters around campus: A New York Assemblyman—representing a district just 15 minutes away from my home—was one of the fellows. So was a widely respected U.S. Army General. As a Government concentrator interested in both local politics and foreign affairs, I paused at the sight of the subject line.
What did the general think of President Obama’s critics proposing a no-fly or no-bomb zone in Syria? How did the Assemblyman view corruption in Albany? I grew excited for the event, eager to tap into the collective wisdom of these two leaders.
A week later, I arrived at the reception. I was not seated next to the Assemblyman or the General. By the end of the night, I had not spoken to either of them. Instead, I was placed beside a Republican strategist, a deputy campaign manager who had worked for high-profile candidates. At the time, I didn’t know the impact this woman would have on my life.
As I recall, only three minutes passed before our conversation began to transcend normal niceties of food and names and weather. Over the next hour or so, we played a game of verbal ping-pong. Our differing viewpoints, positioned on opposite sides of a high net, swatted the ball back and forth as we debated the moral principles underlying a capitalist system, Jeffrey Goldberg’s take on the “Obama Doctrine,” and even whether the Government concentration was a worthy one.
Sometimes we would rally for awhile, but more often than not, the point would end with the strategist hitting a winner. She was quick—delivering returns before I was even back in the ready position—and skillful too, armed with a seemingly endless litany of historical examples and statistics for each topic.
At the end of the event, she told me her office was across the street from Kirkland on the first floor at the IOP—door always open. In retrospect, I suspect she was being courteous, anticipating that I might sign up for office hours at some point during the semester. I doubt she anticipated the frequency or intensity of our conversations to come. That Kirkland dinner was just the beginning.
Starting the following Monday, and for the entirety of the fall semester, I dropped in almost daily. The routine was predictable: I would lightly tap on her already open door and ask if she was busy or if I might come in, to which she would always reply: “Eh, it’s just work. Take a seat,” pointing to the chair across the room.
Sometimes we would discuss matters of the day: how then-Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump had racked up so much cable airtime or what then-President Obama might try to accomplish in his final months in office. More often than not, though, we debated fundamental policy issues: healthcare; campaign funding; gun control.
Name an issue, and I would kick out a hackneyed one-liner you might find on a liberal Democrat’s campaign website. She would push back, and, with that, the game would begin.
A few weeks into this routine, I realized something. To an outside observer, these conversations ostensibly might resemble that same game of verbal ping-pong that dominated our first dinner. But they were very different in nature. As I gained more and more respect for the strategist and became increasingly comfortable expressing my known unknowns—to borrow a Rumsfeldian phrase—we stopped clinging to our initial positions. Instead, we actually began talking about the issues.
When our defensiveness ceased, our conversations became more akin to skiing moguls than playing ping-pong. We would both start at the top of the same mountain. We would then proceed on different routes, traversing the topic’s theoretical moguls as they arose. We would end up at the bottom of the same slope—in different places, of course.
My focus shifted from trying to keep up with the speed of the debate to examining the strategist’s route: Why did she choose one path over another? How did she grapple with steep points along the way? Because I respected her—both as an interlocutor and as a person—it became more natural to dissect her argument and discuss its logical hinges than to demonize her stance.
Over time, I began to see that finishing a run at different outlets of a mountain implies neither that one skier is better than the other, nor that any one route is more legitimate. It simply implies a different experience.
Prioritizing values differently, we may not advocate for the same policies, but after hours debating back and forth, we can at least understand how and why we arrive at alternative conclusions.
And, as I became more comfortable with my own vulnerability in the exchanges, I could ask questions to which I didn’t know the answer. I started to use some of her argumentative strategies to better defend my own beliefs.
Four years ago, when I began my journey on FM, we ran an advice column: “Advice to Josh,” a column devoted to poking fun at hypothetical quandaries of a freshman boy. As I stare down the barrel of senior spring, reflecting on these experiences, I’ll venture to offer two pieces of my own unsolicited advice—to the reader and to my future self.
The first: Find your version of the strategist and keep your eyes open. Never underestimate when and how you will meet the next person who will influence you. Sure, it may be planned and prepped. But it may well be happenstance: a seating choice at a dinner pubbed on the Kirkland-Open list.
In bubbles, like the liberal Harvard one in which we circulate, it is easy to build echo chambers of positive feedback. It is harder to find and communicate with someone with whom you disagree to the core—but if you do, and if you invest in the relationship, the benefits will prove extraordinary.
The second: Consider the argument and not just the conclusion. Understanding how someone arrives at their ultimate position requires more effort and vulnerability than sending back a defense. The strategist helped me see that out of the very art of disagreement a great deal of knowledge and understanding can be created.
She shattered my naïve belief that my viewpoint is the only right or logical one. Let someone shatter that belief for you, too.
Sections
UPDATED: March 31, 2017 at 4:29 p.m.
Last year, a durable public toilet called the Portland Loo was installed on Massachusetts Ave. across from Johnston Gate. The toilet, designed with ventilated walls and other features to discourage drug use, was a result of a multi-year campaign by concerned Cambridge residents: After a series of opioid-related overdoses in the bathrooms of Christ Church Cambridge in 2012, the only publicly available toilets in Harvard Square were closed. For years, homeless people were left to use doorways and alleys.
This string of local overdoses is consistent with national trends. According to the Center for Disease Control and Prevention, over 33,000 people died from overdoses involving pain-relieving narcotics, known as opioids, in 2015. Of those, 1,751 were in Massachusetts. Opioid overdose is now the leading cause of accidental death in the US, exceeding death caused by car accidents. A Cambridge Public Health Department study in 2015 revealed that there were 7.3 fatal opioid-related overdoses per 100,000 people in the city.
These rates may be influenced by Cambridge’s proximity to Boston, which had 22.6 fatal overdoses per 100,000 people in 2015—a number far above the state average of 10.7.
This prevalence is reflected in the region’s landscape: Several miles from the Portland Loo in the South End of Boston winds the infamous “Methadone Mile,” a small stretch of Mass. Ave. home to many drug users, treatment centers, clinics, and homeless shelters. Here, the effects of the opioid epidemic are clear: People shoot up behind houses, throw needles into drains, and stumble visibly high in and out of buildings.
Boston Medical Center—the largest low-income hospital and busiest emergency center in New England—straddles a large part of Methadone Mile. However, with few wealthy patients, the Center receives relatively little philanthropic support. But on March 6, the hospital was gifted $25 million, the largest donation in its history, for the creation of a facility to treat substance-abuse disorders.
A couple miles north of Mass Ave. loom many of the pharmaceutical companies that heavily marketed opioids to physicians in the 1990s and early 2000s. A study published last month in the New England Journal of Medicine details the increase in opioid use today. The study finds that emergency care doctors in the same hospital varied by more than threefold when prescribing opioids.
“You expect to see variation in almost anything you do, but [the discrepancy in prescribing opioids] was more than what I was expecting,” says lead study author Michael Barnett, assistant professor at the Harvard School of Public Health and a Harvard Medical School instructor of medicine at Brigham and Women’s Hospital. “It was a real difference, no matter how you tried to control [the data].”
After only one prescription, patients who received opioids from more frequent prescribers were 30 percent more likely to become long-term users. “It’s almost a new chronic condition,” Barnett says.
Barnett ascribes this variation to unclear guidelines and protocol in prescribing opioids. “You’re just guessing. You have an informed opinion based on other patients of that age. Once you prescribe someone something, they’re out the door,” he says.
That ambiguity opens the possibility of selection bias. According to high-profile 2015 and 2017 studies by Princeton economist Anne Case and Nobel laureate Angus Deaton, rising death rates of middle-aged white men in the United States can be attributed in large part to the opioid epidemic. This demographic is more likely to be prescribed opioids in the first place. In contrast, studies have found that emergency room doctors consistently underestimate the pain of women and people of color, making them less likely to receive prescription opioids.
“Doctors have been prescribing an enormous amount of opiates,” says Barnett. “We’re dealing with the aftermath.”
For Barnett and his peers, the research has been “very practical” in combating the opioid epidemic. “Many ER physicians found it very valuable,” Barnett says, in part because opioid prescriptions are so integrated into physicians’ routines. “When someone comes in severe pain, it’s very easy to reach for an opioid.”
However, some people do not even get that far. “Many people are exposed to opioids without meeting a doctor at all,” Barnett says.  “A lot of the heroin epidemic has been fueled by not being able to afford prescription opioids.”
Somewhere between synthetic opiates—such as hydrocodone, oxycodone, and codeine, prescribed by doctors—and opium poppies is the street drug known as heroin. Pure heroin can be almost 100 times more powerful than its prescribed counterpart, morphine. In reality, the strength of each batch can vary widely; heroin is “cut” with baking soda, milk powder, caffeine, or quinine, and more recently, with the synthetic and cheaper fentanyl—50 times more potent than heroin alone.
Jeremy Warnick, director of community and media relations at Cambridge Police Department, says that “every minute counts” during a heroin overdose, especially when that heroin is laced with the deadly fentanyl.
“Generically there has been an increase in overdoses in Cambridge,” says Warnick. Overdose incidences cluster around Central Square and Harvard Square in almost Cambridge’s version of Methadone Mile. He attributes that clustering to the population density and resources of those areas.
“The Special Investigation Unit has historically been classified as our drug unit, [but] because of their experience in the drug side, they now also work with individuals after they overdose,” says Warnick. A detective from the SIU responds to every single overdose, if they are available, according to Warnick, as part of what he calls “an intervention and coaching strategy.”
The detective follows up with those individuals to assess their
needs, also providing them with a list of resources for overcoming addiction. “It’s not a jail approach, but a treatment approach,” he says. “[It’s] a new strategy that has been in place for about a year.”
“If that individual is willing to work with us,” Warnick continues, “we’ll refer them to a licensed social worker.” He notes cases where a detective has transported individuals to sober houses in Taunton, Cape Cod, and Worcester, if there are no beds available in Cambridge.
The department is also taking more “proactive” steps to combat the epidemic. “We are in the process of training all of our officers in administering Narcan,” Warnick says. Narcan contains an opiate antidote, naloxone, which sprayed in conjunction with CPR temporarily reverses an overdose. “By April, whoever is first on scene will be able to effectively administer it,” he says.
Warnick’s statement comes more than a year after the Cambridge City Council passed a resolution in support of two state bills allowing local police to administer the spray. According to Warnick, the department is also working with a group associated with the Massachusetts Institute of Technology to
disperse Narcan boxes throughout the city, which bystanders may administer with remote aid from 911 dispatchers.
Though the department’s “intervention and coaching strategy” seeks to help individuals who are “looking to get clean,” says Warnick, the SIU detective on scene is also told to direct those individuals to sources for harm reduction, like needle exchanges, which provide tourniquets, cotton swabs, bandages, and sterile needles.
The AIDS Action Committee Cambridge Needle Exchange—an unassuming brick building near the Central Square MBTA stop—is one such source. The Exchange was established after a 1993 Massachusetts law authorized 10 needle exchange pilot programs in the state. It seeks to reduce the transmission of infectious diseases and expose addicts to situations where they might seek help.
According to the National Institutes of Health, harm-reduction sites like the Cambridge Needle Exchange bridge the oft-ignored space between prevention and recovery. They lessen the harms associated with drug use as well as provide addicts with an entry into treatment.
“There is no heroin left in Boston,” declares Aubri Esters, a Narcan trainer and a homelessness and substance abuse educator. Esters goes on to discuss the low cost and shorter high of the more recent and popular diluent, fentanyl. It has the same effects as heroin, but dramatically increases the risk of overdose.
Around 30 young people sit in a semicircle at Esters’ feet. The event, hosted in The Democracy Center by the Harvard student group Trans* Task Force, is called “Fighting the Opioid Epidemic.” It is both a Narcan training and phone bank to lobby public officials.
As part of the training, Esters advises participants not to use the word “overdose” when talking to 911 dispatchers. In her experience, police respond slower to these calls, even though Massachusetts has a “Good Samaritan law” protecting those who overdose and those who report an overdose from charges of small possession, paraphernalia, and consumption. In response, Warnick says in an email that “other overdoses may be reported to EMS and/or fire, as police are not always alerted to respond as the call is often considered medical and not criminal in nature.” He reiterated that every call the department receives is addressed by a detective and patrol.
When the training ends, the phone bank begins. TTF is advocating for Massachusetts legislators to support a bill that would create safer consumption sites: medically equipped and supervised facilities for people to use drugs more safely. At this point, the crowd disperses, leaving 10-15 people—TTF members and local activists—on their cell phones, looking up the office numbers of state senators and representatives.
TTF member Lily M. Velona ’18 decided to organize the event because of the severity of the opioid crisis. “Anything that affects people more broadly affects trans people,” Velona says. Among other factors, barriers to accessing health care can increase risk of opioid addiction among transgender people. “A community training like this is an excellent way to arm the public with skills and to begin to fight the epidemic,” Velona says.
Velona believes that awareness of the many, intersecting risks of overdose is also an excellent weapon. During the Narcan training, participants discussed the oft-ignored risks of opioid use, including change in tolerance after release from prison or rehab, using alone, change in supply, and previous non-fatal overdoses.
For Velona, knowledge of the risks and causes of overdose is essential. In high school, Velona saw people begin to use opiates and not see it as connected to the epidemic due to varying methods of use. “They had seen the epidemic in such a classed way,” Velona says.  “I think it’s helpful that finally people are talking about it as an opioid epidemic rather than a heroin epidemic.”
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction.
CORRECTION: March 31, 2017
A previous version of this article misstated the name of the Cambridge Police Department's Special Investigations Unit. 
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard students, researchers, and professors are planning concurrent Marches for Science the morning of April 22, joining over 400 demonstrations around the world in support of continued role for science in public life.
According to their website, organizers of the March for Science intend for the rallies to “[demonstrate] our passion for science and [sound] a call to support and safeguard the scientific community.” The marches will take place on the Cambridge and Longwood campuses and make their way to Boston Common, where they will join a Boston rally, according to March organizer and Medical School research associate Ashley M. Ciulla.
“Scientists in particular are a group that’s generally very wary of speaking out politically and outside of a strict scientific context,” Ivan Kroupin, a graduate student organizing the Cambridge Campus March, said. “I think what the March for Science is doing is trying to get that going.”
A number of policies enacted under President Donald Trump have impacted Harvard’s researchers and science programs in recent months. At least three Medical School affiliates were barred from entering the United States due to Trump’s executive order suspending immigration from seven majority Muslim countries. In March, an University spokesperson criticized the White House’s proposed federal budget—which includes deep cuts to the Environmental Protection Agency and National Institutes of Health—as “unprecedented” and “devastating.”
Harvard Medical School Dean George Q. Daley ’82 will be the keynote speaker at the Longwood rally and Fidencio Saldana, dean of students at the Medical School, is slated to speak as well.
Medical School professor Thomas H. Michel ’77, who said he plans to attend the Longwood March, said he believes the demonstration will highlight “the importance of science in keeping America great.”
Hazar H. Khidir, a Medical School student and organizer of the Longwood March, said that researchers at the schools felt “galvanized” and “motivated” by recent events.
“Our goal is to convey that we are all standing together in solidarity, and that we are engaged and we want to make a statement that these issues matter to us,” she said.
Khidir, who wrote an op-ed in The Crimson in February urging the United States to accept more refugees, said that the mission of the March was to “raise our voice in opposition to the current climate not just towards immigrants, but towards research and science.”
Noah A. Haber, a student organizer at the School of Public Health, said the use of science and evidence in the government is hitting “an all-time-low” and scientists are “pushing back against that dip” as a result.
“Traditionally the scientist is someone who is supposed to stay idle and is very objective,” Haber said. “However, the actions, words, and indications have been so severe that many of us are breaking out of those roles and taking a much more public position.”
Vincent H. Lin ’18, a Molecular and Cellular Biology concentrator and organizer of the Cambridge March, said that the support of undergraduates from Harvard—one of the biggest research centers in the world—is “especially important.”
“I think the March is also a foundation which we can move forward with further advocacy work around science and defending science as a pillar of society,” Lin said. “I think this March is just the beginning of grassroots organizing.”
—Staff writer Akshitha Ramachandran can be reached at akshitha.ramachandran@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @aramachandran13.
—Staff writer William L. Wang can be reached at william.wang@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @wlwang20.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
UPDATED: March 31, 2017 at 12:27 p.m.
Experts from across the United States spoke at the Institute of Politics Wednesday evening to discuss how to best respond to the growing opioid and prescription drug crisis, which caused tens of thousands of overdose deaths in 2015 and 2016.
Former Vermont Governor Peter E. Shumlin joined former Customs and Border Protection commissioner R. Gil Kerlikowske and STAT News reporter David T. Armstrong to focus on the opioid crisis in Vermont and nationwide.
Sheila P. Burke, an adjunct lecturer at the Kennedy School who moderated the panel, noted that overdose deaths from opiates and prescription drugs was nearly four times greater than deaths by gun violence. She also pointed out that consequences from the opioid crisis reverberate through the healthcare and criminal justice systems.
“Substance abuse and substance abuse disorders...are estimated to cost somewhere around $400 billion a year in this country, in healthcare costs, in lost productivity, in our criminal justice system,” she said.
Shumlin said he was so troubled by the crisis that he devoted his 2014 “state of the state” address to informing Vermont residents about opioid abuse. To help reduce substance abuse in the state, Shumlin said he initiated a switch from imprisoning drug users to treating their addictions, and released non-violent offenders from Vermont’s prisons.
“I can send folks to Harvard for less than it would cost to put you in one of my prisons for a year,” Shumlin said.
In Mass., government officials found that opioid-related deaths occurred in nearly two-thirds of cities across the state.
Both Shumlin and Armstrong spoke about the origins of the opioid crisis, which began with pharmaceutical companies selling patients the drugs and failing to inform them of their addictive and harmful effects.
“This is the least excusable disease in America, because this is self inflicted… stop passing out OxyContin and other painkillers like candy, stop,” Shumlin said.
Armstrong said he reported on pharmaceuticals’ marketing strategies, and found that the companies often concealed that the drugs were dangerous.
“One of the things we did at STAT was go to court, in Kentucky and West Virginia, to unseal secret records about the marketing of OxyContin,” he said. “Purdue Pharma settled nearly every case... with confidentiality and secrecy agreements that did not allow access to the records of how this drug was not only marketed but how it was studied.”
—Staff writer Lucas Ward can be reached at lucas.ward@thecrimson.com. Follow him on twitter at @LucaspfWard.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
UPDATED: March 31, 2017 at 1:56 a.m.  MIT Economics professor Heidi L. Williams explored the economic incentives behind cancer research in a lecture Wednesday.
Williams’s research examines patents in the pharmaceutical industry. She found that private institutions are more likely to invest in research for later-stage cancers, whereas public entities invest in a broader spectrum of disease.
She added on Wednesday that while some of the disparity in research funding could be from challenges in studying some forms of the disease, the economic incentives of studying different stages of the disease could also account for the large amount of research being conducted for late stage cancers.
“On the margin, could that reflect not just the scientific challenge of different areas, but could that actually reflect the structure of economic incentives that we have provided for people who deal with this kind of research?” Williams said.
She also noted that cheaper and quicker clinical trials are needed to meet the U.S. Food and Drug Administration’s standards for late-stage cancer drug approval, because patients’ life expectancies are much lower.
“If you have a very sick group of patients that’s going to die very quickly, just the very simple economics between the power calculations, that is that you’re going to need a relatively short clinical trial in order to be able to show a statistically significant difference in your outcomes between your treatment and your control group,” Williams said.
Williams said patent processes in the United States also make clinical trials more effective for pharmaceutical companies—since drug patents are typically for 20 years, shorter clinical trials allow for more time before other companies can produce competing drugs.
“For one cohort of cancer patients that was diagnosed in the US since 2003, what would be the value of additional life that is generated for them if we had had short term trials, and you get a number of about $89 billion,” Williams said.
“We don’t take this number particularly seriously.  I think that this number is more saying, I think this is a big enough distortion that it’s worth thinking about policies that are going to change this,” she added.
Harvard’s Economics department—which is aiming to address its lack of female faculty—is currently looking to recruit Williams.
Economics chair David I. Laibson said earlier this month that he is excited at the prospect of Williams coming to Harvard, and called her a “brilliant scholar.”
Andrew L. Garin, a Harvard graduate student who attended Williams’s talk, said he found her work “ extremely important.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
As Harvard aims to reinvigorate social life in undergraduate Houses, the very off-campus groups whose influence the College hopes to minimize have started taking advantage of the relaxed rules for hosting events in common spaces.
On Friday, members of Harvard’s chapter of Kappa Kappa Gamma, a sorority, held a social event in Mather House’s Junior Common Room. Donning wigs in accordance with the party’s theme, several dozen women and their dates poured through Mather courtyard to dance the night away.
But because the College does not recognize Harvard’s final clubs and Greek organizations, Houses do not permit them to register parties in public House spaces.
“We prefer not to offer facilities, as per the College policy, for non-recognized groups,” Mather House Faculty Dean Michael D. Rosengarten said.
 Rosengarten said the House administration became “very aware” of the party after it had occurred.
“I don’t know the specifics of [the party], all I know is that they didn’t clean up afterward,” Rosengarten said, adding that the responsible persons had since apologized.
Sally C. Marsh ’18, president of Harvard’s Kappa Kappa Gamma chapter, declined to comment.
Unrecognized single-gender social organizations, especially Greek organizations, are no stranger to holding parties on campus. Private residential rooms in upperclassmen Houses have long been used as venues for parties, especially by the multiple female final clubs and Greek organizations that do not own property.
But as Harvard has ramped up pressure on single-gender social organizations, some have slipped through the College's tightening grip to find use newly available locations to host their events. In Houses like Mather and Cabot House, for example, students can book parties just minutes in advance. Other large House spaces like the Currier House “Treehouse” and Pforzheimer House “Igloo” are frequently used to host large parties.
Rosengarten said that Mather’s room reservation system allowed students living in Mather to reserve communal spaces for their friend groups, as well as recognized student groups, as long as “a Mather person… takes charge.”
Last September, Adams opened the “K Space,” and started allowing residents to book the space to host parties.
“This is something we have been trying to do for probably five years, to find more spaces where people can have more events in the houses," Adams House Faculty Dean John G. “Sean” Palfrey '67 said.
And in early February, members of the Owl Club and Kappa used the venue to hold a mixer. Kevin D. Rex ’17, undergraduate president of the Owl, declined to comment about the event.
Palfrey said that he was not aware of February’s event, though he would not necessarily have been notified if others in the House had concerns.
“That would not have been allowed,” Palfrey said. “Whoever got permission to use the K Space, they might have been somebody in the club, but they didn’t acknowledge that.”
Palfrey said the House has encountered problems when the host of a party does not live in the room being used, citing accountability and safety issues.
“We have also have had a couple of problems with rooms, that say ‘oh, I’ll allow you to host your party in my room’, and then things get out of hand because they don’t know the rules and don’t understand what it means to take responsibility for their guests,” Palfrey said.
In general, though, Rosengarten said he hopes to bring students back into the Houses for their parties.
“A lot of students have been going outside of the college for parties and events, and I think we all feel the same way, that it would be better if they were here—it’d be safer,” Rosengarten said.  “Our goal has always been to have as many parties here as possible. We’ve eased a lot of restrictions on our parties.”
—Staff writer Graham W. Bishai can be reached at graham.bishai@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @GrahamBishai.
—Staff writer Derek G. Xiao can be reached at derek.xiao@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @derekgxiao.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
History of Science professor Naomi Oreskes implored scientists to take political action on issues like climate change during a lecture Wednesday in Science Center B.
Oreskes, who specializes in the history of environmental science, described several instances of historic intervention by scientists in issues of political importance such as the nuclear arms race and the Clean Air Act. Oreskes argued that scientists today have a responsibility to speak out about climate change because of their proximate expertise on the topic.
“It is our responsibility because we are best able to do so,” Oreskes said. “We need to speak because facts don’t actually speak for themselves.”
Oreskes said scientists are often wary of being viewed as less credible both inside and outside of the scientific community when their work becomes associated with political debates.
“The fear of losing scientific credibility is exactly that: fear,” she said, adding that she thinks this fear is unfounded.
During a question and answer session after the lecture, Andy A. Zucker ’67 said he had noticed several notable scientists advocating for policies to combat climate change already.
“Many climate scientists are speaking out,” Zucker said. “It isn’t clear to me what difference that is making.”
In response, Oreskes said that more of the “over ten thousand climate scientists” could speak out and create change, particularly if those voices included a greater diversity of religious and political backgrounds.
Additionally, she pointed to three trends she said prevented public officials from acting on scientific findings: political beliefs, economic interests, and values. She said these trends “question the science and attack the scientists.” Specifically, she said American fear of losing personal freedoms, skepticism of the federal government, and wariness of higher taxes create a distrust of scientific facts.
“Freedom is important, but so are so many other things. In the long run, climate change deniers are not protecting our freedom, they are threatening it,” she said.
Oreskes also urged scientists to challenge the assertion that climate change would require bigger government or higher taxes. Oreskes lecture comes days after President Donald Trump signed an executive order reversing the Obama administration’s Clean Power Plan.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
It was the spring of 2008, and Faculty of Arts and Sciences Dean Michael D. Smith’s task was cut out for him: renovate several of Harvard’s nearly 100-year-old Houses. The homes of thousands of undergraduates at Harvard, many of the Houses were built in the 1930s and had not been significantly improved since.
By 2008, though, Smith and other Harvard administrators felt it was time to give Harvard’s signature housing system a face lift. The project, called House renewal, was set to renovate each of the 12 Houses and “reimagine” the undergraduate experience.
But that process has proved easier to imagine than to execute. Between an underperforming endowment, dwindling financial reserves, cumbersome architectural regulations, and lukewarm support from donors,  the project—now in its ninth year—is shifting gears as construction on Lowell House is set to begin this summer.
Facing these barriers, the University has started to take new steps to finance the project, including incurring debt earlier than initially planned. In the final stretch of its capital campaign, which has raised more than $7 billion, the University has made the House renewal a fundraising priority as it lags behind its other goals. These issues have forced administrators to recalibrate their strategy.
“Shifting from a set annual construction schedule to one tied to the successful achievement of House-level philanthropic goals is recommended,” a 2015 report on the House renewal project read.
Overall, the project has posed a challenge to FAS administrators who must complete it.
“We’re into the projects now that are quite expensive and we’re not getting $100 million dollar gifts,” Smith said.
Uneven Ground
Smith tasked a planning committee with examining all aspects of House life in 2008 to prepare for House renewal, and what he found was troubling.
“There was, ten years ago, a lot more variability in the funds available to individual faculty deans to run the programs within their Houses, which created differences between the Houses that were not really honestly defendable,” Smith said.
Inequities between the Houses were significant. Certain Houses, especially the older residences on the banks of the Charles, generally have larger House Committee budgets, partially due to individual House endowments made possible by past donations.

“Just because historically one House got a big donation at one point and another one didn’t, House life shouldn’t be different between one House and the next House,” Smith said. “We started changing the way the College would distribute money across the Houses and took into account the fact that some Houses might have   programming and others won’t.”
Aside from differences in funding, the administration was also acutely aware of an uneven landscape of accessibility across campus. The Accessible Education Office lists wheelchair-accessible social spaces in the Houses online, and River West Houses—Kirkland, Eliot, and pre-renovation Winthrop—had no spaces listed.
The fiscal disparity in House programming, along with necessary accessibility upgrades, were part of the impetus for House renewal in its early days, according to Smith. A steering committee was created to begin drafting plans for renovations following Smith’s investigative task force.
But then the financial crisis hit Harvard, and the size of the endowment plunged by almost $10 billion in a single year. As hot breakfast in the Houses was cut and construction in Allston stalled because of a lack of funds, Harvard remained committed to the House renewal project.
So far, the progress has been relatively steady. Following the smaller renovations of Quincy’s Stone Hall in 2013 and Leverett’s McKinlock Hall in 2014, more extensive projects began.
The full renovation of Dunster House was completed in time for students to re-enter in the fall of 2015 and a fully renovated Winthrop House is on schedule to open in the fall of 2017. Lowell House will begin in the summer of 2017 and is slated to be completed in the fall of 2019.
But the current plans for future renovations stop with Lowell, the most complicated renovation yet. Despite surveying both Kirkland House and Eliot House for possible renovation in 2014, administrators have been reluctant to reveal the next Houses scheduled for a makeover.
“We haven’t ever announced here’s the entire sequence of it because it depended on the financing and everything else from when the House is actually ready,” Smith said. “We don’t actually have an announcement at this time about what House will follow Lowell.”
'It's Gifts and It's Debt'
While FAS is working to raise $400 million for House renewal during its capital campaign, the magnitude and difficulty of funding the project remains much larger, with a price tag in excess of $1 billion.
Following the 2015 completion of Dunster House, Harvard’s most ambitious House renewal project yet, administrators commissioned a report on the progress of the project thus far. Released in May of 2016, the report provided the closest look at the financing of the project yet.
The picture was not entirely rosy. Under financial pressure, Harvard had started decapping—or liquidating—funds in the endowment for the project, a relatively expensive measure.
“Decapitalizations taken to date will remove approximately $25 million of available cash from the FAS operating budget by the conclusion of the Program,” according to the report.
Without cash—FAS has no more cash reserves—and grappling with a struggling endowment, Smith said he is left with only two funding sources to finance Lowell: donations and debt.
“I don’t have any reserves anymore and we’re not decapping anything from the endowment in the FAS to fund this part of this,” Smith said. “So it’s gifts and it’s debt that will fund Lowell.”
Smith declined to provide the exact percentage of Lowell that will be funded by debt, though he deemed the total “quite a bit”.
More recently, the endowment’s poor performance—Harvard Management Company returned negative 2 percent in fiscal year 2016—has further limited funds available to FAS administrators. About half of the FAS operating budget comes from endowment distributions determined by the Corporation.
“It only comes to us in prescribed amounts,” FAS dean for administration and finance Leslie Kirwan said, referring to endowment dollars. “And then, because it’s fully programmed into our budget, there’s not extra money.”
'How Do You Do It?'
On top of the difficulties Harvard finding funds for the project, several factors have complicated and raised costs beyond a more typical renovation project.
According to the report, skyrocketing costs of construction drive up the price tag of renovations by 5 to 7 percent a year, not an insignificant amount for a project costing hundreds of millions of dollars.
“Rising construction costs in the Boston market are an issue we identified early on and have continued to monitor closely,” Merle Bicknell, assistant dean for FAS physical resources, wrote in an email. “We’ve had to account for these increased costs in our financial planning and fundraising, which has been very difficult.”
Furthermore, the status of many Houses on the National Register of Historic Places includes cost-increasing stipulations for construction projects, including the preservation of the exterior.
“Just to be concrete about this, I’m not allowed to change the outside of the Houses. They’re historic, especially the Neo-Georgians,” Smith said.
Eliot, Kirkland, Winthrop, Lowell, Quincy’s Stone Hall, Dunster, and Leverett’s McKinlock Hall are all historically protected. Preserving historical standards while conducting major modernization projects is anything but simple.
“If you want to punch a hole through the roof of a historic building, how do you do it?” Smith said.
Harvard must also make the Houses, which were built well before more modern building codes were in place, accessible. The Massachusetts Architectural Access Board requires that five percent of suites, bedrooms, and bathrooms—which cannot be isolated in one area of a building and must be spread around a House—comply with accessibility laws.
“Lowell’s first floor, the number of elevation changes just on the first floor I think is like fourteen,” Smith said. “So you can imagine just how difficult it is to think through these. Our current spaces are not accessible in the ways we like to see it today.”
'Are We Going to Change the Name of Winthrop?'
Even as philanthropy has become one of the primary methods of funding House renewal beyond incurring debt, Harvard has yet to reach its fundraising goal for that category.
Donors say that House renewal is not as exciting as some other priorities.
In an interview in April of last year, Gerald R. Jordan ’61—who has donated tens of millions of dollars to the University—said donors are not enthused by renewal since Harvard is unlikely to rename Houses for donors.
“Are we going to change the name of Winthrop House? I suspect it could probably become the Winthrop-Jordan House or something, but I suspect it won’t happen,” Jordan said.
Peter L. Malkin ’55, for whom the Malkin Athletic Center is named, said that donors tend to want to donate towards House renewal projects as they happen.
“As the work began in Dunster, money began to come in for Dunster,” Malkin said.“It is not realistic to expect that someone would give money for part of the cost of his or her House when that work would not start for six or seven years, or maybe more.”
Smith has recently been doling out recognition for donors in Houses not immediately affected by the current projects as a way to interest a wider set of alumni in the project.
“We differently did the recognition,” Smith said. “You can be an alum of a House and you really want the recognition too be in a particular House and we’ll give you that recognition even though I might have used the donation for a completely different House.”
Typically, major donations have aligned with a House’s renovation. The University announced a new hall in Winthrop would be named after donor Robert M. Beren ’47 in January of 2016, as the project was set to commence months later, for example.
The University also announced earlier this month that a wing of Lowell would be renamed Otto Hall after a major gift by German billionaire Alexander Otto ’90. Construction on Lowell will begin this summer.
“I’m very optimistic ultimately it will reach its goal,” Otto said of the project in an interview with The Crimson. Otto said his memories of House life prompted to donate to House Renewal.
“I think you have to have been there to really appreciate how important life in the House is,” Otto said. “And of course I can understand that others really concentrate more on supporting a specialty in certain academic areas, or research, or professorships, but for me the housing was really particularly important.”
Although Otto’s name will be on a Lowell building, the undisclosed sum of his donation will support the entire renewal project.
Paul A. Buttenwieser ’60, who has donated to the past few capital campaigns, said administrators will approach donors based on their particular interests.
“Their major job is to run Harvard, but in their fundraising capacity, their job is to get to know people. And to bring them in on the work that’s being done,” Buttenwieser said. “It’s not like you go and fill out a questionnaire, ‘What are your interests?’”
Despite the challenges, Smith said he’s optimistic about the future of the project.
“We’re not going to give up, though, on fundraising for House renewal moving forward,” Smith said. “The good thing is, this will not be a surprise to them among that base.”
Buttenwieser certainly is not surprised.
“Harvard wrote the book on fundraising,” he said with a laugh. “They know how it’s done.”
—Staff writer Joshua J. Florence can be reached at joshua.florence@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @JoshuaFlorence1.
—Staff writer Leah S. Yared can be reached at leah.yared@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @Leah_Yared.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
UPDATED: April 2, 2017 at 10:05 p.m. 
Chanting “Trans lives matter!” and “Stand up, Fight back!”, roughly 30 Harvard students and Cambridge residents protested the arrival of an anti-transgender “free speech” bus on Harvard’s campus Thursday afternoon.
The bus, co-sponsored by various conservative action groups including the National Organization for Marriage, is touring East Coast cities as part of a campaign to promote “a renewed policy debate [on transgender issues] that tries to accommodate for everyone,” according to Joseph Grabowski, director of communications for the National Organization for Marriage.
Reaching campus around 1 p.m., the bus parked at the intersection of Massachusetts Ave. and Garden St.—across the street from Harvard Hall—where it remained for just under an hour. The protesters gathered to await the vehicle’s arrival, some holding rainbow flags and raising signs reading “Trans is beautiful.”
Featured prominently on the side of the bus, in bold letters, are the words: “It’s Biology: Boys are boys… and always will be. Girls are girls… and always will be. You can’t change sex.”
On Thursday, protesters scrawled in permanent marker over the bus’s lettering with the words “HATE SPEECH BUS,” as well as, “Hate is not welcome here.”
When Grabowski disembarked from the bus, demonstrators crowded around him, making explicit gestures and attempting to drape a rainbow pride flag over his shoulders.
“Unfortunately, it’s a very one-sided policy debate right now because of the fact that the noisy minority has been able to shout down the other side,” Grabowski said to protest.
In an interview earlier this week, Grabowski said he hoped to have “a reasonable discussion” with students at Harvard. Surrounded by demonstrators Thursday, Grabowski said this was unlikely to happen, adding it was now up to “policymakers,” instead of students, to continue the conversation.
While the bus remained parked near Harvard Hall, students and administrators from the Office of BGLTQ Student Life gathered in the Science Center Plaza to hang a banner reading “Trans Lives Matter.” Equipped with markers, BGLTQ Office staffers remained in the Plaza for roughly two hours, inviting anyone who walked by to add their name to the sign.
Over the course of the afternoon, scores of passersby—including Harvard students and faculty—signed the banner and wrote short messages of support.
“ALL the LOVE,” wrote Harvard lecturer Caroline Light, who serves as the director of undergraduate studies for Harvard’s Women, Gender, and Sexuality program.
The bus stopped at the Massachusetts State House in Boston Thursday morning before driving into Cambridge. At 12:30 p.m. Thursday, Boston Mayor Martin J. Walsh raised the transgender flag on City Hall Plaza “in response” to the vehicle’s arrival, according to a City of Boston press release.
Harvard administrators also took steps to prepare for the bus’s visit earlier this week. The Office of BGLTQ Student Life held a “Trans Lives Matter” banner signing event Tuesday, and office director Sheehan D. Scarborough ’07 sent BGLTQ undergraduates an emailed “Message of Support” Sunday.
—Staff writer Hannah Natanson can be reached at hannah.natanson@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @hannah_natanson.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Harvard baseball team has not held up the Ivy League Championship trophy since 2005. With a winning record heading into conference play, the Crimson is prepared more than ever to break this drought.
“We are a pretty young group, but are starting to piece things together,” freshman pitcher JT Bernard said. “We are figuring out our identity as a team and are ready to take on the Ivy League.”
Harvard (10-8) will head to New York on Saturday for a doubleheader with Columbia before taking I-95 down to Philadelphia for a twinbill with Penn the following day. The games against the Lions (3-13) and Quakers (9-9) will mark the northernmost ballparks Harvard has played in this season.
Fresh off a four-game series in which Harvard took the final three contests against Army, the Crimson heads into the weekend having scored a total of 46 runs over the past four games. In this span, Harvard totaled 54 hits and allowed an average of just five runs per game.
“Getting in a lot of runs gave our team great confidence during the weekend,” captain Josh Ellis said. “The pitchers also benefitted off their strong performance.”
Offensively, these numbers are a step in the right direction for a team that struggled earlier in the season to put runs on the board. As a team, the Crimson is hitting .262. The team scored three or fewer runs in six of its first 14 games before the 46 last weekend.
Several key contributors for Harvard are entering conference play on hot streaks. Sophomore first baseman Patrick McColl tallied five RBIs on Sunday, highlighted by a home run in the final matchup with the Black Knights.
Sunday’s doubleheader also saw sophomore outfielder Patrick Robinson and senior shortstop Drew Reid collect five hits each. For his performance last weekend, Robinson was named Ivy League Player of the Week. He enters Ivy League play leading the conference in batting average, on-base percentage, and slugging percentage.
However, the Crimson will need to make sure that it stays fresh after a relatively long layoff between games. With Wednesday’s home matchup against Holy Cross canceled, Harvard will need to adjust to a week of relatively poor practice weather to be fully prepared for the Lions on Saturday. The Crimson’s sole loss out of four games to Army came on the first game, so jumping on live pitching early will be critical for Harvard’s success.
“We are coming back strong offensively and defensively after a long break,” Bernard said. “Our freshman arms are really starting to come into their own.”
Harvard’s pitching is led by sophomore Kevin Stone, who has a team-high three wins, and junior Ian Miller, who holds a 2.90 ERA. The Crimson’s four freshman arms have combined for 34 and a third innings this season.
Of the two opponents, Columbia has had more struggles in nonconference play. Having a team earned run average of 6.70 and a .237, batting average the Lions have struggled to consistently pick up clutch hits and limit its opponents on offense.
However, Columbia has rebounded from an 0-10 start by splitting its last six contests. In Ivy League play a year ago, the Lions went 10-10, good enough for a second-place tie with Penn in the Lou Gehrig Division.
Columbia’s two biggest weapons this season are junior infielder Randell Kanemaru, who is hitting .373 with 19 hits and 10 RBIs, and sophomore outfielder Ben Porter, who holds a .313 batting average with 20 hits and 12 RBIs to date.
In Penn, Harvard faces a tougher pitching matchup, with two Quaker starters holding ERAs under 2.00. Senior righthander Jake Cousins and senior lefthander Mike Reitcheck have each pitched more than 25 innings on the season and have two wins apiece.
The Crimson will need to pay attention to Penn’s offensive leader, sophomore infielder Sean Phelan. His .420 on-base percentage is far and away the highest on the team, and the Devon, Pa. native leads the team in hits.
The Quakers are currently riding a seven-game winning streak, so Harvard will need to find ways to control the Penn’s high-powered offense and skilled pitching. During the seven-game win streak, the Quakers have outscored their opponents, 42-23. With 20 of its 24 games coming against conference foes, the Crimson can largely throw its nonconference success out the window.
“It’s been a fun group to be around,” Ellis said. “I think this is something that is pretty unique to this team and it has been a fantastic experience so far.”
—Contributing writer Henry Zhu can be reached at hzhu@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered

On a chilly night at Harvard Stadium, the Harvard men’s lacrosse team narrowly suffered a 15-13 loss to No. 8 Albany. Having dropped four of its last five, the Crimson must rekindle its initial momentum, as the team chugs into the heart of its Ivy League schedule next weekend.
“The team gave an outstanding effort,” Harvard coach Chris Wojcik said. “I thought we had a great competitive spirit. We fought and really hustled throughout the 60 minutes. We certainly gave our all, and made a number of plays, but you've got to credit Albany—they're an excellent team. Overall, the way the team came out, and as hard as we played, there's a lot of positives to build on. We played as hard as we have all year. I saw the team coming together and really fighting for each other and having each other's back. I thought it was great to see.”
Harvard put up a valiant effort against one of the nation’s top squads. The Great Danes (7-1, 2-0 America East Conference) struggled to separate from a pesky Crimson bunch (5-4, 1-1 Ivy League), as the back-and-forth battle featured six ties, and neither team ever held a lead greater than two.
With 4:57 left to play, junior midfielder Joe Lang fired home his second goal of the night to bring the Crimson within one. However, losing all five crucial faceoffs in the fourth quarter derailed Harvard's comeback attempt. Albany's Jakob Patterson scored the final goal of the game—his third of the night—with 3:37 remaining to give the Great Danes a two-goal cushion which they would carry to the buzzer.
“The offense has been battling for us,” tri-captain Ryan Norton said. “But defensively we had to do a little more, and we just couldn't get it done. In the past couple games, we went down, you didn't see the fight that we had today−really believing we were going to win in the fourth quarter, but obviously we didn't put it together in the end there.”
Albany's high-powered offense entered the game averaging 16.5 goals per game, the highest total in college lacrosse. Harvard held the guests to 15, which was the team’s second-lowest mark of the season and the lowest since the Great Danes dropped their season opener at No. 4 Syracuse, 10-9. Albany had scored 17 or more goals in each of its past six contests.
Despite its faceoff woes, Harvard came up with 22 stops on Wednesday, retaining possession the hard way, and staying within arm’s length the whole night. Those stops were, in large part, due to the strong play of junior goalie Robert Shaw, who has recorded a save percentage above 50 percent in all but two games this season.
In games in which Shaw has played all 60 minutes (eight of his team’s nine contests), opposing goaltenders have tallied more saves than him just once. The Canton, Mass. native made four critical saves, including two on the doorstep, in the fourth quarter to keep Harvard's hopes alive. Shaw and company limited Albany's Connor Fields, who leads the nation in scoring with 4.28 goals per game, to just one tally on the evening.
The Crimson held the lead twice in the first half behind three goals from its offensive stalwart, junior attackman Morgan Cheek. He notched his seventh hat trick of the season with 5:38 to play in the second quarter. Fellow linemate and classmate, Tim Edmonds, recorded his first multi-goal game of the season, capturing a hat trick of his own.
Harvard's curse at the faceoff X reared its ugly head once again on Wednesday. At times this season, Harvard's opponents have found themselves playing make-it-take-it, and Wednesday's 18.75 winning percentage in faceoffs was rock-bottom for the Crimson. The 6-for-32 effort dipped the Crimson's average to 37.3 percent on the season, the lowest faceoff percentage a Wojcik team has had since he ascended to the helm nearly seven years ago. Winning and faceoff percentage are certainly correlated, evidenced by Harvard’s 31.3 percent clip over the past five games after posting a 45.4 percent mark in its four wins to start the season.
“We'll keep doing what we do−throwing, catching, ground balls, offense and defense, riding, and clearing,” Wojcik said. “So, there's nothing we're going to really change other than just trying to get better each day. I think that was a really well played game by both teams, and Albany just made a couple more plays.”
—Staff writer Will V. Robbins can be reached at will.robbins@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Although we know the answer’s simple, every year, cross-admits stress over picking the correct school for them—Harvard or Yale. Although 61% of students wind up going Crimson, Flyby is here to convince that pesky future 39% to ditch the Bulldogs and make the best decision of their lives. This one goes out to all future Harvard students and any current Harvard students that just need a reminder of how good they’ve got it here in Cambridge.
Bigger (Endowment) Is BetterLet’s just say, Harvard’s got a little cash. And by a little, we mean approximately $35 billion. This makes Harvard the most well-funded university in the world. Yale, on the other hand, has merely a 25.4 billion dollar endowment. Contrary to what our friend Notorious B.I.G has claimed, mo’ money means fewer problems. Because of Harvard’s fat wallet, we have the best financial aid in the Ivy League. We also get super cool facilities and amenities including museums with relevant exhibits, an extensive library system (we have a book made with human skin, you think Yale has that? No.), and incredible professors doing some bomb research.
We Come Out on TopIgnoring a tragic glitch in the universal matrix during 2016’s Harvard-Yale Game, Harvard consistently prevails where it matters. In every ~relevant~ university ranking, Harvard is ranked ahead of Yale. Our academics are better, in literally every subject. You want to be a doctor? Yup, better than Yale. Want to be a hedge fund manager or capital investor? We’re drowning in those! Want to study Slavic literature? There’s no specific data for this one but I can guarantee our literature is the most Slavic. Harvard usually crushes Yale in football (2016 didn’t even happen, okay?), Harvard Hockey claimed 2017’s Beanpot Championship, and we won all the events in the Harvard/Yale Regatta last year. Harvard is clearly a school for winners, and if you're applying to Ivy League schools, it's safe to assume you want to be a winner.
The Little ThingsAt the end of the day, it’s all the small details that make Harvard 400 times better than Yale could ever hope to be. Harvard’s location takes the cake—don’t risk getting mugged in New Haven when you can stroll through the Square in lovely Cambridge, Massachusetts (home to The World’s Only Curious George store). Harvard’s responsible for educating some of the most memorable presidents, including Obama, FDR, and JFK. Remind us what Gerald Ford or George Bush did again, Yale? Pop culture seems to like us too since iconic movies like The Social Network, Good Will Hunting, and Legally Blonde are about our lovely school and you can even buy Harvard pajamas at Forever 21. Harvard is considered the first institution of higher learning in the United States, while Yale followed in our footsteps, coming third. Constantly in our shadow, Yale wants to be us so badly, they even copied our mumps outbreak.
As is blatantly obvious, Harvard is the better choice. We have a bumping meme page, John brightening our days in Annenberg, and a fine array of Mexican eateries in the Square. Harvard is our home, and we hope you’ll make it yours too if you get accepted when admissions decisions are released.
