News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Dean of Undergraduate Education Jay M. Harris will step down at the end of the academic year after almost a decade in one of the College’s top administrative positions, Dean of the College Rakesh Khurana announced in an email sent to undergraduates Monday.
“I write today to share the news that, after a decade of outstanding leadership as Dean of Undergraduate Education, Jay Harris has decided to step down at the end of this academic year,” Khurana wrote.
Harris was the first to hold the position after the College restructured its leadership hierarchy. While the College used to be co-led by both a Dean of the College and a Dean of Undergraduate Education, the position was consolidated in 2003. Harris was the first to hold the new Undergraduate Education deanship, which is now situated under the Dean of the College.
An internal search for Harris’s successor is beginning now, Khurana told undergraduates in his email. Khurana said he would appoint a Faculty Advisory Committee, which will include students, in the weeks ahead.
Harris, who has held the position since 2008, oversaw significant changes to academics at the College, including the 2009 introduction of the Program in General Education and its recently completed revamp. Harris also worked to restructure the College’s class schedule to prepare for the School of Engineering and Applied Sciences’s expansion into Allston.
Harris’s tenure was also marked by major changes in how Harvard handles academic dishonesty, which became increasingly pressing when two major cheating scandals rattled the College.
Harris spent several years helping to craft and implement the first Honor Code at Harvard. Administrators began to discuss reforming Harvard’s academic dishonesty policy in 2010, and Harris pushed for the College to consider an honor code early on. He went on to lead Harvard to developing its iteration of an Honor Code, which went into effect in 2015.
But amid strides in reforming how the College handles cheating, Harris’s term also saw two major cheating scandals—one in Government 1310: “Introduction to Congress” in 2012, and another with Computer Science 50: “Introduction to Computer Science I,” the College’s flagship introductory computer science course, in fall 2016.
Last semester, at least 60 students in CS50 faced academic dishonesty charges before the Honor Council, the body that adjudicates academic integrity cases. After the spate of cheating cases last year, Harris appeared at a CS50 lecture earlier this semester and urged students taking the course not to cheat.
Khurana, in his email, highlighted several other accomplishments of Harris’s term, including spearheading the highly popular Classroom to Table program, overseeing the development of Expository Writing 40 and Humanities 10, and expanding Freshman Seminar offerings to include courses from a wide range of disciplines.
Harris’s announcement is the latest in a string of several other departures—over the past year, multiple Harvard officials have left the school for other jobs, including former University Title IX Officer Mia Karvonides, former Chief Diversity Officer Lisa M. Coleman, and former director of the Office of Sexual Assault Prevention and Response Alicia Oeser. Dean of Freshmen Thomas A. Dingman ’67 announced last month that he plans to step down at the end of the academic year.
A professor of Jewish Studies, Harris also served as served as a co-Master of Cabot House, preceding Khurana in the role.
Throughout his laudatory email announcing Harris’s retirement from the position, Khurana thanked Harris for his service to Harvard.
“Dean Harris has been a tireless citizen of the FAS and the College – and we will miss his leadership greatly,” Khurana wrote.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections


It’s early December, finals are nearing, and holiday decorations have started to appear everywhere. It’s time for all of your annual holiday gift exchanges. While we all mean well, it's easy to get caught up in one too many things and all of a sudden you’re wrapped up (pun intended) in your blocking group’s Secret Santa and a White Elephant with some random club that you barely participate in. You’ve bought zero gifts. You have zero ideas. Lucky for you, Flyby has scoured the Square for the best last-minute gifts that will fool your friends into thinking that you have your life together.
Under $5
Ah, the classic “under $5” gift exchange, where everyone ends up just buying a jumbo size bag of candy from CVS. This year, you don’t have to be that person.
For the person who asks irritating questions just to sound smart:
Head to Black Ink and pick up a Sudoku Puzzle Cube...it’s a rubik’s cube and sudoku combined, which should temper their ego for at least a few minutes before they inevitably figure it out. $4.95.
For the person who might actually be five years old in the most endearing way:
Modeling Clay is fun at any age, and Black Ink can hook you up with a 24 color pack that is sure to make anyone smile, no matter how mature they may pretend to be. $5.00.
For the person that you hate but somehow have to get a gift for:
Black Ink’s got you covered again, but this time in the form of five mini finger hands. five mini finger hands. Enough said. $1.00 each.
For the person that you need to get a sweet/sophisticated gift for:
Urban Outfitters has tiny little succulent plants that are just waiting to be put on a desk in a trendy dorm room. $5.00.
Under $15
Stepping it up a notch, now you have a big enough budget to actually get something reasonably interesting. But what?
For the person that you need to get a sweet//sophisticated gift for:
Cute (and sassy) mugs are always a good idea, and Urban Outfitters has got you covered. Take your pick based on the giftee between elegant rainbow duochrome glasses, sassy butt shaped mugs, or a variety of fun prints. $12.00-$16.00.
For the person who asks irritating questions just to sound smart:
The Harvard Book Store sells a mini “Shakespeare Box Set” complete with an (abridged?) version of three shakespeare classics, all neatly packaged up with a charming illustration of the Bard himself. $13.95.
For the person who might actually be 5 years old in the most endearing way:
Decorating your walls and ceiling was a staple of many good childhoods. Inspire nostalgia in your dorm room with a Galaxy-In-A-Tin, which includes over 80 glow-in-the-dark stars and planets, from Urban Outfitters. $12.99.
For the person that you hate but somehow have to get a gift for:
Black Ink has an entire basket of “Holiday Special! Limited Time” very creepy plastic baby dolls. The perfect way to give someone nightmares disguised in the form of a physical gift. $10.00.
Under $25
Ah, now the spending limit where you’re actually expected to get something great. The pressure is real, but so are these curated suggestions.
For the person that you need to get a sweet/appropriate/sophisticated gift for:
For your artsy, bookish friend, pop into the Harvard Book Store, and seek out the matted art prints which showcase literary-themed images constructed from the words of the novel they portray. Classy, smart, and perfect for boring dorm walls. $20.00.
For your friend who’s definitely 21 or older:
Urban Outfitters sells adorable/classy AF cocktail kits that include everything to make fancy cocktails except the alcohol, all wrapped up in a little metal tin that barely even needs to be wrapped. $24.00.
For the person who might actually be five years old in the most endearing way:
Take it back a decade or two and introduce your friend to their very own Chia Pet, courtesy of Urban Outfitters. They might be confused and a little disappointed, but they’ll grow to love their new friend! $24.00.
For the person who asks irritating questions just to sound smart:
The Harvard Book Store has you covered with a book titled “This Will Make You Smarter,” just to mess with the mind of whoever is too convinced of their own intellect. $15.99. 
For the person that you hate but somehow have to get a gift for:
As you’re wandering the packed shelves of Black Ink, you may stumble upon a gumball dispenser filled with ping pong balls. Make a public scene in Black Ink when you camp out with a bag of quarters, and then sorely disappoint your giftee later when you arrive with a giant box that ends up being filled with no less than 100 ping pong balls. $0.25 each.
Sections


Email sucks. You know it, we know it, everyone knows it. When the Mail app on your phone shows a number over 100, it’s stressful. When you’re at 10 or 20 thousand, well, let’s just say it’s time for an intervention.
Be rude. Just do it.
Over the years, you’ve gone to extracurricular fairs and been cajoled into signing up for 50 mailing lists you didn’t actually care about. We hate to say it, but it’s time. Time to email the people in charge of these lists to remove you. Yeah, we know, how can you say you’re just not interested in programming for kids with cancer, or helping the homeless? What kind of a horrible person are you? Remember: you care, you might even care a lot, you just can’t get 30 emails a day about them. You’ll feel crappy, but once you stop missing emails from TFs under the landslide of listserv emails, you’ll feel less crappy. Promise.
UNSUBSCRIBE.
In a similar vein, unsubscribe from mailing lists. Do you really need to know every new product coming in at Sephora? Do you really need to know that Nike socks are on sale? No. You don’t. Suck it up, scroll to the bottom of the email, and unsubscribe.
Mass-delete old emails
Do you have a lot of emails from freshman year that you just never got around to opening, and the number of unread emails you have is stressing you out? You can delete emails en masse! Plug “before:YYYY/MM/DD” into your search bar, click “select all conversations that match this search”, and then delete. Poof!
Tasks
In Gmail, there’s an option under the “More” tab that says “Add to Tasks”. If there’s an email about an assignment that’s due, add it to Tasks, which will appear as a little window at the bottom of your Gmail screen page. That way, you won’t forget about it, because you’ll always be able to see it. Also do this for emails you need to respond to, but haven’t the time right this second.
Labels
Did you know you could label emails from certain senders? Select a few emails and then look at the top of the email page–there should be a button with what looks like a tag on it. You can click that and create a label (i.e. CS50), and label every email from your professor or TF with that tag. The label will also pop up on the side under “Drafts”, which makes it easy to look at all those emails at once. You could also just label things “Class”, “Dems”, “News” etc.
Labs
Click on the gadget button in the upper right corner and go to “Settings”. There will be a window that says “Labs” that you can click on to see organizational options that have been created for Gmail, but aren’t quite tested enough to have been fully integrated into the system. There’s a warning that the systems you enable might fail, but it won’t ruin your email account if one of them fails, don’t worry. For example, a useful one is to have your Google Calendar pop up on the left column of the screen with all your events for the day. Play around with them, but use them at your own risk.
There are probably tons more ways for you to get your email life together, but we hope these tips are quick and easy to follow. Now, go get back to getting the rest of your actual life together.
Sections
At this point of the semester, the twinkle in our eyes is gone, as is any desire to power through reading period. Small pleasures like seeing your crush or not having your grill order stolen are the only things that keep our will to live somewhat intact. If your idea of self-care consists of crying in the bathroom in between classes, you’ll relate to these wholesome Harvard things that separate us from dreaming of throwing a lit cigarette in the direction of gasoline soaked Lamont at night. Obviously, most of these will be food related.
Poutine Wednesdays      
We give HUDS a lot of crap, but we still have to admit that the scrumptious smell of fresh french fries in the dining hall can put a half-smile on any weary face. Poutine Wednesday might be what prevents some of us from completely giving up and dropping out.
Tutor dogs
If a cute puppy roaming around your house cannot warm your cold dead heart, you might as well quit because nothing ever will.
Cancelled classes
The only pleasurable Canvas notification to receive is a half-baked apology note from your professor about cancelling a class. Bonus points if the cancellation results in your midterm getting pushed back (looking at you Psy 18).
Leftovers in the dhall
Cold takeout leftovers left in the dhall by an especially unpopular student organization from their sad little study break are inarguably the best part of House life (even if they’re basically solidified grease at that point).
After class naps
Research has shown that most students waste morning lectures daydreaming about the 4 hour nap they’ll take after. No shame in trying to keep the dark void from fully enveloping your soul.
Currier Duck
Currier House may be irrelevant, but it's only redeeming quality is also the most ~wholesome~.
If you can’t appreciate any of these little delights you probably have been truly dead inside for a while.
