News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Coming off a season that saw its hopes of postseason basketball crushed in the first round of the inaugural Ivy League tournament, the expectations for the underclassmen-heavy Harvard men’s basketball team are fairly high—first place in the Ivy League high, to be exact.
Picked to finish first ahead of Yale and Princeton—the two teams that competed in the championship game of last year’s Ancient Eight tournament—the Crimson earned six first place votes in the preseason media poll. The Bulldogs finished three points behind the Crimson in the poll, earning eight first-place votes, with Princeton and Penn rounding out the top four.
Leading the way for the Harvard squad is its young core of sophomores—a class ranked 10th in the nation by ESPN in 2016. Sophomore guard Bryce Aiken, who was the first Crimson guard since Siyani Chambers ’17 to earn both Ivy League Rookie of the Year and first team All-Ivy honors, led the way for Harvard last season, averaging nearly 15 points a game.
Also in the talented class of sophomores are forwards Seth Towns, Chris Lewis, Robert Baker, and guard Justin Bassey. Aiken, Towns, Lewis, and Bassey all carved out starting roles last season for a team that went 18-10. Baker chipped in meaningful minutes off the bench near the end of the season.
All told, Harvard returns nearly 75 percent of its scoring from the previous year.
The sophomore class returns with plenty of experience from a season ago—after starting the season 1-4, with losses to Stanford, UMass, Holy Cross, and George Washington, the Crimson went on a 10-1 run that saw meaningful time for not only the three freshman who typically started, but also for much of the freshman class off the bench.
While Aiken and Towns came to be the Harvard’s go-to players on offense, Lewis carved out a role as a solid rebounder with strong moves in the post and Bassey established himself as the Crimson’s top defender.
Harvard returns three sophomores who all averaged over 25 minutes per game the previous season. Much like the year before, what will likely be the Crimson’s bench also brings plenty of depth—Baker, captain Chris Egi, junior forward Weisner Perez, and sophomore Henry Welsh all showed flashes of talent last season in their time on the floor.
Much like Harvard, Yale brings back plenty of talent from last season’s squad—this in the form of juniors Alex Copeland and Blake Reynolds, along with sophomore Miye Oni. Perhaps most notably, however, the Bulldogs bring back senior guard Makai Mason. Mason—who scored 31 points against Baylor in the 2016 NCAA tournament to give Yale a win in its first appearance since 1962—returns after a season where he didn’t see the hardwood due to a broken foot.
While the Crimson was unable to down the Bulldog’s in the Ivy Tournament last March, Harvard came away with two wins against Yale in the regular season, including the Bulldogs’ first home loss in over two years.
Princeton also returns some key pieces from last year’s squad including a talented backcourt in juniors Devin Cannaday and Myles Stephens as well as senior Amir Bell, but also lost some key pieces with the departure of Steven Cook and Spencer Weisz. The Tigers come off a season in which they went undefeated in conference—including two last-minute wins against the Crimson.
Penn, for its part, returns a talented duo in sophomores AJ Brodeur and Ryan Betley. The Quakers, however, did lose a talented guard following the graduation of Matt Howard—the then-senior dropped 24 points against Harvard in his team’s last game of the regular season to earn a spot at the Ivy League tournament.
Rounding out the bottom four spots is Columbia, Cornell, Dartmouth, and Brown. Last season, the four combined for a total of one win against Harvard, Yale, and Princeton. The advent of a new season wouldn’t indicate that much will change.
—Staff writer Troy Boccelli can be reached at troy.boccelli@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Reaching back-to-back Frozen Fours is a rare feat in today’s Division I landscape. In fact, only five teams have been able to pull it off in the last decade, including North Dakota’s string of three consecutive appearances from 2014-2016.
And yet, the No. 2/3 Harvard men’s hockey team prepares for its 2017-2018 campaign with this exact goal in mind. After wrapping up preseason play on Saturday night with a 7-2 exhibition win against the U-18 U.S. National Team Development Program, the Crimson ultimately has its eyes set on St. Paul, Minn., this year’s Frozen Four destination.
“Last year is great—it doesn’t help us any, and it doesn’t hurt us any,” tri-captain Jake Horton said. “As much as it doesn’t hurt us, you have every team now circling their schedule when they play the Crimson.”
The last three seasons have seen the resurgence of Harvard into the upper echelon of Division I hockey. On the backs of Jimmy Vesey ’16, Kyle Criscuolo ’16, and Alexander Kerfoot ’17, to name a few, the program experienced a major revival resulting in three straight NCAA Tournament appearances.
Last season marked the culmination of this rebirth, as the Crimson reached its first Frozen Four since the 1994 campaign before bowing out to Minnesota-Duluth in the semifinals. For Harvard, getting to St. Paul in April would mean back-to-back Frozen Fours for the first time in 31 years.
The Crimson’s leadership does not seem daunted by this task, however.
“We have a lot of the pieces in place here,” tri-captain netminder Merrick Madsen said. “We have all the guys that we want in the locker room.”
Despite Madsen’s reassurances, this year’s squad faces many of the same questions recent teams have after the departure of high-end talent. After Vesey and Criscuolo departed for professional hockey in 2016, last year’s team fought all year to disprove the early naysayers.
“Every year since I’ve been here, we’ve had a lot of faith in the guys coming back in this room,” senior defenseman Thomas Aiken said. “The ability for every guy to get better over the summer and earn a bigger role than they did last year…has allowed us to continue replacing some of those big losses.”

A strong corps of senior forwards, who ultimately led Division I in scoring among fourth-years, helped replace Vesey’s on-ice dynamism and Criscuolo’s experienced leadership. But now, even these cornerstones—Tyler Moy ’17, Luke Esposito ’17, Sean Malone ’17, and Kerfoot—have moved on.
The forward ranks have seen a major retool this pre-season, with freshmen and members of last year’s bottom six filling the open spots left by the class of 2017. Luckily, junior forward Ryan Donato, who promises to be this season’s offensive centerpiece, will be a source of stability and mentorship for these less experienced players.
“At the beginning of the season you have those summer hockey habits,” Donato said. “You have to get those things out of you, and some junior hockey habits, you have to change a little bit. Those are things that I’ve been trying to work on in practice and hopefully lead by example.”
Donato or not, the attacking force persists as the team’s biggest question mark entering the regular season. Madsen, once again, is not buying it.
“I think we should give our forwards more credit than they’ve been getting so far in the fall, from anybody,” Madsen said.
On the flipside to this uncertainty up front, the Crimson remains extremely experienced and talented on the back end. The team’s relative strength on the blue line means that Harvard coach Ted Donato ’91 will be preaching a more balanced game than last year’s run-and-gun offensive juggernaut.
“We’re going to be a different team, I think that goes without saying” Horton said. “Every year we’ve had to evolve a little bit with the different pieces. That being said, I think everybody wants to discount what we have up front, like they’ve also done in the past.”
The team returns five of last year’s top six, including sophomores Adam Fox and John Marino, both of whom put forth impressive freshman campaigns. Despite all the returners, freshman Reilly Walsh has earned a starting role, and his classmate Benjamin Foley is certainly in the mix as well. And one cannot forget about the imposing 6’7” Wiley Sherman, whose presence will help lock down opposing forwards all season.
“We have a ton of talent back there,” Madsen said. “You look in front of you and you have six-foot-seven Wiley Sherman—there’s something that is comforting about that. Or Adam Fox, who can basically do anything with the puck.”
The man singing these praises is perhaps the keystone in Harvard’s defensive prowess this season. A year after fighting for his role as starter, Madsen started all 36 games for Harvard last year and broke program records for wins (28) and longest win streak (16).
The senior’s consistency down the stretch last season undoubtedly propelled the team to its Frozen Four berth—an experience the squad hopes to enjoy this year as well.
To arrive in St. Paul in April, the Crimson will have to battle through a unique schedule this year, featuring a nine-game stretch of road matchups spanning practically all of November and December. Road trips of this length are rare, as Harvard has only seen one eight-gamer (2015-2016), as well as a few seven-gamers in the last three decades.
The Crimson is guaranteed to go to Minnesota this year—but not for the Frozen Four. That feat will have to be the team’s second trip to the Twin Cities this year, as Harvard will visit No. 8/7 Minnesota for a pair of games during its road trip. This matchup is the most unusual on the team’s schedule this season, as the Crimson has faced the Golden Gophers only once in the last five seasons.
Minnesota accounts for just two games in Harvard’s most challenging stretch of the season. The Crimson will run the gauntlet against the four most formidable teams on its schedule—Cornell, Minnesota (twice), No. 13/15 Boston College, and No. 18 Quinnipiac—in the middle of the nine-game road trip.
“We have a really strong first half,” Horton acknowledged. “We know that down the stretch, for playoff time, those are the teams we are going to be seeing…. We don’t by any means think that we are an underdog going into those matchups.”
Harvard will have to be especially sharp in the midst of the away stretch, as the team annually gets off to a later start than its non-Ivy League peers. The Crimson’s most competitive opponents during this nine-game block will have played up to five more games by the time the teams meet.
Considering the relative youth of the team, coach Donato will have to mentally and physically prepare his players for the mid-season intensity they will face early on.
“We really need to push ourselves because of the late start,” coach Donato said. “Ultimately, there’s certain things that play out during the game that can really only be experienced through the game, so [preparing the team] is difficult. It is an advantage sometimes when you have a lot more upperclassmen that…can manage some of those situations.”
Luckily, before the massive away stretch the Crimson opens at home with three Ivy League matchups versus Dartmouth, Yale, and Brown. This gives the team some time to get its game legs against other squads that started later than the pool.
“While it’s tough to play three big Ivy games right out of the gate, the flipside of it is that we got teams who are in a similar situation to us,” coach Donato said.
The schedule after the holiday break takes on a much more regular form. After alternating home and away weekends throughout January, Harvard faces off against No. 7/8 Boston University in the semifinals of the Beanpot. The Crimson will be looking to defend its title from last season—its first since 1993.
After the early February festivities, Harvard closes with four final ECAC matchups before conference playoffs begin in early March.
Overall, the Crimson must answer lingering questions about forward depth and prepare to face stiff competition early on. These challenges are just part of the difficulty in getting back to the Frozen Four. Whether Harvard will drop the puck in St. Paul in April remains to be seen.
—Staff writer Spencer R. Morris can be reached at spencer.morris@thecrimson.com. Follow Spencer on Twitter @SMorrisTHC.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections


Despite what the unusually warm weather might suggest, it’s almost the end of October. This means it’s Halloween season, AKA the only time of the year Harvard students wear something more titillating than sweatshirts and sweatpants, feel less guilty about stuffing their faces with candy, and actually venture into Currier House. Putting together the latest pop-culture reference costumes is not only the most fun part of the Halloween festivities, but also the most difficult. Don’t fret—we’re here to help you pull together a look that will impress your insta followers and will finally make your d-hall crush notice you.
The Internet
The easiest (but not the cheapest) way to get an accurate Halloween costume is to buy it from an online costume store. HalloweenCostumes.com and PartyCity.com are reliable sources of a variety of ensembles, whether you want to be Jon Snow or Wonder Woman. If you’re looking for something more *adult* and want to be a bunny or nurse, Yandy.com offers a plethora of costumes that won’t keep you warm, but will surely make you hot.
The Mall
If you want to add some edge to your costume, your middle school go-tos can be invaluable sources of pieces and accessories to spice up your look. Hot Topic in Natick Mall and the local alternative, Newbury Comics, in the Garage and CambridgeSide Galleria, are a few places to check out, especially if you’re looking to be actually scary, instead of cute, funny, or ~sexy~.
Thrift Stores
Your budget should not stop you from dazzling your blocking group with Halloween fit, so hit up some thrift stores. A student favorite, Garment District near Kendall Square is an affordable treasure trove of period pieces, offering clothes sorted by era and type (like racks of tie-dye, jerseys, or leather jackets). The store also sells face paint, wigs, and costume accessories for those who want to get really creative (and don’t mind dropping more cash).
DIY 
So, you’ve procrastinated on getting a costume, and are now scrambling to pay $100 for a last minute outfit? You don’t have to pay exorbitant late shipping fees or *gasp* wear last year’s costume (does anyone even remember who Harley Quinn is?). Just pick a character whose attire consists of regular clothes and dig through your friends’ closets. Some suggestions: Eleven from Stranger Things, Dancing Girl emoji, Rick and Morty, the “she doesn’t even go here” blue hoodie look, or a Sim.
Choose your outfit wisely and don’t wear something you’ll regret ruining. After all, whatever your costume is, it will probably be soaked with Rubinoff and fake blood by the end of the night.
