News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
MILWAUKEE — Despite a season-high 11 steals and a career night from sophomore wing Justin Bassey, the Harvard men’s basketball team concluded its season with a 67-60 defeat to Marquette in the opening round of the NIT. The final game was also just the second time this season the Crimson played without Ivy League Player of the Year Seth Towns, who could not recover from a knee injury suffered in Sunday’s Ivy League Championship Game.
Harvard (18-14, 12-2 Ivy) trailed by as many as 19 in the fourth frame, but strung together 14 points and forced four turnovers in the final 5:08 to narrow the game to a two-possession contest heading into the final minute of play. Time simply ran out as accurate free throw shooting from the Golden Eagles (20-13, 9-9 Big East) sealed the contest after the Crimson was forced to prolong the game through fouling.
An unlucky play with 20 seconds remaining also did not help Harvard’s odds. After freshman Rio Haskett picked off the ball from senior Andrew Rowsey, Bassey located junior wing Corey Johnson on the left corner. However, right when the team’s three-point specialist was positioning himself for the triple, one of the referees collided with Johnson, sending the ball out of bounds.
The end result: Marquette ball by default. A noticeably aggravated Johnson gave the referee a prolonged stare, but nothing could be done except grant the Golden Eagles the ball. This frantic series was only a small portion of a wild final few minutes of the game.
“I wish we could have played better prior to the last few minutes when we made it a little chaotic,” Harvard coach Tommy Amaker said. “But I’m really proud of our team for the year we’ve had and I thought our kids did a tremendous job all season. Certainly not having a few bodies here today was a factor for us, but certainly not an excuse.”
This frenzy of momentum from Harvard in the game’s waning minutes was largely due to a full-court press that Amaker initiated with his team down by double-digits. On the first possession using this scheme at the seven-minute mark, Johnson snatched the ball from Marquette freshman Jamal Cain before driving into the lane and picking up two free throws.
Bassey, who notched his first career double-double on a career-high 19 points, followed that possession with a steal and dunk of his own with 6:27 to play. The sophomore wing would contribute another dunk and triple to finish the contest, but missed two critical free throws with 44 seconds to play that all but ended his team’s chances at a comeback. The Crimson was in the midst of an 11-3 run until that point, trailing by just six points.
“I thought Justin was really aggressive and when he has that mindset, we are a different team,” Amaker said. “I think it showed how he was going after the rebounds; he had 12 rebounds, some offensively. He was pushing the ball, in attack mode and when he has that vibe about him that’s a good thing for our team.”
Harvard held tight with the Golden Eagles for much of the first half despite turning the ball over 11 times and going just 2-of-8 from the NIT-only extended three-point line. Sophomore forward Chris Lewis was particularly affected by the NIT court modifications, which saw a wider foul lane. The Crimson’s main interior presence struggled to gain his footing against 6-foot-10 junior center Matt Heldt and was pushed even further out due to the extended painted area.
Heldt limited Lewis’ first half field goal attempts to just five, of which two were converted. The Marquette big man also picked up two blocks in the first twenty minutes of action. After the contest, Golden Eagles coach Steve Wojciechowski called his team’s post defense “terrific”.
Both sides maintained a tight defensive intensity during the first two frames, with neither side scoring more than 30 points. If not for a last-second three by sophomore forward Markus Howard—who finished the contest with a team-high 22 points off three triples—Harvard would have entered intermission with the game within one possession.
The 27-21 halftime score did however reflect the sub-35 percent shooting mark by both teams.  The Crimson was just 1-of-5 from the free throw line entering halftime and 9-of-17 in the contest compared to Marquette’s one game missed shot attempt from the charity stripe, an anomaly for Amaker’s 72.9 percent free throw shooting team in conference play.
In the second half, the game appeared to swing completely in the Golden Eagles’ direction. Marquette launched a 9-4 run to start the third quarter, including two dunks in three possessions by redshirt sophomore wing Sacar Anim to extend a six-point halftime lead to 13. Harvard did not allow the contest to completely get away from them in the remainder of that frame, however, with important layups from Johnson and Bassey.
The lead did extend to 19 early in the fourth quarter, but the aforementioned comeback was only a few triples away.
Overall, Harvard finished its final game shooting 41.5 percent from the field and 7-of-20 from three point range. Without leading scorer Towns, Harvard relied on a more balanced array of shooters to provide offense. Lewis, Juzang, Johnson, and Haskett finished with over eight points in the game, with Bassey leading the team at 19.
All told, the Crimson finishes the season having lost its final two postseason games after earning the regular-season Ivy League title. Against power conference opponents such as Kentucky, Minnesota, and Marquette, Harvard has lost by no more than 10 points—a feat that Bassey noted as a positive takeaway from this season.
“I think we played those guys really well, they were really close games, all 5, 7, 10 point games,” Bassey said. “So knowing that we’re right there and knowing that we just gotta make a few more adjustments, play a little bit better, get all guys involved, then we’re a team that’s capable of competing and playing against those top 25 teams.”
One could also take Amaker’s closing lineup in this contest as an embodiment of his “bench-and-balance” mantra this season. Few would have predicted in November that freshmen Rio Haskett and Danilo Djuricic as well as sophomore big Henry Welsh, Johnson, and Bassey would man the floor in the season finale’s most critical minutes. However, this lineup provided Amaker’s best shot at running his full-court press and nearly paid off with enormous dividends. Haskett and Djuricic, in particular, have progressed from fringe reserves to solid bench contributors over the course of the season.
“Sometimes you think young players and freshmen, they end up hitting the wall the proverbial wall that young players can hit,” Amaker said. “We didn’t have that with those two guys, they kept getting better throughout the season and it was wonderful to see. Obviously we had that kind of confidence in them to have them in the game tonight, in the postseason riding with them throughout.”
The Crimson returns all members of its rotation in the 2018-2019 season as the program seeks to repeat as Ivy League Champions for the second straight season. Harvard will welcome a talented crop of freshmen next season, including Mater Dei PG Spencer Freedman and Djuricic’s teammate on Team Canada, Noah Kirkwood. These reinforcements will be critical for a team that finished the season with junior guard Tommy McCarthy, sophomores Bryce Aiken and Seth Towns, and freshman Reed Farley all injured.
“I know we’ll look back on this[season] and have a great deal of pride,” Amaker said. “What we were able to accomplish with some of the tough moments we had this year, with injuries and with different things that occurred for our team. So I’m really proud for this team to accomplish what it did.”
—Staff writer Henry Zhu can be reached at henry.zhu@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @Zhuhen88.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
After a sluggish start to the season, Harvard softball rallied for four wins in six games in the first portion of its spring break slate. Traveling to Los Angeles over the weekend, the Crimson (7-8) won its first three games before dropping the finale to Southern Utah. The game against FGCU, scheduled for Saturday afternoon, was canceled due to rain. On Tuesday, the team ventured east to Riverside, Calif., where it split a doubleheader with UC Riverside and Colgate.
For her contributions over the weekend at the Loyola Marymount Invitational, shortstop Rhianna Rich was awarded Ivy League Player of the Week honors. The junior hit .500 with a 1.088 OPS, with the highlight of her weekend a walkoff, two-RBI single in the bottom of the ninth against Providence.
UC RIVERSIDE 4, HARVARD 0
Harvard closed out its California trip with a shutout at the hands of UC Riverside (21-7). Coach Jenny Allard opted for a pitching staff by committee, as no pitcher threw more than two innings.
“As a player, it's been awesome to use our full staff and to use everyone effectively,” junior catcher Elizabeth Shively said. “Going into conference with a full staff that's throwing well is going to help keep hitters off balance and keep our whole staff fresh.”
The Highlanders blanked a scorching Crimson offense on the strength of seven innings from rookie right-hander Hailey Dolcini. The freshman recorded her eighth win of 2018, striking out four Harvard batters and conceding just four hits and one walk.
UC Riverside posted a strong fourth inning and then coasted the rest of the way to the finish line. Crimson hurler Alissa Hiener had two outs and a runner on first base in her second inning of work, but the Highlanders kept the inning alive with an extended rally. Two walks loaded the bases, and Allard made the switch to staff ace Katie Duncan, who had pitched four innings earlier that day. Back-to-back singles pushed all three baserunners across home before Duncan ultimately shut down the threat by striking out left fielder Seanna Garewal.
HARVARD 10, COLGATE 2 (6 INNINGS)
Harvard only needed six innings to dispatch Colgate (1-15) in the opening game of the UC Riverside Tournament.
The Crimson collected 11 hits, including three-hit performances from the first two players in the lineup, Rich and co-captain Maddy Kaplan. Rich drove in two runs and scored twice, and Kaplan batted in three of her own. The power-hitting duo of junior Erin Lockhart and sophomore Olivia Giaquinto launched a homer each. Giaquinto’s blast kicked off the scoring in the top of the second, and Lockhart continued Harvard’s offensive onslaught in the top of the sixth with a two-run bomb.
“Hitters really focused over the past six games and the team has been really zoned in and confident at the plate,” Shively said. “We've been swinging at good pitches and really owning our zones.”
Through three innings the Raiders led, 2-1, but the Crimson erupted for nine runs over its next three trips to the plate. Duncan evened up her record at 5-5 with a four-inning start in which she struck out five.
SOUTHERN UTAH 9, HARVARD 3
Southern Utah (3-19) got its revenge on Harvard on Sunday. Sophomore Samantha Guile pitched around a myriad of Crimson baserunners across seven innings of work—despite allowing eight hits, walking four, and hitting two batters, only three Harvard players reached home.
The game was still up in the air as late as the bottom of the sixth, when the Crimson trailed, 4-3. However, the Thunderbirds hung five runs on the scoreboard in the top of the seventh. Duncan induced a fly out to start the frame, but Southern Utah managed four consecutive singles, which brought Hiener out from the bullpen. A triple steal pushed across a second run, and a walk reloaded the bases. A subsequent triple off the bat of center fielder Sarah Murphy drove in three more, extending Harvard’s deficit to six runs.
Defense also played a part in this loss, as four Crimson errors led to three of the Thunderbirds’ runs being unearned.
HARVARD 6, PROVIDENCE 5 (9 INNINGS)
After an intense seventh-inning rally to tie the game, Harvard once again had to claw back in the ninth. With a runner automatically placed on second base, Providence (3-15) managed to break the ninth-inning stalemate with an RBI single from Crista San Antonio. The Friars led, 5-4, with Giaquinto striding to the plate to lead the Crimson’s comeback effort.
Harvard set up its come-from-behind bid nicely: Giaquinto drew a hit by pitch, and freshman Alyssa Saldana sacrificed Giaquinto and automatic runner Lockhart up one base. With runners on second and third and one out, the top of the lineup came to bat for the Crimson.
Wasting no time at all, Rich dumped a single into left center, and Lockhart and Giaquinto sprinted in to score for the walkoff victory.
“Coming up to bat, I was very relaxed and just used the momentum from the team to hit the ball somewhere in the outfield so that we could score,” Rich said. “When I got to second base and realized two runs had scored and that we had won the game, I was ecstatic.”
“The reaction after winning a game in a walkoff is absolutely electric,” Shively added.
This game got to extra innings in the first place due to a significant rally in the bottom of the seventh. Harvard had been blanked in the first six frames and faced a four-run deficit to start off the home half of the seventh, but the top of the order combination of Rich and Kaplan got the job done. With the bases loaded, Rich pulled the ball to right field to break up the shutout. With two outs, Kaplan came up in the clutch with a gap double to left center, clearing the bases and forcing extra innings.
“Before the seventh inning, we had yet to come out and attack offensively, and we finally strung a rally together to tie it up,” Rich said. “After overcoming the four-run deficit, the team had this sense of truly knowing we could win the game.”
HARVARD 8, LOYOLA MARYMOUNT 2
The Crimson posted a convincing victory over the weekend tournament’s host team, Loyola Marymount (11-14-1).
Aside from a lopsided fourth inning, this contest was even the entire way. In the away half of the fourth, Harvard slammed Lions pitchers for six runs on six hits after the first two batters of the inning fouled out and grounded out. Senior second baseman Melissa Lacro got the rally going with a double, and Shively, senior left fielder Alexa Altchek, co-captain Kaitlyn Schiffhauer, and Kaplan drove in runs.
“Timely hitting was another big component of our success this weekend…” Rich said. “We were able to come up with a hit or score a run when runners were in scoring position.”
Giaquinto cleared the fence for the first time this year in the top of the sixth with a solo shot to left center.
Duncan recorded her second complete game victory of the season. The junior left-hander struck out three in the effort.
HARVARD 11, SOUTHERN UTAH 3 (5 INNINGS)
Harvard kicked off the Loyola Marymount Invitational without Duncan in the circle, but with 11 runs of offense and solid run prevention from a trio of pitchers, the Crimson walked away with an eight-run win over Southern Utah.
Altchek smacked the first home run of her career, a two-run shot in the top of the second. Previously, Altchek had three extra base hits—all doubles—in her three-plus years in Cambridge.
Junior second baseman Meagan Lantz put on a show, going three-for-four with a run scored, two RBI, and three stolen bases. After both California tournaments, Lantz leads the squad with eight steals.
—Staff writer Jack Stockless can be reached at jack.stockless@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
For the Harvard men’s hockey team, the regular season was defined by ups and downs. Frustrating stints of futility negated impressive stretches of winning hockey.
But now it’s mid-March, and there is no longer any room for downs. If the Crimson wishes to uphold what has recently become the norm for Harvard hockey—success in the ECAC playoffs followed by an NCAA Tournament berth—its performance must consistently shine in Lake Placid, N.Y., for Championship Weekend.
“A lot of classes are lucky if they make it to Lake Placid once,” Harvard tri-captain Jake Horton said. “We’ve made it all four times. It became kind of the standard, but that’s a good thing for us to have that standard of excellence for Harvard hockey.”
On Friday night, the No. 4 seed Crimson (15-13-4, 11-8-3 ECAC) will battle No. 3 seed Clarkson (22-9-6, 12-5-5) for a spot in the conference final the following evening. To punch its ticket to the 16-team nationwide tournament for a fourth straight season, Harvard all but needs an ECAC crown. Meanwhile, the Golden Knights—who rank No. 10/8 nationally—are seeking to guarantee their spot in the NCAAs via an automatic conference bid and improve their seeding therein.
By the semifinals of the ECAC playoffs, there are no more “easy-outs.” Despite relative success against Clarkson in the regular season, the Crimson’s upcoming bout with the Golden Knights will prove to be its most trying competition yet.
“The two times we played Clarkson, we just understood how good of a team they were and how big the challenge was going to be,” Horton said. “Obviously they’re a great team, and they’re going to give us a good challenge, but that’s just going to bring out the best in us as well.”
Horton and company will look to the regular season series when preparing for Clarkson. The first meeting between the two programs came during Harvard’s “J-term,” when school is not in session but hockey certainly is. The exciting affair ended in a 6-6 draw with the Golden Knights. The Crimson was pleased with its play but felt that a win was within reach.
“They have depth up front, they have size, they have speed, they have skill, they have a go-to line offensively, [and] a goaltender who has been outstanding throughout the year,” said Harvard coach Ted Donato ’91 before jokingly reflecting on the January matchup. “The first game we played…pretty much went against everything I just said.”
A month later, the two teams clashed again. The Crimson skated to a 5-2 victory despite lacking junior forward Ryan Donato—the Boston Bruins prospect was in Pyeongchang for the Winter Olympics. The senior night matchup ironically featured goals from five underclassmen, who powered the team to victory.
Harvard’s 1-0-1 regular-season mark against Clarkson should not downplay the versatile talent that the top-10 opponent brings to the rink. As with many teams, the Golden Knights’ success starts in the crease, where sophomore Jake Kielly (21-9-6, 1.79 GAA, .931 SV%) has dominated throughout the season.
Part of the 6’2” backstop’s success is attributable to the players in front of him. On the blue line, senior Kelly Summers (6–23—29) sets his group’s pace in assists and was recently named a First Team All-ECAC selection. Summers’ classmate and fellow defenseman Terrance Amorosa (7–19—26) earned a spot on the all-conference Second Team.
Up front, a trio of sophomore forwards leads the way for Clarkson, combining for 110 points. Sheldon Rempal (22–21—43) sits atop his team in the majority of offensive categories and was a First Team all-league player this season. Nico Sturm (14–22—36), an all-conference Third Team nominee in his own right, and Devin Brosseau (10–21—31) follow closely behind.
The Crimson held these formidable Golden Knights in check during the teams’ dramatic tie back in January, as the three attackers were held off the scoresheet and totaled a minus-nine rating between them. Instead, steady contributor and ECAC All-Rookie forward Jack Jacome was the star that night (2–1—3). The sophomore trio did some damage in the mid-February contest, accounting for both Clarkson goals, but the result still went in Harvard’s favor.
“Just getting traffic in front of the goalie, getting some second-chance opportunities was big for us in our success against them,” said Crimson sophomore blue-liner Adam Fox. “And, you know, kind of taking away the time and space of some of their top guys. Obviously it’s a bigger sheet out here in [Lake] Placid, but doing the same things will help us.”
The Calgary Flames prospect is alluding to the larger, Olympic-size ice sheet in Lake Placid’s Herb Brooks Arena. Presumably, more time and space for puck-carriers is conducive to offense-friendly gameplay. Fox, whose puck skills and skating ability bode well for such an environment, expressed excitement regarding the opportunity to play on the wider surface.
In addition to implementing some of its strategic successes over Clarkson from the regular season, Harvard can counterbalance much of the opposition’s skill with talent of its own. The Cantabrigians, after all, boast this year’s ECAC Player of the Year in Donato (26–15—41). But the nation’s leader in goals per game (0.93) is hardly the extent of the Crimson’s dynamism.
A young corps of forwards provides speed and creativity alongside Donato. Two puck-moving defensemen, freshman Reilly Walsh (6–12–18) and sophomore Adam Fox (6–21—27), provide firepower from the back end. Both rearguards earned ECAC accolades at the conclusion of the regular season—Walsh was an All-Rookie selection, and Fox made the all-conference First Team. Additionally, the shut-down tandem of sophomore John Marino (2–14—16) and senior Wiley Sherman (3–4—7) anchors the blue line on a more defensive note.
Ultimately, the keystone for Harvard is—and has been for some time—tri-captain goalie Merrick Madsen. The senior net-minder (10-9-3, 2.17 GAA, .921 SV%) seems to have finally solidified his role at the go-to between the pipes after facing some healthy pressure from junior backup Michael Lackey throughout the campaign.
Lurking beneath the surface of Friday’s semifinal bout is the fact that, in the event of a Crimson loss, Harvard’s seniors will have played their final game for their alma mater. This daunting reality has come on strong since the regular season ended.
“It’s kind of an unspoken uneasiness, where you come in and you don’t know if it’s going to be the last [time],” Horton reflected. “All those things have potential to be the last one…. Nobody wants to address it, but everybody is obviously aware of it, and it’s something that’s pretty scary. But to be honest, that’s something that creates desperation.”
After the Crimson dropped game one to Dartmouth in last week’s best-of-three quarterfinal series, the season became one grand do-or-die situation. The silver lining, of course, is that the team is playing with as much urgency as it has all season.
“Our season right now is lose-and-it’s-over,” Fox noted. “Guys in the room want to win. We want to do it for the seniors who don’t have another chance at it after this year. We have a lot of camaraderie in the room, and it kind of helps us play and helps motivate us to want to keep our season going.”
Harvard will channel this motivation as it looks to continue the quest for its second consecutive Whitelaw Cup—the formal name of the ECAC playoff title—and its third in four years. During these four years, the class of 2018 has played on some of the Crimson’s most talented teams in recent memory and added its own gritty, hard-working attitude to the program’s culture.
Horton, who has played in every contest during his time at Harvard, embodies the perseverance shown by this senior corps. The centerman heads into the Clarkson tilt with 139 games under his belt, the new program record after he surpassed Tom Cavanagh ’05 during the Dartmouth series last week.
Records aside, one thing is certain: both opponents have plenty of inspiration to come out strong on Friday night. Clarkson is looking to avenge disappointing results from the regular season and snuff the NCAA Tournament hopes of a threatening conference foe. Harvard will skate to keep its season alive and its seniors in uniform.
The winner of Friday’s afternoon affair between No. 1 seed Cornell and No. 7 seed Princeton will be waiting for the victor of the Crimson-Golden Knights matchup. The ECAC finale will take place the following night.
—Staff writer Spencer R. Morris can be reached at spencer.morris@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @SMorrisTHC.
