News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Department of Justice spawned breaking news alerts and shockwaves that tore across the country last week when it ripped into Harvard’s admissions practices, writing in a court filing that the College practices “unlawful racial discrimination” and that its ranking of applicants is “infected with racial bias.”
Department lawyers introduced their scathing “statement of interest” in support of the plaintiff in a four-year-old lawsuit that accuses Harvard of discriminating against Asian-American applicants — a charge the College has repeatedly denied. The Justice Department signaled at least once before that it is sympathetic to Students for Fair Admissions, the anti-affirmative action advocacy group suing Harvard, but Thursday’s memo marked an unprecedented escalation of hostility towards the University.
Still, experts say, that’s nothing compared to what may come.
“It paves the way for the Justice Department to directly intervene in the suit, join the suit, as opposed to just filing an amicus brief,” Savannah Law School professor Vinay Harpalani said of the Thursday filing. “If the Justice Department does actually sue Harvard, [it would be] bringing the suits together and really putting a lot of pressure.”
Harpalani said he found it striking that the department chose to file a statement of interest and not an amicus or “friend of the court” brief, which any party not directly involved in a suit may file in support of one side or the other. The former category is a stronger proof of investment, he said.
Whatever happens, the Trump administration will likely continue to publicly critique Harvard’s admissions practices as SFFA’s lawsuit moves forward, according to Harpalani.
The suit, brought in 2014, is set to go to trial Oct. 15 in a Boston courthouse. Both Harvard and SFFA have tried to convince Judge Allison D. Burroughs to dismiss the case via summary judgment before that happens; however, she is not likely to do so.
The department’s decision to file its statement before the trial launches is telling, said Theodore M. Shaw, a law professor at the University of North Carolina.
“Certainly they’re trying to throw the weight of the government to sway the outcome in this position,” Shaw said. “I guess they’re trying to get in early and often.”
Roger Clegg, a former Justice Department official who is president of the anti-affirmative action Center for Equal Opportunity, said that strategy is likely to be effective. He said judges typically give department filings “more weight” and that federal arguments tend to be “taken more seriously.”
Harpalani said the department’s early intervention ups the pressure on College administrators because it focuses a national spotlight on the lawsuit, building “public momentum” — and possibly anti-Harvard sentiment — around the case.
He said the University will want to do everything it can to prevent the case from going before the Supreme Court, something experts have said could happen. If the suit reaches the Court — and if conservative nominee Brett M. Kavanaugh is sitting on that Court — it could mean the end of affirmative action in the United States.
“Harvard doesn’t want to go all the way up there,” Harpalani said. “Because that would be an embarrassment, to lose at the Supreme Court.”
The Justice Department is conducting its own separate investigation into alleged discrimination against Asian Americans in Harvard’s admissions system. The department did not publicly announce that probe; it came to light several months ago through news reports and Freedom of Information Act requests.
Department lawyers confirmed that the government’s inquiry is active and ongoing in their Thursday filing, writing that the resolution of the admissions lawsuit “could have a significant impact” on the department’s own “pending investigation” into Harvard admissions.
As a whole, the Justice Department’s behavior is a “warning” to court officials and university administrators around the nation that the federal government dislikes and will continue to oppose race-conscious admissions policies, said Dana N. Thompson Dorsey, an education professor at the University of Pittsburgh.
“It does send a message,” Dorsey said.
Clegg agreed.
“I think it is fair to say… that the Justice Department is unlikely to walk away from this case,” he said.
—Staff writer Delano R. Franklin can be reached at delano.franklin@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @delanofranklin_.
—Staff writer Samuel W. Zwickel can be reached at samuel.zwickel@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @samuel_zwickel.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Drew G. Faust’s presidency isn’t the only thing students are kissing good-bye this semester.
Harvard has implemented an entirely new and strictly regimented course schedule system, making “Harvard Time” — a College quirk that allowed students to arrive seven minutes late to every class — a thing of the past.
The fall term and the new schedule kick off Tuesday. So here’s a primer on how it works, why it was implemented, and what this means for the future of punctuality on campus.
The new schedule, which the Faculty of Arts and Sciences voted to approve last semester, is partly meant to prepare for the opening of Harvard’s new campus in Allston. Class times are now staggered on the Allston and Cambridge campuses to allow students additional time to travel between courses that are now separated by about a mile — and the Charles River.
Though the Allston campus — which will house much of the School of Engineering and Applied Sciences — is slated to open in 2020, the next two years are meant to serve as a trial run.
“The idea was to implement this new schedule this year while we have a chance to see how it works, to see how it works across the FAS course catalog,” said Noël Bisson, associate dean of undergraduate education. “When the time comes to implement across the river, we'll be that much more experienced and understand better where the pain points may be.”
The new schedule standardizes class start and end times, extends the standard course length from 60 to 75 minutes, and eliminates Harvard Time. All of this is supposed to make it easier for students to predict when and for how long courses will be held and to give them more time between classes.
Courses can now begin at one of several designated time periods. In the morning, the earliest round of classes in Cambridge must begin at 9 a.m. The second earliest round begins at 10:30 a.m.; the next round after that begins at noon; and so on and so forth, with 90-minute intervals between every round.
Professors — many of whom have been teaching 60-minute versions of their courses for years — are not required to use their entire allotted 75 minutes. Courses that are by necessity longer than 75 minutes, such as some labs and seminars, will be restricted to certain time slots.
Given that there is now almost always 90 minutes between classes, and given that most classes are now restricted to 75 minutes, students will have a 15-minute passing period between classes.
To understand how this works, consider a 9 a.m. class (which, remember, now starts at 9 a.m. exactly and not at 9:07 a.m.). That 9 a.m. class can end at 10:15 a.m. at the latest, meaning enrollees are guaranteed at least 15 minutes of travel time before the next round of classes begins at 10:30 a.m. at the earliest.
So, to those students panicking about losing seven minutes of Harvard Time: you're actually gaining eight minutes of travel time under the new system.
Allston classes will typically start and end 45 minutes after Cambridge classes do.
In Cambridge, the first classes of the day start at 9 a.m and the last classes start at 7:30 p.m. In Allston, classes will start at 9:45 a.m. The second round of Allston classes will start at 11:15 a.m., the third at 12:45 p.m., and so on.
This staggering is supposed to give undergraduates — the vast majority of whom live in Harvard housing in Cambridge — time to make the roughly mile-long trek across the river.
The new schedule most obviously axes Harvard Time and increases the average class length. The standardization of start and end times also imposes a rigid order on what was an unruly and almost wholly unregulated scheduling landscape.
Under the new system, moreover, departments are required to spread out their course offerings evenly across the day.
In an April 2017 memo to faculty, Jay M. Harris, former dean of undergraduate education, wrote that more than 80 percent of all lecture courses were offered between 10 a.m. and 2 p.m. The new schedule will allow for “de-compression of the instructional day,” he wrote in the memo.
Harry R. Lewis ’68, a Computer Science professor and former dean of the College, wrote in an email that he thinks the new schedule is a “perfectly rational re-set.”
“Seven minutes wasn’t realistic either as the classroom locations spread out,” Lewis wrote. “So the new scheme leaves a full 15 minutes between the end of one class and the start of the next.”
No, that particular quirk is here to stay.
The change to the course schedule will not affect “shopping week,” a one-week period at the beginning of each semester during which students can walk freely in and out of classes to test out or "shop" them. Undergraduates typically make their final decisions and enroll at the end of the week.
But shopping week may not be entirely safe.
The faculty debated the merits of eliminating shopping week in favor of a pre-registration system last April. At a March 2018 meeting, many faculty spoke in favor of the idea, noting that shopping week is tough on graduate students because they are often slotted to help teach classes based on demand. Giving undergraduates a full week to dither over which courses they're taking can leave these graduate teaching assistants in an uncomfortable state of limbo, the professors argued.
As of Sept. 2018, however, no one has put forward an official proposal to get rid of shopping week.
A committee will reevaluate the new schedule system in 2019, and again in five years.
—Staff writer Angela N. Fu can be reached at angela.fu@thecrimson.com.
—Staff writer Lucy Wang can be reached at lucy.wang@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @lucyyloo22.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Harvard women’s soccer team feels like a whole new group.
After dropping two games to West Coast teams to open the season, the Crimson responded by blowing out Syracuse, scoring four goals for the first time since 2015.
The past two iterations of the Harvard squad have been defined by  staunch defense, characterized by star goalkeeping and the synergy of its core defenders, more so than by its ability to score.
But 2018 might prove different.
For one, the Crimson graduated four key defensive specialists last season. For another, Harvard brought in no fewer than 10 rookies this summer, several on the offensive side of the ball—and all of whom can make an impact.
“Every time you come into preseason, you have a new team,” said head coach Chris Hamblin, entering his third year at the helm of the program. “And you’ve got to formulate that identity. We obviously lost a lot, some special players, but we’ve also brought in some special players. We’re a new team this year, and this is the first time we’ve really shown who we can actually be, so we’ve just got to build on this now.”
Down in the Bay Area to open the season before returning to Jordan Field for its home opener last Thursday, the new-look Harvard team was on full display as it prepares for the grind towards Ivy League play in late September.
The Crimson (1-2) was dispatched of by Cal, 2-0, and San Francisco, 2-1, last weekend, but put a stamp on its home field with a defiant 4-0 victory over Syracuse in its first home tilt.
HARVARD 4, SYRACUSE 0
Last Saturday, on a day when upperclassmen started moving into Harvard dorms, the Crimson faithful watched as their team quickly turned a 0-0 halftime tie at Jordan Field into a comfortable 4-0 decision over the visiting Orange (2-2).
Harvard seemed to gain confidence as the game went on. After a shaky start that witnessed both sides go back and forth, the Crimson first gained more control over the time of possession split, then inched closer with a couple of chances by junior midfielder Meg Tveit and reigning Ivy League Rookie of the Year Murphy Agnew in the first half.
It wasn’t until Agnew drew a yellow card to start the second half that Harvard drew blood. Freshman midfielder/forward Sophie Hirst stepped in to take the penalty and sunk the shot inside the right post for a 1-0 lead in the 52nd minute.
The Crimson kept digging, however, getting goals from another rookie, forward Trinity Thomas, and offensive mainstay senior Leah Mohammadi in the 64th and 69th minutes to expand its lead to 3-0. Freshman midfielder Taylor Nielsen capped it off with a superb floater from outside the box in the 75th to close the scoring at 4-0.
“Honestly, it’s kind of a blur right now,” Nielsen said after the game. “I just remember it was coming back…. I’ve always been one to take the longer shots, playing mid, and I saw that it was an open space, and it was a perfectly weighted ball back, so I went for it and it floated in.”
Unable to come up with a response, Syracuse only lightly tested senior goalkeeper Danielle Etzel, dotting the Harvard net with six shots-on-goal that the veteran Crimson netminder easily handled. Etzel played all 90 minutes for her third career individual shutout and first win of the 2018 season.
The goals were career firsts for Hirst, Thomas, and Nielsen, with Nielsen also assisting on Thomas’ score. Mohammadi’s penalty shot gave the senior her second goal of the season.
“I think today, [our starting group] really connected,” Nielsen said. “Once we fought through the flow of the game, especially after the first half and the first goal, that’s when we finally settled down and played our game.”
SAN FRANCISCO 2, HARVARD 1
Mohammadi scored Harvard’s first goal of 2018 in the 86th minute of last Saturday’s matchup against USF, but it wasn’t enough to overcome a 2-0 deficit as the Dons (4-1) defeated the Crimson, 2-1 at Negoesco Field.
The loss illustrated the struggles that Harvard has historically had when attempting to rally. Dating back to the start of the 2017 season, the Crimson is now 0-10 when its opponents score first, highlighting the importance of being able to play downhill soccer.
San Francisco junior forward Izzie Lueken got the Dons on the board in the fifth minute of the game off a cross from junior forward Miciah Madison. The 1-0 scoreline held up until the the 74th minute, when USF extended its lead to 2-0 on touch-and-go play in the box.
Harvard outshot San Francisco 10-8, while Etzel and junior goalie Kat Hess split time in goal.
“I’m proud of how we competed today,” Hamblin said last week. “Obviously, we’re not happy to take the loss, but we showed a lot of positives today, shook off some rust. Getting the chance to figure some things out, I like how we adjusted as the game went on.”
Mohammadi’s header during a scramble in front of the net with fewer than five minutes to play got the Crimson on the board for the first time in 2018, but the Dons were able to close out the visitors for a 2-1 victory.
CAL 2, HARVARD 0
Just a thirty-minute drive from Negoesco Field, Harvard kicked off its 2018 campaign with a visit to Edwards Stadium in Berkeley, Cal. The affair proved too much for the Crimson, as the Golden Bears notched their 18th consecutive home win in non-conference play with a 2-0 victory.
Mohammadi tallied Harvard’s only shot-on-goal and Hess was able to win a one-on-one battle in the 52nd minute, but that was just about all the Crimson was able to manage.
Cal senior forward Miranda Nile’s penalty goal in the 14th minute proved to be the winner, and sophomore forward Emma Westin tacked on insurance in the 68th minute.
The matchup marked the collegiate debuts of Harvard rookie defenders Jillian Wachira and Courtney Rabb, as well as Nielsen and Thomas.
“We have a lot of freshman who have come into the team, fit right into our system and our culture, and are ready to contribute,” Hamblin said. “You saw that today, with Jillian, Taylor, Trinity, [and] Courtney all getting their first taste of play at the collegiate level. And I think they performed very well, especially Jillian helping anchor our back line. We have things to work on as we would expect, but overall really pleased with the set of debuts we got today."
—Staff writer Bryan Hu can be reached at bryan.hu@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
