News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Class of 2022—when you arrive on campus, you will find students that have been advocating for immigration rights and reform since they were in high school, others that have only recently begun their activism, and some who are not open about their status. Wherever you are in this journey, we hope you’ll join us.
Discussing undocumented status is difficult. Yet, many students on campus have boldly come out and have made these conversations more common. There is widespread support for and recognition of undocumented community members among the student body. This is, in part, due to Act on a Dream’s advocacy and community building work.
Act on a Dream is a student-led, student-run organization at Harvard College focused on supporting undocumented students, DACA recipients, citizens in mixed-status families, and other immigrants. We focus on three branches: First, advocating for legislative measures; second, building a community on campus that welcomes all immigrants; and third, working with Harvard administration for undocumented student resources.
On a daily basis, Act on a Dream’s support could mean providing a space for reflection and support (such as following the 2016 election), being able to mention DACA without explaining what it means, venting about our anxieties, or going out for a fun night together. We have established a mentorship program that connects upperclassmen with first-year students, staged rallies outside Massachusetts Hall—home to the offices of the University president—and, most recently, created an open-mic Visitas event for prospective members of the Class of 2022 to meet our members and allies through conversation and performance. Our events are often co-sponsored with other student organizations, reflecting our belief that strength lies in our unity.
Our Act on a Dream family, however, includes more than just students: Harvard employees, including those with Temporary Protected Status, cook our meals and keep our houses clean and safe, even during snowstorms. They too are an integral part of the Harvard community and of our Act on a Dream family, as they provide support with our advocacy efforts.
You will surely have days when the news outside these gates will affect you, and you may find yourself  unable to fully engage with your lectures or peers. As hard as this can be—especially when you are supposed to be enjoying your college experience—remember that you are not alone. The entire undocumented community and its allies are behind you. We will continue creating safe spaces to share your joy, your frustrations, and your achievements. We will move ahead together by creating solidarity from our experiences. As you navigate through the space, we encourage you to challenge ideas in the classrooms, attend panels, and participate in rallies that push Harvard into action. We will join you in these efforts.
All of us, current and future students alike, are going through these roller-coaster months together. Not enough progress has been made at the local and national levels, and undocumented students and their families continue to have low access to education, jobs, and other opportunities. We are working to dispel myths surrounding immigration in the United States by humanizing diverse experiences with borders.
There is no single story of migration, but we can still build solidarity by listening to each other and sharing resources and tools. We hope to use our voices and advocacy skills to ignite discussions and change. Our hope is that during your time at Harvard, you too will find your voice and realize that the power of your story can move you out of the shadows. This is a critical moment to mobilize, reminding everyone that the issues of migration do not end with us, but rather affect everyone. Migration is an intersectional issue.
When the Classes of 2018 and 2019 applied to Harvard, there was no way of knowing if there were other undocumented students. Harvard did not have an official webpage—like the one that exists today—to validate the existence of these students. This new website is the centralized location to find the resources the institution has allocated for undocumented students, including mental health care and legal advising.
There’s nothing more empowering than having freshmen join us each year to better this institution by reclaiming our narratives and sharing our stories when we feel comfortable doing so. Harvard can always do better, and you have the opportunity to provide your input in these changes. We are here to listen, to offer our advice and experience, and ultimately to support you in your unique journey.
No matter where you’re starting from, we will remind you that you have a place here.
Anshi Moreno Jimenez ’19 is a Social Studies concentrator in Mather House. Elmer Vivas Portillo ’20 is a Sociology concentrator in Mather House. They are advocacy co-chairs for Act on a Dream.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
In light of the physical police altercation on April 13 between a black undergraduate who was likely under the influence of narcotics and officers from the Cambridge Police Department, Harvard affiliates have raised important questions about College policies to protect and assist students. One of the primary concerns is exactly how the College’s amnesty policy for drug and alcohol use might apply in this case. Consequently, we call on the administration to explain when the amnesty policy applies to students and more clearly delineate policy for how the Harvard University Police Department and Harvard University Health Services intervene in such cases.
According to HUPD spokesperson Stephen G. Catalano, HUHS was contacted about the student. HUHS subsequently contacted HUPD, who in turn transferred the call to CPD, who he said had “primary jurisdiction.”
The College’s amnesty policy states that students seeking medical treatment for alcohol or drug-related illnesses for themselves or a friend will not face disciplinary actions for any illegal substance use in their interaction with HUHS or HUPD. Although the administration has given no indication that it will discipline the student involved in the police altercation, the event raises important questions about when the amnesty policy applies. Does the policy, for example, apply when police officers from the CPD or the Boston Police Department interact with students? Additionally, we question whether it was necessary to involve CPD in this case, and hope to see the administration set clear guidelines to determine when analogous situations cease to be medical emergencies and instead become matters involving law enforcement.
Last Saturday, Black Students Organizing for Change, a group formed by students in the aftermath of the traumatic incident, held protests and, through an open letter to the “Harvard Community,” presented a number of demands to the University, which merit consideration.
We support BSOC’s demand that Harvard acquire its own University ambulance. Harvard should seek to follow the example set by MIT, whose ambulance service is operated by a student-led Emergency Medical Services team. Acquiring a University ambulance will be an important step to ensuring that students who need medical help receive it safely, expeditiously, and, when possible, internally.
We also support the group’s demand for the establishment of an internal crisis response team, which would pursue short-term strategies to deal with medical emergencies and housing issues. Up until institutional changes aimed at preventing similar incidents are put into effect, the crisis response team would work to ensure safety and security for Harvard affiliates.
BSOC’s claim that HUHS dispatchers and HUPD officers should receive trainings regarding mental health is similarly valuable, as these trainings may well have altered the course of events in this incident.
In endorsing these three demands, we recognize that our suggestions are not exhaustive. We strongly encourage the College to listen to, consider, and respond to the other changes BSOC and other students, especially those who are disproportionately affected by the event, have proposed.
Ultimately, we hope that the administration clarifies its procedure for involving police in situations where students and affiliates require medical attention. If there is no existing policy, the administration must work quickly and effectively to create one in order to ensure that students remain safe. No incident like that of April 13 should ever happen again.
This staff editorial solely represents the majority view of The Crimson Editorial Board. It is the product of discussions at regular Editorial Board meetings. In order to ensure the impartiality of our journalism, Crimson editors who choose to opine and vote at these meetings are not involved in the reporting of articles on similar topics.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
It’s springtime again in Cambridge: The days are lengthening, the leaves are returning, and my inbox is filling with Senior Gift emails. Sixteen of them, to be precise.
I’ve seen a lot of Senior Gift marketing. I’ve seen the email blasts, the T-shirts, the social media posts, and the raffles. I’ve seen the posters up around my House, trumpeting the multifarious recipients of senior generosity, including the Classroom to Table program (shuttered for the semester, lacking funds), the Wi-Fi (slow), and my Faculty Deans’ dogs (very cute, but I bet not actually fed by the Harvard College Fund).
I’ve been e-introduced (via email blast) to a pair of 1997 alums who pledge an ever-escalating series of matching gifts and who I have elevated to semi-mythical status. (The adjective “inspiring” has been repeatedly used to describe their response to my class’s anemic altruism. I also refuse to believe six-figure donors actually condition their giving on what a bunch of wet-behind-the-ears undergrads do.)
I will say that it’s a genuinely remarkable exercise. Not the money, of course—$10 is the minimum online donation, $5 if you pay in physical American currency—but the amount of energy that goes into raising it. (Truly, as Churchill might have said, never have so many raised so little from so few.) Instead, to me it’s representative of the tremendous focus that students, administrators, and alumni put into fundraising relative to the more significant source of Harvard’s wealth: endowment returns.
It’s particularly ironic because Senior Gift seems determined to convey a Sergeant Schultz-level of distance from the University’s endowment. Someone at the Harvard College Fund has evidently surmised that asking undergrads to throw a few bucks into an already-$37.1 billion pot is a less-than-persuasive tactic. “No money raised by Senior Gift goes to the endowment,” the emails say in bold letters, and I can attest that it’s a major talking point of the rank-and-file Senior Gift representatives.
Set aside, for a moment, the obvious fact that unrestricted contributions—one of the two ways to make a Senior Gift—can be used to offset endowment disbursements and thus grow the principal. It’s fundamentally weird that the University Development Office is positing the endowment and donations as separate and separable.
Of course, Senior Gift and its few thousand dollars’ worth of Wi-Fi routers and dog food has a primarily psychological, not pecuniary, purpose. It exists to condition nearly-graduates into paying their Harvard tithe. (A friend told me that senior gift representatives were instructed to be “change agents, not tax collectors,” but you know what they say about things that walk like a duck, swim like a duck, and come asking for money around April 15.)
Of course, there’s no direct tradeoff between photocopying Senior Gift posters and increasing the performance of Harvard Management Company. Indeed, Harvard Management Company CEO N.P. Narvekar’s restructuring seems reasonable to my layman’s eyes. Yet I can’t help but think that Senior Gift is but a particularly clear example of the thinking which elevates the Harvard Campaign to consume half of senior administrators’ time and helps structure the dates of their departures, even as it’s sabotaged by nine-digit endowment losses.
Indeed, HMC’s years of subpar returns have deprived the University of billions of dollars in would-have-been funds. Endowment losses have forced units like the Faculty of Arts and Sciences, which is particularly dependent on investment returns, to make serious cuts, restricting graduate admissions and reducing salary growth.
The massive numbers involved mean that small changes in year-to-year performance result in huge swings. This year, Harvard placed last among Ivy League endowments, growing at 8.1 percent. Yet the failure to match even Yale, itself second from the bottom in the Ivy League at 11.3 percent, meant the loss of $1 billion in growth.
Development is important, and I neither have a problem with fêteing donors nor Senior Gift. I was glad to hear Harvard’s recent announcement that we’re past the $9 billion mark.
But as massive as that pile of money seems—and it is a lot, equivalent to the cost of a U.S. Navy aircraft carrier, the value of a medium-sized company, or the GDP of a small country—its potential to act as a so-called “change agent” is dwarfed by the performance of HMC. Even if Harvard can continue to persuade its benefactors to voluntarily part with a billion or so each year—greater than the annual economic output of 17 countries—philanthropy cannot be a substitute for endowment success.
A single percentage point change in the endowment is worth about $350 million, the size of the donation that renamed the School of Public Health. (That $5 minimum Senior Gift is equivalent to a 0.00000001 percent growth increase.) When, in fiscal year 2016, HMC lost $2 billion, it effectively erased two years of record-setting fundraising.
It’s this context that is missing from the campus conversation and the most visible priorities of the administration. Harvard is right to seek out benefactors. It has a responsibility to see that their generosity is well stewarded.
Derek K. Choi ’18, a former president of The Crimson, is a Government concentrator in Leverett House. His column appears on alternate Thursdays.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
I’m here in Cambridge, Mass. checking out this funky little program serving up—that’s right—student-faculty interaction outside the classroom. Seriously, man, I gotta tell you, for real this time, I’m not even messing around: the Harvard Classroom-to-Table program is as good as a pickle-packed burger griddling on a red hot corvette hood in the L.A. sunshine.
Have you ever shot the breeze with your Pulitzer-prize winning professor as Grafton Street’s pappardelle bolognese (with that real-deal pork flavor) flies straight for your dome on a hot frisbee of fun? That’s bananas, my friend, and bananas is good.
When I ran the Johnny Garlic’s restaurant chain, I served up barrels of my bourbon bison meatloaf, stuffed to the brim with garlic mash like a hot tub in Flavortown. But I always knew there was something missing; the shama lama, as they say, was absent from the ding dong. That something was the Office of Undergraduate Education and their righteous funding, brother.
 
With the Classroom-to-Table program, everything was absolutely funkalicious. Students across campus exclaimed “Slamma jamma I love that lamb-a!” It was the only joy they had felt in years.
But sadly, brother, it appears the Classroom-to-Table program had at least 4,269 square yards of flavor, forcing it out of bounds. Shut the front door, you say? Yes, I also was madder than a red hot pickle pot stuffed with broiled brats with a side of tater tots when I heard the news. This semester, students were  limited to two lights-out delicious meals per semester, and even then funding ran out faster than a jackrabbit covered with a bottle of washashashasha sauce.
No, brother, I’m not bitter. I am just sadder than a plate of mashed potatoes without any garlic sauce. You see, the real value of Flavortown isn’t in the buffalo cheese sauce, or the big volcano-shaped tower made from onion rings, or even in those succulent baby-back ribs whose tangy twang creates a festival of funk. It’s in the friendships we make along the way—in those deep conversations we have in the big hot tubs of barbeque sauce, our words accented ever so gently with the occasional soft sizzle of a side of bacon.
Yes, it’s a tragedy that all that is bomb-dot-com tasty is moved ever farther from the masses, dangled tantalizingly before the eyes of undergraduates like a spicy salami in the smokehouse. But I will sleep tonight with a small sliver of hope: perhaps, next semester, there will be goat cheese bruschetta for all, and every student will have their very own hot tub in Flavortown. Then, and only then, can they be free, experiencing the ineluctable modality of shama lama ding dong.
—Magazine writer Drew C. Pendergrass can be reached at drew.pendergrass@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @pendergrassdrew.

Sections
I wake and clamber out of bed, seeking water. Drink. The sought-after Nalgene rests full on my desk. I return it nearly empty. Drink. Yesterday’s phone conversation echoes in my mind.
I had called, concerned. It was my first time, I explained. For years I had thought about it, but had never taken the plunge. And now I had been assigned. Would it be difficult?
The voice on the other end assuaged my fears. It explained the process (26 postures, 2 ways of breathing), the logistics (Tuesday, 8 a.m., 90 minutes), and made quite clear that I was to hydrate, hydrate as though my life depended on it—hydrate, for this is no mere yoga, not tepid yoga at all. This is hot yoga!
Drink.
I raise the bottle once again and I drink, and this time squeeze every last drop from the plastic.
It is time to go. To depart my cool room, to make my way through the morning; through fog-laden streets, oft-tread by students but at this early hour empty; through this numb-cool Purgatory to the Hell-fires of 30 John F. Kennedy St, Cambridge, MA 02138. To Bikram Yoga Cambridge.
A waiver, my signature in black wet ink scrawled at the bottom; the gentle fingers of the mild-mannered man behind the desk pointing towards the changing room; the water fountain (Drink); the solitary door, behind which could only be the site of my doom. Clad in grey running shorts and a black tank-top, my bags stowed and red Nalgene refilled, I open the door.
A mass of heat crashes against my skin, rushing into my nostrils and down my throat. The heat, my god, the heat! My lungs fight to relax, and I step inside.
The lights are off. To my left, a raised platform presses against a wall of mirrors. Perpendicular to this wall are scattered mats, scattered corpses. No! Not corpses: they lie on their backs, arms by their sides and heels pressed together, yet a silent hand reaches up to scratch a glistening nose. The men are shirtless, wearing only tight biking shorts; the women, sports bras and spandex shorts. I am overdressed. I swallow my trepidation, roll out my rented mat, and join the bodies.
Suddenly the door swings open. Someone enters. I slide my eyes from the ceiling to see twin bare feet pad across the floor and to the platform. From his dais, the instructor—the mild-mannered man of before—regards us.
Melodious commands echo from his practiced mouth.
Stand.
We stand.
This is Standing Deep Breathing. Raise your hands and clasp them beneath your chin. Glue your knuckles to your neck. As you breathe in, raise your elbows to your ears. As you exhale, bring your elbows together, keeping arms parallel to the floor and tilting your head back.
My neck strains; my head does not bend this far back. Pain blossoms—but what blissful pain! What relief from this oppressive heat, the numbing pressure of steamy air against my eyes and mouth, ears and lungs. It shoots up and down my tender spine.
The instructor speaks, and my body follows. I now resemble a triangle; now a half-moon. Outside thoughts intrude: term papers; my lack of BoardPlus; the too-cool-for-me cutie in my poetry class. Under some deviant internal calculus, I am more tense than before arrival. Is yoga not meant to wash away the stresses of the day? But I continue listening.
I find myself folded over, chest pressed against thigh and fingers trailing along the floor. Lungs strain to expand; breath is short. Sweat collects at my brow and threatens to spill onto the chaste mat—but refuses to flow forth. At the instructor’s direction I strain, and at last my head touches my slightly bent knees—
You are a Japanese ham sandwich.
Wait. Had I misheard? Has the instructor really, in this moment of great focus, invoked as Muse an item of food—and not simply common deli fare, but of all things a Japanese ham sandwich? Does such a thing even exist?
You are a Japanese ham sandwich.
Am I the only one who doesn’t understand? I press harder, forcing the contact between my torso and thigh into a continuous line. I am nearly there—
You are a Japanese ham sandwich.
The muscles of my legs are tight, shaking with fatigue, and as I attempt to straighten my knees I gasp in pain. Yet as soon as I do, the hot air fills my mouth, fills my convulsing lungs as they struggle for air. My vision narrows. Am I going to pass out?
I cannot fight anymore. I can only relax, and submit to the heat—
You are a Japanese ham sandwich.
I AM A JAPANESE HAM SANDWICH. Knees snap straight—and ecstasy! My body is sung electric; my very vertebrae vibrate at frequencies unknown. There we are, the five other yoga-goers, and I, and with the instructor seven, seven different bodies, seven different faces—and yet together, there we are: a single Japanese Ham Sandwich. The sweat finally flows forth, dazzling the black foam mat with liquid stars, perfect and symmetrical splays of victory.
Some time later—the final pose completed—I settle back, exhausted, into savasana. Corpse pose. It is finished. And from my languished body, this graying corpse, sweat blossoms forth like red roses.
From this hot abyss rises a perspiring phoenix.
I am Hot Yoga Frank.
Look on my Poses, ye Mighty, and despair!

—Magazine writer Frank M. Cahill can be reached at frank. cahill@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @frankmcahill.
Sections
When I am at my most mindless, I put my right thumb underneath my left bicep, nearing but not quite in the armpit, and massage it, counter-clockwise. It is a calming ritual, relieving tension more mental than physical, even if every rotation feels like late-night food and scattered four-day gym resolutions and pallid skin untouched by the sun.
There was a time when I could feel a hard round lump there, as if the one that was supposed to be in my throat had gotten its street directions wrong and figured, hey, this is as good a stop as any.  If I concentrate really hard, I can still feel my mom’s fingers there when I first showed it to her at 10 years old. Tight and sharp like hooks because my mom never does anything halfway, but tentative, too, because she didn’t know exactly what she was getting into. Like a child going pole fishing for the first time.
At first, my mom’s fingers were down low closer to my elbow, but I said no no no! Mom the Arm Lump is further up by my armpit, right across from my heart. Still tight and still sharp, her fingers crept slowly up my arm, leaving pink circles behind them until I got impatient and grabbed her hand with my free one and placed it for her. My mom’s fingers closed briefly around the Arm Lump beneath my skin before recoiling all at once.
That’s when she shrieked. She didn’t yell (obviously, because a yell is halfway to a shriek); she shrieked, and the spoon she had probably just used to stir coffee clattered against the kitchen floor. She asked how the Arm Lump felt when she touched it, and I said it didn’t hurt, and then she twisted my arm to get a better look at the spot, which I said did hurt. She started smoothing over the area, as if wiping the spot where the Arm Lump was concealed was going to get rid of it.
That was the first time of many times someone thought something was wrong with me, and the experience was more physical than mental. My face burned, which was shame. My stomach felt heavy, which was worry. And then my heart tightened, which was it preparing its defenses for the next time. I wonder if those feelings came more from someone pointing out my deficiency or me being anxious about what  it was, exactly, and how I could fix it. I wonder how my face and stomach and heart would have responded  if my mom had been two-faced about the Arm Lump, if she had shrugged her shoulders and said no big deal, then scurried off to call a doctor.
Over the next few weeks, Arm Lump got upgraded to Bone Tumor, which is a much more serious label because no one puts colorful ribbon-shaped magnets on the back of their minivans to raise awareness for Arm Lumps. But each of the doctors we visited—what felt like dozens, but must have been two or three—shrugged when my parents asked for a diagnosis, and sent us on to the next one.
When it came to understanding my situation, my body was no help to me, because my tumor was not a wound that bled or hurt or swelled—those trademark signs of injury that nature hardwires our brains to recognize from a young age. So instead, I took cues from my parents, staring at them from my seat atop the crinkly and easily-torn paper that covered the examination table. With each doctor’s shrug, I watched my parents’ bodies deflate, like they had let out a sigh but forgotten to breathe back in. I would have preferred bleeding.
The doctors near home referred us to a doctor in New York City, which relieved some of my worry once my parents assured me The City was filled with good doctors. This doctor called my Bone Tumor a fancy word that I remember at one point practicing to spell, and then said it “probably” wouldn’t develop into cancer, which was both more and less confident than it could have been. He didn’t recoil or shriek when his fingers met the Bone Tumor, which I appreciated, but then he turned to my parents and said “Yes, I can cut that right out,” which I did not appreciate. My dad asked if that was the best and only option, and the doctor said yes and that we could schedule the procedure with his assistant out front. My parents thanked him politely and we escaped, disturbed by his eager willingness to cut a hole in my arm.
One night of some day after that visit, I left my room after bedtime because I wanted to stay up, but I went to get a cup of water from the kitchen because when you’re under questioning from your parents “I’m out of bed because I’m thirsty” is a much better excuse for being out of bed than “I’m out of bed because I want to stay up so I decided just to go for it.” Kids are crafty like that. When I got to the kitchen, it was dark except for the blueish light that shone from the desktop computer, illuminating my dad’s face as he hunched over the keyboard.
Instead of going to get the water, I climbed into his lap, and saw that he was researching that word the doctor had called my Bone Tumor. His worry made me worry, and I asked him if I was going to die. He looked me in the face then, and said “You are not going to die.”  He kept googling, though, so I didn’t totally believe him. I thought of the history books I had read in which kids died at a young age and how that wasn’t supposed to happen anymore.
I wonder if he found comfort in that googling, or if anyone finds any comfort when we google a medical condition or something we ingested, always tacking on an “ok” at the end—no capitals, no question mark. Like “Advil and alcohol ok” or “lactose intolerant but had milk ok” or “Advil and alcohol three days in a row ok.” I imagine my dad’s google search looking like “my young son has a bone tumor also he seems to be very thirsty almost every night after bedtime ok.”
Years later, my dad mentioned this computer moment to me during an otherwise quiet car ride. He told me that after I left the kitchen he went to his room and laid there and cried. I told him that I had gone to my room and cried, too.
Eventually, my parents took me to see a specialist at Yale, despite New York City being filled with good doctors; fooled twice, shame, etc. This doctor reminded me of Santa even though he didn’t have a beard or a big belly—he just seemed like he would know what I wanted for Christmas if I asked him to guess, you know?  His too-blue eyes made me glance sidelong with impatience and discomfort, as he was one of those adults who insisted on prolonged direct eye contact—“Andrew? Andrew. Andrew.”— which is second only to public speaking in the pantheon of living nightmares for a kid with anxiety.
He examined the Bone Tumor and looked at my x-ray and read my chart but didn’t shrug. Instead, he smiled. He had seen this type of tumor before—they very rarely developed into cancer, and almost never needed surgery unless they hurt or prevented normal range of motion. As I grew older, muscles and sinew would coil around the tumor until it disappeared from sight or touch and my body forgot it was ever there at all. I looked to my parents for a cue on how to react. They stood there, fully-inflated and crying, but in the good way.
Then, my doctor leaned-in (not in the high-income feminist way) because people always lean-in before moments of profundity.
I was not doing to die.
—Andrew W. Badinelli is a former Fifteen Minutes Magazine Editor-at-Large. He cannot be reached.
Sections
In 1950, The Crimson ran a story on seventeen-year-old Lois L. Ebeling ’54, a “cute brown-eyed brunette” with “a twinge of [a] southern accent.” According to the article, she was “5 feet 3 ½ inches and 132 pounds of Social Relations concentrator.”
Four years later, The Boston Globe reported on Marie Winn ’58, a “pint-sized Audrey Hepburn” with “pixie-like bangs” and “a certain Old World Charm.”
These young women were both crowned “Miss Radcliffe” in their day, a title that The Harvard Crimson bestowed upon the prettiest, most charming Radcliffe freshman from 1947 until 1956, when the contest was discontinued.
During the years of the contest, Crimson photographers would scout out Miss Radcliffe candidates at the early fall dances, inviting 25 to 30 semifinalists to attend a dinner where the girls’ looks and manners were assessed. The Crimeds narrowed this group down to a cohort of six finalists, who were judged by editors, faculty members, fashion experts, and in 1953, even Miss United States. The winner was crowned at the first home football dance.
***
In 1949, near the pageant’s inception, J. Anthony Lewis wrote in The New York Times Magazine, “Everyone agrees that Radcliffe girls are prettier than they used to be.”At the start of the 20th century, Harvard men had little interest in the ladies on Garden Street. “By reputation, Radcliffe was a nest of over-intellectualized young women,” Lewis wrote. “The popular story of the era ended with the line: ‘Is she a Radcliffe girl, or did a horse step on her face?’”
This image of the “unattractive, unfeminine, and unmarriageable” college-girl was firmly established, according to Deirdre Clemente, a historian at the University of Nevada, Las Vegas. So, to destigmatize educated woman, Radcliffe launched a PR campaign. It created a press board composed of administrators and students, who funneled stories to Boston papers that promoted the image of the attractive, educated ‘Cliffite.
Much of this revolution was staged in the fashion world. Retailers understood that they needed to cater to the styles college women wore. To tap into that market, designers and retailers partnered with students, especially those from premier schools like Radcliffe, who served as consultants and models for the businesses.
The Radcliffe press board strategically selected undergraduates to represent the school in the world of fashion: at shows, in print publications, or on the corporate side.
Thus, each year’s Miss Radcliffe represented exactly the type of “cute ‘Cliffite” that the school wished to flaunt. The modeling deals that came with the prize only further cemented that image.
***
As Radcliffe was redefining its reputation, another cultural shift was taking place: Harvard and Radcliffe were moving toward “Joint Instruction”; the term “coeducation” was still “spoken only in dark places and sotto voce,” according to Lewis.
Radcliffe women were first permitted to attend classes with Harvard boys in 1943, a “wartime measure” that relieved professors of having to teach the same class twice. Up until then, the schools had largely occupied separate social and academic realms.
A couple years later, the arrival of the Miss Radcliffe pageant set the stage for an unprecedented degree of social integration between the schools. However, while attention was called to the girls in the pageant, they were not valued in an academic setting. At Widener, women were required to work in a separate room—the site of today’s public elevator—so as to not interrupt the mens’ studying. When Lamont Library opened in 1949, female access was limited to Saturday afternoons.
“There are far too many corridors and alcoves,” the head librarian at the time explained. “Why, if we let girls in we should have to hire a force of patrolmen to watch the dark corners, at enormous expense.”
So even as the pageant improved Radcliffe’s public appearance, administrators worried that it might undermine the core values of the school.
It was ultimately a Radcliffe-led initiative that brought around the competition’s demise. It was banned less than a decade after its birth by Radcliffe College President Wilbur K. Jordan, upon the recommendation of the Student Council and the Board of Deans. The official grounds for its discontinuation was that it violated a policy forbidding “one girl [to] represent the entire college.”
To Karen A. Goukassow ’57, President of the Radcliffe Student Government Association, the contest was furthermore “inconsistent with Radcliffe’s pride in the individuality and diversity of its students.”
“I didn't feel any harm from the contest itself,” Anne Baker ’59, a finalist in 1955, told a Crimson reporter after the pageant’s ban. “But the pressure from the faculty and upperclassmen made some of us feel doubtful about entering.”
Indeed, The Crimson reported that many dormitory presidents had discouraged freshmen from participating, and those who did were occasionally stigmatized.
“One of the deans did say to me, 'I'm surprised to see you in this,'” Margot Dennes ’57, a finalist in 1953, noted.
Although the competition helped redefine the Radcliffe woman, it also created an unwelcome environment of frivolity.  Winn, the “pint-sized Audrey Hepburn” of 1954, found herself besieged by Harvard suitors, and refused to answer her many calls. “This [was] fun but school comes first,” she told the Globe. (She went on to become a prolific author and journalist.)
The Miss Radcliffe pageant was short-lived, the product of confusion in a cultural moment. But the 'Cliffites had proven that they possessed, as one Harvard senior reflected, “more to them than the society ‘fluffy ruffle.’”
As “The Cherry Ribbon,” a popular song of the time, declared:
They said to her “Who may you be?” 
She answered up right saucily, 
“Why I’m from Radcliffe, can’t you see? 
And I’m as smart as I am fair.”
—Magazine writer Sonia F. Epstein can be reached at sonia.epstein@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @sonia_epstein. 
— Magazine writer Rachel H. Janfaza can be reached at rachel.jafanza@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @racheljanfaza

Sections
On Saturday of Halloween weekend, I drove to my local American Apparel and joined a legion of teenage girls intently browsing neon leotards and animal-print leggings. The store was congested with girls, each of them scrutinizing every thigh-high sock and plaid miniskirt as a potential outfit for a Halloween party. We weren’t so much looking for costumes as we were shopping for individual pieces: metallic-colored catsuits with the deepest v-necks, iridescent leggings that would lift our butts as high as possible, and body suits that zipped down to our belly buttons.
I slid into a line of girls combing through racks of nude-colored sports bras and thonged one-piece bathing suits. I hadn’t actually picked a costume yet—nor was I even thinking about what animal or character I’d pretend to be. I just knew I was going to wear as little as humanly possible.
Two years earlier, the night of my older sister’s first high school Halloween, I sat on her bed while she and her friends primped for a party. One of my sister’s friends put on a blue-sequined bustier from a store called Trashy Lingerie and peacock feathers safety-pinned to American Apparel lace booty shorts. Her other friend donned a leather vest with high-waisted spandex, a plain black bra, and a leather baseball hat. She said she was a biker chick. As the girls had gleaned from Facebook photos, in high school the animal ears were an afterthought, only picked after assembling a hot outfit.
So, at 16, while preparing for my first high school Halloween party, I finally shelved the store-bought costumes: the itchy polyester spider witch dress that skimmed my knees, the Sandy Cheeks onesie and plastic mask with a crude print of her cartoon face. I joined the annual Halloween-weekend pilgrimage to American Apparel.
I left the store with a lacy bralette and a  pair of black, high-waisted hot pants that didn’t even cover my entire ass.
***
Thirty minutes before the party, I finally decided on a costume. From Facebook stalking the cool clique in the grade above, it seemed like there were two go-to options: a sexy school-girl or a sexy soldier. I went with the latter.
Around 10 p.m., when it was time to leave, my mother offered to drive us to the party. This posed a problem for my exposed legs, stomach, and chest. As my mom loves to tell me, she “went to an all-women’s college in the 70’s.” She was a feminist, a term rarely discussed in my classes at school, so a term I only understood in platitudes (Pussy power! Girls rule boys drool!). But I knew there was no way she’d let me out of the house wearing not just one exposed bra, but two—a black-push up underneath the sheer lace bralette.
The stakes were high. Missing my first high school Halloween party, or even attending the party but wearing a costume that included a shirt and pants, would postpone my first bid at seduction by at least a year. I had finally dared to wear just a bra, to draw attention to the body I usually hid beneath oversized striped t-shirts. My friends and I had straightened each other’s hair and watched YouTube tutorials for over an hour to teach ourselves how to apply winged eyeliner. We even planned phrases to initiate conversations with boys.
My two best friends dressed as vampires, wearing outfits nearly identical to mine—black booty shorts and black bustier crop tops, the midpoint between shirt and bra. They stuck very subtle vampire fangs to their teeth with dental putty that eased the defanging process (which they carefully considered when deciding between different brands of fangs—sharp teeth were only sexy from a distance, so if a boy actually asked them to make out they wanted to be able to defang as quickly as possible). Over my booty shorts and bralette, I pulled on an army jacket.
Though I was not cognizant of it then, my costume was only sexy because I didn’t actually pose a threat—the kinked-up camo emphasized my body instead of making it blend in, my only weapon my pushed up boobs. A 16-year-old soldier wearing too much mascara is hot because the combination of cleavage and camo is just a reminder that, while she can salute to powerful men in uniform, she hasn’t actually built up any fighting techniques through push-ups or gun drills. But, as far as I could tell at the time, the only ammo in my arsenal was my own body.
So, I quickly threw on an old tank top and planned to slip it off once I got to the party. Having to hide my costume only further convinced me of the power in looking hot. It felt like sneaking your own food into a movie theater.
***
When we first arrived at the party, I saw plumes of smoke hovering over a crowd of older kids with whom I was too afraid to make eye contact in the hallways at school. Before we walked towards the party’s center of gravity—a ping pong table littered with red solo cups and empty Smirnoff bottles—my friends and I prepared ourselves by locking arms, ensuring we would not somehow lose each other and have to wander the party alone.
The three of us—two vampires flanking me, the soldier—lingered by the edge of the party, where couples made out and boys shamelessly cupped girls’ barely pubescent butts. Fifteen minutes later, we finally had enough courage to walk inside the house instead of wandering in the backyard. On the way inside, I saw someone vomit Red Vines.
Inside the house, sitting alone on a couch and nursing a Four Loko as he stared at nothing in particular, was the boy I had made out with at a party the weekend prior. I thought he was the coolest boy I’d ever met. He had three vapes and knew how to smoke out of a bong. And I wanted to make out with him again.
The weekend before, he had pursued me—he approached me while I stood in line for the bathroom and, as he talked at me on a topic I had forgotten by the following morning, I giggled and twirled a strand of hair around my index finger. He very suddenly leaned in and started kissing me, but I didn’t know how to kiss so I just stood with my mouth slightly parted, my arms dangling at my sides, as he shoved his tongue in my mouth.
But this time I wanted to pursue him. So, I feigned a surprised “Hi!” as I walked past and sat on the couch next to him. I opened my jacket slightly, to reveal what felt like voluptuous, barely restrained cleavage but was really just my protruding chest bones. I crossed my legs, stretching them out so he could see that I had both shaved and moisturized.
His lips were chapped and his mouth tasted like pepperoni pizza. He left my mouth wet with slobber. But the actual kissing was irrelevant—I had decided to seduce a boy and successfully did so with my very own body.
***
Two days later, my computer pinged with a notification from my older brother, a college senior. Apparently, someone had uploaded a group photo on Facebook. It featured me with eyes half-closed and lips puckered in a “duck face,” with my costume—or lack of costume—entirely visible. My brother saw the picture and posted about it in the long defunct “Lawlz Davis Sibz” Facebook group.
Jack: “what the fuck Jensen did you really wear just a bra out?”
In the comment sections of his own post, he wrote:
“i love you baby sis but if you dress like a slut people will think ur a slut”
“boys will think they can take advantage of u”
“if u do this again i’ll tell mom”
I immediately untagged myself from the photo, erasing any evidence of the night from my profile. It wasn’t that I feared my second-wave feminist mother’s punishment—I had already worn the costume out. Rather, I suddenly felt like the hot pants that exposed my legs—that suggested I not only wanted to be looked at but could command those looks—had actually marked me as a soft target, a target obviously unaware of her own self-inflicted vulnerability.
I promised my brother I wouldn’t dress like that again and, to prove it, gave him the right to mock my Halloween costume for eternity.
***
During my freshman fall, I enrolled in my first Women and Gender Studies class—“Beyond the Sound Bite: Women, Gender, and Sexuality in the Daily News.” It was taught by Alice Jardine, one of two women professors I had that semester. She wore lots of paisley and velvet, nonchalantly dropped the term ‘postmodernism’ (and even did so in a palatable way, always breaking down the term so that it lost its Bogeyman quality), and analyzed the discourse around Hillary Clinton’s pantsuits as rigorously as she analyzed Baudrillard’s books.
The class was a 12-week crash-course in gender theory. By week six, I had acquired a whole new vocabulary that included glittery terms like “constructivism,” and “subject hybridity.” Three weeks before Halloween, we learned my favorite term—“the male gaze.”
I stayed up very late most nights that semester reading the women on the syllabus. I had a whole team of smart women thinkers, women whose faces I never even saw. Suddenly, I could abstract my body into a larger narrative instead of fumbling to understand the actual, immediate thing.
Now, I have glossaries and curricula for scrutinizing the ways in which people who identify as women can find agency over our bodies, and the reasons that finding such agency often feels as elusive as hunting ghosts—for very complex and historically valid reasons. But I couldn’t do the same at 16. Still, wearing two bras on Halloween might feel nice.
Sections
I recently came across a study that shows men are more likely to appear attractive to women if they have facial scars. I didn’t buy it when I first heard about it. On one hand, I detested how there was no mention of how it might work the other way around—how a woman’s allure might increase if she had scars on her face. On the other, my curiosity left me wondering to what extent I succumbed to this strange sexual phenomenon myself.
I considered scars to be the greatest badge of honor—a physical representation of triumph over adversity. That was enough to convince me that a scar could somehow boost my own status. All the great athletes, I imagined, had scars from long training sessions and sports injuries galore. I figured it was about time for me to earn some of my own. As it turns out, I was actually able to accomplish this in my sleep.
One March evening during my sophomore year of high school, I came home from fencing practice at around 8 p.m. It was the middle of the season for the girls’ fencing team, and my body was just getting used to the shifts in circadian rhythm. I was becoming worn out. I was running on low steam, barely accumulating three hours of sleep a night, and pushing through 12-hour school days.
All of this is to say that I can try to understand why I did what I did, but it still doesn’t fully make sense to the average person. That evening, after I had showered and scraped together some food for dinner, I sat at my desk like I did every night, forcing myself to tackle the monstrous essays that I hadn’t written and readings that I had fallen too far behind on—right next to the radiator heater I kept in my room. (My house perpetually felt like a tundra in the winter, so my family needed all the extra heating we could get.) Before I knew it, I slipped into a heavy slumber, somehow missing the fact that my leg was leaning directly against the heater. A massive blister cropped up just off of my left knee, and I acquired a gigantic scar—two inches of darkened skin.
I swore to myself that I would never fall asleep next to a radiator again.
I was one of those lucky adolescents who wasn’t cursed with rampant acne or eczema when I hit puberty. But I did end up making frequent trips to the dermatologist after the incident. Ever since I received that burn on my left leg, my mother has bugged the dermatologist into prescribing me Mederma scar gel, which would, in theory, accelerate my scar’s fading. I say “in theory” because I don’t know if it would have worked: I would constantly “forget” to use the gel. Secretly, I wanted to allow the wound to heal on its own.
The thing is, I wasn’t too bothered by this new mark that I had. It wasn’t my first burn scar either—I already had one that stretched across my left hand, the residue of an accident with a clothing iron that happened when I was a lot younger. I knew what it was like to live with unusual marks. One might say that I learned to accept the burns as a natural extension of my body.
But my mother didn’t. After that scar was etched onto my leg, she fretted that my life was “ruined,” that I had destroyed all chances of becoming the next Miss Korea. (This was not something I had considered doing anyway).
My mother’s obsession with my skin is embedded in Korean culture. With the rise of Korean skincare products, plastic surgery, and skin whitening treatments came an ideal of perfect skin that my scar interrupted. One dispute over a scar led to another, and then it became all about the stretch marks on my hips, the rashes on my arms, the bumps on my neck—the list goes on.
For two weeks after the radiator incident, I showed up to school wearing baggy sweatpants so I wouldn’t irritate the burn, per my doctor’s recommendation. My injury forced me to sit on the sidelines while the rest of my teammates dueled during fencing practice. I was treated like I was handicapped, for bones that weren’t even broken, for legs that could still lunge if I wanted them to. I became trapped by the silence of feeling left out of the circle—the circle of fortunate individuals with unscathed skin.
There are stories embedded in the marks on my body, but not everybody asks. I don’t think that I have to keep them hidden forever, though.
—Magazine writer Hayoung E. Ahn can be reached at hayoung.ahn@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @HayoungAhn.
Sections
In Claverly Hall, in Adams House, there is an elevator that will not be there three years from now. In 2019, Claverly Hall will be redesigned as the first hall in Adams to undergo renovation.
It is an old elevator made by F.S. Payne Co., the kind of elevator with a cage door that you pull shut before you go up. It has a capacity of 1,000 pounds and moves at 100 feet per minute. It is a little more than four feet by a little less than three feet.
There is a crinkled paper sign taped next to the elevator that tells you to be gentle. “Please do not slam or force doors or gate,” it pleads. Repairs are expensive and replacement parts are hard to come by with elevators this old.
You can see the walls between the floors in this F.S. Payne Co. elevator, and it’s a treat. As you ascend and descend, the only thing separating you and the walls in between the floors of Claverly Hall is the metal bars of the cage that you pulled shut to go up or to go down through Claverly Hall.
Seeing the in-between and being in the in-between feels odd. You’re witnessing something atavistic and transient as you stare at those walls moving into and out of sight. Being in-between for one second and then another.
***
I heard about the Claverly Elevator poem before I saw it. I live on the first floor of Claverly, so I initially had no reason to take the elevator. But when I heard that there was a poem painted on the walls between the floors, I had to take a look. I don’t come across many poems written in elevator shafts.
The poem reads from bottom to top: the first line is on the wall between floors one and two, the second line is on the wall between floors two and three, and so on.
My candle burns at both ends;
It will not last the night;
But ah, my foes, and oh, my friends—
It gives a lovely light!
The painter didn’t leave the name of the poem or the poet, so I looked it up. It’s from a poem called “First Fig” by Edna St. Vincent Millay, who won the Pulitzer Prize for Poetry in 1922. According to her obituary, Millay was found dead at 58 after a heart attack at the foot of her stairs. Maybe an elevator poem is an appropriate memorial. Or a sharp irony.
It’s hard to read the poem on first ascension because the elevator moves up at 100 feet per minute whether I’m reading or not, so I only have three seconds to look at the walls in between the floors. (Keep in mind, the poem is written with white paint on brown wall, and there are metal bars intersecting my sightline. And I’m moving.)
So I take the elevator up and then down so that I can take it back up. And then down. I’m focused on the words painted on the walls and trying to keep them still as everything else is moving. I’m trying to grasp the in-between, but it’s only giving me three seconds.
Whoever painted the poem didn’t leave a name. She or he didn’t paint a date or a signature to mark when and by whom the poem was painted. I’m dwelling on this.
How do you decide to paint a poem on an elevator shaft? How do you pick the poem? How do you stop the elevator? How long does take? How sore do you get? How hot are the lights, and how much do you sweat?
Why do you paint a poem on an elevator shaft that only comes to light three seconds at a time?
***
I found Will M. Skinner ’09 after sending out over 100 emails. (Is there any other way to investigate an unsigned poem?) I typed random, generic names into the Harvard Alumni portal—Sam, Alex, Sarah—and filtered by “Adams House” and by recent years. Then I emailed everyone I found. That’s how I emailed Sarah (Sally) Anne Morrell ’10 about a poem in an elevator. She connected me with Will.
“I spent a lot of hours in that creepy elevator. Up and down and up and down. Watching the walls scroll by,”  Skinner says on the phone. “Then that occured to me: ‘Oh, that’s the perfect unoccupied space that could have something beautiful on it.’”
He painted the poem as a senior during “dead week,” the time between exams and graduation, a period he says was “a very strange, liminal space.” It was “a time that was very scattered. You’re thinking about a lot of places where you’re not, thinking about what’s coming up next, thinking about missed opportunities.”
Skinner says he chose “First Fig” because the poem sums up his approach to life. “I’ve never been much of a planner. I’ve never been much of a long-term worrier,” he says. “I’ve always been much more of a person who just is like ‘Wow, life is beautiful and impermanent and time is short and who knows what’s gonna happen next? Maybe I’ll get hit by a bus. So, let’s make a beautiful light right now. Let’s enjoy the moments we have.’”
He says it took him over eight hours to paint the poem, partly because he had “a very small brush.” He laughs at the absurdity of the whole endeavour.
“It was sort of meditative and quiet and solitary,” Skinner says. While on the edge of the next big step in his life, about to graduate from Harvard, he was focused on leaving something behind for someone else by painting for eight hours in an elevator shaft.
The trick, according to Skinner, is that if you open the gate while the elevator is moving, it stops. A pause between the floors.
Magazine writer Matt B. Hoisch can be reached at matt.hoisch@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @hoischy.
Sections
In 2013, Moira Weigel’s “concerned mother” was sending her emails about her dating life. Weigel was also sifting through countless articles online about cataclysmic changes in modern romance. These societal and personal anxieties inspired Weigel to explore the claim that courting practices were undergoing an unusual transformation.
Weigel has quite the academic track record: after completing her undergraduate education at Harvard, she received an  M.Phil from the University of Cambridge and a Ph.D. in Comparative Literature and Film and Media from Yale. Now, she is a Junior Fellow at the Harvard Society of Fellows. The fruit of her explorations is “Labor of Love: the Invention of Dating,” her first book, which investigates the institution of dating. Weigel sat down with Fifteen Minutes to offer us insight into her book, and explain why our dating lives suck.
FM: Can you walk me through your book “Labor of Love”?
MW: “Labor of Love” is a feminist materialist history of dating. I was interested in how dating as a social practice intersects with the economy, with technology, with other aspects—all the forces that shape our social lives. The basic thesis of the book is that courtship practices are deeply entwined with the economy—and dating in particular emerges at the same time as new forms of consumer capitalism around 1900. Getting women into the workforce is a precondition for women to have the mobility, freedom, and flexibility but also the pressure to find partners on their own. My argument is that dating changes form many times but the constant is how it mixes labor and love, private life and economic life.
FM: Is this constant entanglement with labor something you see throughout the history of dating?
MW: Yeah, I think of those old-timey movies where the guy’s like “I’ll pick you up at 6” and the reason that is a thing was because that’s when people got off work. And, today, I always make this joke, but when you text someone “u up?” it’s because no one gets off work at 6. The culture likes to believe we are getting freer and freer as we get more options but I think my argument would be, like the rest of the economy, sexuality is getting more flexible but it’s also getting more precarious.
FM: So has there been a narrative of progress or modernization when it comes to dating?
MW: There is progress, and that’s why I wanted to write this book—because there are so many popular newspaper and magazine articles that say dating is dead, there is no more romance, courtship is over. My argument has always been that first of all, people have been saying that since dating was invented and it’s the oldest way to sell things—to tell people that either they should be worried about themselves or their kids.
But at the same time, there’s something very conservative and regressive about that discourse because it encodes this onset of ideas about how a woman should act or how a man should act. Dating becomes this theater where gender roles get reversed. The negative discourse on the “tinder apocalypse” or the “end of dating” end up being very unreflective about the past and very conservative in asserting that men and women, and god forbid, men and men or women and women, should behave a certain way. I really wanted to push back against that panic mongering.
FM: Can you talk to me a little bit about how you came up with “Labor of Love”?
MW: [I was] receiving emails from my concerned mother about dating and seeing in magazines the “end of men,” “death of dating” articles. I’m like, that’s pretty interesting, it seems like a pretty big claim to say that sex and men and love are over, and when you scratch the surface of research you realize it’s not true. At the same time I became interested in the topic and realized this is really a history of women in the workforce. You don’t have dating until you have women getting paid to work outside the home. Then I realized it was this feminist labor history and I was excited.
FM: Can you tell me a little bit about your time at Harvard? What was dating like?
MW: I graduated from Harvard in 2007. One thing that sociologists talk about a lot is this inversion of scripts, this inversion from an era when people would go out on dates and that would be a prelude to physical intimacy, to this new era where people go out with friends, hook up, and then go out [on dates]. I feel like I was in school as that was happening, as that was becoming very clearly the norm. Harvard’s a funny place. In my experience it was very defined by subcultures, like, you’re on The Crimson, you’re in The Advocate, you’re in the Signet, or you did sports, and these different spaces seemed to define these very different experiences.
Harvard people do tend to sort ourselves and make new hurdles for us to jump over to get into new spaces, even after we’ve gotten into this very expensive space. The one interesting thing about the history of dating is that there’s this strong cultural belief or fantasy that it’s different from the arranged marriage era—you could fall in love with anyone you could meet. But the truth is we still have all these institutions that sort us pretty reliably [based] on class, education, background and all these other categories that we like to think are obsolete, and the statistics about how many Harvard people marry other Harvard people certainly shows that.
Sections
Editor’s note: Yes, Crimson editor Eliya O. Smith ’20 actually did contract scarlet fever in the Year of Our Lord Two Thousand Eighteen.
Dearest mama,
Our journey west continues, but I write with somber news. One of our oxen gave out from heat exhaustion and a band of child snatchers kidnapped Chastity and we are out of corn so none of us have eaten in three days. Also I got scarlet fever and am probably going to die.
To be honest, I’m kind of mad that the kidnappers didn’t get Prudence because I know she is going to steal my betrothed, Jedediah, after the scarlet fever has taken me because Prudence is a little bitch and Chastity, my favorite sister, would never have done me like that. But alas.
I do not know how much longer I will have to suffer on this bumpy-ass covered wagon. But mama, I must confess that I thought this disease would be a hair more glamorous. Or at least sort of serene and genteel. Turns out scarlet fever is actually just strep throat, but you get a rash too and I’m sort of just itchy all the time and also very pink. I keep scratching myself and I think Jedediah is getting grossed out, although it doesn’t matter anyway since I’m going to die since there is no medicine anywhere since it is definitely absolutely most certainly not the year 2018, it is obviously 1805 and we are obviously trotting westward since the only situation in which someone would get scarlet fucking fever is on the Oregon Trail.
Obviously.
Or maybe we’re not traveling west; maybe it’s like, medieval Europe, and, dear mama, I hope papa found a pigeon to fly this letter to wherever you have traveled to sell your pots; they’re probably bringing the leeches soon, at which point I will have to rest my quill, so bye forever.
Or maybe... it is early America and I am a sad Southern lady and I walk in slow motion with a drapey velvet blanket covering my rash and will die on a bed of roses as all 12 of my scorned lovers weep quietly in the corner. Sending love, ma!
Perhaps it is 1901, actually, and I live in a crowded tenement in New York where my family rented a nice gentile boy to light our shabbos candles except that he infected me with this reptilian skin disease and now I will never live to see my immigrant story immortalized in the hit Broadway musical Fiddler on the Roof. Oy.
I guess it might be like, Italy or something in the early 20th century and my mafia boss father is about to escape to America so he doesn’t get murdered on a stucco balcony, sort of like remember in “Twilight” when Edward got scarlet fever or maybe that was the Spanish influenza or something? Now I’ll never be able to avenge the death of mio padre unless someone bites me and turns me into a sparkly repressed demon which is so not how I thought my “maiden comes of age” story would go and also I think I am confusing “Twilight” with ‘The Godfather” which is probably offensive to a lot of people on a number of levels but it doesn’t even matter because I have scarlet fever so everyone must pity me, full stop, woe is me, period.
The point is that whenever it is and wherever I am, it cannot possibly be Cambridge, Mass. in 2018; I am definitely not a student living in a fully globalized world with access to the most advanced medical technology at my fingertips, because nobody gets scarlet fucking fever as a regular college student in this era of modern fucking history.
Anyway.
All my love.
Eliya “Scarfeve” Smith
Sections
Aurora E. Straus ’22 hears music from the engines of her race cars.
Straus—a folk musician, avid reader, physics enthusiast, and the only professional teenage female sports car racer in the country—was born with perfect pitch. “Literally, she came out of the womb, before she could even move her tongue, she would...” Her mother, Molly McCoy Straus, breaks off her sentence to hum the tune of the alphabet song, mimicking her infant daughter. “Before she could even roll over, she was humming.”
Thirteen years later, as she sat behind the wheel of a race car, Straus was humming again—this time, to a different tune. As a new racer, she memorized the notes that the engine of her car made, and then used the pitches of the engine’s sounds to know when to switch gears.
“I could tell you, for example, that shifting from third to fourth gear in an older Mazda is a C-sharp,” she says. “For a really long time, until I got comfortable in cars, I would hum a C-sharp to myself while I was waiting for the engine to reach that point, and then as it matched my pitch I would shift.”
When Straus walks into the café in Harvard Square where we’re meeting, she tells me she’s just driven three hours from her home in Cold Spring, N.Y., where she stayed for about 14 hours. “I did laundry, I slept in my own bed, I packed my bags, and then I came here,” she says. After visiting Cambridge for the weekend, she will fly straight to Virginia for her next race.
Though Straus is most famous today for her success in racing, becoming a race car driver was never part of the plan. As a child, her talents lay in school and music. She loved to read, citing as her favorites books the Harry Potter series and “The Handmaid’s Tale”—she read the same copy that her mother had annotated in college. She sang and played instruments, sticking to some (piano, guitar) and merely dabbling in others (flute, cello). Her first guitar teacher, Kathleen H. Pemble, says she was writing complete songs by age 12.
Then Straus tried racing.
“She was just this quiet little folk singer, good student person—and then she turned into a beast in the car,” Molly says. “It was completely unexpected.”
Straus attributes her success on the racetrack more to hard work than any freakish natural talent. She first sat in the driver’s seat of a sports car because she and her father, himself an amateur racer, wanted her to learn basic driving safety. She calls the first time she went over 100 miles per hour her “eureka moment.”
“I knew I was going to continue racing after I went out on the track that one time,” she says. “Just because you fall in love with the adrenaline of it, the speed of it, the power of having control of something that could kill you. It’s a huge adrenaline rush knowing that you have the power to manipulate machinery like that. It’s terrifying and exciting.”
But when Straus enrolled in racing school, she wasn’t top of her class for the first time in her life. She recalls being the slowest of the 30 students in the school. Her father, Ari Straus, explains that she lacked “instinct for the strategy of racing.”
It didn’t take long for Straus—4’9, 13 years old, and a woman—to realize she didn’t fit into racing’s most common demographic. She says a comment from a well-meaning instructor almost made her quit.
“He told me that he just doesn’t think I have it, and it might not be my fault—just because I’m a girl, and I may never be able to have the guts and the technical skillset and the physical strength that I need to excel in the race car,” she says.
Straus eventually did develop the strength and technique necessary for success by approaching racing, Molly says, “more cerebrally and less recklessly.” She memorized the notes of her engine.  She used calculus to determine ideal lap times. She honed her strategy for what her father likens to a “game of chess,” and she learned how to keep her cool.
“The [cars] are very physical and it’s very tough on your body. It’s very hard to just even keep your focus of hanging onto the car. It sort of beats you up,” says her coach and manager Nicolas P. “Nick” Longhi. “She is very calm in that situation. In the middle of so many things going on that are so wild, I can talk to her on the radio, and while a lot of people are panicking and getting out of breath, she calmly answers, ‘Okay.’” He laughs.
Straus insists that the vast majority of people in the racing industry don’t treat her differently because of her gender. “I want no business in victimizing myself. I want to be treated and analyzed as any other racer would be. I won my first professional race a couple of weeks ago. That, to me, speaks way more about my career than the fact that that guy at one point five or six years ago told me that I couldn’t hack it because I was a girl,” she says.
Still, while she’s happy to brush off instances of sexism directed at her—fellow racers calling her names, a race owner once suggesting that she might get more press if she wore a tank top rather than a fireproof Nomex undersuit—she refuses to ignore many young girls’ preconceived notions.
“I’ve met at least 100 girls at this point who have come up to me and said, verbatim, ‘I didn’t know girls were allowed to race,’” Straus says. “The word ‘allowed’ terrifies me.”
She says part of the reason why she still races professionally is because “it’s fun as hell,” but she is primarily motivated by these girls. “If it’s not my responsibility to reach out to [them] and tell them they’re capable of doing this, then whose responsibility is it?”
When Straus won her first professional race a few weeks ago, 40 girl scouts sat in the audience watching her. They went on the podium with her, sprayed sparkling cider (non-alcoholic—she’s not yet 21), and took turns holding the trophy. “She’s like Cinderella: Small children and animals love to follow her around,” Molly says.
“That’s 90 percent of racing for me at this point,” Straus says. “How many girls can I reach out to, how many of them can get involved, so that 10 years from now, we’re not talking about how racing is a male-dominated sport. We’re just talking about how she is as a racer.”
–Magazine writer Nina H. Pasquini can be reached at nina.pasquini@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @nhpasquini.
Sections
When a peculiar commotion roused him from his sleep on January 4th, 2007, Paul N. Gailiunas ’92 wasn’t wearing his glasses. His wife, Helen W. Hill ’92, grappled desperately by the front door of their home with a figure whose outline Gailiunas could hardly make out in the dawn light.
In a CNN article from 2007, Gailiunas recalls seeing the intruder throw Hill aside and step through their kitchen with his arm outstretched, handgun grasped tightly between his fingers. Then, three loud bangs. Silence.
When police arrived on the scene minutes later, they found Gailiunas kneeling by the door, clutching his son in his arms. One bullet had pierced his cheek; another had sliced into his arm and hand. The last bullet had struck Hill in the neck.
It was an unusually humid winter morning in New Orleans, and thunderclouds had gathered around the city’s edges. Long before medical assistance reached her, Hill had breathed her last.
“It seemed absolutely unimaginable that she had died in this way,” recalls Vineeta Vijayaraghavan ’94, a former Crimson editor. While at Harvard, Vijayaraghavan and Hill had worked together on the same women’s literary magazine, The Rag. Hill had mentored Vijayaraghava, who was two years her junior.
“It seemed like a horror show,” Vijayaraghavan says, remembering the day she got the news.
Before long, however, that horror show repeated itself: on July 19, 2014, Dan E. Markel ’95, a prominent criminal law professor, was shot and killed outside his home in Florida. Markel was a class behind Vijayaraghavan, a friend from Lowell House. In September of the following year, Carey W. Gabay ’94 was caught in the crossfire of a New York City shooting, leading to his death a week later. Gabay had served as president of the Harvard College Undergraduate Council, one of the first African-American students to do so.
“It felt like maybe once in your life, random chance means that someone, somewhere in your world will experience something horrible like that,” Vijayaraghavan reflects, “but then to have it be just a few years later and have Dan killed, and Carey killed—” Her voice trails into silence.
“How is this the state of saturation that we’ve hit with gun violence? How is it that this could happen three times?”
In March, Vijayaraghavan put her frustrations into print, arguing in an op-ed for USA Today that there exists “no pocket of privilege safe enough” to shield oneself or one’s children from gun violence.”
“My Harvard classmates were shot in the head in separate incidents in three states,” she writes. “Their elite educations did not protect them from gun violence.”
***
Every December, St. Rose of Lima Church in Newtown, Conn. holds a famously elaborate Christmas pageant. I remember attending in 2012 and seeing the church parking lot’s manger scene complete with a real-life donkey and a living, breathing cow. My hometown was a short drive from Newtown, and each year our church sent a delegation to the pageant. This year, the event was crowded with people packed body-to-body, all holding taper candles.
A week earlier, a gunman had entered Sandy Hook Elementary School, only a mile or so from St. Rose, and shot and killed 20 schoolchildren and six adult staff members. It was at that time the deadliest mass shooting in American history, and the nation was reeling.
After the pageant, we walked past the main street where Anderson Cooper had begun to record a segment and arrived at the entrance of Sandy Hook. We were met with a sea of twinkling candles, heaps of flowers, collections of teddy bears, children’s toys, all surrounding an unassuming wooden sign, painted white: “Sandy Hook School,” it read. “Visitors welcome.”
Five years later, in the wake of the mass shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida, where 17 people were killed and five wounded, gun violence has again come to dominate national discourse. But there is a sense that this time things are different. This time, we have refused to remain silent in our mourning, to accept a reality in which such events could ever occur. We walked out of our classes; we marched for our lives. Across the country, we made a vow: #neveragain.
Yet in focusing attention on Newtown, on Orlando, on Las Vegas, on Parkland, the media narrative risks painting gun violence in one shade: the mass shooting, the freak incident, the unpredictable tragedy. Doing so allows for the dismissal of tragedies like Sandy Hook as anomalous incidents in otherwise insulated communities, not symptoms of a much larger phenomenon—a phenomenon that one Los Angeles Times columnist calls “as American as baseball.”
Remembering the deaths of Hill, Markel, and Gabay—three individuals whose time at Harvard overlapped—Vijayaraghavan writes that their elite educations did not protect them from gun violence. And yet, underpinning her statement is the curious assumption that their alma mater could have shielded them from bullets in the first place.
Research demonstrates that gun violence—when deaths by suicide are removed—disproportionately affects underprivileged, urban communities, especially young black men. These deaths often receive little attention. It is when gun violence seeps into suburban enclaves like Parkland and Newtown—in dramatic incidents that seem unimaginable—that major news outlets arrive on the scene.
“[Mass shootings] get the news, but depending on how you count a mass shooting, they only constitute 1 to 2 percent of firearm deaths,” says David Hemenway ’66, a professor at the School of Public Health who studies gun violence. “It makes people very fearful,” he continues. “We spend huge amounts of time—large amounts of it probably wasted—trying to protect schools against mass shooters.”
Instead, Hemenway advocates for a comprehensive public health approach to mitigating gun violence. “The public health approach is all about prevention rather than waiting for bad things to happen,” he explains. “The goal would be to agree as a society that we have a very serious problem and take a step back and try to get everyone to play their part to reduce the problem.”
Hill died in post-Katrina New Orleans; her murder was one of six in a single 24-hour period. She and Gailiunas had moved back to the city because they wanted to play a role in rebuilding the community where they had fallen in love. Gailiunas, a doctor, was treating low-income patients in an emergency health clinic; Hill was offering animation classes in a cafe. Hill’s death—that of an idealistic, Harvard-educated filmmaker in a city ravaged by crime and systemic neglect, doesn’t fit cleanly into any recognizable image of gun violence.
Gabay, a lawyer working in the administration of Governor of New York Andrew M. Cuomo, was shot while attending the West Indian American Day Parade in Brooklyn; Markel died in what appears to have been an elaborate contract killing plot. Though there seem to be as many narratives of gun violence as there are victims, some display more visibly than others: this is in part due to racial and class disparities, which are exacerbated by deliberate legislative obstacles.
Hemenway cites the Dickey Amendment as a major hurdle in the path towards a realistic conversation about gun violence. The amendment, a 1996 congressional provision, effectively prohibits the Centers for Disease Control from using public funds to research gun violence. “The gun lobby didn’t like the results of early research funded by the CDC that found that having a gun in the house increases, not decreases, one’s risk of death,” Hemenway says, referencing a landmark 1993 study that challenged the narrative often repeated by the National Rifle Association: that gun ownership allowed individuals to better protect their families.
The Dickey Amendment has brought public research on gun violence to a standstill. “I’m an economist by training, and I’ll tell you—people go where the money is,” Hemenway says. “When there was no money for AIDS research, we didn’t do any AIDS research. If you want more research done, you have to be able to pay the researchers.”
If, as Vijayaraghavan argues, a Harvard education cannot protect those who wield itfrom the epidemic of gun violence, maybe it can equip them with the tools to combat it.
“When I think of an epidemic—like the measles outbreak that we recently had in Orange County—I know we have a way to combat it,” explains Mai Khanh T. Tran ’87, a pediatrician  challenging Republican Representative Ed Royce for his seat in California’s 39th Congressional District.
“We have data, we have science that we can put together to curb and mitigate it,” Tran says. “We don’t have that sort of data for gun violence—why? Because we have an act in Congress that prohibits us from collecting gun violence data.”
If elected, repealing the Dickey Amendment would be among her top priorities, Tran asserts. “We need people in Congress who will look at science, look at data, and approach gun violence as the true public health crisis that it is,” Tran says.
Tran joins another Harvard alumnus, Lauren E. Baer ’02, a former Crimson editor, in seeking gun reform by running for office. Florida’s 18th Congressional District, which Baer hopes to represent, is only an hour north of Parkland. Baer herself lived in the town as a child, completing fifth grade at Park Springs Elementary School, just down the road from Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School.
“It’s important for us to recognize that gun violence is a pervasive problem in our country—it’s not just an issue of mass shootings,” she argues, highlighting how the problem weighs heavily on underprivileged communities, minority groups, and victims of domestic violence. “We need to be thinking about the gun violence epidemic in a holistic way that addresses the many ways in which it impacts our country and the many communities that it affects in particular.”
***
“Helen would have invited this person in. When we went for the funeral, I can’t tell you how many times I heard people say that,” Keiko K. Morris ’92 recalls, referring to the intruder—to this day still unapprehended—who killed Hill, her college roommate. “She would have asked them what they needed and given them something to eat—that to me was so tragic. She was so kind, so generous.”
Morris’s anecdotes from college are vivid and free-flowing: She recalls easily Hill’s optimism, her sense of adventure. The duo would “literally sleep on the common room floor” in Thayer after dancing to Cat Stevens late into the night. “I remember on week nights she would just say, ‘Let’s go and traipse around downtown Boston’ or ‘Let’s go to the top of the John Hancock Building,’” Morris adds.
Morris remembers well the day another one of her senior year roommates delivered news of Hill’s death. “It was surreal—it just floored me,” she says. “I couldn’t get my mind around it.” Morris, who had taken her love of writing to the Wall Street Journal, found herself at a loss for words: “I had covered crime for many years. I had done interviews with many people who had recently lost family members to violence, but I had never thought that I would be on the other side of it.”
Sections
On April 13, a black Harvard College student was violently arrested at around 9:09 p.m. Three officers from the Cambridge Police Department and one Transit Police officer were involved, and the student was tackled to the ground, where at least one officer punched him in the stomach five times in an effort to unpin his arms, according to the CPD report. The student was reportedly under the influence of narcotics. Many have called the incident an example of police brutality.
This story has rattled Harvard’s campus for several weeks, but our reporting began even before that. Originally, we had hoped to shed light on a typically opaque institution—the Cambridge Police Department—and explore the changing nature of police work. Against a backdrop of increased police scrutiny across the United States, the CPD, with its emphasis on community relations, seemed to be ahead of the national curve.
On a chilly March afternoon, weeks before the incident, FM met Cambridge Police Department Superintendent Christine A. Elow in her office. The space is just like any other career professional’s: kids’ drawings pasted on the walls, plaques and awards arranged tidily along the shelves. She’s the second highest ranking officer in the department and the first woman to ever hold her position. And she’s a local. She grew up in Cambridge, attended Cambridge public schools, and, after serving four years with the U.S. Navy, ended up back in her hometown with the CPD.
We departed the station and headed down to the basement, opting for Elow’s Ford over one of the dozen or so squad cars lined up in front of the building.
“Policing is changing,” she said, “and we’ve got to change with it.”
“We have a community that is not shy; they will complain and speak their voice, and that holds across the socioeconomic spectrum,” Elow added. “It’s a very smart city and challenging, and I think as police we’ve really had to take a step back and figure out how we overcome resistance and engage with the community more effectively.”
The department’s goal, Elow said, is to work “cooperatively” with the local population—from students to Cambridge residents, to the homeless community. “We call it social policing here,” she says from behind the wheel of the car. “We are doing more social work than we are police work.”
But the April 13th incident seems to call into question the legitimacy of the CPD’s social policing model, and with it, the original aims of our story.
“The conduct of the CPD on the evening of April 13, 2018 was unacceptable,” a statement by the Harvard Black Law Students Association reads. “We are reminded, as soon-to-be-graduates of an elite law school that we cannot protect our bodies with our degrees—and that is why we also call our current students and alumni to embrace these demands as inclusive to all Black people, not just Harvardians.”
 
A new student group, Black Students Organizing for Change, also formed in the aftermath of the incident. In a letter circulated via email lists to the student body, the organization demanded an extensive report of what happened that evening, and called on the University to create an “internal crisis response team servicing students, faculty, and staff that does not involve law enforcement.”
“As calls for help from Black and Brown folks are frequently met with police violence, students increasingly mistrust law enforcement,” the letter reads.
“We recognize that not everyone will agree with how some incidents are policed,” Elow wrote in an emailed statement after the incident. “It is upon us to further develop procedurally just policing, which is essential to the development of good will between police and communities and is closely linked to improving community perceptions of police legitimacy.”
CPD Police Commissioner Branville G. Bard Jr., the head of the department, echoed these sentiments last week at a press conference. He said the department is conducting a “complete and thorough” internal review, and that he supports the officers who carried out the arrest.
“You have to judge their actions within the context of a rapidly evolving situation and not within an ideal construct,” Branville said at the conference.
***
“I find the incident profoundly disturbing and unsettling,” Professor Henry Louis Gates, Jr. wrote in an email about the April 13th arrest. Almost ten years ago, Gates had his own run-in and arrest with the Cambridge Police Department.
On July 16, 2009, Gates, a renowned scholar of African-American studies, was arrested on the front porch of his Cambridge home. According to the police report filed at the time, Lucia Whalen, a white woman, had called regarding a possible break-in at Gates’ residence. Sgt. James Crowley responded to the call, and Gates was arrested and charged with disorderly conduct. The charges were later dropped.
“That I was arrested, breaking into my own home—it was a total shock. It took me a long time to get over that,” he recalls from his Hutchins Center office, half a mile from the site of the incident. It’s a large space with an excellent view of Harvard Square, and the walls are plastered with awards and photos.
He pauses and points out a picture, one of many along a shelf. “This is the first time I met Mandela,” he says. Other well-known faces fill his photographs—Bill and Hillary Clinton, Oprah, Toni Morrison, and George W. Bush.
“I just presumed people knew who I was, and so it just never occurred to me that I would have trouble with the police,” Gates says. “As a well-known person in Cambridge connected to Harvard, once they figured out who I was, I was going to be treated like who I was.”
Elow can recall the exact moment she heard of his arrest, down to the minute: “July 16th, 2009 at 10:45 a.m.”
“I remember reporters came in and looked in our records to say ‘Cambridge police is a racist police department’ and for me, growing up here, I took that personally. I’m an African-American woman. We are not a racist police department, but what do we have to shift and change?” Elow remembers asking herself.
His own arrest, Gates reflects, was an “aberration.” Not long after he was booked in jail, a team of Harvard’s most prominent figures and powerful legal experts arrived outside to “raise hell,” he says—from Harvard Law professor Charles Ogletree to current head of the African-American Studies department Lawrence Bobo.
“Within two weeks the officer and I were sitting in the Rose Garden having a beer with Barack Obama and Joe Biden,” Gates says, adding that it would be unfair to generalize from his “atypical” experience. “I realized when I was arrested that if you’re poor and black and you get arbitrarily arrested, you’re in big trouble.”
From Elow’s perspective, Henry Louis Gates’ arrest was a watershed moment for the CPD. “That was the beginning of our dramatic shift, a slow, dramatic shift on how we deliver services to the community,” she explained.
***
Out on the ride along, Elow and patrol officer Hector Vicente continued their discussion of “social policing.” Walking down Central Square, we passed a number of homeless individuals, each one Vicente knows by name. He commented on what they’ve been up to recently and mentioned to Elow if they’ve gotten into any trouble, keeping tabs on all of them.
This type of interaction happened several times. People on the street—a social worker, a homeless woman, a Cambridge resident—seemed to recognize their neighborhood officers, sometimes stopping to make small talk or say hello.
But Cambridge City Councilman Craig A. Kelley suggests that police departments alone cannot act as the community’s “glue.” “There’s something about a badge, a uniform, and a gun that makes most people keep their distance,” he says.
On the council, Kelley has made it his goal to strengthen neighborhood resiliency and build social cohesion in Cambridge, arguing that it is interpersonal relationships—not governments—that best help people through challenging times. When asked about the April 13th arrest, Kelley says the incident highlights the challenge of having police lead the charge on promoting social cohesion.
He says if it were up to him, he would build more public libraries. “There are places for the fire department, there are places for the police department, there are places for public works, but I would target with the libraries or the Department of Public Health. It’s a different approach when it’s not law enforcement or public safety.”
Yet even Kelley admits the unique position police occupy by being able to respond to emergencies in real time. “When you call 911, you’re connected to emergency services, and they can send an ambulance, they can send a firetruck, they can send a police officer,” he says. “What they can’t do is say, ‘Oh, we’ve got a librarian on staff, or we’ve got a social worker on staff.”
***
Though different arrests under different circumstances, Elow wrote in an email that the April 13th incident will receive a response similar to that of Gates’s arrest in 2009. “Per our policy, we have always reviewed arrests and use of force to ensure they comply with department policy,” Elow’s emailed statement reads. “Since Professor Gates’ arrest, one component we incorporated is an evaluation around how could there have been a better outcome on situations that involve discretionary arrest or uses of force.”
Some changes are already in the works. The department currently offers additional non-mandatory crisis intervention training to officers—training which the officers involved in the April 13th arrest had yet to participate in—designed to instruct them on how to manage situations with mentally ill individuals. Additionally, according to a proposed Cambridge budget for fiscal year 2019, CPD will add a new office to monitor use of force and racial bias in officers’ interactions.
Addressing changes in policing since Gates’s arrest in 2009, Elow also notes the increasingly influential role video and social media have come to play. “Both mediums can potentially create support or divide in any situation. Since the April 13th arrest took place, we’ve been extremely proactive, particularly online and in-person, with the community discussing this incident, our training, and our beliefs and values,” she wrote.
She goes on to mention how leaders from the CPD had participated in forums, neighborhood meetings, and a Public Safety Summit at Harvard over the past week. “These types of opportunities are so important in building trust through transparency and, due to our collaborative relationships and use of technology, we have never had more platforms to engage with the community than we do today,” Elow writes.
The CPD’s pivot towards Elow’s “social policing” model remains an important aspect of Cambridge’s efforts to build social cohesion in the community—and it now needs to include an effort to restore its credibility as well “Earning the community’s trust and confidence is of the utmost importance to the Cambridge Police Department, but we also recognize that any one interaction can shape one’s view of the police,” Elow writes. “That trust has to be constantly earned by ensuring the Department adheres to the principles of procedural justice and legitimacy as well as fair and impartial policing.”
–Magazine writer Andrew W.D. Aoyama can be reached at andrew.aoyama@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @AndrewAoyama.
–Magazine writer Isabel M. Kendall can be reached at isabel.kendall@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @IsabelMKendall.
Sections
Lawrence S. Bacow, president-elect of Harvard University, waits at the edge of Memorial Drive, where the cars slog along the wet pavement and punctuate the air with metallic squeals. On this Marathon Monday, it is raining and 40 degrees, which is to say the weather has been at its recent worst. Sheets of water and remorseless wind raze the riverside, saturating me, Bacow, and every living thing nearby with a damp cold.
But Bacow does not care. He shifts from foot to foot, eagerly waiting for the cars to stop so we can cross the street and begin our run. “If you’re a serious runner,” he explains, “You don’t just run when the weather’s good.”
Then there’s an opening, a break in the procession of cars so brief it would give a jaywalker doubts. Not Bacow.
“Don’t get hit,” he calls over his shoulder, and I’m off on a run with Harvard’s next president.
Heavy rain qualifies as weather most runners would consider demoralizing. But rain plunges Bacow into a state of determination, calm, understanding, even zen. (He tells me he ran his last Boston Marathon in similar weather.)
For Bacow in rain is Picasso in Paris, or Hemingway in danger: he is in his element. There is no puddle he cannot foresee, and his intuition for problem-solving exerts itself in the challenge of staying dry. He knows the right shoes (“Goretex”) and the right gear (my cotton socks are a “bad move”). And when he runs forward against the rain, taking bold, measured strides, he makes each step an act of conquest over the storm.
Once, abruptly, he yanks me back as I begin to ask a question. A car speeds by through a puddle in the street, deluging the space where I had almost landed.
“When you run in inclement weather, you learn to keep an eye out for stuff like that,” he says.
Bacow’s running career took off seriously when he was 46 years old, and subsided when he was 56. In that period, he ran five marathons, including the Boston Marathon, four separate times. He is now 66, but he trains often enough that if he “wanted to do a half marathon, it wouldn’t take much.”
I struggle to keep up with the next occupant of Massachusetts Hall, which is either a testament to his prowess or evidence of my physical ineptitude. Or both.
Bacow seems aware of this, and he checks in occasionally. “You good with this pace?” he asks. “I don’t want to run you into the ground. That wouldn’t look good!”
As one of the few people in the world who has run both a marathon and a university, Bacow reflects that there are a number of similarities between the two. To start off: “a presidency is a marathon, not a sprint.”
“You don’t have to solve every problem in the university on day one, or even in the first year. You need to understand the culture, understand the organization, understand the students, the faculty, the staff, the alumni,” he says. “Figure out what needs to be done, and then do it. So you need to pace yourself, you need to be in it for the long term.”
And he says he thinks best when he’s running.
“If I have a tough problem to ponder, I’ll go for a long run. If I have a speech I have to write, or I’m working on a paper, I go for a long run, and that’s when I sort of organize it in my head,” he says.
Something tells me he’ll be running a lot during his tenure here.
***
When running long distance, Bacow says, he usually listens to his son’s pop music playlists. His favorite songs are still the “songs of my generation”—Simon and Garfunkel, Dylan, Bonnie Raitt. I ask him if there’s any song he’s thinking of right now. He pauses for a moment, and suggests “Singing in the Rain.” He asks if I know it, and I start the chorus, and then he joins in, and then:
“I’m singing in the rain,
Yes, singing in the rain,
What a glorious feeling,
I’m happy again.”
On cue, the wind picks up, my hood flies off, and the rain comes down harder, which makes me wonder whether I’m running or swimming with Larry Bacow.
It’s an odd scene: the almost-president of Harvard and an amateur magazine writer shouting Gene Kelly into the wet abyss, but it’s representative of what Bacow became known for as president of Tufts and Chancellor of MIT—engaging with undergraduates. At Tufts, he held weekly runs with students and led a marathon team called the President’s Marathon Challenge. He also scheduled personal meetings with students who were hospitalized for alcohol-related issues.
Bacow explains that his philosophy toward students stems from his own experience as an undergraduate at MIT, where he says he had “the kind of experience I hope every college student would have.”
At MIT, Bacow sailed, played some hockey, and tried not to waste money. He joined a fraternity, albeit one whose members constituted 15 percent of MIT’s inaugural Phi Beta Kappa class in 1972. And he struggled with deadlines, he remembers blithely. “As the saying goes,” he says with a laugh, “if it weren’t for the last minute, nothing would ever get done.”
Bacow says he even participated in campus protests, which I find interesting, because it’s become something of a University president rite of passage to handle a student demonstration. During the Student Strike of 1970, he “piled into a car and drove all night with a lot of other people” to march on Washington. Once, in Harvard Square, he was tear gassed by Cambridge Riot Police.
Bacow says his most important experience, though, was meeting Robert M. Solow ’44, an economics professor who became the “not so invisible hand” in Bacow’s career. He says his friendship with Solow changed his outlook on what makes a college experience valuable.
“I think if students are lucky enough to be able to forge a bond like that with a faculty member, any faculty member, it almost guarantees that they’ll have a not only meaningful but rewarding experience in college,” he says.
Another reason Bacow is concerned with helping undergraduates is because he knows something about the value of opportunity. His parents were Jewish refugees who fled Europe during World War II, and he has talked candidly about the unlikeliness of his own existence.
“I think it’s really important that future generations have the same kind of opportunity that we have,” he says. “It’s not enough just to recruit students to a place like Harvard. We have to make sure they have the chance to thrive.”
He gets the importance of campus life, too. After all, most of his significant life moments happened while he was at school. He jokes, “I love being a student so much that I never left.” He met his wife Adele, for instance, on his first day at Harvard Law School when their roommates introduced them.
Bacow’s best friends are still the friends he made in college. As he emphasizes the importance of keeping up these relationships, I begin to regret the number of lunch plans I’ve bailed on over the last year.
“When Adele and I met, I was living with three guys. We had all met as freshmen at MIT. They were all named Alan except for me,” he says. “And the four of us all got married in the space of four successive weekends in June in 1975, and everybody is still married, and we’re still best of friends.”
Coincidentally, “all of them are coming into town this weekend.”
Bacow likens his upcoming reunion to The Big Chill, a 1983 movie that he says has “the greatest soundtrack ever for a movie” and that he insists I watch.
“It’s all the music of their era, which was our era,” he says, and—in his voice, in the way he talks about his college friends, in the way he talks about the students he’s taught—I hear the melody of youth that’s kept him in the business of education for so long.
***
The rest of our run is relaxing and refreshing. The rain relents, the wind stops, and now Bacow is heading back to his office at the Kennedy School to continue coordinating his latest projects. He has histories of Harvard to read, friends to meet, and an FAS Dean Search to run in the immediate months ahead. And after those few months he will become President of Harvard…
He stops. The pedestrian light is red. Cars pass speedily across Memorial Drive, where we began. We’re talking about “The Graduate” and about rebellion now, odd conversation for someone tasked with running the country’s oldest university. But after running with him for an hour, I’ve realized it’s only one of the many eclectic things he cares about.
We finally stop stop outside of the Kennedy School, and I shake his hand. It’s a weird way to end a run.
Sections
So I bought this pair of ridiculously expensive sneakers my senior year of high school.
Called Common Projects, they’re these Italian-made, blindingly white low-tops; just smooth leather that still reeks of that musky leather smell, the only distinguishing feature a small set of gold numbers printed near the heel—“1528 46 0506” on mine. They’re so plain that it’s hard to imagine paying over $400 for them. I didn’t, of course: There was a sale, and I’d just gotten my first high school job, so I saved up and paid about $350 for a pair of nondescript, well-made sneakers that, honestly, look like flattened-out Stan Smiths. Why?
I was just getting out of that “sweatpants and math club t-shirt” phase that dominated the first 18 years of my life, and was spending all my hard-earned cash on clothing and shoes. When I bought the shoes, I told myself: I will wear these so often. People will respect me and give me favorable treatment when they spot the gold numbers and realize I am a man of Means and Taste. And so on.
Part of my prophecy came true: I did wear them a lot, but I could’ve done the same with a pair of $65 Reeboks. I want to wear something nice, luxurious even, I’d said to myself. But also: $400. The question, as I reflect back on my choice to spend such a massive sum on footwear, comes down to this: How do you make sense of these ridiculous Nice Things? How do you understand your own urge to buy and wear them?
First step: Try and justify it. Find articles like “Common Projects Are the Sneakers That Made Me Into a Grown-Ass Man” and “THE MOST VERSATILE SNEAKER A MAN CAN OWN” that extol the shoes’ “artisanal feel… reminiscent of a bygone era.” These articles ooze belatedness: They mourn a (probably fictitious) time when well-heeled, svelte young men wore clean colors and fresh linen, when their shoes still smelled of Sicilian cows, when things were made by hand and built to last. Reading articles like these helps you feel good about yourself and your recent purchase. Your $350 is more subversive, more anti-bourgeois than you might think. If you really want to, you can believe that the shoes subvert the inherently wicked ways of capitalism, whispering promises of freedom from the tyranny of the class hierarchy. Aleks Eror in an article for Highsnobiety writes, “The fetishization of commodities is one of the things that nauseates me most about the modern condition, but Common Projects manages to do capitalism in a measured way that fits with my center-left political leanings.”
But the thing is, no one noticed my shoes. Or cared that I was wearing them. Maybe one person has recognized the sneakers in my year of owning them, and no one—except my mom—has given their price much attention. We return, in some sense, to the same concern that’s been bouncing around my head all this semester as I’ve been writing this column: namely, what I’m wearing and why I’m wearing it.
At many of the events I’ve covered this semester, I’ve seen how the costumes we wear, consciously or otherwise, can reflect an unbridgeable gap between how we want to be seen and how we want to look. Do I put these shoes on in order to be seen in them, or do I wear them for myself? Are they a way to show others I am a certain kind of person, or are the shoes an extension of some greater “identity”, separate of others’ perceptions? The answer, I think, is somewhere in the middle.
Everyone I interviewed for this column—from cosplayers to hypebeasts, from drunk semi-Irish Bostonians to drunk onesie-wearing Bostonians—seemed not to see why self-expression and self-presentation have to be mutually exclusive. For them, it’s aspirational: For a moment, in the right outfit, they can become the person that they want to be. Just because others are watching doesn’t make it less true.
Okay, so back to how I justify buying Nice Thing(s). Second step: Realize that maybe there is a space in which I can wear my Nice Thing(s) and feel good about myself because I like the way they look. I do like the way the shoes look, especially now. They’ve been my go-to, I-don’t-know-what-to-wear shoes for the past year—I wore them to every event I covered for this column this semester—so they’ve acquired a kind of charming weathered-white look to them. The leather has softened and fits snugly against my feet. They squeak quietly as I walk. Delicate wrinkles dapple the toebox. I always end up wearing them in my dreams. White shoes go with everything. And so on. I don’t have to convince you of anything; I guess I’m trying to say that I like the shoes so much because, more than anything, most people won’t—or don’t—care about these shoes. If you were an attention-chasing fool and bought these for the express purpose of impressing others, I suspect you’d be sorely disappointed. No one ever really notices them, and so the potentially obnoxious exhibitionist side of style becomes less of a concern, and I get to wear these shoes for the sake of my having admired and liked and worn the shit out of them.
The cynical take on Common Projects—which might say this is just a whole new level of privilege, in which we buy expensive things that don’t look expensive so we can feel good walking around incognito in expensive things—is perfectly valid. This perspective is right, but it’s missing the point. Maybe I just wanted—want—something nice, something I like on my feet, something to wear until the soles melt, leaving me be-socked on the hard pavement, $350 down. Maybe that’s all there is to it.
Magazine writer Alan R. Dai can be reached at alan.dai@thecrimson.com. This is the final installment of his fashion column, Live Fresh or Dai, in which he traveled around the city to various events that were, however obliquely, fashion-related. Follow him on Twitter @dai_alan_dai.
Sections
For  a  long  time,  Fifteen  Minutes  Magazine’s  biggest  claim  to  fame  was  (and maybe  still  is?)  a  salacious  annual  feature  called  “Fifteen  Hottest  Freshmen.” Every  year,  FM’s  staff  would  select  a  handful  of  smooth-skinned  and  strong-jawed  Yardlings,  photograph  their  smoldering  faces  around  campus,  interview them  about  their  dream  date  nights.  The  chosen  first-years  would  say  things  like, “Maybe  some  chicken  and  a  little  sex.”  It  wasn’t  a  great  look  for  anyone  involved.
In  a  nod  to  this  part  of  FM’s  more-recent-than-we’d-care-to-admit  past,  we’ve curated  The  Heat  Issue.  FMC  fills  up  the  ol’  Nalgene  and  is  reborn  as  Hot  Yoga Frank.  EOS,  who  must  be  living  on  the  goddamn  Oregon  Trail,  recounts  her recent  bout  of  scarlet  fever.  DCP  fires  up  the  real-deal  pork  flavor  in  a  Guy-Fieri-style  eulogy  for  the  beloved  Classroom-to-Table  program.  In  what  must  be  the  wettest  story  that  FM  has  ever  published,  LWX  goes  for  a  run  with  Larry  Bacow, the  next  president  of  Harvard,  on  a  rainy  Marathon  Monday.
But  it  isn’t  all  funkalicious  flavor  and  spandex  shorts.  AWDA  brings  us  a  reported essay  on  three  Harvard  alumni  whose  lives  have  been  claimed  by  gun  violence—and  how  their  elite  educations  figure  into  our  remembrance  of  them.  Amid  vape smoke  and  Red  Vines  puke,  JED  finds  her  way  around  the  male  gaze.  And  as  it turns  out,  The  Crimson  declared  itself  an  authority  on  Harvard’s  hottest  long before  our  magazine  even  existed:  take  a  look  back  at  the  Crimson-sponsored  “Miss  Radcliffe”  pageant  of  the  1950s,  which  celebrated  sweet  Southern  drawls and  “Old  World  charm”  alike.  Oof.
Until  next  semester,
MAG  &  LSY
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
A recent Harvard University Health Services mental health survey revealed a significant percentage of University Economics Ph.D. students experience symptoms of depression and anxiety, prompting students to establish a peer support group.
The survey was first released to graduate students in the Economics Department during the 2016-2017 school year. The initial iteration of the survey was solely “for internal purposes” and did not constitute an official research initiative, according to Economics Ph.D. student Valentin Bolotnyy, who worked on the study.
The survey included a clinical screen for depression and anxiety, in which students could select a score above 10 in either category to signal they suffer from “moderate to severe symptoms of depression and anxiety,” Bolotnyy wrote in an email.
The survey results revealed that 15 percent of Economics Ph.D. students reported above a 10 on the depression scale, while 23 percent of the PhD students reported above a 10 on the anxiety scale. Nationally, approximately 5 percent of the population typically scores above a 10 on the screens.
After seeing the results of the survey,  several Economics graduate students decided to found a Peer Support Network in the department. The group comprises nine volunteers, all of whom represent different years in the graduate program. The names and contact info of these individuals are made available to every student in the department.
“Grad school’s a difficult time, especially at a place like Harvard where people are very smart and you can feel like you’re struggling and sort of don’t belong, you know that people sort of struggle with these kind of things,” said David C. Martin, an Economics graduate student and Peer Support Network volunteer. “But I think it just made it more salient to people actually seeing the percentage of people who were at risk for anxiety, for example.”
Martin emphasized that the results of the survey are not “official diagnoses,” but said the support group hoped to provide mental health resources in the department and to normalize conversations around mental health.
“We’re trying to provide as many different options as possible for people within the department to feel comfortable talking about mental health issues, so we do sort of regular drop-in hours,” he said. “We have two hours where there’s somebody in person in our room in the Econ building on Wednesday evenings.”
Following the first survey, Paul J. Barreira, director of HUHS, met with students from the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences to design a new study addressing mental health concerns more broadly.  The second survey, administered during this school year, included both the same clinical screens and a student-designed portion.
“It’s questions about their environment that either mitigate or exacerbate stress and trouble,” Barreira said in a recent interview.
HUHS released the new survey to the College, three GSAS departments—Earth and Planetary Sciences, Integrative Life Sciences, and Physics—and the Law School. UHS also re-surveyed graduate economics students.
The results of this survey have not been published, but, according to Barreira, will be utilized as an evaluation tool to assess change over time.
“Because everybody has agreed to repeat the survey, it becomes an evaluation tool. You do something and then you repeat the survey,” Barreira said. “So for Econ, the first time we did this was two years ago and this fall we repeated it. So there’s been two. And this fall, the survey gets to see whether the changes that were made had any effect.”
In the meantime, Martin said the Peer Support Network in the Economics Department will continue to host events and drop-in hours in attempt to reduce stress on campus.
—Staff writer Ahab Chopra can be reached at ahab.chopra@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @ahab_chopra
—Staff writer Ashley M. Cooper can be reached at ashley.cooper@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @ashleymcooper_
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard Graduate Students Union-United Automobile Workers, Harvard’s newly formed graduate student union, sent an email to members Tuesday soliciting nominations for its bargaining committee.
Thirteen students will be elected to the committee, which will take charge of collecting feedback from members of the bargaining unit, setting the agenda for negotiations, and going to the bargaining table on behalf of HGSU-UAW.
The call for nominations comes shortly after eligible graduate and undergraduate student assistants voted to approve HGSU-UAW’s petition to represent them in negotiations with the University over wages, stipends, health care, and a host of other issues. In a historic election held April 18 and 19, roughly 56 percent of voters cast ballots in favor of unionization.
Eligible members of the bargaining unit will have until May 1 to nominate their peers to serve on the committee. Eleven positions on the committee are reserved for students who earn the highest number of votes within their school or their division of the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences. Two additional members will earn their seats by winning the next highest number of votes overall, regardless of their school or division.
This breakdown is based on the number of eligible teaching and research assistants within each school or division. Specifically, the committee will be composed of one bargaining unit member from the School of Engineering and Applied Science, one member from the School of Public Health, one member from Harvard Law School, and one member from the College.
Within GSAS—whose students comprise the largest portion of the bargaining unit—the Humanities and Social Sciences divisions will contribute one member each, while the Natural Sciences division will contribute two members.
Two members will also be elected from the Division of Medical Sciences, which falls under both the Medical School and the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences and offers six interdisciplinary graduate programs, including a Ph.D. in biomedical sciences.
One member of the committee will come from one of Harvard’s “other professional schools,” the union’s email states. These schools include the Graduate School of Design, Harvard Kennedy School, Harvard Divinity School, Harvard Graduate School of Education, Harvard Business School, and the Division of Continuing Education.
Before the election, some students opposed to unionization said they worried the proposed bargaining committee would not represent their interests. For example, some students who work in labs said they feared the committee would focus on concerns particular to graduate students who work in a classroom setting.
Union organizers, though, said these students will not represent their schools on a constituent basis. Rather, they will all represent the interests of the entire bargaining unit collectively.
One of the bargaining committee’s first tasks will be the creation and distribution of a bargaining survey. During process of distributing  and collecting these surveys—which can take months to complete—members of the bargaining unit will identify what they want union leadership to push for during negotiations. Unions typically wait until over half of members have completed the survey to create an initial bargaining agenda and begin negotiations with employers.
Though the bargaining committees will likely wait until the survey process is complete to generate an agenda, HSGU-UAW cited some major goals in the run-up to the election that may inform the agenda. For example, HGSU-UAW organizers have often pointed to provisions won by other graduate student unions relating to pay, childcare, and protections for victims of sexual harassment.
“I think it’s really exciting to see how many people already are really, really engaged with this process,” union organizer Andrew B. Donnelly said.
Though HGSU-UAW is making preparations to begin negotiations with the University, it remains unclear whether Harvard’s administration plans to bargain with the union. Shortly after the election, University spokesperson Anna G. Cowenhoven repeatedly  declined to answer a question asking whether administrators will open negotiations with the newly empowered union.
The uncertainty around bargaining comes as graduate students at Columbia University are striking in response to their administration’s refusal to bargain. The voluntary strike will last until April 30. Columbia’s graduate union is also currently engaged in legal wrangling with its administration before the National Labor Relations Board.
—Staff writer Shera S. Avi-Yonah can be reached at shera.avi-yonah@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter at @saviyonah.
—Staff writer Molly C. McCafferty can be reached at molly.mccafferty@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter at @mollmccaff.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
UPDATED: April 25, 2018 at 11:30 p.m.
White Coats for Black Lives, a group that advocates for racial equality in medicine, gave Harvard Medical School a B- in its first-ever “racial justice” report card, released Wednesday.
The report card is meant to evaluate how well medical schools around the country—including Harvard’s—foster racial equality. In rationalizing Harvard’s grade, the organization pointed to minority underrepresentation among students and faculty, celebration of “racist/white supremacist individuals,” and a low rate of Medicaid patients at Harvard’s teaching hospitals.
The group analyzed 15 metrics including the representation and recruitment of racial minorities, anti-racism training, anti-racism curricula, campus policing, and support resources offered to students.
The report card outlined the rationales and standards for each area; each of the 15 received a grade ranging from A to C.  Harvard earned eight Bs and seven Cs overall, but did not receive an A in any of the areas.
In total, White Coats for Black Lives examined 10 American medical schools for its inaugural ratings. The most common grade, given to five schools including Harvard, was a B-. The highest grade awarded was a B, given to the University of Pittsburgh.
Johns Hopkins received a C+, and three schools—the University of Pennsylvania, Thomas Jefferson University, and Yale—received Cs.
“Racism is a powerful force in American medicine. This is apparent in population-level health outcomes,” reads a press release announcing the report card.
“Medical schools and their affiliated hospitals receive massive amounts of public funding, provide care to millions of patients, and are often the largest employers in their regions. The Racial Justice Report Card seeks to encourage these powerful institutions to play an active role in fighting racism in medicine,” the press release continues.
Joan Y. Reede, the Medical School dean for diversity and community partnership, said she thinks the report card did not take all factors into account in an interview Wednesday.
“When you try to capture the nuances across all medical schools in short clips, you lose that,” she said.
Specifically, she pointed to the report card’s grade analysis of “disparities in medical students' grades or honors” between white students and students of color. The report states that it gave schools an A if there are no disparities, a B if the school tracks differences and has a plan to reduce them, and a C if there are significant gaps or if no data is publicly available.
Harvard received a C because the school does not make data publicly available. Reede said the data is not public because many of the Medical School’s classes are graded pass/fail—not because racial disparities exist.
In justifying the group’s assertion that the Medical School celebrates “racist” and “white supremacist” individuals, members of White Coats for Black Lives pointed in their report card to former dean of the Medical School Oliver Wendell Holmes.
“Oliver Wendell Holmes, after whom one of the Harvard Medical School academicsocieties is named, was a former dean of Harvard Medical School,” the report reads. “When, in 1850, white students protested the admission of three Black students to Harvard Medical School, Holmes led the faculty in expelling the Black students.”
The organization’s report also includes a set of recommendations for medical schools across all 15 metrics. The report suggests schools implement mandatory anti-racism trainings, publicize data about representation, and “dismantle their police and security forces” to reduce racial bias.
“Policing in the United States was established from slave patrols and continues to target and terrorize communities of color,” the report states. “Communities should have access to alternative systems of safety and justice that promote the well-being of people of color.”
In an emailed statement, Medical School Dean George Q. Daley '82 wrote he appreciates White Coats for Black Lives’ push to examine diversity at Harvard.
“All of us at Harvard Medical School share their commitment to ensuring that students who identify as being from populations underrepresented in medicine are fully supported and equipped,” Daley wrote.
Daley also wrote he believes the Medical School has made progress in becoming more diverse.
“In recent years, HMS has made significant advances in this area. We acknowledge that there is far more work to be done, and we are unwavering in our commitment to our shared goals,” he wrote.
Shortly after becoming dean, Daley established a diversity task force, which released its diversity statement last October. Reede, who chairs the task force, said the group has formed six subcommittees, each of which will deliver their respective reports beginning this summer.
Last month, a University-wide diversity and inclusion task force released its final report, which made a set of eight specific recommendations for the University. The report also included statistics about faculty diversity on campus, revealing that the Medical School has the lowest percentage of underrepresented minority faculty across all of Harvard’s schools.
White Coats for Black Lives specifically mentioned faculty diversity in their report, giving Harvard a C for minority representation among students and faculty.
When asked about the low percentages of minority students and faculty at the Medical School, Daley and Reede both said the absolute number of minority faculty at the school is greater than the equivalent number at any other American medical school. Reede said the school has about 700 part- and full-time faculty who identify as underrepresented minorities.
—Staff writer Luke W. Vrotsos can be reached at luke.vrotsos@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter at luke_vrotsos.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Current Pforzheimer House resident dean Brigitte A. B. Libby will serve as assistant dean for the Office of Academic Integrity and Student Conduct starting June 4, Associate Dean for Academic Integrity and Student Conduct Brett Flehinger announced in an email to students Wednesday.
Flehinger wrote that Libby will “play a leading role” on the Harvard College Honor Council and Administrative Board, where she will work to “promote a culture of integrity at Harvard.” Libby will serve as the primary liaison to Harvard’s Office for Dispute Resolution, where she will “work to connect the University’s centralized Title IX policy to the needs of Harvard College,” per the email.
The College’s Honor Council reviews possible violations of the College’s honor code, while the Administrative Board—a committee of faculty members—enforces academic rules and social conduct standards.
Libby will continue as Pforzheimer resident dean through Commencement, Pforzheimer House Faculty Deans Anne Harrington ’82 and John R. Durant wrote in an email to House residents Wednesday. Harrington and Durant added the House has already started a search for a new resident dean and is “looking at some wonderful options.”
Libby, who has served as Pforzheimer resident dean since 2014, wrote in an email to House residents that she has “loved being a part of this wonderful community” and has found her work as resident dean “inspiring and deeply fulfilling.”
Harrington and Durant also praised Libby for her work as resident dean in their email.
“Brigitte has been an anchor of personal support for so many students, as well as a vital and vitally important member of our community,” the pair wrote. “We know that she will be a very hard act to follow.”
Libby will succeed Lauren E. Brandt ’01, who assumed the role of Associate Dean of Students in March. Brandt started her role at the Office of Academic Integrity and Student Conduct in 2014.
Flehinger wrote in his email that Libby’s experience working closely with students and University affiliates will allow her to succeed in the new role.
“Brigitte brings to her work at OAISC extensive experience counseling students through challenging times and a remarkable ability to collaborate with people across the University,” Flehinger wrote. “She has skill, experience and compassion to excel in this role, and I am delighted to have the opportunity to work closely with her.”
—Staff writer Caroline S. Engelmayer can be reached at caroline.engelmayer@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @cengelmayer13.
—Staff writer Michael E. Xie can be reached at michael.xie@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @MichaelEXie1.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The former leaders of Nigeria, Tanzania, and Cape Verde spoke about effective leadership and development in Africa at a forum hosted in the Harvard Kennedy School's JFK Jr. Forum Wednesday.
His Excellency Olusegun Obasanjo, former president of Nigeria, His Excellency Jakaya Mrisho Kikwete, former president of Tanzania, and His Excellency Carlos Veiga, former prime minister of Cape Verde, answered questions from moderator Thoko Moyo and audience members. Moyo currently serves as the Kennedy School’s associate dean for communications and public affairs.
Kennedy School Dean Douglas W. Elmendorf introduced the panel and paid tribute to the late HKS professor Calestous Juma, known around the world for his study of technology and innovation in Africa. Juma passed away last December. Elmendorf said Juma’s work around public policy on the African continent will continue at the school.
“Harvard University needs to play a significant role in promoting the scholarship about Africa and in building stronger connections between the United States and countries in Africa, and the Kennedy School intends to play a key part in those efforts,” Elmendorf said.
The speakers focused much of their discussion on what they view as the primary responsibilities of African leaders. Veiga said “commitment” is the most important quality of an effective leader.
“The first thing is to be committed with the country and try to do the best we know to serve the country and to serve the people,” Veiga said. “You can be wrong, but it’s normal. You can change what you have done.”
The leaders each said that, in order to succeed, African countries need both strong institutions and strong leaders. The leaders were referencing former United States President Barack Obama’s 2009 statement that Africa needs strong institutions, not strong men.
Obasanjo flatly disagreed with Obama’s claim and called the president's assessment of Africa was “wrong.”
“Whatever context it is in, it is wrong,” Obasanjo said. “Africa needs good, strong leadership and we need stable, strong institutions. It’s neither one nor the other.”
Kikwete said he was “in total agreement” with Obasanjo’s diagnosis.
“That’s precisely the point, you need both,” Kikwete said. “If you have a strong leader and weak institutions, then they will be depending on an individual for survival and decision-making, which is a very weak base for a country.”
“If you have weak leaders, they are not good resources,” he added.
Obasanjo referenced the leadership of former South African president and activist Nelson Mandela as a role model for African leaders and citizens, pointing out how Mandela forgave those who imprisoned him for more than 20 years.
“I think that requires something more than normal in human beings to be able to do that. I think we need to learn that from Mandela and we need to practice it,” Obasanjo said. “Forgiveness is one thing that we don’t get enough in our interaction with our fellow beings. I believe whether at personal level or at political level or at whatever level: forgiveness and love.”
Some audience members said they wished the discussion had contained more substance and directed questions.
“I think there wasn’t enough substance,” Graduate School of Design Student Kahira Ngige said. “We didn’t get to the heart of what I wanted to know, which is what we do about the problem of governance across Africa. I think it was interesting to an extent, but more could have been done.”
The forum followed a closed workshop discussion about Africa’s transformations in the 21st century held among the three leaders and various experts and policymakers.
—Staff writer Alexandra A. Chaidez can be reached at alexandra.chaidez@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @a_achaidez.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
UPDATED: April 26, 2018 at 2:15 p.m.
Though the faces of the students who frequent the halls of Phillips Brooks House change each year, Assistant Dean of Harvard College for Public Service Gene A. Corbin, with his fist-bumps and friendly smile, has been a constant on campus for a generation of Harvard College students.
“I’ve been going to the same office for fifteen years,” Corbin said, laughing.
Corbin recently announced he will step down from his position May 4 after working six years as assistant dean. Before that, Corbin had served as the executive director of the Phillips Brooks House Association since June 2003.
In June, Corbin will begin a Ph.D. program in Higher Education at the University of Massachusetts Boston—a path he had never envisioned until he realized he wanted to continue work in higher education. Before he was PBHA’s executive director, Corbin studied public administration at the Harvard Kennedy School and worked with students as a teaching fellow.
The past 15 years, Corbin said, have felt “unreal.” As the semester—and his time at Harvard—comes to an end, “I just think about all the amazing people,” he said.
“The mission of Harvard College is to educate the citizens and citizen-leaders for our society.”
So reads the mission statement of the College. As such, one of the Phillips Brooks House’s focuses during his tenure, Corbin said, has comprised ensuring public service remains a priority for the student body.
Progress, he emphasized, is always a collaborative effort. The Phillips Brooks House encompasses the Center for Public Interest Careers, the Public Service Network, and Mindich Program in Engaged Scholarship, and the Phillips Brooks House Association—a student organization, distinct from PBH itself.
While each of these offices operates autonomously, Corbin said collaboration between the trio has increased across the last few years.
“What we all do is really central to the mission of Harvard College,” Corbin said. “You have to be engaged in serving others and addressing social issues to learn to be a citizen and a citizen-leader, and that is what it means to come to Harvard College."
That desire to shine a spotlight on public service on Harvard’s campus led to the birth of the First-Year Day of Service in 2015. The daylong initiative, which involves both alumni and Phillips Brooks House staff, helps introduce freshmen to public service opportunities on campus early on in their college experience.
“Starting the year off with public service at the forefront sets the tone for people’s mindsets,” said Alysha L. Johnson ’14, the community relations fellow for CPIC.
Johnson said she has observed that careers in public service have become “easier to access” during her time at the College.
Corbin has helped lead an ongoing initiative—the Seamless Service Pathways Process—which seeks to further streamline that accessibility. Nineteen student representatives sit on its steering committee.
“I’m convinced that social change is typically driven by young people,” Corbin said. “I hope public service at Harvard College never loses its student-led nature.”
Kristin M. Garcia ’05, who served as president of PBHA around when Corbin started as PBHA executive director, said PBHA “has always prided itself on having a commitment to student leadership.”
During Garcia’s time at the College, PBHA—under Corbin’s leadership—pioneered a "Nonprofit Management Intensive" during Wintersession.
“That really gave students the skills to figure out what it means to lead a nonprofit,” she said.
Garcia added that Corbin’s “energy and creativity” supported students as they found their footing as student-leaders—and that today, he does the same exact thing.
“He always has his signature fist-bump whenever you see him in the building,” said Anwar Omeish ’19, the current president of PBHA.
“There are two different reasons to be in college. One is to get a credential that will allow you to make more income, and the other is to develop as a citizen and citizen-leader. And obviously there’s some overlap there,” Corbin said.
He added, though, that “I want to see the latter really become what it means to be a Harvard College student.”
Becoming a citizen-leader doesn’t always seem like a viable option to every student, according to Maribel Hernández Rivera ’04, who serves on the National Advisory Board for Public Service.
“You come to Harvard as an underprivileged student and suddenly feel the pressure of succeeding and doing better,” Hernández Rivera said. “I knew that I wanted to work with immigrants, but that was not something that I had seen as a path when I was in college.”
Efforts like the Public Interested Conference, which debuted in 2012, seek to expose undergraduates to different paths in public interest work.
Hernández Rivera, who has spoken at Public Interested as an alumna, said she appreciates that Public Interested is open to all undergraduates.
“You don’t have to wait until your senior year to figure out what you want to do,” she said.
The network of alumni has been instrumental not only in the Public Interested Conference or the Public Service Recruiting Day—both of which began under Corbin’s tenure—but also in the Mindich Service Fellowship Program. That program matches students with public service organizations across the U.S., according to Travis A. Lovett, the director of CPIC.
“We’ve found that there really is a vibrant community here. It just takes being able to have enough resources to be able to bring folks together,” Lovett said.
Since the program’s launch, it has grown sizably, he said, and now sponsors 75 summer fellows.
“What’s great about this place is that it’s outlived anyone who’s here currently. As each person is here, they bring what’s special about them,” said Maria Dominguez Gray, the current executive director of PBHA. “But this place has a life of its own. It keeps going.”
“Gene has done a lot of work to make sure that there are structures in place that are beyond him,” she added.
A few weeks before the end of his tenure, Corbin looked back on the collaborative efforts that he has led and expressed optimism for the future.
“The role of people like me is to provide the support and structures that will allow the idealism of college students to flourish,” Corbin wrote in an email Wednesday.
“It will be exciting to see what others do, and I’m really proud of the progress that’s been made in the last 15 years and honored to have been a part of it.”
—Staff writer Simone C. Chu can be reached at simone.chu@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @simonechu_.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Faculty Council approved a preliminary list of courses for the 2018-2019 academic year and heard presentations on a potential Extension School program and the ongoing construction in Allston at its biweekly meeting Wednesday afternoon.
The Council—the Faculty of Arts and Sciences’ highest governing body—received a list of FAS courses for the next academic year in its annual review of course offerings. The list includes courses available to both undergraduate and graduate students as well as courses at the Extension School. Though some courses were missing details on times and section scheduling, the Council chose to formally approve the courses, and the entire Faculty will have a chance to vote on the list of courses at its next meeting.
“There are a lot of details that have to be still settled, so there will be corrections to the list over the coming months,” Council member David L. Howell said.
FAS will release a final list of course offerings in June.
The Council also heard a presentation from Dean of the Division of Continuing Education and University Extension Huntington D. Lambert on a possible collaboration between the Extension School and MIT’s “MicroMasters” program.
MIT’s program allows students to take online courses to earn a MicroMasters credential, which will then qualify them to apply for a Master’s degree at MIT and other universities. The Extension School is currently considering a collaboration with MIT that would allow students who earn a MicroMasters credential to apply to Master’s programs within the Extension School.
Katie Lapp, the executive vice president of the University, and Shaun L. Donovan, the senior strategist and advisor to the president on Allston and campus development, updated the Council on the state of construction on the Allston campus. They also spoke about their vision for the campus, which they said will include other Harvard programs in addition to the School of Engineering and Applied Sciences.
One potential addition they spoke about was the creation of arts-making and performance spaces. They also said that they would like the new campus to be open to Allston residents.
“They want to make it a real neighborhood, not just an office park or campus buildings,” Howell said. “It sounded very attractive.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Law School Professor Tomiko Brown-Nagin will be the next dean of Harvard’s Radcliffe Institute for Advanced Study, University President Drew G. Faust announced in a message to Harvard affiliates Thursday morning.
Brown-Nagin is also a professor of History, the co-director of the Program in Law and History, and the faculty director of the Charles Hamilton Houston Institute for Race and Justice. Current Radcliffe Dean and 20th century history scholar Lizabeth A. Cohen, who has served in the position for seven years, announced in October that she would step down at the end of this academic year. Brown-Nagin will succeed Cohen on July 1.
In a statement, Faust praised Brown-Nagin’s work as a lawyer and historian.
“She has made significant contributions to our understanding of the history of the Civil Rights movement and, more broadly, of issues as varied as affirmative action, education law and reform, and the Affordable Care Act,” Faust wrote.
Faust served as the first Radcliffe dean herself in from 2000 to 2007 before assuming her role as president of the University. Faust will step down in June after 11 years at Harvard’s helm.
Faust wrote Thursday that Brown-Nagin is “exceptionally well equipped” to take on the role as Radcliffe “matures into an established and renowned institute for advanced study.”
Brown-Nagin was a Radcliffe fellow in the 2016-2017 academic year, where she studied 20th-century American history through the life of Constance Baker Motley, a black woman lawyer, politician, and judge.
Cohen wrote in a statement that Brown-Nagin’s familiarity with Radcliffe, as well as her dual appointments at the Law School and the History Department, position her well to advance Radcliffe’s mission.
“She embodies the intellectual rigor, genuine curiosity, and collaborative spirit that are at the heart of Radcliffe’s unique mission as Harvard’s Institute for Advanced Study, and she combines this with the outstanding insight, judgment, and integrity of a distinguished leader,” Cohen said.
Brown-Nagin wrote in a statement that she looks forward to assuming the deanship.
“I am honored and excited to have the opportunity to lead the Radcliffe Institute, whose mission to bring scholars together across disciplinary and professional boundaries I enthusiastically embrace,” Brown-Nagin wrote.
Brown-Nagin received her undergraduate degree in history summa cum laude from Furman University in 1992. She later earned her J.D. from Yale in 1997 and her Ph.D. in history from Duke in 2002. She is an expert in constitutional law and educational law policy.
Her book, “Courage to Dissent: Atlanta and the Long History of the Civil Rights Movement,” won the Bancroft Prize in American History in 2012. She’s a member of the American Law Institute, a fellow of the American Bar Foundation, and a distinguished lecturer for the Organization of American Historians.
Brown-Nagin has served on a number of committees across the University. She chaired the BGLTQ working group of the Task Force on the Prevention of Sexual Assault. She is also currently a member of the advisory committee for the Graduate School of Education’s dean search and she sits on the search committee for a director of Radcliffe’s Schlesinger Library.
In 2016, Brown-Nagin also served on a committee to re-evaluate the Law School’s seal in light of its ties to slavery. That committee ultimately recommended to the Harvard Corporation that the school revoke the seal, which featured the crest of the formerly slave-owning Royall family.
President-elect Lawrence S. Bacow, who will also assume his new position in July, wrote that he feels “fortunate” to have participated in the final stages of the search.
“Radcliffe and Harvard will both benefit tremendously from the relationships Tomiko has already established at the Institute and across the University,” he wrote. “I am excited that I will have the opportunity to work with such a wonderful scholar and leader in the years ahead.”
—Staff writer Lucy Wang can be reached at lucy.wang@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @lucyyloo22
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
UPDATED: April 27, 2018 at 4:15 a.m.
Lesley University first-year student Jonathan Hill is working to locate the unmarked Cambridge graves of two Revolutionary War-era African-American soldiers and freed slaves—currently, he believes the sites lie somewhere near Harvard Yard.
Ever since a small plaque caught his eye, Hill, a digital filmmaking major, has been doing research in the hopes of finding the exact spot where the two men are buried in order to give them headstones—which are not currently present in The Old Burial Ground, a cemetery located nearby Harvard's campus and across from the Yard.
“I was walking by the cemetery and noticed a little plaque outside that said something like, ‘revolutionary soldiers laid here and two African-American soldiers were buried here,’” Hill said. “That was really interesting because I tried to figure out where they were buried since they don’t have headstones.”
The Cambridge Historical Commission, the body tasked with preserving historic sites in the city, previously knew that the two soldiers, Cato Stedman and Neptune Frost, lay in the cemetery, though they did not know exactly where, according to Charles M. Sullivan, the commission’s executive director.
While the exact locations of Stedman and Frost have yet to be officially named, Hill is working with the Commission and the Cambridge Department of Veterans’ Services to find the right spot. Once determined, Hill plans to apply for headstones.
“It’s not so much a discovery, really,” Sullivan said. “It’s uncovering more information.”
By looking through old records and archives, Hill and his affiliates are trying to uncover more information about the individuals’ life stories as well.
“We’re just at the very beginning,” Hill said, noting he has many leads to follow.
Neil S. MacInnes-Barker, who serves as Director of the Department of Veterans’ Services in Cambridge, is working with Hill. He said they will work hard “to make sure we have solid evidence before we start the application [for a headstone].”
“We don’t want to put a stone in the wrong place. We want to be sure that we do it right, and we are not sure how long it will take,” MacInnes-Barker said. “This is another opportunity on many levels to right a wrong and showcase an individual who shouldn’t be left in the shadows.”
Based on Hill’s current findings, it seems likely that Frost and Stedman were buried alongside their former slave owners, indicating they were not buried in mass graves—as was common for the many enslaved people who could not afford a headstone.
“There are some authoritative guides that say that Cato and Neptune both were buried with their former masters, but we have to see evidence of that, and we haven’t seen the original historical records yet,” Sullivan said. “We’re hoping the original record might have more specificity and not just unsupported legend or hearsay.”
Hill, who calls himself a “huge history nerd,” said he has developed an affinity for finding unmarked graves and ordering headstones because the stones signify that someone mattered more than just records, he said.
“I want to tell the stories of people who are important and really made a difference in this world but are forgot because I feel like there are so many stories out there that have been forgotten for one reason or another,” Hill said. “History matters.”
“There’s so much history here, and it’s amazing to think of how many people have walked by and just thought about the history in Boston and not really recognized the blank spaces of individual contributions,” MacInnes-Barker said.
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction:
CORRECTION: April 27, 2018
A previous version of this article incorrectly indicated that Jonathan Hill is working with the Cambridge Historical Commission and the Cambridge Department of Veterans' Services to perform digs. In fact, neither Hill nor any of the two organizations are performing digs.
—Staff Writer Andrea M. Bossi can be reached at andrea.bossi@thecrimson.com and on Twitter @bossi147
—Staff writer Simone C. Chu contributed reporting to this story.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
A University investment in Brazilian farmland may be in danger of a lawsuit as prosecutors in the state of Bahia review allegations that a company linked to Harvard’s endowment does not rightfully own titles to the land.
Harvard Management Company—which controls the University’s $37.1 billion endowment—owns its holdings in Western Bahia through its subsidiary Guara LLC. Guara owns Caracol Agropecuaria, the company that holds the property titles, according to University filings.
Caracol is valued at around $44 million, according to Harvard’s 2016 endowment tax filing. The commission listed irregularities with 24 titles for Caracol land holdings, Bloomberg News first reported.
“Caracol has the property title, but it couldn’t prove how the land, at the dimensions it has today, has been formed over time,” Barbara Camardelli Loi, an official in the prosecutor’s office, said in an interview with Bloomberg. “If we prove this is an area owned by the state, the company will lose it.”
The dispute has gone on for years and covers titles for a large majority of the farm. It is the second recent controversy surrounding foreign land holdings for HMC, after its farms and forests assets lost over $1 billion in value. Included in these losses was an investment in a eucalyptus plantation in Uruguay that fared particularly poorly.
Complaints from subsistence farmers in Bahia that they had been evicted from government land predate Caracol’s involvement in the dispute. A 2014 report from a state commission recommended titles be revoked after finding a “festival of irregular and illegal procedures which resulted in usurpation of public lands.”
Brazil began restricting foreign ownership of farms in 2010, prompted by increased international investments.
In the face of steep losses, HMC has begun a program repositioning its foreign land investment.
HMC decided to exit from another Brazilian farm investment of at least $150 million last year, contributing to the write-down of the natural resources portfolio. HMC has had a number of other properties in Brazil.
HMC CEO N.P. Narvekar explained the company’s decision to move away from natural resources in a September letter.
“For years, HMC benefited from an internally managed natural resources program that generated strong returns,” he wrote. “At this stage, however, while most assets remain attractive, a few have significant challenges.”
“Our natural resource platform will take multiple years to reposition,” he added.
In another recent offload, HMC sold $73 million of farmland in New Zealand.
—Staff writer Lucas Ward can be reached at lucas.ward@thecrimson.com. Follow him on twitter at @LucaspfWard.
—Staff writer Henry W. Burnes can be reached at henry.burnes@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
University President Drew G. Faust and Boston Mayor Martin J. Walsh stopped by Allston Wednesday afternoon to celebrate the fact the Harvard-Allston Partnership Fund has allotted $1 million in grants to local nonprofits over the past decade.
Amid heavy rain, University officials, municipal leaders, and Boston-area residents assembled in Ray V. Mellone Park—named after a prior chair of the Harvard-Allston Task Force who led the group through tumultuous financial times—in Allston for the tenth annual Harvard-Allston Partnership Fund awards. Past award recipients have included educational programs and health and fitness programs. This year, 13 nonprofits were awarded HAPF grants totaling $100,000.
The program was established by Harvard and the City of Boston in 2008 to provide “neighborhood improvement projects, cultural enrichment, and educational programming” in Allston. The funding for community programming has continued every year since then, despite Harvard temporarily halting its construction on the $1 billion Science and Engineering Complex for a number of years after the late 2000s financial crisis.
The SEC complex is now slated to open in fall 2020.
Faust said at Wednesday’s ceremony that the fund has provided 102 grants to 32 different “community partners” over the past decade and recognized those partners for their service to the neighborhood, where she said 43,000 people live.
“Today we recognize organizations that are helping us reach our full potential as neighbors,” Faust said.
Harvard’s expansion into Allston has remained a significant focus of Faust’s presidency. Faust is preparing to leave her office in June.
“When I became president at Harvard in 2007, I could not have ever imagined all the wonderful moments that I shared with you and how I've enjoyed watching this partnership grow over the past almost 11 years,” she said Wednesday, addressing local residents.
Following opening remarks by Paul Andrew, Harvard’s vice president for public affairs and communications, the youth string group of the Boston String Academy, which received $12,500 from HAPF this year, performed two pieces.
At the ceremony, Walsh praised Faust for her leadership at Harvard and thanked her for her dedication to strengthening the University’s relationship with Allston. Walsh said he expects to hold the next president, Lawrence S. Bacow, to the same standards.
“I plan on holding the next president's feet to the fire, and I met with him the other day. If he's half as cognizant of our relationship as you are, Madame President, he will be a success,” Walsh said to Faust.
—Staff writer Lucy Wang can be reached at lucy.wang@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @lucyyloo22
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
After spring break training and two tournaments, the Harvard men’s golf team rounded out its short spring schedule with the competition that defines the season: the Ivy League Championship, hosted in Stonewall, Penn. Two years ago, the Crimson won the competition for the first time in 42 years, and a year later, it took the cup again. This weekend appeared to be a golden opportunity for a three-peat, as the team was tied for first entering the final day of play.
But it was not to be. Harvard slipped to a third place finish after a difficult final round.
Yale, who were the favorites entering the tournament  after strong performances this spring, lived up to form, winning by 22 shots and shooting a tournament team low of +2 in the final round on Sunday. Dartmouth had a colossal final day as well, jumping from sixth to second, edging out the Crimson by a single shot. Harvard beat fourth-place Cornell by the same slim margin. By the end of competition, the gap between second and fifth was just four shots – the fight for second came down to the wire.
The Bulldogs managed to pull away from any late drama, improving upon each day, ensuring an impressive win buffer. At the bottom of the table, Brown (sixth) Princeton (seventh), and Columbia (eighth) followed Yale’s trend of improvement, but extremely poor performances on the first day left very little room for error, and it showed on the scorecard.
The big loser this weekend was Harvard who, after a strong first day, had an even better second. It all unraveled for the Crimson however, in the third round, where the team shot +25 - the worst team score from the final round. The Crimson was left frustrated with the third round performance.
“It was just one of those days,” said captain and senior Greg Royston. We played considerably under our potential, if we were at our best I believe we would have won. Today [the final round] we were just off, no one had a great day. I was pleased with the effort we gave, however, we were all very excited and I thought we had a really good chance coming into the final round. We had the right attitude today it was just one of those days.”
The dip in form from first and second to the final day of competition was unexpected given the conditions at play. The weather on day one – Friday – was abysmal, with strong winds and a chill unbecoming of the Northeast in mid-April. All across the board, the Ancient Eight shot their worst scores. The second day, Harvard’s best, brought warmer weather though the wind persisted. On Sunday, the wind dissipated and the temperature was in the mid 50s – the level of control the golfers should have had increased, but here the Crimson faltered.
The course, which was in prime condition, was not a simple one. With tight and long fairways, a strong first shot was paramount, the opposite landing players in an early hole. This proved to be the undoing of the seven eventual runners up.
Though the team ultimately failed in its quest for a three-peat there are positive signs going forward. This is a young team, with three freshmen, two sophomores, one junior and one senior. Royston will be the only graduate. With this comes continuity, and an exciting future. Freshman Grant Fairbairn followed up his strong showing at the Princeton Invitational with a solid weekend in Stonewall.
“For Grant as a freshman in his first Ivy Championship, this was a really great performance,” said Royston. “He did all he could to advance the tea. It was particularly impressive because he didn’t play in this fall, then came out big this spring.”
For Royston, the tournament was his final match playing for the Crimson. Throughout his four years with the team, he has consistently been a top performer, making history, driving the Crimson to back to back Ivy League Championships in his sophomore and junior year. His teammates will miss his passion and commitment to the team.
“I’ve spent three years with Greg, four if you consider that he’s the one that took care of me during my official visits,” said junior Aurian Capart. “Greg graduating is a tough blow for the team because he is a fantastic player and a great teammate. Fortunately, we built many memories together, especially the last two Ivy League Championships wins. We are losing our captain but also a great friend in Greg.”
While the Crimson look to grow in the offseason, its goal for next year is simple: a third Ivy Championship in four years.
—Staff writer Max McEvoy can be reached at max.mcevoy@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
For each of the past seven seasons, the Harvard baseball team hasn’t been a competitive Ivy League squad. From 2011 to 2017, the Crimson lingered amongst the bottom half of the Ancient Eight standings, twice finishing in the cellar and never finishing above two games under .500 in conference play.
It’s 2018, and the boys might be back.
This year’s squad has rejuvenated Harvard’s status in the Ivy League. The Crimson is now gunning for its first Ivy League Championship title since 2005, when it defeated Cornell at O’Donnell Field in Cambridge, Mass. Thirteen years later, Harvard might just have what it takes to get back to the championship series.
Led by senior second baseman Matt Rothenberg’s 7-for-12 series at the plate, the Crimson convincingly swept a pivotal midweek tilt at Princeton to propel itself back into the thick of Ivy contention. Harvard (19-17, 9-6 Ivy League) now joins Columbia (14-23, 9-6) in a tie for second, while the sweep puts a serious dent in any chances that Princeton (10-20, 7-8) had at making the top two.
The series was a convincing one—the Crimson outscored its Ivy rivals by 16 combined runs across the three games and trailed for all of just one half-inning.
On Tuesday, Harvard took the opener in Princeton, N.J., 5-1, behind a balanced attack and lockdown pitching, then rocked the Tigers for 14 hits and 13 runs in a 13-6 victory in the nightcap. With a chance at its first Ivy sweep since 2009, the Crimson finally closed out a series this season, dropping Princeton, 8-3, on multiple-RBI days from junior first baseman Pat McColl and sophomore two-way player Hunter Bigge.
“We’re definitely happy right now, but we’re not satisfied,” said junior center fielder Ben Skinner, who has keyed the Harvard offense all season long in the leadoff spot. “We’re looking ahead to three big games against Cornell, and I think we put ourselves in a good position, we’re excited going forward.”
The last time the Crimson was in contention for the title was in 2010, when it jockeyed for position atop the Ancient Eight table before fading away towards the end of the season.
HARVARD 8, PRINCETON 3
Rothenberg went 3-for-4 at the dish, McColl drove in three runs on an RBI single and double, and freshman righty Enzo Stefanoni threw four innings of shutout relief ball to lead Harvard over the Tigers in the series-capper on a cold and wet Wednesday afternoon at Clarke Field.
Bigge got the scoring started with a solo shot in the second, and McColl and junior slugger P.J. Robinson tacked on two more with RBI hits in the third to stretch the lead to 3-0. After Princeton knotted the game at three in the sixth, the Crimson offense put up five straight tallies to bring out the brooms.
Stefanoni gave up four hits, struck out two, and walked none, lowering his ERA to 4.05 in 13.1 innings of work this season.
“Enzo, coming in, he really showed that he has a big heart,” Skinner said. “He just did a great job.”
The rookie’s work came in relief of junior righty Simon Rosenblum-Larson, who, like senior Noah Zavolas, was working on short days’ rest, having started against Brown just four days prior. Rosenblum-Larson, after getting the no-decision against Brown, got another no-decision after pitching a short bullpen-like session of 3.0 innings to start the game. The hurler struck out seven of the 14 batters he faced to up his K/9 to a team-leading 11.19.
Freshman righty Jack Mahala worked the fourth and fifth innings and gave up just one hit, though he was charged for two earned runs.
Letting the Tigers tie up the game at three, however, proved no issue for Harvard, as junior catcher Devan Peterson broke the tie with an RBI single to score freshman shortstop Buddy Mrowka. McColl, an RBI machine in the two-hole, kept the scoring going with a double to score Peterson and Rothenberg.
The series, meant to have been the Crimson’s Ivy-opener, had already been delayed twice. The third attempt looks like it was, indeed, the charm for Harvard.
HARVARD 13, PRINCETON 6
On Tuesday evening, the Crimson won a big 13-6 matchup to guarantee a series win and begin pulling away from a mediocre .500 record.
Skinner went 4-for-5 at the top of the lineup and stole yet another base to lay the foundation for Harvard’s day. McColl got on base three times behind Skinner, setting the stage for Robinson to drive in three runs on two hits in the three-hole.
Whereas the early goings in the season witnessed Harvard use big innings and big days from select hitters, recent games have shown a trend towards runs produced by timely hitting up and down the lineup.
Eight different Crimson batters registered a hit, accounting for Harvard’s 14-9 outhitting of Princeton, and six different Crimson batters drove in a run.
Sophomore outfielder Jake Suddleson drove in two and scored three times in the cleanup role, hitting a triple and a homer along the way. Bigge reached base in four of six plate appearances and scored twice.
That the Harvard offense is starting to come alive is evidenced by the fact that the squad now has seven everyday players hitting .275 or above—Peterson, Mrowka, McColl, junior catcher Jake Allen, Rothenberg, Robinson, and Skinner. That kind of platoon continuing their hot streak can only mean incoming damage for its Ivy opponents.
The Crimson players also tend to defer to the success of the offense as a whole.
“It felt good, just getting pitches I could handle and putting good swings on them, not trying to do too much, just getting something I could hit,” Rothenberg said. “It was good to help my team out this week.”
Zavolas got the start on the mound, also pitching three short innings on just two days’ rest. His scoreless innings streak, however, was snapped at 24.0, as the Tigers got a run across in the first. The senior got the win, moving to 6-1. Sophomore righty Grant Stone tossed 4.0 innings of two-run ball behind him.
HARVARD 5, PRINCETON 1
Nothing more could be asked out of a ballclub than a solid wire-to-wire win, with timely hitting, great defense, and effective pitching.
Harvard outhit Princeton 10 to seven, committed zero errors in the field, got six stellar innings from freshman starter Buddy Hayward. Hayward was followed up by a rare three-inning save from sophomore Kieran Shaw, enough for the visitors to take the series opener against the Tigers, 5-1.
Skinner and Rothenberg had the only multi-hit days on the visitors’ side, though Peterson did draw three bases on balls.
Robinson got the scoring started with an RBI groundout in the first, and the Bad Boys of Boston never looked back. Senior outfielder Austin Black, Skinner, Bigge, and Mrowka all followed up with single-tally RBIs to steadily grow the Crimson’s lead.
The tale of two the two rookie Buddy’s—Hayward and Mrowka—has been in full effect this season.
“Buddy made a name for himself on the mound, and the other Buddy made a name for himself at the plate,” Skinner said. “They’ve really both stepped up.”
Hayward has worked 32.2 innings this season and sports an ERA just under 5.00, while Mrowka has batted .278 in 54 plate appearances.
One last key to Harvard’s success was its clean fielding all series long. Compared to Princeton’s seven errors, the Crimson committed just two errors on the series, something it sorely needed, as its fielding percentage has been a weakness all season long.
“Defense is definitely a part of the game that our coach emphasizes,” Bigge said. “If we’re having a tough day, then we like to get our ground-balls the day after, and come out the next series and just perform at our highest level. I think Princeton was a good example of that.”
—Staff writer Bryan Hu can be reached at bryan.hu@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
With multiple practices a week, games at Lavietes Pavilion, regional finals, and a national tournament, the schedule and experiences of Harvard Club Basketball this season may rival those of its varsity counterparts. Although the season ultimately ended with a loss, the defeat came at the highest competition in the club level: the national championship game.
The Harvard Classics Club Basketball team is as competitive as it is recreational. There is no paid coaching staff, players may occasionally miss practice, and games are not televised; however, this did not stop the team from commiting to a full season of basketball en route to a NCBBA National Championship berth this season. It is that commitment, the team says, that makes the well-oiled machine run.
“This is my fourth year on the team,” senior President and player Tommy Kelley said. “[Club Basketball] is the main thing I do on campus. I was excited to take the reigns and get involved with everything.”
Kelley’s job is a complicated one. He is in charge of finding non-recruited players with outstanding basketball skill and years of basketball experience. However, the team has found a unique way of doing so: scouting pick-up games at Harvard gyms.
“We just go to Hemenway, or we go to [Malkin],” Kelley said. “I think a big way we get new players on the team is…playing pickup. When we see a good player we ask them if they’re a freshman and if they are on a basketball team.”
To some, club basketball is the best of both worlds. Players are able to receive a herald education while still playing basketball at a high level.
“I, like a lot of other guys on the team, had a chance to play at Division III schools and ultimately decided you wanted to go to to Harvard for the academic portion,” sophomore Shane O’Donoghue said. “...A lot of us were still looking for that aspect of playing basketball competitively. That’s why we looked at the club basketball arena without the crazy commitment of a varsity sport.”
Others were warmed up to the idea by mutual friends and family.
“I had known Tommy [Kelley], our families know each other,“ sophomore Nate Hollenberg said. “So I reached out to him. My brother also went to Harvard, so he told me about the club basketball team, and I told a lot of the people I played pickup with the first couple weeks [of freshman year].”
However, the informal recruitment process may be the most relaxed portion of the year. After tryouts fill a deep roster of about 18 players, the team locks in for the demands of a competitive season. Every weekend culminates in a game with a regional college team, making this one of the more time consuming club sports available.
This does not mean the team isn’t understanding of the numerous time commitments of their players.
“What’s great about the Classics is that we always take a big squad,” Hollenberg said. “It's great because we...take it very seriously, but then again, a lot of the kids on the team do so many other things on the campus. Oh, you have to write a paper on Wednesday? We still have 12 other guys to practice. The seriousness combined with the understanding has made it a really great commitment.”
Every night of practice is devoted to making the team run smoothly. Kelley heads the team and helps implement game schemes while contributing as a team leader on the court, but every player also brings their own piece to the basketball puzzle.
“I do all the practice coordination, substitutions, all of that,” Kelley said. “I think there are a bunch of guys on the team that could have done it. It can be hard because these kids are your friends and you’re playing alongside them. At the same time, you need to take them out the game. Everyone has been very enthusiastic, however. If someone sees a play in a college or NBA game that they like, we try to put it in.”
Practice and gameplanning during the week can only go so far, and it makes the job even more complicated. The Classics sometimes face unfamiliar teams and aren’t afforded scouting that varsity sports receive. In-game adjustments are crucial in a league without game film or concrete rosters. The ability to adjust on the fly is another tool a team must have in order to succeed in this league.
Along with coaching and playing talent, the unique chemistry on and off the court is key to the team's success. The team’s ability to bond over the game each member loves has fostered a community of friendship and selflessness that translates to cohesiveness on the court.
“In every single grade, we have at least two people who are roommates with each other,” Kelley said. “It is definitely something that builds a lasting friendship.”
Between coaching, talent, and teamwork, the Classics ultimately put it all together in what was a season filled with numerous accomplishments. However, merely looking at the stat sheet and livestreams on Facebook would overlook everything behind the scenes that made this season come together.
It started with the players. The Classics immediately found new contributors to the team this fall, players that later became x-factors. The older leaders on the team were there to support them through the maturation process.
“Obviously the freshman this year played tremendously,” O'Donoghue said. “[Freshmen] like Paul Ramsey and Soren McLeod really came into their own, but it wasn’t always like that for them. We have some great senior captains. The senior leadership, those guys that rose up at the beginning of the season while the underclassmen were trying to find their role. It created a balance. Guys like Ramsey and Soren, the way they played in the national tournament when they played—unreal. It wasn't always like that. I accredit that to the leadership of guys that have been here for three or four years.”
Having all these tools was not enough. The Harvard Classics needed to win the New England Conference during the regular season, and defeat a familiar foe in Boston College. The season started out slowly, with losses to non-conference teams and lower-ranked matchups. As a result, the team did not picture themselves having late-season success during these early struggles. It took time into the second semester for the Classics to catch fire and streak into the regional tournament.
Boston College won an at-large bid to the regional tournament and had won two out of three of the previous matchups. However, the Classics put it all behind them, coming into the game with confidence in their newfound success and ultimately overwhelmed their cross-town rivals by over 20 points.
Next up was club basketball’s biggest stage: the NCBBA National Tournament. But the team hit another block on their path. With the tournament being a multiple day event in South Bend, Ind., the club sports budget could not cover such extensive travel and accommodations.
Carrying over their resilience from the court, the Classics were not deterred.
“We actually did a fundraising campaign,” Hollenberg said. “ We raised over $6,500 from friends and family...so it was really nice that we didn’t have to worry about anyone financially.”
On the biggest stage, each player also needed to find their role. Against the nation’s top teams, only selfless play would bring victory.
“For me, personally, it was ball handling,” O'Donoghue said. “When I get in the game, that is my main focus, just looking to help the team in a few minutes.”
The Classics were ready and had the players, support, and confidence. Immediately, it translated to success on the floor in the second annual tournament in South Bend.
Harvard overcame a deficit against familiar foe Princeton to squeak out a close victory, 90-89. With morale running high, the Classics then pulled the upset of the tournament. They overcame a double-digit deficit to best the #1 seeded Michigan Wolverines.
“We just said to just go out there and have fun,” Hollenberg said. “It just went our way.”
Next, for the national championship, was Ohio State. This game would prove to be the toughest test of all.
“I think at every position [Ohio State] had two inches on our next guy,” Kelley said. “We were missing our two tallest players so that was pretty tough.”
The Classics countered with spectacular individual performances. Multiple players stepped up and performed out of their roles to help lift the team up to the task.
“ I think a big part of why our run was so deep, especially lacking the big guys was Paul Ramsey and [senior] Fri Lavey,” Kelley said. “ They are two guys who are under 6’3” and had to step into a role of pretending they were 6’7”. It was just a huge performance.”
However, it was simply not enough. The Classics fell to another deficit early on in the contest, and again were able to recover. This time, however, after finding a lead in the second half, the team lost it. Ohio State came out on top 80-70.
The unfortunate loss was not as saddening to the team as one would imagine.
“What was really funny was [when] we got back in the locker room we were just joking,” Hollenberg said. “Morale was so high before; morale was still high. We went to Buffalo Wild Wings after and to be honest, if I walked in I would have thought that was the team that had just won the national title. It was a bummer that we lost... but we’ll be back. We were the last team standing.”
The Classics were pleased with the work that they had put in, their performance, and most of all, the support that they received throughout the year. Everything from their opportunities to play at Lavietes, the money they raised to enjoy a fun trip, and the support they received at home games and at the tournament made the season worthwhile.
“Our fan base could not have been better,” O’Donoghue said. “Club sports in general typically don’t get great fan showing, but this whole year everybody has been so supportive of the team. It made us feel like what we were doing had purpose. In the national tournament, the fan engagement was unreal. Parents of guys on the team, are writing and showing enthusiasm. College students were chirping the whole time, it was great to see.”
With a season to remember, the Classics are riding high. However, this does not mean they are finished in any way. The National Club Basketball Association is, according to their website, the fastest growing intercollegiate club basketball league in the United States. With increasing popularity, the Classics hope to continue to take their team to the next level.
“We can only go up from here,” Hollenberg said. “We hope to keep the mojo going.”
Sections
Couple this advice with our other tips about self care, and you can set yourself up well for this next week.
CVS Runs
Chances are you’ll be cooped up in your dorm room (or a library) for a long time, and it pays to be prepared with snacks. Grocery shopping is also a great way to feel like a mature and responsible adult—without doing any of your actual work.
Social Media & Netflix
Spend an exorbitant amount of time tagging your friends in memes on Facebook or stalking people on Instagram, purely in order to compensate for your virtual disappearance next week. Alternatively, don’t forget to catch up on every TV show you used to watch, and begin watching several new ones. This may be the last opportunity you have to relax for a few weeks.
Packing for Summer
Unless you’re sticking around Cambridge, you’re probably going to need to get on a bus/train/plane soon after your last final ends. Save future you some leaving last-minute stress, and get to laundryin’, donatin’, tossin’, cleanin’, packin’, and storin’ before you’re in full study mode.
Make a Plan
Figure out exactly what you’ll do over reading period, exactly when you’ll do it (down to the minute), and exactly how to color-code all of your assignments in your planner/Google Calendar for maximum aesthetic impact. Will you end up following this comprehensive schedule? Definitely not. Will you convince your friends that you have your life together, in a particularly artsy way? Maybe.
Nap Often
Let’s be real, you got more than enough sleep over Spring Break. But it’s convenient to use the week before reading period as an excuse to catch up on the sleep you will be missing in the future. Bears hibernate. You can, too.
What did you say? The best way to prepare for reading period is to get a head start on your work rather than procrastinating? Nah.
