News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
This article has been updated. 
The Fox Club and the joint Delphic-Bee Club are among roughly a dozen campus social groups that have now promised administrators they will go co-ed, securing Harvard recognition and freedom from the sanctions, Associate Dean of Student Engagement Alexander R. Miller announced Friday.
Fifteen previously single-gender groups earned recognition. The historically all-male Fox and the merged Delphic-Bee club are the only unexpected names on the list.
The Fox's decision to admit members of all genders comes after a brief and troubled flirtation with co-ed status that at one point saw the group’s displeased graduate board shut down the club's mansion near campus. The Bee and the Delphic decided to share membership and a clubhouse in fall 2017, at the time marking the first union of an all-female and an all-male final club in recent memory.
Most of the others on the list, which includes ex-sororities, ex-fraternities, and final clubs, had already declared they planned to go gender-neutral. Administrators’ Friday announcement — published on the Dean of Students Office website — leaves Harvard’s campus without all-female social groups, confirming The Crimson’s report last month.
The full list of recognized clubs includes the Fox, the Delphic-Bee Club, the Fleur-de-Lis, Kali Praxi, the Ivy, the Aleph, the KS, the Spee, Theta Zeta Xi, the IC, Pleiades, La Vie, the Oak Club, the Sab Club, and the Seneca. Four groups — the Delphic, the Fox, the Oak, and the Spee — were once all-male social groups and two were once fraternities. The remaining groups are all historically all-female.
It is the end of decades of independence for the Delphic, the Fox, and the Spee. The three clubs were among the nine all-male final clubs that formally severed ties with Harvard in the early 1980s rather than accept women.
Harvard’s two-year-old social group penalties, which took effect with the Class of 2021, bar members of unrecognized single-gender final clubs and Greek organizations from holding student group leadership positions, varsity athletic team captaincies, and from receiving College endorsement for prestigious fellowships like the Rhodes. The policy, which former University President Drew G. Faust announced in a May 2016 email to students, has spurred near-constant controversy and backlash since its debut.
Even as some clubs evade the sanctions by seeking formal ties with Harvard, others are choosing the warpath. The Cambridge Coalition, a set of social groups that includes storied all-male final clubs the Fly Club, the AD Club, and the Porcellian Club, is taking the fight to Capitol Hill and lobbying Congress in favor of a bill it hopes will kill the sanctions by forcing Harvard to choose between the penalties and millions of dollars of federal funding.
Related: [Social groups spent $90,000 lobbying against sanctions in second quarter of 2018]
The College granted recognition to every club that applied for it, Miller said in a Thursday interview. Most of the 15 groups received “Interim Recognition” — the lowest tier of recognition in the three-tiered system administrators debuted last semester — though at least one group, the KS, earned "Full Recognition," the second-highest tier.
Though every level of recognition requires gender-neutral membership practices and confers exemption from the sanctions, upper tiers demand total non-discrimination and come with unspecified amounts of College cash. Groups do not actually have to go co-ed to earn Interim Recognition. But they must demonstrate a legitimate intention to do so later on.
And Interim Recognition only guarantees safety from the sanctions for one year. At the end of that period, groups in that category can either apply to advance to Full Recognition or they can seek to extend their interim status for another year.
Miller acknowledged that some of the clubs that earned recognition Friday are still single-gender in practice. But he said administrators worked with every group to develop an “action plan” to ensure they meet College requirements for recognition going forward.
Not every recognized group could be reached for comment Friday. The IC and the Sab declined to comment.
The Fox first experimented with a co-ed move in 2015 when undergraduate members chose to admit women, citing both students’ “sincere desire” to go co-ed and “tremendous pressure” from administrators.
But alumni — and especially the club’s powerful graduate board — were far from pleased. The board called a special meeting to discuss the co-ed move and stipulated that the nine new female members would remain “provisional” denizens of the Fox pending later approval. The board abruptly shuttered its clubhouse on JFK Street a few days later, effectively stalling that semester’s “punch,” the process by which the Fox selects and inducts new undergraduate members.
In subsequent punch seasons, the club reverted to choosing only male members. And in July 2017, The Crimson reported that the club’s graduate board had permanently revoked membership for its nine provisional female members.
Related: [Harvard just switched the rationale for the sanctions again]
But the Fox graduate board’s days of so directly steering the club’s affairs may soon be at an end. 
Harvard can deny or rescind recognition to social groups if it finds that recognized clubs’ graduate boards or national organizations wield too much clout over undergraduate members. The ex-fraternities and ex-sororities on the Friday list all had to sever ties with their national chapters to secure recognition.
Miller declined to comment on what might constitute an inappropriate level of influence exerted by club graduate boards, but said generally that the College will consider the amount of financial control exerted by alumni.
Harvard is not shirking from influencing the groups itself. Administrators have already given recognized clubs recommendations designed to “increase their gender inclusivity across their organization,” Miller said.
A few got advice about “how they may need to strengthen their overall governance within themselves, how they manage themselves, [and] how do they make decisions,” he added.
Miller declined to give any further specifics, noting he wants to preserve trust between administrators and social organizations.
During the application process, the 15 clubs submitted written forms and members interviewed with a committee specifically tasked with making decisions about social group recognition, according to Miller. He declined to detail the membership of the committee, which he said included administrators, faculty members, and some students affiliated with social organizations.
Related: [Harvard's last sorority disappears after Alpha Phi bows to pressure]
The stamp of approval Harvard offered the 15 groups Friday may be merely the first step in a changing relationship with the College, Miller said. Harvard may eventually assign some clubs faculty advisers, according to Miller.
He declined to comment on the specific circumstances under which the College would assign advisers, saying the committee would consider a variety of relevant factors.
The Delphic, the Fox, and the Spee’s 1984 break with the University did not have serious consequences. Then as now, the historically all-male final clubs around campus — including the holdouts that still refuse to go co-ed — are privately financed and own their own property in Cambridge.
All the Delphic, the Fox, and the Spee had to give up at the time, the New York Times reported, was their “low-cost school phone and heating systems” and their “access to alumni mailing lists.”
Close to 40 years later, they’re back in the fold.
Correction: Sept. 9, 2018
An earlier version of this article incorrectly stated that each of the 15 social groups mentioned in the story received "Interim Recognition." In fact, at least one group earned "Full Recognition."
Correction: Sept. 7, 2018
Due to incorrect information provided by Harvard, a previous version of this article incorrectly stated that the Exister Society had applied for and received College recognition and neglected to mention that the Delphic-Bee Club had done so. It has been updated.
Editor's Note: 
A Harvard spokesperson confirmed an embargoed list of social groups that had applied for and received recognition from the College with The Crimson Thursday afternoon, a day ahead of publication. But the spokesperson gave Crimson reporters the wrong list, causing the paper to publish an incorrect article.
—Staff writer Caroline S. Engelmayer can be reached at caroline.engelmayer@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @cengelmayer13.
—Staff writer Michael E. Xie can be reached at michael.xie@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @MichaelEXie1.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Chanting, lofting a banner, and shouting into a megaphone, a group of around 75 Harvard affiliates rallied in the Science Center Plaza Friday afternoon to support workers with Temporary Protected Status and show solidarity with an ongoing nationwide prison strike.
The rally was hosted by the Harvard TPS Coalition, a group of workers who include members of Harvard’s campus unions and advocate for Harvard workers with TPS. It was the coalition’s first public demonstration of the school year and its first partnership with Act on a Dream, a student immigrant rights organization.
Temporary Protected Status is a designation the Department of Homeland Security grants to certain foreign nationals who are unable to return to their country of citizenship due to unsafe circumstances like an armed conflict or natural disaster. TPS recipients can legally live and work in the U.S. and are immune from deportation.
Over the past year, the Trump administration has terminated the program for citizens of El Salvador, Haiti, Nicaragua, and Sudan, collectively ending protections for over 250,000 people.
At the event, around 20 representatives from campus labor unions, student advocacy groups, and local organizations addressed a half-circle of congregated students, faculty, and staff.  Members passed out buttons that read, “Residency Now!” and flyers listing the demands of the prison strike, which include better conditions in prisons, wages for inmates, and “an immediate end to the racial overcharging, over-sentencing, and parole denials of black and brown humans.”
Doris Reina-Landaverde, a Harvard custodian who is a TPS recipient, helped organize the event. She said the event showed the connection between issues of labor, incarceration, and immigration.
“We are TPS holders, immigrants. And we are workers — we have unions. And, you know, when the people are deported, they also go to jail — detention centers,” Reina-Landaverde said. “All the organizations here, we have connections.”
Reina-Landaverde said she hoped University President Lawrence S. Bacow would follow in the footsteps of his predecessor, Drew G. Faust, in publicly advocating to protect immigrants.
“The last president of Harvard, she wrote to the Congress and supported the workers here at Harvard,” Reina-Landaverde said. “We hope the new president can write to the Congress, too, to advocate for TPS holders in Harvard.”
University spokesperson Melodie L. Jackson wrote in an emailed statement that the University is “deeply committed” to supporting Harvard affiliates impacted by the roll-back of TPS and other changes to national immigration policy.
“We will continue to make every effort to have our voice heard and to advocate for permanent legislative solutions to these challenging issues,” Jackson wrote.
Emily Pope-Obeda — a History and Literature lecturer who researches race, ethnicity, migration, and labor — also spoke at the event, calling on University faculty to “stand with those fighting for their rights.”
“As this gathering demonstrates, these horrific immigration policies impact people right here in our own communities,” Pope-Obeda said. “They impact our students and their families, faculty, and a lot of great workers on campus.”
“As faculty members, we need to fight for these issues not only because those affected are our students, our peers, and members of our campus community, but because they are also the critical moral imperatives of our time,” she added.
Cherrie N. Bucknor, an organizer for Harvard Graduate Students Union-United Automobile Workers and sociology Ph.D. candidate, agreed. She said Harvard employees impacted by TPS are integral to the University.
“Harvard University would be little more than an investment corporation if not for the work done in its dining halls, residence halls, and lecture halls," she said.
—Staff writer Edith M. Herwitz can be reached at edith.herwitz@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @edith_herwitz.
—Staff writer Sonia Kim can be reached at sonia.kim@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @soniakim211.
—Staff writer Molly C. McCafferty can be reached at molly.mccafferty@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter at @mollmccaff.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
