Sections
The show I worked on last semester, ‘/underground,’ I looked at my build hours spreadsheet and found out that I worked 100 hours over the course of three weeks,” Gabrielle S. Preston ’20 says. “Which is not great for also being a student and a person.”
Preston is the Harvard-Radcliffe Dramatic Club’s technical liaison, and one of just a handful of student technical directors who execute the set design of the dozens of productions the HRDC and Theater, Dance, and Media department put on each year.
“I’m a full-time student trying to take five classes, and also have a social life and not be doing things sometimes. [Tech directing] makes it incredibly difficult,” Preston adds.
Compared to the myriad of student actors and directors on campus who seek to put on shows at Harvard, the number of students who do technical theater is much smaller, and every show may require them to design and execute the lights, costumes, sound, and set.
“In general, the sort of core staff or technical staff of people who make theater on this campus—it’s a small circle,” Preston says. “We kind of all know each other.”
Beyond general technicians, the pool of technical directors is even smaller. Emily E. Bergquist ’18, the former president of HRDC, estimates that, at any given time, there are typically only three or four active technical directors on campus.
“I think in traditional settings or professional settings technical directors are people who coordinate all of the technical elements of the show,” Stephanie N. Ferrarie ’18, an active producer and technical director on campus, says. At Harvard, however, technical direction is a bit different.
“The biggest role [of a technical director] is to build and construct the set, and manage the process of building and painting the set,” Ahan T. Malhotra ’21 says. He explains that the technical director is also responsible for organizing a show’s “load in,” in which the show moves into a space or stage, and “strike,” when a show moves out of a space. Malhotra is tech directing the freshman class’s First-Year Musical, “Hitched.”
Preston, along with Bergquist, American Repertory Theater Production Supervisor for Pedagogical Programs Kat T. Nakaji, TDM Production Manager Andrew J. Gitchel, and HRDC Campus Liaison Abigail G. Sage ’21 all point to a lack of experience as one of the most prominent barriers preventing students from getting involved in technical theater.
For Preston, high school formed an intense introduction to set construction. “I got here and realized I was kind of technically experienced enough to jump into things,” Preston says. “It’s very difficult to come in with no experience in a technical role and just take a project on.” Preston acknowledged that, while there are people who learn technical direction and other technical roles on the spot, the process is by no means easy.
Malhotra, who has never tech directed a show before “Hitched,” credits the HRDC’s biannual Backstage Week with teaching him the skills necessary to tech direct the First-Year Musical. Backstage Week, which is generally held the week after Common Casting (the process by which most students audition for HRDC shows), is an opportunity for students to learn and practice technical skills. “For backstage week essentially I just cleared out my evening and every night I was going to the different workshops they had and they were super well organized,” Malhotra says.
Sage, a freshman stage manager, urges students to get involved regardless of their experience level. “I did come in as a freshman with experience, but a lot of really, really talented people come in as freshmen with no idea what they’re doing,” she says. “By the time they’re seniors, they’re light designing shows or they’re tech directing shows and doing things that they didn’t necessarily think they’d ever do as freshmen.”
“I think one of the biggest barriers is that there’s fear and apprehension that if you’ve never done it before you’re not going to be able to do it,” Nakaji says.
The experience barrier may also present another challenge to the pre-existing theater community: Members who want to work with new potential technical directors must also think about the time it takes for them to learn the necessary skills, as well as the opportunities available to teach them. Nakaji stresses the importance of matching student technicians with appropriate shows for their skill levels.
“One thing I do see is that a lot of times people will be like, ‘We don’t have a lighting designer for the MainStage, we’ll just get someone new!’” they say. “And I’m like, ‘Oh no, not on the MainStage. This is not the moment to learn how to do lights.’”


This learning curve is steep for the students who do seek out positions as technicians or technical directors without prior experience, Preston explains. “You’re learning your position as you’re doing the production, which is fine or would be fine. But it’s not necessarily supported with the very high caliber of theater we want to produce and [there’s] not a lot of tolerance for trying stuff and failing."
While the time commitment varies for different productions and roles, it can force students to make hard choices about what activities to take on or give up. For some students, there’s even less of a choice: A work study requirement can make taking on this time commitment even more difficult.
The technicians’ dilemma does not go unnoticed by the other students who work with them. “Designers do end up signing on to a lot of shows and it can be very overburdening for them,” Sage says. She is currently stage managing two productions. When I ask her to estimate her own personal time commitment, she laughs. “More than anyone ever should.” She estimates her workload to be around two to five hours every night, plus work outside of the rehearsal room.
“It’s actually really hard to have a regular job,” Preston says, “I know a lot of people who work at Widener because you set your schedule every week and it’s just hourly shifts.” Bergquist, who was an upperclassman mentor to Preston, also works at the library, along with a number of other students who are technical directors or who have other time-intensive theatrical roles.
Bergquist, who doesn’t qualify for work study, also works for the Office of the Arts and previously held several different internship positions at the ART. The artistic and theatrical nature of these positions made them more complimentary to Bergquist’s work with the HRDC. “You’re working in a theater setting so if you need to sit there and send an email to your lighting designer, they’re going to understand that,” she says.
But the increased time commitment needed during tech week and the production week leading up to a show’s opening night requires Bergquist to rearrange her work schedule in order to make the same amount of money. “If I have a show a month out, I’ll really load up on work shifts and make as much money as I can in the two or three weeks leading up to it because I know I probably won’t be able to work as much the next week,” she says.
A similar logic follows when it comes to academics. Malhotra sought more front-loaded courses for this semester, keeping in mind that the month of April would be consumed with technical preparation for his show.
The ability to participate in other extracurricular activities is also a consideration. Malhotra, who is involved in the Harvard Financial Analysts Club and Global Platinum Securities, notified members of his other commitments that he would need to spend all his free time in the theater during tech week. “There is a little bit of a tradeoff,” Malhotra says. “I think it’s manageable and you have to plan for it.”
Much of the strain on technicians comes from the large number of shows they need to mount each semester. “Creating art onstage requires a significant amount of people and it requires people who have a similar mindset and are moving in a similar direction,” Gitchel explains. “I think we’re stretching our resources thin in terms of people, and even more so ‘qualified’ people.”
“What ends up happening is you have one student who does everything,” he says. “They get burnt out and they stop working in theater. And then they’re not passing on any of the knowledge that they’ve gathered.”
“There’s an ongoing concern if I want theater to be a serious extracurricular and this is how much time I’m putting into it: Does that hurt me later when I’m trying to put a resume together to apply to jobs that aren’t theatrical necessarily?” says Preston, who is uncertain about technical theater as a career. When not working at Widener, with the HRDC board, or designing and building sets, Preston is also the Secretary of Harvard Undergraduate Voters Choose, an election reform project. “I’m picking between what I want to do artistically and what I want to do professionally.”
The shortage of trained technical directors not only increases the workload of the students who end up doing the bulk of Harvard’s tech directing, but also the workload of the producers on campus.
Bergquist’s introduction to technical theater at Harvard was, in a way, accidental. She began with the HRDC as a stage manager her freshman year, eventually graduating to producing, which she found to be a much better fit. According to Bergquist, producers at Harvard have three areas of responsibility: finances, publicity, and what she calls “the technical side.”
“It’s similar to what production managers do in real life,” Bergquist explains. This undertaking entails making sure a show’s set, light, sound, and costume designers meet their deadlines, ensuring the visions of each designer are consistent with one another, fostering communication among the designers as well as between them and the director, and just about anything else that comes up during the production process.
While productions often have more than one producer to divvy up the workload, the shortage of technical directors can change their roles drastically. The lack of a tech director on a show Bergquist produced resulted in her spending eight to 12 hours every week for a month in the scene shop overseeing set construction herself.
“The producer and director work very closely together to build the staff for a show,” Bergquist says. “So the producers are the ones who are responsible for filling those holes with either other people or with yourself.”
The responsibility that comes with her role informs much of Ferrarie’s technical involvement as a producer. “Everything comes back to you and reflects on you. That means you have a lot of stake,” she says. “I got into being a TD [technical director] because I had to build from producing,” Ferrarie says.
Ferrarie added that while the technical duties expected of her in addition to her other responsibilities as a producer can be overwhelming at times, she doesn’t like to complain. “I can build, I would never have been able to build. Two or three years ago I couldn’t build anything but I had to,” she says. “That’s why I’m doing it and why people ask me to TD and do carpentry for them.”
Similar to Bergquist, Ferrarie often spends 10 to 15 hours per week in the scene shop during build weeks, of which there tend to be two or three per show depending on the set. “I think that producers should know that part of the job is taking on extra responsibility,” Ferrarie says. “It’s not about delineating like ‘I’m the producer and I am just somebody who’s handling paperwork’ because that’s not what makes it fun.” Having experience both tech directing and producing taught her the importance of collaboration between the people in these roles.
Bergquist cautioned against relying on producers exclusively to make up for the lack of technical directors and designers. “I’m a well enough trained technician that I could fill that role but, for example, if a show needed a costume designer–I don’t know the first thing about costume design. I could not take on that role.”
Some say the problem is simple: There aren’t enough technicians at Harvard. The solution? That’s more complicated. Students and faculty alike see a path forward that requires close cooperation between the Theater, Dance, and Media Department and the HRDC.
“In terms of solving this problem they have to be linked, they have to work together,” Bergquist says. “Because the HRDC has resources that TDM doesn’t, and TDM has resources that the HRDC doesn’t, and they’re both affected by this problem. I think it’s in everybody’s best interest to work closely together.”
To address the experience barrier, community members say there needs to be a more efficient system of training students as technicians. As of right now, this responsibility falls collectively on upperclassmen, TDM faculty, and the production managers of Harvard’s numerous theater spaces.
Gitchel conducts much of the structured technical training of students on campus. He and his colleagues in the TDM department run a series of training modules during the academic year that are required for TDM concentrators and open to all students. The modules currently offered are Stage Management, Scenery, Lights, Costumes, Sound and Video, Theater Safety, Producing, and Professional Administration Structures and Unions.
In addition to his many responsibilities, including but not limited to maintaining Farkas Hall, working with student groups to stage productions and develop designs, purchasing materials, and supporting all TDM thesis projects, Gitchel also teaches classes on tech theater.
“I think a year ago Kat Nakaji and I offered our technical [class] which was less design and more actual execution,” Gitchel says. “We learned about design. But also some of our projects were ‘build a video design rig with a projector and a cue lab’—so a little bit more hands on. We had lab time with that class.”
Bergquist, who took the introductory course, called it “an amazing class” but added there was more to learn than there was time to teach it. “There were so many days where they were like, ‘If we had 17 more classes I could explain to you how this works but you just have to trust me that it works,’” she says.
This semester, TDM is offering a course titled “Design Foundations: Scenography Studio,” an exploration of set, light, and construction design taught by MIT’s Director of Design for Music and Theater Arts, Sara Brown. Preston, who is currently enrolled in the class, referred to Brown as “amazing.”
Bergquist pointed out, however, that the Scenography class is much more focused on design than the technical aspect. “We have to expand the classes that we’re offering,” she added.
The TDM department is on the same page. “I think the goal is to continue having these sorts of introductory level classes,” Gitchel says. “I would hope that students who are interested in making theater but maybe not as a career path would still take these classes.”
More informal training of technical directors and technicians is dependent on older students passing on their knowledge to younger students. “I think mentorship is extremely important. I keep documents and documents of tips and I just share them with younger producers,” Ferrarie says. In addition to her responsibilities producing and technical directing, Ferrarie also trains the newer tech directors with whom she works.
Ferrarie also emphasized the importance of building community between technicians and cast members. Her experience working as a carpenter with The Harvard-Radcliffe Gilbert and Sullivan Players was highlighted by the closeness of the cast, all of whom she got to know because they helped technicians build the set. “I think building community that would make a staff member come back, it’s an expectation that needs to be set,” she says.
“I think mostly that there’s just a lack of awareness that these are real positions and real jobs to be had in the world,” Nakaji says. “It’s not an afterthought. It’s an integral part of building a design, of building a show, and how to bring those people into the creative process.”
Addressing the effects of the time commitment associated with technical direction is a different problem. “Frankly, it’s a big time commitment and that’s never going to change,” Ferrarie says, “and I don’t think it should because then you’ll have shoddy work.”
The OFA sometimes hires and compensates student shop assistants for work on specific shows or in specific theaters, but the program doesn’t apply to the work of student technical directors or technicians broadly.
Preston believes that to make positions in tech theater more accessible, Harvard should consider compensating student technicians for the work they do to create Harvard theater. Doing so, according to Preston, would allow more people to participate in technical theater rather than having to choose between working and creating art.
Bergquist believes such a program could incentivize people to learn technical skills, but doesn’t believe it would fix the “fundamental problem” of addressing how more students can and should be taught these skills. “This is something that came up when we were talking about TDM giving course credit for working on productions, because it can be very tricky of where is the line of what qualifies for work study and what doesn’t,” she says.
Nakaji hopes for expanded resources for student technical directors and technicians.
“My dream of dreams for technical theater on campus is to just have a dedicated technical scene shop where it’s just students, it’s just for undergraduates,” they say. This workshop would provide space for students to construct their own sets, as well as sewing machines and tables for costuming, and a light box, which is a small studio space with a light board that can be used to practice programming lights. “An experimental place where people could go and work out an idea, because right now we’ll have really great ideas but not necessarily a space to work out what that would look like.”
Nakaji believes that this technology would not only be enjoyed by existing technicians and designers, but would also attract new students to technical theater at Harvard. They joked, “This is very like a ‘Field of Dreams.’ If you build it they will come.”
For every challenge the technical theater community faces, there are even more reasons to love the work. The students and faculty interviewed for this piece often identified and praised those in their tight knit community. “Kat Nakaji is one of my heroes in life,” Bergquist says. “Kat does the job of twelve hundred people by themselves.”
“The students here are obviously very amazing individuals in their own right. Everyone puts forth tremendous effort,” Gitchel says. “So it’s exciting to work with students who have a high threshold for achieving things and working with something they may not have encountered before.”
Berquist is particularly proud of the diversity of the technical theater community at Harvard. “I think it would be very easy for our community to say ‘we need people we need people we need people,’” she says. “But everybody that I know has been very supportive of not just people, but [have said] we need women and trans people and people of color.”
“It’s cool to like make something with your hands when you’re in a space that isn’t typically run by women," Ferrarie says.
And even aside from the community, there’s a draw to the craft of set-building itself that keeps convincing Preston—one of the most involved tech directors on campus—to come back, despite all of Preston’s other commitments.
“I love building things, I really do,” Preston says. “I miss it when I’m not doing it.”
Note: Allison J. Scharmann was the Assistant Stage Manager and an actor for “Operation 1600,” a play put on by the HRDC.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
UPDATED: April 8, 2018 at 11:07 p.m.
The Department of Justice called for the unsealing of admissions data Harvard has repeatedly argued should remain private in an amicus brief the department filed Friday as part of an ongoing lawsuit that alleges Harvard discriminates in its admissions process.
The filing also directly connected the admissions lawsuit to the department’s ongoing probe into Harvard’s admissions processes. It argued the suit—brought by anti-affirmative action group Students for Fair Admissions in 2014—“overlaps” with and could “directly bear” on the separate Justice Department investigation. The filing also asserts the department could join the case as a “friend of the court,” depending on how the Students for Fair Admissions suit plays out.
The department’s actions show the Trump administration is likely to support Students for Fair Admissions in their attempts to challenge Harvard’s admissions processes. The outcome of the lawsuit and the probe could have far-reaching implications for affirmative action policies across the United States.
The filing calls for “public access” to all “summary judgment materials” in the case unless a party requests privacy for a “most compelling reason.” The filing also directly urges the court to reject the University’s previous request that case-related admissions information remain private.
“To be sure, there is weighty interest in protecting the private identities of students and applicants,” the filing reads. “But neither that interest nor any of Harvard’s other generalized arguments warrant adoption of Harvard’s proposal to file all summary judgment materials under seal.”
“In fact, Harvard’s proposal contravenes the governing law and should be rejected for that reason as well,” the filing reads.
The Justice Department argued immediate public access is needed to allow outside parties to effectively participate in the case by filing amicus briefs.
“The United States and any amici can identify, understand, and contribute to the legal arguments and factual support that the parties present to the Court only if they can access the summary judgment briefs and materials,” the filing reads.
The department further asserts a “paramount interest” of the public in the case, noting that “the public funds Harvard at a cost of millions of dollars each year.” The University reported it received $618 million in federal funding in fiscal year 2017.
Harvard and Students for Fair Admissions previously battled over the privacy of the College’s admissions data in clashing briefs both organizations filed last week. Harvard asked for sensitive documents to be “filed provisionally under seal.” Students for Fair Admissions, however, requested that the documents be filed publicly.
The Justice Department’s filing took particular issue with arguments the University previously advanced in favor of keeping the admissions data under seal.
“Harvard offers no justification for this approach other than generalized assertions regarding student privacy and a purportedly proprietary admissions process,” the filing reads.
The Students for Fair Admissions lawsuit alleges Harvard discriminates against Asian-Americans in its admissions process. Roughly three years after that suit began—and under a new presidential administration—the Department of Justice launched an investigation into Harvard’s admissions practices to explore that same claim.
Under the Obama administration, the Justice Department and the Department of Education decided to take no action on a similar complaint about Harvard’s admissions filed May 2015.
As part of the Justice Department’s ongoing probe, Harvard offered to provide redacted student records to the department after the body threatened to sue for the documents. The Justice Department said in December it was “reviewing” the University’s offer. That review appears to be over—and the department has concluded the offered material is not sufficient.
Harvard spokesperson Rachael Dane wrote in an emailed statement Friday that the College will seek to protect applicants' privacy going forward.
"Harvard College is responsible for protecting the confidential and highly sensitive personal information that prospective students—none of whom asked to be involved in this dispute—entrust to us every year in their applications," she wrote. "We are committed to safeguarding their privacy while also ensuring that the public has the access that it is entitled to under the law."
Dane also pointed to a previous statement she issued last week asserting Harvard does not discriminate against "applicants from any group" in its admissions process; something Harvard has repeatedly and publicly insisted across the past few months. Dane wrote the College will continue to "vigorously defend" the right of Harvard and other universities to seek the "educational benefits" that stem from "a class that is diverse on multiple dimensions."
Seth P. Waxman ’73, a partner at the law firm representing Harvard, previously wrote a letter to the Justice Department in December noting the University does not believe the department should have access to applicants' personal information.
“Harvard is hard-pressed to identify a reason why the Department would need, for example, the names, personally identifying information, and other highly sensitive personal information of its applicants and students,” Waxman wrote.
Justice Department spokesperson Devin M. O’Malley declined to comment on the filing Saturday.
The Justice Department is not the only outside party that has expressed interest in making Harvard’s admissions data public. At least four free press advocacy groups filed briefings requesting the public release of the data Friday.
The court has set a tentative timeline for the progression of the litigation, with Jan. 2, 2019, as a possible date for a trial, if the case is not decided by summary judgement—that is, without a trial.
Harvard and Students for Fair Admissions will meet on April 10 at the U.S. District Court in Boston to discuss the handling of confidential materials in the case and discuss a timeline for future proceedings in the trial.
—Staff writer Delano R. Franklin can be reached at delano.franklin@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @delanofranklin_
—Staff writer Samuel W. Zwickel can be reached at samuel.zwickel@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @samuel_zwickel
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Each year, the end of the Harvard men’s hockey season is truly bittersweet. It provides an opportunity for the program to celebrate the individual and collective accomplishments of its players, while also forcing it to confront the reality that not everyone will return for next year’s run at a NCAA title.
With the conclusion of the 2017-2018 campaign, the Crimson says goodbye to seven seniors. Members of the Class of 2018 sported the emphatic “H” across their chests during a very transformative span of seasons for the program. Over the course of these four years, the outgoing group racked up 83 wins and reached the NCAA Tournament three times.
A 15-14-4 record may not suggest a glorious swan song for the seniors, but the season was historic in its own way. The program’s first-ever trio of captains guided Harvard through a grueling schedule featuring formidable road opponents and dramatic, back-and-forth tilts.
Of the seven players set to walk the stage in May, three will hang up the skates for now to pursue corporate professional careers. One is still deciding between professional hockey and the business lifestyle, and three are already navigating full-time professional schedules in the American Hockey League, the minor-league affiliate of the National Hockey League.
Here’s a glimpse at what each member of the class of 2018 is doing in his life beyond Harvard hockey:
MERRICK MADSEN
The Crimson’s backbone between the pipes and tri-captain this season, Merrick Madsen inked a professional contract with the NHL’s Arizona Coyotes organization mere days after Harvard’s season ended at the hands of Clarkson.
The goaltender was originally drafted by the Philadelphia Flyers before the team traded his rights to Arizona last summer. Madsen is currently honing his game with the Coyotes’ AHL affiliate, the Tucson Roadrunners, and will embark on his first full professional season in October.
“It’s surreal, honestly,” said Madsen in late-March, waiting at the airport for his flight to Phoenix just hours after the contract announcement. “It feels like the culmination of everything, at least hockey-wise, that I’ve worked toward. It took so many people along the way, whether it’s family, teammates, friends, teachers.”

Madsen’s decorated career for the Crimson includes program records for consecutive victories (16) and wins in a single season (28), both achieved during his junior campaign when the team reached its first Frozen Four in 23 years. And the Acton, Calif., native was no small part in Harvard’s deep playoff run, putting forth a stellar body of work (28-6-2, 2.11 GAA, .923 SV%) as a third-year.
As a senior, Madsen faced pressure from junior backup Michael Lackey—the likely starter for next year’s squad—but still finished the season in the nation’s top 20 for goals against average and save percentage. The 6’5” Statistics major will graduate as the third-winningest goaltender in program history with 56 victories.
JAKE HORTON
Jake Horton, a perennial influence in the locker room, donned the coveted “C” alongside Madsen and fellow senior Eddie Ellis this season. Throughout his time with the Crimson, Horton embodied the ideals of grit and perseverance, never missing a game in his collegiate career. It’s no surprise that the Oakdale, Minn., native walks away from the Bright-Landry Hockey Center as the program’s all-time leader in games played (140).
Leading up to his final season at Harvard and hoping to once again reach the Frozen Four, Horton quit his summer internship, adopted a rigorous training regimen, and gave hockey an even larger chunk of his attention. Overall, the centerman’s positive relationship with the game propelled him to look to the pros after the Crimson’s season ended.
“Winning a lot in hockey does something for you,” Horton noted. “Being around last year made me realize how much I loved the game still…. That goes hand-in-hand with me wanting to play after [college], knowing that I wanted to take a stab at pro hockey.”
Less than a week after Madsen’s pro signing, Horton announced that he had inked a deal with the Manchester Monarchs of the ECHL, another affiliate of the NHL. After debuting with the Monarchs, the former Harvard tri-captain was called up to the AHL’s Springfield Thunderbirds on a professional tryout basis. Horton has played five games with the Thunderbirds to date.
WILEY SHERMAN
Of the seven outgoing seniors, lockdown defenseman Wiley Sherman is the third and final player to have already announced his professional aspirations. A day after Madsen boarded a flight to Arizona, Sherman inked a deal with the AHL’s Providence Bruins and has since debuted for them.
Like his fellow pro-bound classmates, Sherman intends to complete his academic obligations while kicking off his career in the AHL.
Throughout Sherman’s time at Harvard, the 6’7” blue-liner’s willingness to play an oft-overlooked defensive style helped protect Madsen’s cage and set an example of discipline and commitment to the team’s systems. Sherman’s career plus-43 rating is evidence of his responsible play on the ice.

The Greenwich, Conn., native has also played the role of mentor over the last two seasons. In the majority of the Crimson’s contests since late-2016, Sherman has skated alongside now-sophomore John Marino to comprise the team’s shut-down defensive pairing. With Marino entering his junior year and Sherman on his way out, the squad will look to Marino even more for both leadership and on-ice performance.
“John and I were usually matched with their top line,” Sherman said. “Our one job was to shut them down [and] prevent them from scoring. That’s a role that…I’ve been trying to work on and fill in the past four years.”
EDDIE ELLIS
Power forward Eddie Ellis rounded out the historic trio of captains that guided Harvard this season. While Ellis was not much of a scorer for the Crimson (94 career GP, 4–5—9), the Phillips Academy product’s career—one which prioritized the team—is most aptly summarized by one of his fondest memories from his experience with the program.
“When we won the ECAC Tournament my freshman year,” Ellis began, “I separated my shoulder and I had to get undressed for the third period. But the guys ended up winning it, so I remember going onto the ice with my arm in a sling, and my roommate and teammate Seb Lloyd had separated his shoulder in the previous game. And I just remember using our single arms together to hold up the trophy…. [That] sort of summed up the sacrifice that goes into those tournaments at the end of the year.”
In spite of cherished stories like this one, Ellis is putting his hockey life on hold as he pursues a consulting opportunity in Boston. Luckily, the close proximity of his future workplace to the Bright means Ellis can frequent the team’s home games next season and beyond.
Because the Burlington, Mass., native lives with Madsen and Sherman, he has been able to stay in touch with them as they navigate their professional lives.
SEB LLOYD
Winger Seb Lloyd is the only member of the class of 2018 who is still on the fence about his future. With multiple job offers in hand, the only Canadian in the outgoing group is still flirting with the possibility of playing professionally in Europe—plenty of Harvard alumni, most recently defenseman Clay Anderson ’17 and forward Dev Tringale ’17, have chosen this option.
Lloyd plans to decide on his immediate future within the next month or so.
“I’ve talked to all the guys that played here at Harvard who have gone that route,” Lloyd said. “I’ve picked their brains about it and asked how their experience was. I look at it as: I do have my whole life to work, and you only get one chance to go and get some life experience and go play professionally.”
Lloyd, who missed time in multiple seasons due to injury including the shoulder separation that Ellis remembers so fondly, dressed for 98 bouts during his college career and logged 34 points in the process (15–19—34).
His final collegiate goal came in dramatic fashion: a one-timer from in-close knocked off then-No. 19 Boston College in the Beanpot consolation game.
THOMAS AIKEN
Defenseman Thomas Aiken has a slightly different perspective after four years with the Harvard hockey program. The Whitefish Bay, Wis., native initially walked onto the team and skated in just 13 games over his four seasons, failing to log a point.

Nevertheless, Aiken impacted the team with his attitude, work ethic, and academic prowess—the undersized blue-liner has received ECAC All-Academic honors in each of the last three seasons (award given after spring semester ends).
As such, Aiken will venture away from the ice in pursuit of a professional future. Like some of his teammates, the senior will also head into the consulting industry, starting at Bain & Company in August.
“[It will] probably be a lot of hard work, but it should be pretty fun,” Aiken said. “Excited to be staying close enough to the Bright to come catch a few games next year.”
RYAN BEGOON
Ryan Begoon will remember his Harvard hockey career much in the way that Aiken will. The rearguard played in just a single game during his time with the Crimson, in which he notched his first and only NCAA point by assisting a Tyler Moy ’17 goal.
“For four years, there were ups and downs,” Begoon reflected. “The first year or two, [playing time] was definitely something that was very much on my radar—a goal to strive towards. It’s not that it wasn’t the last two years…but I did understand that I could be as impactful [but] in a different way.”
While some players focused primarily on their influence on the ice, Begoon made his mark in the weight room, around the rink, and in the classroom, too. Begoon and Aiken both played the role of unsung hero, in a sense, over their four seasons with the Harvard program.
Also like Aiken, Begoon will look to the corporate world for the future. The Economics major will return to the Blackstone Group after a successful summer internship last year and join the Strategic Partners team.
Regardless of what each senior ultimately does as a professional, the class of 2018 will surely carry with it into the “real world” the hard-working, team-oriented mentality that defined its Harvard career. And even though the seven fourth-years will never wear a Crimson jersey again, the class’s impact will be felt for years to come in the Harvard hockey program.
—Staff writer Spencer R. Morris can be reached at spencer.morris@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @SMorrisTHC.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
