News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Five years ago on May 14, Vampire Weekend released “Modern Vampires of the City.” It was their third album—and they finally didn’t sound like they were doing a bit.
Yes, their self-titled debut (2008) and “Contra” (2010) featured witty and sometimes sincere lyrics on their instantly-lovable tracks like “Oxford Comma,” “Campus,” and “Holiday.” But their lyrics have never been the problem. As if desperate to prove to their appropriation-wary critics that they didn’t need to borrow from Afropop, they changed styles for a consciously hyper-eclectic West-Coast-indie approach on their second album. Although their forays into ska, synthpop, speed-rap, and rave met critical and commercial success, they also gave the impression that Vampire Weekend was a band too po-mo for their own good—that they only played the actual music ironically, that it was a part of the V.W. experience secondary to the hyper-allusive lyrics and Vineyard Vines aesthetic. In a problem opposite to those of almost any other band, Vampire Weekend were a philosophical purpose in search of a musical style.
“Modern Vampires of the City” saw them finally secure themselves in the studio. They applied a digital-tinted baroque-indie-pop sound, complete with pitch-modulated vocals and looped basslines, and moods ranging from the thrilling mania of “Diane Young” to the hushed vulnerability of “Hannah Hunt.” Whereas the music on “Vampire Weekend” and “Contra” is almost obsessively in dialogue with other genres, showing off their cleverness and musical literacy, the production on “Modern Vampires”—even more impressively—instead engages directly with the album’s lyrics. As a result, both sound and substance are nostalgic but forward-looking, alternately panicked and melancholic, and (except on the dirgelike penultimate track “Hudson”) precise and economical.
It lacks the irrepressible joy of their debut or the musical adventurousness of their sophomore attempt, but “Modern Vampires” compensates with greater thematic ambition and coherence. Ezra Koenig, the band’s lyricist and frontman, leaves behind the witty reflections on class and campus life and flurries of historical references—seemingly bidding them goodbye in the sparse, devastatingly wistful opener, “Obvious Bicycle”—in favor of a long existential-atheist scream, occasionally interrupted by homages to their smart-pop influences (“Step”) and gorgeous cross-country romances (“Hannah Hunt”).
Koenig’s literal soul-searching is (fortunately) about as far from Richard Dawkins-style dismissiveness as the Gospel of Luke. Koenig, who grew up in a non-religious Jewish family, seems to crave a religious awakening throughout the album. “Got a little soul / The world is a cold, cold place to be / Want a little warmth / But who’s gonna save a little warmth for me?” he asks on “Unbelievers,” the album’s second song and biggest hit (by Spotify streams). That line introduces the album’s theme of the dual frustrations of atheism: Without either an order-giving, afterlife-promising God or the extended family of religious community, the world indeed feels cold and overwhelming.
Koenig expands on the fear of mortality on the pun-titled adrenaline rush of “Diane Young” and the pleading “Don’t Lie,” simply begs for divine acknowledgement in “Everlasting Arms.” He returns to the social dimension of religion on “Finger Back” with a striking vignette about “this Orthodox girl [who] fell in love with the guy at the falafel shop”: “And why not? / Should she have averted her eyes and just stared at the laminated poster of the Dome of the Rock?” As the album nears its end, he focuses his questions on the Jewish theology of his upbringing with the brilliant “Worship You,” which thoughtfully satirizes dogma and national myth, and “Ya Hey,” perhaps the most musically interesting track, which laments the distance of the God of the Old Testament and modernity’s (consequent?) secularization. Those seven songs add up to what might be the most compassionate, nuanced, and honest discussion of religion ever put to tape by an “unbeliever.”
Like “Obvious Bicycle,” the album’s finale, “Young Lion,” also announces a turning of the page. The very short track comprises a faux-classical piano recital bookending a simple phrase repeated four times: “You take your time, young lion.” That lyric, apparently taken from Koenig’s real-life encounter with a New York stranger, works on several levels. Within the album, it gives a much-needed reply to the quarter-life-crisis angst that dominates the previous 41 minutes. Within the band, it lets their multi-instrumentalist, composer, and producer Rostam Batmanglij say goodbye, as he takes lead vocals for the first and last time before embarking on a promising solo career. And for the audience, it’s an admonishment to be patient: Five years have now passed since “Modern Vampires of the City,” and we still await whatever the fully mature—if Rostam-less—Vampire Weekend will give us next.
—Staff writer Trevor J. Levin can be reached at trevor.levin@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Attendees of the  April 1992 Harvard Law Review banquet received a provocative pamphlet.
The document featured a parody entitled “He-Manifesto of Post-Mortem Legal Feminism,” which mocked the late Northeastern Law Professor Mary Joe Frug, who just one year prior was brutally murdered on Brattle St. The pamphlet characterized her as a “humorless, sex-starved mediocrity,” and dubbed her the “Rigor-Mortis Professor of Law,” according to The New York Times’ coverage of the event.
“It had one part of the pamphlet attack her. I mean, there were things that were just outrageous and misogynist,” said John C. Bonifaz, a 1992 Law School graduate. “And it was created by Harvard Law students, students on the Harvard Law Review, and distributed at the dinner, and that caused a significant uproar on the campus.”
The incident at the banquet was just one event adding to growing campus disapproval of the law school and the gender composition of its faculty. Students had sued the university in the fall of 1990, alleging that the Law School participated in discriminatory hiring practices.
A few years later, in 1993, Massachusetts Senator Elizabeth A. Warren—then a visiting law professor from the University of Pennsylvania—would be up for tenure at a school that had just five female tenured faculty members out of more than 50 total faculty. Her review proved a flashpoint in the ongoing discussion about gender at the Law School.
Harvard Law School in the early '90s was rife with frustration about the lack of diversity at the school. Statistics about the makeup of the faculty propelled some students to boycott classes and storm the office of then-Law School Dean Robert C. Clark.
Inger D. Tudor ’87, a law student at the time, said Clark was unreceptive to the activists’ demands.
“He was very inflexible and he operated from a place of ‘I am right. I have right behind me,’” she said.
Clark could not be reached for comment last week. But administrators made the claim at the time that the lack of diversity among faculty members was due to a lack of diversity in the applicant pool.
“I mean, one of the points we were making was that this school had been graduating diverse student bodies,” Bonifaz said. “Since the 1970s, at least, [they] have been graduating many women graduates, many African American graduates, many Latina graduates, and yet somehow the school was saying it couldn't find qualified people to teach, even among its alumni.”
“And when we looked at places like Georgetown Law and elsewhere where they had much more diverse faculties, we did not see that as a credible response,” he added.
Tudor also said she felt some law professors at the time did not make much of a conscious effort to interact with and learn from those of different backgrounds.
“What you had were people who, if they didn't necessarily in their daily life ... have to interact with people of color or women, they did not go out of their way to do that,” she said. “I don't necessarily think there was a conscious intent to not do it, but because it was something they didn't have to do, there was no conscious intent to try and broaden their horizon.”
Some faculty, though, had also begun to criticize a lack of diversity at the Law School. Twenty of the 59 tenured Law School professors at the time signed two letters arguing the school had created a “hostile environment” by neglecting to hire a more diverse faculty.
Bonifaz said these ongoing discussions and tensions over diversity at the Law School were ever-present in the minds of students as Warren came up for tenure.
Warren, a visiting professor from the University of Pennsylvania, taught courses on bankruptcy and commercial law and was “very popular with students,” according to a 1995 article published in The Crimson.
“She was very lively, engaged the class to a great extent,” said William Anspach, a former student of Warren’s and a 1993 graduate of the Law School.
Some Law School students so adored Warren—and were so passionate about increasing faculty diversity at the school—that they wound up holding two separate vigils to support Warren's possible tenure.
The first vigil came in Dec. 1992, when students gathered silently outside Pound Hall to advocate for the tenuring of one of two female visiting professors at the time—Warren and another woman who then taught at Yale. The students knew one of the women was up for a tenure vote, but they were not certain which one.
Despite the uncertainty, around 60 students attended, some holding fluorescent-colored posters bearing slogans including “Diversity Now” and “Good Enough for the Cabinet but not for HLS,” according to a 1992 Crimson article. Seven different student groups, including the Coalition for Civil Rights, the Asian-American Law Association and the Women's Law Association, helped organize the vigil.
Warren, however, was not the subject of the Dec. 1992 vote; she instead came up for a tenure vote roughly two months later in Feb. 1993. Students again organized a vigil outside Pound Hall and eagerly awaited the result.
Law Professor Laurence H. Tribe wrote in an email that most of the faculty participating in the 1993 vote supported Warren’s bid for tenure.
“The only reason there was any controversy at all was that one elderly and well-established bankruptcy scholar at the law school was planning to retire before long and didn’t see her filling his shoes, so he prevented her from winning unanimous acclaim, although of course she did win the supermajority required for tenure,” Tribe wrote.
“The only ‘diversity’ issue I recall coming up was that it would be great to add a brilliant, energetic woman to a faculty that was so uniformly male at the time,” he added.
Warren was ultimately granted tenure by the close of that night in Feb. 1993. But she decided not to take up the position until 1995, citing “family reasons.”
In the three years since the night of the vigil, the number of tenured female faculty members at the Law School had more than doubled.
By late 1996, out of the 71 total law professors, 11 were women, according to a Crimson article. In addition, five were black, one was Native American, and one was Hispanic.
“I will note that my recollection is that within five years of bringing the lawsuit that the law
school had doubled the number of women on the faculty and hired the first woman of color. So you can't prove causality, you know, if these efforts make a difference or not,” said Jeff M. Lubell ’90, a law student at the time. “I was encouraged at that time that progress had been made.”
In the years since, the Law School has taken further steps to promote diversity.
The registrar’s office now tries to assign students to at least one class taught by a female faculty member during their first year, and the number of female faculty had increased to 28 tenured and tenure-track female professors, according to the 2018 Law School faculty directory.
“The facts will speak for themselves about the extent to which the faculty has become more diverse,” Lubell said.
Clarification: June 5, 2018
A previous version of this article appeared to conflate two separate vigils students held to support what they thought were Senator Elizabeth Warren's bids for tenure in late 1992 and early 1993. The article has been updated to clarify that, though students held vigils in both Dec. 1992 and Feb. 1993 (and both times believed Warren might be up for tenure), Warren only came up for a tenure vote in 1993. 
Correction: June 1, 2018
A previous version of this article incorrectly indicated Senator Elizabeth Warren was offered tenure in 1992. In fact, she was offered tenure in Feb. 1993.
Correction: May 25, 2018
A previous version of this article incorrectly attributed information regarding a Dec. 1992 vigil to a 1993 Crimson article. That information came from a 1992 Crimson article.
—Staff writer Idil Tuysuzoglu can be reached at idil.tuysuzoglu@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @IdilTuysuzoglu.
On Nov. 1, 1992, a Clinton-Gore campaign poster in patriotic red, white, and blue stood tall just outside of Thayer Hall in Harvard Yard.
Next to it, a group of students had placed a sign reading, “Don’t Vote For...”
The battle played out throughout the freshman dorms. In neighboring Canaday A, one campaign poster was surrounded by several signs reading “Not!” in other windows.
"My roommate put up a Bush-Quayle sign and the rest of us, who are more liberal, decided to put up the ‘Not!’ sign. We finally convinced the people above us and our proctor downstairs to put up ‘Not!’ signs also," Tai U. Truong '96, a Clinton supporter, told The Crimson in November of 1992.
This sign war swept Harvard’s campus in the days and weeks leading up to the presidential election of 1992, a visual tribute to students’ deep yet spirited investment in the campaign season. For many students, it was the first time in memory that a Democrat had a real shot at the White House.
“I was three or four years old the last time a Democrat had been in office so it was, for a lot of us, the first time that we had hope that somebody that we believed in, you know, would become president,” Manuel S. Varela ‘94, who was president of the Harvard College Democrats at the time, recalled.
Varela said he closely followed the campaign with his peers during his time at the College.
“Not very many people had TV’s back then, so, you know, everybody would gather in a friend’s room who happened to have a TV and watch the debates,” he said. “It was an interesting election.”
Members of the Class of 1993 attended Harvard as major geopolitical shifts played out abroad. Their college years saw the end of the Cold War, a recession following the economic expansion of the ’80s, and the Gulf War.
Despite lighthearted sign battles, Harry J. Wilson ’93, who was president of the Harvard Republican Club at the time, recalled the Gulf War as one of the few points of real political tension on campus.
“While the debate around the Gulf War was quite charged, it was relatively brief, with much less campus controversy during much of the rest of our time at Harvard. The Republican Club surged in membership, at one point having over 500 members,” he wrote in an email.
He noted that these tensions manifested themselves in peaceful forms of protest.
“There were active but totally peaceful anti-war AND pro-troops organizations and rallies,” he wrote.
Varela said the Gulf War motivated students to participate in the 1992 campaign season.
“I think that there was a lot of political feeling coming out of that even though the war ended really quickly and ended up being obviously not anything like Vietnam,” he said. “I think a lot of people were politically motivated, and so a lot of people got involved in the presidential election, particularly in the primaries.”
Many students volunteered to work for campaigns in neighboring New Hampshire, a more competitive state than deep-blue Massachusetts.
“There were a lot of people that got involved volunteering in New Hampshire,” Varela said. “You know, that was the most obvious place where candidates needed help so a lot of people would go up to New Hampshire from campus and go door-to-door.”
In the days leading up to the election, liberals and conservatives voiced their opinions on campus.
“I think what it was, was that the Republicans or conservatives tended to be more vocal, which I don’t think is unusual when you’re the minority,” Varela said. “And there were a couple of social issues that I think conservatives rallied around at the time on campus.”
Fortunately, political divides didn’t seem to get in the way of personal relationships.
“We all got along and we actually would sort of laugh about our disagreements,” Varela said.
Livia M. Santiago-Rosado '95, who fought a battle of signs with her roommate leading up to the election, told The Crimson in 1992 that though their political differences didn’t create tension, they didn’t prompt much discussion, either.
"We don't really talk politics much. There's no point in it—we're not going to change each other's mind anyway,” she said at the time.
But when the results came in, some conservative students were left licking their wounds.
"We're dying in here. I feel like I'm bleeding," Mark J. Sneider '93 told The Crimson while hosting a “Bush commiseration party” in his room in Eliot just moments after his candidate’s defeat.
"Denial. Anger. Betrayal. Depression. Acceptance. I plan to go through all five tonight," Fred A. DeCaro III '93, then secretary of the Republican Club, said at the time.
Wilson, however, who penned Crimson op-eds throughout the campaign, said Bush’s candidacy failed to generate enthusiasm among several campus Republicans.
“President Bush enjoyed lukewarm support among many campus Republicans, in part because of his reversal on his ‘no new taxes’ pledge and a generally lackluster campaign,” Wilson wrote. “Clinton's personal failings ensured that very few of these disenchanted Republicans came his way.”
Former Dean of the Kennedy School Joseph S. Nye was somewhat surprised at Clinton’s election. “Bush was an incumbent and many people thought that Clinton was running in ’92 to prepare for ’96,” he said.
The year was an unusual one for presidential politics. Ross Perot, an independent candidate and business magnate, garnered almost 20 million votes, which was close to one-fifth of the electorate.
Nevertheless, many on campus were overjoyed to be celebrating the election of the first Democratic president since Jimmy Carter in 1977.  That evening, around 40 Clinton supporters toasted to the Democrats’ victory in Harvard Square favorite Charlie’s Kitchen.
“I think everyone was watching the inauguration and was really excited about what was coming,” Varela said.
If Harvard students and faculty had been the only ones to vote for the 42nd president, Bill Clinton likely would have trumped Bush and Perot with ease.
“In 1992 you would’ve had—it was still predominantly Democrat, but you would’ve had probably a quarter of the faculty and students who would identify themselves as Republicans or conservatives,” said Kennedy School professor and former Assistant Secretary of Defense Graham T. Allison.
Consistent with the leftward leanings of Harvard’s faculty, The Crimson published an article on Nov. 4 1992 with the headline “Clinton Win Pleases Faculty.” Faculty sentiments have hardly changed since: In a 2018 poll of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences, roughly 83 percent of professors described themselves as “very liberal” or “liberal.”
With a Democrat finally in the White House, several professors traded Cambridge for Washington the next year.
Clinton started tapping Harvard professors to join him in Washington from day one.
“The day of the inauguration, [Clinton] told me to come see him and he said, ‘Graham, you’ve been writing about nuclear weapons in the former Soviet Union and what’s going to happen to them, so I’m going to appoint you to be assistant secretary of defense, and you’re going be responsible for all the weapons left outside of Russia,’” Allison said.
Allison would serve as Clinton’s Assistant Secretary of Defense from Aug. 1993 through March 1994. And though Allison intended to return to Harvard eventually, he said he was in no rush.
“If you’re in something like the Kennedy School, and you care about issues passionately, and you think you understand the issues, and you think you have some ideas what to do about them, then the opportunity to go and be part of the doing of it is like a pig in manure,” he said.
Other Harvard professors that left to work in the Clinton Administration included Kennedy School Professor Mary Jo Bane, who was appointed to a high-ranking position in the Department of Health and Human Services, and Nye, who would serve as an Assistant Secretary of Defense. Clinton also tapped Kennedy School lecturer Robert B. Reich to be his Secretary of Labor.
Bane said Clinton’s team actively searched for scholars of public policy, especially at institutions like Harvard.
“Because of my research and writing I was known to Bill Clinton and Donna Shalala as ‘expert’ on welfare reform and social services administration,” Bane wrote in an email. “My position at Harvard had allowed me to pursue that work.  And the title of Harvard Professor certainly didn’t hurt.”
Allison noted, however, that working in government was, at times, more challenging than theorizing about it.
“It’s so much easier to think of something by writing it down on a piece of paper than causing it to happen,” he said.
Though roughly a dozen professors departed Cambridge for Washington in the spring of 1993, students at the College weren’t heavily affected by the sudden departure of faculty.
“I wouldn’t be able to name anyone, at least any of my professors, that had left,” Varela said.
Clinton would maintain close links to Harvard throughout both of his terms, though his most famous nomination from Harvard, former University President Lawrence H. Summers, would not be tapped to be Secretary of the Treasury until 1999.
— Staff writer Yasmin Luthra can be reached at yasmin.luthra@thecrimson.com.
When Henry Louis “Skip” Gates Jr. arrived to serve as the new chair of what was then called the Afro-American studies department in 1991, he took on the task of rebuilding the department from one of just a single tenured faculty member and one assistant professor into a preeminent program in African and African American studies.
Catherine Clinton ’73, who concentrated in African-American studies and Sociology while at Radcliffe, was the sole assistant professor within the African American Studies prior to Gates’s arrival.
She said that during her time as a faculty member, the department faced rocky beginnings.
“There were so few of us teaching and we were gathering people from many different departments, but the curriculum of the core curriculum in African American studies needed a revision,” she said. “Gates recognized this and therefore he very quickly built a circle of scholars and teachers who established a vision that was shared.”
Over the course of the nineties, Harvard’s Afro-American Studies department put itself on the map primarily by increasing faculty recruitment.
One such recruit was Phillip Brian Harper, former Harvard Assistant Professor of English and Afro-American Studies from 1991 to 1995. Harper arrived during this critical period of revitalizing the department.
“The primary thing that occurred while I was there was that there was a very conscious infusion of energy into the department along with the arrival of Skip Gates,” Harper said. “There was an infusion of actual material resources on the part of the University, and both of those facts really contributed to the excitement and the atmosphere while I was there.”
J. Lorand Matory ’82, also began teaching at Harvard in 1991 as a jointly-appointed Professor of Anthropology and African and African American Studies.
“[Harvard] became the new capital of African and African American studies and set the standard for the sort of scholarship that would define the field from the ’90s onward,” Matory said. “One could hear journalists talking about the Dream Team at Harvard.”
This “dream team,” which included Matory, Harper, Cornel West, and other newly recruited faculty members, led to an increase in concentrators in the field. A Crimson article in May 1993 reported that the number of concentrators nearly doubled in two years to a total of 49.
With the proposal of a graduate program in the African and African American Studies in the 1996-1997 academic year,  Afro-American studies became an even more established component of Harvard that could no longer be overlooked. After receiving unanimous faculty approval on Feb. 15, 2000, the graduate program was instituted at Harvard, and enrolled its first six students by the fall of 2001.
The revitalization of the department has centered around the promotion of African and African American Studies as an interdisciplinary field. Harper said this focus led to a commitment to the idea that the majority of faculty members would be jointly appointed to another department outside of AAAS, which served as “a way of enhancing and emphasizing the interdisciplinary character of the field.”
“One of the things that was most notable about Professor Gates’s leadership in my view was that he always had a very clear sense that Black Studies was, properly speaking, a profoundly interdisciplinary and multidisciplinary undertaking,” Harper said. “He wanted to make sure that we had a set of scholars on the faculty from a wide range of disciplinary backgrounds.”
This interdisciplinary viewpoint can still be observed in the department today, with nearly all faculty members in the AAAS concentration holding joint appointments.
However, this mission of multi-disciplines was not well received by all.
Molefi Kete Asante, who chairs the Temple University Department of African American Studies, said when Harvard reinvigorated its African and African American studies department, scholars in Africology, who aim to question the assumptions made by a societal Eurocentric narrative, hoped that Harvard would “contribute to the discipline.”
“I don’t think you can make the case for an African American studies department if it’s not Afrocentric and it’s not Afrological,” Asante said. “What Harvard did instead was hire outstanding individual scholars, which are very great and they’re good scholars, but they have little impact on the field of Africology.”
But to Harper, Afrocentrism can risk the oversimplification of black culture.
“I think most fundamentally, the Afrocentric approach to black studies is one that very consciously puts the experience of black people at the center of what it is doing and there's nothing wrong with that,” said Harper. “So for instance, if I am teaching, as I often did, the history of African American literature, there isn’t any way from my perspective of teaching the history of African American literature without understanding how it is informed by European and Euro-American literatures.”
Students in the ’90s did have a desire for a more Afrocentric approach to the curriculum, according to Harper, and this call for increased Afrocentrism led to a greater dialogue on campus.
“Because the students were really demanding such an approach ... in a lot of ways the students demands in that regard really were shaping what we were doing even if what we were doing didn’t match exactly what they were asking for,” he said.
He added, “My sense is that the vision that Skip Gates had, which was for an approach to the field that was very wide-ranging and very expansive and very interdisciplinary, really has come to fruition.”
During the 2003-2004 school year, the department reevaluated its undergraduate curriculum, and decided to drop the Afro-American Studies Department title in favor of the newly coined Department of African and African American Studies.
“The intent behind the change of the title was to create an omnibus geographical coverage rather than one limited to the United States,” said Matory.
As a result of the change, the department allowed concentrators to choose distinct paths of study in the 2004-2005 academic year, offering both a distinct African Studies track as well as an African American Studies track for its students. With the appointment of  John M. Mugane as director of the African Language Program during the 2004-2005 academic year, the new African Studies offerings bolstered.
“We house the most extensive and successful African Language program, offering tutorials in more than 25 languages each year,” Lawrence Bobo wrote in an emailed statement.
Since the installment of the new track, students have had increased flexibility regarding what topics they will study in the concentration.
Junius O. Williams ’18, an AAAS concentrator on the African Studies track said the department is shifting towards a more extensive course listing.
“As interests in things like business and entrepreneurship, sciences and policy in Africa increased, we’re starting to see those courses being reflected in the course booklet,” Williams said.
During the 2006-2007 academic  year, Evelyn B. Higginbotham, a professor of history and African American studies, prompted discussion in the department about the incorporation of the Social Engagement Initiative into curriculum, which resulted in the creation of the first AAAS social engagement senior theses in 2010.
The social engagement thesis allows students to implement a social intervention to aid people in Africa or within the African diaspora by working on a year-long project and culminating in an academic essay.
Current concentrators also said they appreciated the practical nature of the social engagement thesis.
Mfundo T. Radebe ’20, an AAAS concentrator on the African Studies track is currently pursuing a social engagement thesis, and said the flexibility, as well as the academic and social engagement of the department, has led him to stay engaged in the concentration.
“I think one of the things that has consistently kept drawing me back to AAAS  is that social engagement thesis, the fact that it even allows your courses to be shaped around that,” Radebe said.
Despite the new revisions to the program, some students said they still would like to see an even wider offering of courses.
Ted G. Waechter ’18, an AAAS concentrator on the African Studies track and a former Crimson editorial writer, said that there is a lack of introductory level courses within the department.
“I think the department absolutely needs more resources. Something that I’ve found is that concentrators often started in upper level classes, often graduate level classes,” Waechter said.
“We have been very responsive to changing social conditions and to the interests of students, though probably not as quickly as some student would have liked,” Bobo wrote. “Thus, as just two examples, we have courses wrestling with mass incarceration, as well as with matters of sexual and gender identity, and critical race theories.”
Ultimately, though, several students said they have had a positive experience within the department.
“The department has been just one of the best choices I’ve made at Harvard. I have no regrets,” Waechter said. “It made me a much deeper thinker, it gave me a sense of ethics, it gave me a sense of purpose and it really was everything I wanted in a liberal arts curriculum.”
According to Bobo, the current AAAS chair, the department currently has 39 voting faculty members with departmental courses that reach approximately 1,500 Harvard students each year.
“In contrast to the early ’90s, at this time we have 75 concentrators,” Bobo wrote.
“The department... looks to me to be more diverse in terms of the number of disciplinary fields that it engages with, and it really seems to have fulfilled the objective in that regard that Skip Gates laid down when we first arrived at Harvard,” Harper said.
—Staff writer Ashley M. Cooper can be reached at ashley.cooper@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @ashleymcooper_
Gina M. Raimondo ’93 never shies away from opportunity.
She secured a Rhodes Scholarship, obtained a degree at Yale Law School, started her own venture capital firm, and currently serves as Governor of Rhode Island. Next week, Raimondo will lead the alumni procession at Harvard’s 367th Commencement as chief marshal.
Raimondo, a Democrat and the first female governor of the Ocean State, fondly remembers her time at Harvard. She says it was a formative period in her life—and she says she relishes the chance to return for Commencement.
Mukesh Prasad ’93, chair of his class’s 25th reunion, described his classmate in glowing terms.
“Governor Raimondo represents the very best of American leadership,” Prasad wrote in an emailed statement. “She exemplifies the best Harvard has to give to society.”
Raimondo, who is of Italian-American descent, grew up in Smithfield, Rhode Island. She says she was accepted to Harvard at a particularly difficult time for her family.
“The factory my dad worked at had closed and he’d lost his job, but my mom told me that if I wanted to go [to Harvard], they would do whatever it takes to make it work,” Raimondo wrote in an email. “Getting in—and realizing I could go—was a pivotal moment for me, and it was an opportunity that has shaped my life in so many ways since.”
A Quincy House resident at Harvard, Raimondo studied Economics and graduated magna cum laude. For her award-winning senior thesis, she examined the misuse of health facilities in Rhode Island.
Raimondo said her time at the College in large part defined her professional life.
“I will forever be grateful to Harvard for teaching me how to think critically, ask the right questions, and analyze the world in new and different ways,” Raimondo wrote in her candidacy statement for class marshal.
Jeffrey B. Liebman, professor of economics and director of the Government Performance Lab,  which provides pro bono assistance to city and state agencies across the United States, said he has worked closely with Raimondo.
“Governor Raimondo has both a deeply analytic mind—you can definitely tell that she was a top undergraduate Economics major at Harvard—but also the ability to take complex policy choices and just really understand how they will affect real people in Cranston and in Woonsocket,” Liebman said. “When you get that combination in a senior government leader, you get really good decision making.”
At Harvard, Raimondo took on demanding extracurriculars, joining organizations including The Crimson’s business board. She also participated in the Radcliffe Rugby Club.
“I played rugby at Harvard, which I like to joke was good training for a career in politics!” she wrote.
An academic powerhouse, Raimondo received the prestigious Rhodes Scholarship after graduating from the College. She then continued her schooling at Oxford University.
After obtaining a masters in sociology from Oxford, Raimondo enrolled in the J.D. program at Yale Law School. Raimondo wrote in an email that her strong belief in equality and social and criminal justice encouraged her to pursue a career in law.
“I was involved in a number of clinics—the housing clinic, the poverty clinic. I loved that kind of advocacy law,” she wrote. “It was so eye-opening for me, and I really believe that these experiences make me a better governor today.”
Raimondo then took her economics expertise to the business world, first working at Village Ventures before founding her own venture capital firm, Point Judith Capital. Point Judith has invested in companies like Nest and Expensify.
Later, though—as Rhode Island faced the closure of a number of libraries during the Great Recession—Raimondo found herself transitioning from the private sector to the public sector.
“My grandfather learned English at his local public library, and it was hearing about the closure of libraries around the state that inspired me to get involved with public service,” Raimondo wrote.
Raimondo became Rhode Island’s general treasurer in 2010—and swiftly stepped into the national spotlight.
A year after she took on the position, she embarked on a reform of the Rhode Island pension system for public employees in 2011. Raimondo’s reform drew national headlines.
“When I first became Treasurer, Rhode Island’s pension system was a catastrophe waiting to happen,” Raimondo wrote. “Unless we did something fast, it would take 20 percent of each taxpayer dollar to support pensions.”
Raimondo wrote she was “vehemently opposed” to increasing taxes to support the pension system.
“So we made some tough choices to raise retiree ages, tie cost-of-living adjustments to investment returns and the funding level of the pension system, and replace some guaranteed pension benefits with a 401(k)-style plan,” Raimondo wrote.
Using her role as treasurer as a springboard, Raimondo ran and was elected governor of Rhode Island in 2014. She now serves as the state’s first female governor.
The gubernatorial election was a close one. While Raimondo won her position as general treasurer with ease—she received more votes than any other state candidate on the ballot in the 2010 elections—she carried the 2014 gubernatorial election with just 40.7 percent of votes cast against two other candidates. She was the first Democrat elected to lead Rhode Island since 1995.
Raimond  has focused on improving educational opportunities for children living in Rhode Island. She cited one of her proudest moments as signing the into law the 2017 Rhode Island Promise Scholarship, which enables all of the state’s high school graduates to attend community college tuition-free.
“It’s a game-changer,” Raimondo wrote. “In the first year alone, we saw a 43% increase in the number of full-time, recent high school graduates and a 500% increase in students of color who are on track to graduate in two years.”
But not all of her time leading the Ocean State has been rosy. Rhode Island Republicans have criticized Raimondo for what they call her lack of transparency regarding an undisclosed fundraising deal with the Providence Democratic Committee.
This November, Raimondo faces re-election as governor. Morning Consult’s quarterly polls of America’s governors list her approval rating at 39 percent.
Raimondo wrote that, if elected to a second term, she will continue to work to improve Rhode Island’s education system and job training programs given she sees them as a “a top priority.”
“Right now, I’m laser-focused on getting the legislature to approve putting a $250 million school construction bond on the ballot in November,” Raimondo wrote. “Far too many public schools in Rhode Island can’t keep kids safe, warm and dry, let alone provide a 21st century learning environment.”
Both former classmates and collaborators pointed to what they call Raimondo’s can-do attitude. Moitri C. Savard ’93, a fellow economics concentrator, said Raimondo has always been “incredibly hardworking.”
“[Raimondo has] created a culture of urgency around fixing state agencies,” Liebman said. “When someone tells her it will take eight months to fix something, she asks why it can’t be done in three months.”
—Staff writer Annie C. Doris can be reached at annie.doris@thecrimson.com.
From 1958 to 1992, Tommy’s Lunch served greasy late-night food to generations of Harvard students.
The 49 Mt. Auburn Street institution was a favorite hangout spot for Crimson and Lampoon editors, residents of nearby Adams and Quincy house, and an assortment of Cantabrigians.
Students could stop by for cheesesteak sandwiches, raspberry lime rickeys, and french fries, all served until 3 a.m. Owner Thomas Stephanian, known for his boisterous nature and penchant for cigars, was a Harvard Square fixture for 34 years—right up until he was “just plain tuckered out” from running the restaurant.
The restaurant’s sudden closure in Nov. 1992 shocked loyal customers and fellow Square merchants. Few were expecting the restaurant to shutter its doors, much less with a simple CLOSED sign and no formal announcement.
The “Harvard Institution,” as The Crimson’s Editorial Board dubbed it, received a full obituary in the paper.
When Stephanian opened Tommy’s Lunch in 1958, the restaurant only had two tables. The business expanded into a neighboring laundromat in 1971.
At the height of its popularity, Tommy’s was decked out with red booths, a pinball machine, a jukebox, and the latest video games—at the time, Asteroids and Pac-Man. Students flocked to the late-night joint for study breaks and post-party antics. 
Peter G. Whang ’95, who lived across the street at Quincy house, said Tommy’s Lunch was a go-to place for him. “[Tommy’s] was obviously an institution,” Whang said, “the quintessential greasy spoon, a favorite hang, particularly late at night.”Ellen O. Carr ‘94 recalled that she had a standing date with her freshman roommate at 10:30 p.m. to grab a coffee at Tommy’s. Carr said the luncheonette attracted people from all over Harvard’s campus. “[It was] a melting pot of Harvard people, I met lots of people I wouldn’t have met otherwise,” Carr said. Karin B. Braverman ‘94, who lived in nearby Claverly Hall in Adams House, said the atmosphere was always friendly. “You could always just show up and find someone to talk to, even the staff,” she said.
Others recalled a particular kind of tough love between Stephanian and the students who patronized his business. A Crimson article about the restaurant’s closure fondly noted the “surly service with a scowl.”
Tommy’s staff were known for their lighthearted treatment of their customers. Raffi S. Bezjian, who started working at Tommy’s when he was 14 and stayed there for the next eight years, said the experience was thrilling.
“For me as a 14-year-old, it was very exciting to work at a place like Tommy’s Lunch… all these writers, musicians, some are huge today. Was very fun, even though it was chaotic, history was chaotic,” Bezjian said.
Bezjian noted that plenty of students who went on to become famous made the pilgrimage to Tommy’s, including Pink Martini frontman Thomas M. Lauderdale ’92.
Bezjian said Stephanian, who passed away in 2011, was “a character.”
“He was rough on the edges but he had a soft spot,” Bezjian said. “When students didn’t show up to work, Tommy was very mad. If he had to tell you something, he didn’t care about who was around.”
Bezjian recounted how Stephanian once called in repairmen to fix his video game machines. When Stephanian learned the machines were broken because they were too chock-full with money, he called the video game company and asked for more games.
“His mind wanders all over the place,” Bezjian said. “[He was] very savvy.”
Whang remembered Stephanian for his “gruff exterior.”
“He always had a quick retort every time he got some grief,” Whang said, adding he had “nothing but fond memories” of Stephanian.
Across its many years serving late night munchies, the restaurant also saw its fair share of tumult.
In May 1980, a group of white men threatened to beat up a gay Harvard student and his friends in the restaurant. A black Harvard student stood up for the students, and a fight broke out, with Tommy’s employees and an Adams House tutor coming to the students’ defense. The white men shouted racist epithets at the students, but the scene quieted down when Cambridge police arrived.
In Nov. 1992, shortly before the restaurant closed, Tommy’s was evacuated after someone phoned in a bomb threat late one night. At the time, Stephanian told The Crimson he had received “at least 40” similar calls in his time at the helm of the restaurant.
"I've been here 40 years—and if I had to worry about every little thing I've seen, guys running through here naked, guys threatening to shoot if I didn't open the door," Stephanian said at the time.
Stephanian stayed the course at 49 Mt. Auburn Street for 34 years, but after he closed up shop, the place changed owners—and names—frequently.
After the the building transferred hands to new owner Richard Vernon—and after a month-long delay—Tommy’s House of Pizza opened in Feb. 1993. The menu changed and so did the decor (though the pinball machine and the videogames stayed the same).
Vernon modernized the space with mirrored walls and chrome. Gone were the famous Raspberry lime rickeys. In came pizza. The greasy luncheonette got a bit cleaner.
Carr said she didn’t frequent 49 Mt. Auburn St. after it turned into Tommy’s Pizza.
“It was a different vibe,” she said.
Braverman, though, kept patronizing Tommy’s after the first change in ownership. She said the staff were still friendly. She recalled one time Tommy’s Pizza employees helped her remove a stuck ring by plunging her hand into the grease box.
A year later, the restaurant again changed hands. Michael T. McHale, a primary shareholder in the group that purchased the pizza restaurant, told The Crimson in 1994 he planned to bring changes to the menu.
"We're looking to give the Harvard students bigger portions, tastier food, wider variety, and, most of all, healthier food," he said at the time.
McHale brought in calzones and a signature sesame seed crust pizza. The restaurant finally ditched the crust in 2004—the sesame seeds were too challenging to clean up.
In 2001, when the restaurant yet again transferred to a new owner, the City of Cambridge withdrew the permit that allowed the business to stay open until 3 a.m.. Then-owner Mian Iftikhar told the Crimson that Tommy’s Pizza sales dropped 15 percent the year after the change.
In 2006, 49 Mt. Auburn St. finally lost the “Tommy’s” name. Tommy’s instead became the latest installment in the Unique Pizza and Subs franchise, with a revamped menu and decor.
The building was rechristened until 2008, this time to an upscale bistro called Trata. The new restaurant was not particularly popular among students.
In 2012, a pair of brothers, Lawrence and Brendan Hopkins, who also own nearby bar Daedalus, revamped the property into The Boathouse, a pub and grill.
Today, the video games and pinball are gone—instead, customers passing through see nautical decor, signaling flags, and oars.
—Staff writer Eli W. Burnes can be reached at eli.burnes@thecrimson.com.
The morning of April 20, 1993 seemed like a typical one for the Harvard University Mineralogical Museum.
At the start of the day, the museum staff couldn’t have imagined that more than $50,000 worth of precious gems would be missing from their cutting-edge collections. And they certainly couldn’t have imagined that the perpetrator would be one of their own.
Yet that morning, when the police asked museum workers to check whether or not precious gems were missing, they realized that more than 100 museum items had been stolen over the course of nine months, and that the theft had remained undetected for almost a year.
Perhaps most surprisingly, the culprit was an insider—James “Jim” A. Hogue, an Extension School student studying mineralogy.
Hogue’s Harvard robbery was not his first feat of deception. The robbery wasn’t even his first time deceiving the Ivy League. Before coming to Harvard’s red-brick university buildings, Hogue graced the Gothic architecture of Princeton University as an undergraduate in the class of 1992.
A ranch hand who had never enrolled in high school, Hogue lived on his own. His father had died in a car accident and his mother had recently died of leukemia in Switzerland. He presented himself to the Princeton admissions department as “Alexi Santana,” an autodidact who grew up in the desert.
Hogue proved to be an exceptional Princeton student, excelling in difficult courses and leading the track team. His improbable story impressed his peers, eventually earning him entrance into the Ivy Club, one of Princeton’s most exclusive eating clubs. His childhood was a construction of his imagination—but his grades, his running ability, and his Ivy Club membership were not.
Jesse Moss, who directed Con Man, a documentary about Hogue, said the impostor’s alias may not have been a totally false identity.
“His true self, his authentic self might have been more ‘Alexi Santana’ than ‘Jim Hogue’ at that point in his life. He had a found a full expression of himself at Princeton where he could be his most idealized self, ” Moss said. “He was a success. He was a big man on campus.”
Moss said Hogue was on track for a Rhodes Scholarship and other accolades that often accompany a Princeton education. But it was on the athletic track that Hogue ran into trouble: somebody from his past recognized him.
Before Hogue’s acceptance into the Ivy League, he had taken up another alias, “Jay Huntsman,” at Palo Alto High School. His fabricated identity was similar to the one he would claim at Princeton—a self-educated orphan from Nevada—but this time, he claimed to have lived on a commune, making him eligible to enroll in high school.
After winning the largest high school cross-country meet in the nation, a local reporter researched the outstanding runner and eventually revealed him as an impostor, forcing him to leave Palo Alto. The real Jay Huntsman had died as an infant in 1969.
Hogue was exposed as a con artist at Princeton in similar fashion. Renee Pacheco, a Palo Alto alumna and Yale University student, recognized Hogue in February 1991 at a Harvard-Yale-Princeton running competition. Princeton was soon notified of Hogue’s true identity.
He was charged with theft by deception and forgery. After he pleaded guilty to theft by deception, he was sentenced to almost a year in jail. Once out of jail, he set his sights on a different ivory tower.
Following his sentencing, a Princeton professor, Giacinto Scoles, who had taken a liking to Hogue, helped him move to Cambridge. Hogue enrolled in the Harvard Extension School and became a part-time cataloguer for the Mineralogical Museum in the fall of 1992. Scoles did not respond to requests for comment.
Over the course of nine months, Hogue quietly stole gold, silver, rubies, opals, and more than 100 other precious and non-precious gems from his employer. It was only when the Harvard University Police Department received a tip that Hogue was in the Cambridge area that law enforcement began investigating his activities at the Mineralogical Museum.
The investigation, led by Detective Richard Mederos, Detective Paul Westlund, and Sgt. Kathleen Stanford, brought the team to Hogue’s Somerville home on May 10, 1993.
In the home, officers found the gems, furniture from the museum, and a microscope valued at $10,000 according to police reports. Hogue was quickly charged with larceny and receiving stolen property and was sentenced to five years in prison. He later received another five-year sentence for violating his previous parole arrangement.
HUPD’s recovery was “one of the largest, if not the largest recovery dollar-wise in the history of the department,” Lieutenant John F. Rooney said after the arrest.
Spokespeople for HUPD and the Mineralogical Museum declined to comment for this story.
“I wanted to start all over again without any burdens of my past,” Hogue said in an interrogation with the Princeton University Police.
Though Hogue’s life has been marked by a string of thefts, Moss, who made the film about him, said money was never his motive. Hogue was more concerned about “intellectual” and “athletic” pursuits, which is what made him “a kind of Gatsby” and “a truly, mythic American character,” according to Moss.
Keith Mark, one of Hogue’s friends featured featured in Con Man, talked about their hometown of Kansas City and Hogue’s escapades in the Ivy League.
“I’m amused he pulled the wool over Princeton. I wouldn’t be so amused if he pulled it over Northern Iowa,” Mark said in the documentary. “Here in the Midwest, you’re supposed to get the wool pulled over your eyes, but not at Harvard, not at Princeton, not the Ivy League.”
After the arrest at Harvard, Hogue went on to cycle in and out of prison. He is currently serving a nine-year sentence at a Colorado state prison for charges of felony possession of burglary tools and theft and obstructing a peace officer. He is not allowed to receive calls from the press.
Some who have examined Hogue’s life said they see a story of not just a history of crime, but of class politics and limited opportunity.
“To me, it was always a story of social class and mobility and, I think, an exposure of the lie of meritocracy that I think the Ivy League and some of these selective universities put forward about who they admit,” Moss said.
—Staff writer Patricia J. Liu can be reached at patricia.liu@thecrimson.com.
Tracy P. Palandjian ’93 has a vivacious personality that fills up a room, according to her peers—something that you won’t find on the 46-year-old mother of three’s lengthy resume, which includes the C.E.O. of a burgeoning social impact investment firm and Vice Chair of Harvard’s Board of Overseers.
Palandjian left her home country of Hong Kong at the age of 14. In the United States, Palandjian pursued a conventional path to success: She studied economics at Harvard College, earned her Master of Business Administration degree at the Business School as a Baker Scholar, and later worked in management consulting.
In her late 30s, however, Palandjian said she had an awakening while she was working at management consulting firm Parthenon Capital Partners and began to search for something greater than herself.
“I started to ask some important questions—what life do I want to lead, what impact am I making on the world?” Palandjian said. “So I took a leap into the unknown and started Social Finance in 2011.”
Social Finance, where Palandjian is now C.E.O., seeks to connect investors with initiatives that the firm predicts will achieve the best social outcomes. Despite wielding its fair share of uncertainty and challenges, the nascent field of social impact investing offers a budding potential to make an impact on people in need.
The leap she took to start the firm turned into one of the most rewarding and challenging decisions Palandjian has ever made, she said.
Though 25 years have passed since her graduation from the College, Harvard continues to play an important role in Palandjian’s life. Co-workers are constantly surprised by her extensive Harvard network.
“The running joke was she must’ve had 56 different roommates while at Harvard because every time someone interesting came up she would say, ‘Oh, they’re a roommate from Harvard,'” said Jeff Shumway, the managing director of Social Finance.
Palandjian is used to taking on enormous responsibility. Her decision early in life to leave Hong Kong to attend Milton Academy, a boarding school in Massachusetts, shocked her parents. She was 14 years old at the time with a limited grasp of English.
“My family is very traditional, so growing up I was told to be practical, to go to a good school and get a good job,” Palandjian said.
When Palandjian was accepted into Harvard, however, she proved well on her way to following this well-trodden path to success. Her two younger brothers followed her lead across the Pacific Ocean to the same Massachusetts boarding school.
But during her freshman year of college, tragedy demanded Palandjian assume a new role as a caretaker.
“Her dad passed away while she was a freshman in college so she took over family financials and raised her brothers,” said Te S. Palandjian ’21, Tracy Palandjian’s eldest daughter.
Despite the immense responsibility, Palandjian managed to excel at Harvard, graduating magna cum laude in 1993. She also met her husband, Leon A. Palandjian ’91, who lived with her in Eliot House.
At the same time, Palandjian was gaining a reputation at the University.
Economics professor and former Assistant Secretary of the Treasury Karen Dynan, who was a graduate student at Harvard in 1993, said she did not know Palandjian personally at the time, but had heard of the bright undergraduate from those who taught her.
“Even then, she had a reputation as a rising star,” Dynan said.
Dynan said she was unsurprised by Palandjian’s eventual decision to start a firm like Social Finance, despite her proficiency in the traditional world of finance and consulting.
Dynan is now a member of Social Finance’s Board of Directors.
“I knew she was quite good at economics—she struck me as one of these people who was very broad in the sense that I was not surprised that she went on to work in finance,” Dynan said. “But on the other hand, I felt that there was more to Tracy than that.”
Some of Palandjian’s colleagues and co-workers describe her as a force of nature. Shumway said he was charmed when he first met his future boss. He said Palandjian has no end of energy, incredible ambition, a high emotional intelligence, and a strong strategic intuition.
“That combination is very powerful,” Shunway added.
“I got really excited about the concept of pay for success,” Shumway said, lauding the budding field that aims to connect government, service providers, and investors to finance promising initiatives for social progress.
He added that he hopes the firm’s work “becomes a spark, this catalyst for people who want to think in a new way within government, investing, nonprofits, and philanthropy.”
Navjeet K. Bal, the firm’s general counsel and Shumway’s counterpart as Managing Director, said she was inspired by Palandjian’s work ethic, noting that Palandjian could easily put in 18-hour work days.
“She brings all of her considerable intellect and energy to the firm and effectively raises the bar for all of us to do the same,” Bal said.
Te said she thinks the reason her mother is able to dedicate so much to her company is because of her passion, which extends beyond the workplace.
“The way she talks about recidivism rates, single mothers, and the types of projects she is working on has informed the type of work my sisters and I are doing in our academic lives,” said Te, who said she spent much of her freshman year of college thinking about racial injustice in education systems.
Though her job is endlessly demanding, Palandjian said she deeply values spending time with her family and that her three daughters “ground [her] as a human being.”
Te said she is grateful that her number one fan at tennis matches, yoga buddy, and competitor in family Pictionary also happens to be her role model.
“I noticed a lot of my peers at Harvard, particularly women, are looking for a strong female mentor at the College to help guide them as to where their career path will be,” Te said. “I’ve felt lucky that my mom has been able to be that person for me.”
A graduate of both the College and Business School and a bona fide Harvard lifer, Palandjian has been serving her alma mater as a member of the Board of Overseers—the University’s second highest governing body—since 2012. Last year, she was elected the Overseers’ vice chair.
After University President Drew G. Faust announced last summer she would be stepping down in June 2018, Palandjian played an especially important role in representing the Overseers in the search for Faust’s successor as one of the three Overseers on the search committee.
“We knew that because she was in the room on the search committee that we were effectively represented,” said John S. Wilson, who was recently named Faust’s chief advisor and strategist on diversity and inclusion initiatives and formerly served as an Overseer alongside Palandjian.
Scott A. Abell ’72, the president of the Overseers, said he met Palandjian even before serving with her on the board because of her heavy involvement with the Harvard Alumni Association. He said Palandjian’s love for Harvard is visible in her thoughtful decision-making and leadership.
“Tracy weighs the issue carefully and considers all perspectives. She makes decisions that will benefit Harvard in the long term,” Abell said.
In her work at Social Finance, Harvard comes up frequently as both a personal and a professional network.
“Being a part of the Harvard community has clearly been a benefit to Tracy and to Social Finance,” Shumway said.
Whether it’s at Social Finance or on the Board of Overseers, Palandjian leads and works with passion.
“My grandfather used to say that if you love what you do, you never have to work a day in your life,” Palandjian said. “I am fortunate to have found that.”
Correction: May 25, 2018
A previous version of this article incorrectly stated Tracy P. Palandjian '93 chose to leave Hong Kong to attend Milton Academy at age 10 and that she spoke no English at the time. In fact, Palandjian chose to attend Milton at age 14 and had a limited grasp of English when she enrolled at the school.
Correction: May 25, 2018
A previous version of this article incorrectly stated that Parthenon Group is a private equity firm. In fact, it is a management consulting firm.
—Staff writer Ruth Zheng can be reached at ruth.zheng@thecrimson.com.
Claudia D. Goldin was the first tenured woman in three different Ivy League economics departments.
She received tenure at the University of Pennsylvania in 1985 before coming to Harvard in 1990. She also held a visiting fellow position at Princeton, where she was the only female economist who had already received tenure in their department at the time.
While the role of trailblazer was familiar to Goldin, she said her arrival in Harvard’s Economics department—long lauded as one of the world’s best and the source of 10 Nobel laureates—was met with unusual attention.
“In none of these other places was it made into a big deal,” Goldin said. “I came to Harvard, and suddenly there were articles in The Crimson about the first tenured woman in the Economics Department. I thought that was interesting; I was the first tenured woman at Penn and no one said anything about it.”
The gender composition of the department has not changed dramatically since Goldin arrived 28 years ago; the number of female tenured professors in the department has only increased by four women, three of whom were tenured this semester.
Economics Chair David I. Laibson ’88, who assumed his role three years ago, said that—though Harvard’s Economics Department’s gender balance is comparable to the national average—he wants to work to make his department more representative.
“This has been a very important issue and I've been thinking actively about the question of diversity and what we can do to improve a frustratingly low level of diversity in this department,” Laibson said.
Many graduate students and faculty applaud these efforts for adding needed diversity to the department and improving departmental climate, some female department affiliates say it remains a challenge to constitute a minority in their field.
“Women shy away from Economics before they even come to Harvard, before their parents put their bags in the car, or plane, or train,” Goldin said. “There is simply a paucity of women in economics.”
Economics is consistently the College’s largest concentration, but only 35 percent of undergraduate economics concentrators at Harvard are women, according to Laibson. Forty-eight percent of students at the College are female.
Laibson said the Harvard average is slightly higher than the national average of two men for every woman in economics.
Goldin said the reasons for this discrepancy are not well understood. However, she and Karen E. Dynan, a Professor of the Practice with an appointment in the Economics Department, said that at the undergraduate level, women are less likely to concentrate if they see economics as leading exclusively toward careers in finance.
“You are more likely to find women in applied micro fields like labor, and macro and finance are very male-dominated.” Dynan said.
“If you want to attract more women, then tell the parents and their daughters and sons that economics is more than finance,” Goldin said.
Some students said that Economics 10: “Principles of Economics”—a large introductory course which is many undergraduates’ first formal exposure to economics—fails to explore the diversity within the field, however.
“I wanted to do development economics, and gender equality in developing countries,” Alice S. Rossmann ’19 said of her experience in Economics 10. “But we didn’t really talk about development economics. You could probably take it as an elective, but it’s not taught as, this is one of the core things about economics.”
Mayerly Smith ’20 agreed that the class was overly focused on finance.
”I’m pretty sure at the start of the class, [the professor] was saying reasons for why you should take the class, he’s like, ‘Oh, you get a fancy job at Goldman,” she said, referring to Goldman Sachs, a leading investment bank.
Economics professor N. Gregory Mankiw, who teaches Economics 10, wrote in an email that he “gives a large emphasis in Ec 10 to the role economists play in public policy,” specifically through guest speakers who provide a variety of perspectives.
Laibson said he guest lectured in Mankiw’s course on behavioral economics this fall, and praised the guest lectures for providing a “window” into “more advanced and more interesting” aspects of the field.
Out of 12 guest lecturers this year, though, only two were female, according to the course’s syllabus.
The scarcity of women lecturers reflects a gender gap that widens after the undergraduate level. Five out of 44 tenured faculty—11 percent—in the department are female. Taking into account non-tenured faculty, 14 percent of the department is female.
Laibson said his department is trying to measure “where women are falling out of the admissions pipeline” in the upper echelons of economics.
He said he has determined that the department yields an average of 34 percent female graduate students, from a 27 percent female applicant pool. Currently, 60 out of 190—or 31.6 percent—of the graduate students in the department are female.
Despite the absence of women in senior levels of the department, some female graduate students described their experience as entirely positive. Even those who did, however, said that greater female representation would improve the department.
“The notion that increasing the number of women in economics would lower the quality of the field is a widely held belief in the profession,” said Ellora A. Derenoncourt ’09, a Ph.D. student in the department.
Since there are only eight women on the department’s teaching staff, female graduate students said they find themselves with male mentors and advisors more often than not. Laibson said he is aware this situation is not ideal.
“It is something I'm thinking about,” he said. “I do think we should try to create environments where the same opportunities are available to all of our students, and I think it's not that hard to do, and I think it's something we should strive to do.”
Doctoral student Jessica Liu, along with several other female graduate students, said it can be difficult to have their opinions taken seriously when they are the only, or one of the only, women in the room.
“It’s quite a stressful environment and currently it is a lot more male-dominated. I think it’s sometimes easier for men to be a little bit more confident sometimes, and a little bit more aggressive or willing to debate more than others,” Liu said.
Derenoncourt expressed similar concerns over who tends to dominate discussions within the room.
“You can often be in seminars and classes and be one of very few women or the only woman. The dynamics are noticeable in who speaks but also more potently in who is there,” she said.
After receiving Ph.D.’s, the struggle to be taken seriously as a female economist can continue. According to a study by Ph.D. student Heather A. Sarsons for her dissertation, women who coauthor economics papers with men get less credit for the paper than their coauthors.
For example, in 2015, a New York Times reporter wrote that a study for which Goldin was the first author was written by Lawrence Katz, and that Goldin “co-wrote” the paper.
Alice H. Wu, who will enter the department this fall as a Ph.D. student, reported in her undergraduate senior thesis that discussion surrounding female economists on popular online forum “Economics Job Market Rumors” is typically focused on their personal information and physical appearances, whereas discussion about male economists focuses on their work.
Some female students who are women of color said the sense of being marginalized in the department is heightened due to their racial and ethnic minority status, but that it’s also complicated explaining this to their white peers.
“I just think a lot of times it’s a little hard to explain why it’s harder to be a woman of color in a certain way. Those kinds of things don’t always translate to people who aren’t women of color in the ec department, which are most people in the Ec department,” Smith said.
Derenoncourt said the historic lack of diversity in the department is illustrated by a wall of portraits of former economics professors that hangs in the Littauer Center, which houses the department’s offices.
“Every single one of the 40 to 50 portraits is of a white man,” she said. “They are the legacy of our department faculty’s entirely male history, with the exception of staff and administrators. We could pick a different way to decorate the walls, but I would take an increase in the number of female faculty and female grad students over that gesture any day.”
She said that, as an additional reminder of this legacy, some of the women’s bathrooms in Littauer are converted utility closets.
For economics Ph.D. student Natasha R. Sarin, one good adviser helped her overcome her reservations about the field.
Sarin said she was “nervous” about pursuing Economics because she wasn’t confident in her abilities in math, but her adviser told her she was “crazy.”
“He told me that was crazy, and that being an economist is more that just being really good at math. He said there are different kinds of economists and told me, ‘I think you’re gonna be a great one,’” Sarin said.
Laibson said he wants to hear more stories like this.
At the undergraduate level, he said it is important to expose students to the diversity of fields available within economics, especially through College-wide events to target women who may have written off economics because they didn’t know everything they could do in the discipline.
Goldin said the Tutorial Office, run by Undergraduate Program Coordinator Dani Doyle and Director of Undergraduate Studies Jeffrey Miron, ran a “Career Day” last year targeted to expose undergraduate students to all sides of economics.
At the graduate level, Laibson said the department is trying to correct for implicit bias in the admissions process through blind research reviews and by emphasizing research rather than interviews during the application process. He also said Goldin has created a pre-doc program for undergraduates considering graduate school.
The graduate students themselves have also formed a student government in the past two years, which has a Women in Economics subcommittee that has conducted climate surveys of graduate students and works to support women within the department.
Among the faculty, Laibson said he wants to encourage the department to conduct more “broad” and “creative” searches for hiring, which he says should bring more women into the conversation.
Three female associate Economics professors—Melissa L. Dell, Amanda Pallais, and Stefanie Stantcheva—received promotions to tenure this semester, the first internal promotions within the Economics department in several years.
Dell, whose promotion was approved May 15, focuses on economic development, primarily in Latin America and Asia, according to her faculty page bio. Pallais studies discrimination in the labor market, particularly against women and other socially disadvantaged groups, while Stantcheva focuses on the tax system.
Laibson said the department was “ecstatic,” and called all three women “superstars.” Despite these signs of progress, however, he said there’s no “magic bullet” to diversify a historically homogenous field.
“I think this will only change if there are a lot more women in the profession,” Derenoncourt said. “The single most important solution would be to admit more women, hire more women, and tenure more women so as to change who actually is in economics.”
—Staff writer Paula M. Barberi can be reached at paula.barberi@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @paulambarberi.
—Staff writer Cecilia R. D'Arms can be reached at cecilia.d'arms@thecrimson.com
Sections
Debate over speech on university campuses—who is allowed to speak, what they can say, and to whom they can say it—has sparked protests, spawned advocacy organizations, and become a rallying cry among those on the right who charge that liberal-leaning universities are stifling conservative perspectives.
In recent years, the free speech debate has become entangled in conversations about campus diversity and inclusion, and politicians and activists increasingly discuss free speech and diversity in dichotomous terms. One recent nationwide survey even asked student respondents to choose one value over the other.
The argument has played out in university lecture halls, think tanks, editorial pages, and social media platforms.
At Harvard, it has come to a head at the Kennedy School.
In early September, the school’s decision to invite transgender activist and former U.S. Army soldier Chelsea Manning—who was imprisoned for leaking classified government documents—ignited a social media firestorm from the right.
Then-CIA director Mike Pompeo called Manning a “traitor” and canceled his scheduled appearance at the school in protest. Republican former governor of Massachusetts Mitt Romney took to Twitter to applaud Pompeo’s decision, writing, “abject shame on Harvard.” And national media outlets—including Fox News and Breitbart—picked up the story. As the backlash spread, the Kennedy School rescinded Manning’s fellowship, calling her selection “a mistake.”
Meanwhile, over the past year, the school has invited a slew of conservative speakers and fellows, including President Donald Trump’s former chief of staff Reince Priebus, former Press Secretary Sean Spicer, former Trump campaign manager Corey Lewandowski, former RNC chair Ed Gillespie, and United States Secretary of Education Betsy DeVos.
With the prominent Republicans has come controversy. Students raised fists and posters in silent defiance when DeVos took the stage at the JFK Jr. Forum in September, despite the entreaties of Academic Dean Archon Fung.
“In a disturbing series of recent events, we’ve seen students and activists shut down conservative speakers at several college campuses over the past year. Shutting people down is contrary to the values of this space and the Harvard Kennedy School,” Fung said to the audience. “Here, we encourage the exchange of ideas and differing viewpoints. Even if we do not agree, especially if we do not agree, it is important to hear and allow others in attendance to listen and speak as well.”
Students, though, say the school’s recent efforts to bring prominent conservatives to campus in the name of civil discourse has sometimes come at the cost of racial diversity and inclusion. The resignation of three prominent women of color drew attention in recent months to the dearth of minority students, faculty, and administrators at the school.
Professor Stephen Goldsmith said he believes the school “should be more representative” of a “broad array” of racial, gender, and political identities.
“I think the school needs all of the above and has a way to go,” Goldsmith said.
Which way to go, though, is a point of contention. Administrators, citing a commitment to free speech, have placed emphasis on attracting a range of political viewpoints. Students, however, are more focused on making the school a welcoming place for minorities—a priority some say gets lost amid administrators’ push for ideological diversity.
Mid-career student John D. Krohn said his year at the school was full of “surprises.” Krohn, who identifies as a moderate Republican, added that one of those surprises was the sheer number of conservative speakers represented in the school’s forums.
“Certainly the administration, the dean, has made it a point to bring in conservative voices throughout the year,” Krohn said. “The idea that in the 10 months that I've been here, you've got Jason Chaffetz coming in, you've got most recently Reince Priebus and Corey Lewandowski and Sean Spicer and Betsy DeVos.”
In an interview this semester, Dean Douglas W. Elmendorf said the Kennedy School benefits from having “more prominent conservative voices.”
“I do think about how to present a full range of views at the Kennedy School and make sure that people who don’t agree are talking about those disagreements and not just ducking each other,” he said.
Administrators’ emphasis on ideological diversity is not new; former dean Joseph S. Nye said including voices from across the political spectrum is essential to the student experience.
“I think it’s important for the school entity, for Harvard, to have different points of view represented so that students can hear different points of view,” Nye said. “I think people learn better when they are confronted with diversity of opinion.”
Conservative students, meanwhile, say they would like the school to do even more to elevate perspectives on the right.
Krohn said he thought inviting conservative speakers is a “good” but “transitory” effort.
“They need to create institutions that would perpetuate a diversity of thought rather than just having a handful of people in a semester that come in that represent that different political thought process,” Krohn said.
Liberal-leaning students and faculty, though, have criticized and actively protested some of the school’s guests over the past year—most notably, DeVos, Spicer, and Lewandowski.
Professor Marshall Ganz questioned the extent to which the Kennedy School should elevate these voices.
“I mean, should every university have a Trump perspective? I'm not so sure,” he said. “I think there are boundaries and there's lines in terms of what responsible perspectives are and I think that has to be respected.”
Fung acknowledged in an interview that certain speakers might make HKS affiliates from certain backgrounds uncomfortable.
“Say we invited the director of Trump's homeland security, and they came and gave a talk about what the immigration policy was. People who support immigrant rights might rightfully feel quite disrespected and hurt by what they said,” he said.
But, he added, “I think that's a policy debate in the United States. This is happening right now, and it's important to have a conversation about those policies.”
The Kennedy School needs both more conservatives and more people of color, according to a May 2017 draft report of an HKS task force on diversity and inclusion.
The absence of these perspectives is particularly notable, the report says, at public events and speeches, which the task force described as “crucial to our campus environment.”
“Many in our community have the impression that there are powerful biases at work when units at the School organize events and invite speakers,” the draft report reads. “For example, there appear to be relatively few visitors from conservative perspectives. Many panels and discussions series seem to have more men than women and few people of color.”
Over the past six years, approximately half of the residential fellows at the Kennedy School’s Institute of Politics have openly identified as liberal, and the other half as conservative. The racial and gender makeup of the fellow classes from 2012 to 2018 follows a predictable pattern; for a majority of classes, there are roughly four men and two women—and of those, one or two are people of color.
Amy A. Howell, the Executive Director of the IOP, said student input informs whom they invite to campus, as does a desire to invite a diverse set of speakers.
“In all 15 programs throughout the Institute of Politics, including the Fellows and Study Groups program, we actively seek a diversity of political thought, gender, race, and ethnicity in order to provide multiple perspectives and viewpoints to the Harvard community,” Howell said.
In addition to the IOP fellows, the school has invited a number of prominent conservative guests this year. Some students, though, say it has failed to make similar strides on more permanent representation of minorities and women at the school.
According to the task force report, the school employed five black faculty members in 2017, two of whom were tenured professors. In 2017, only two faculty members identified as “Hispanic.” In 2015—the most recent year for which the report provides student statistics—black students made up 4 percent of the student body, those the report describes as “Hispanic-Americans” made up 7 percent, and Asian-Americans made up 10 percent.
The paucity of underrepresented minority faculty and staff has left students from those backgrounds with insufficient mentors and advisors at the school, the task force report says. And it has spurred activism over the course of the spring semester by students who say the school must do more to recruit and support students and faculty of color.
Student activists hung signs around the school expressing their concerns, penned pledges to urge students and faculty to commit to promoting diversity, and met with Elmendorf and newly hired Associate Dean of Diversity Robbin Chapman.
Within the first few days of her arrival in April, Chapman discussed concerns about the climate of the school at a town hall with faculty and students. “We have a lot to talk about,” she said at the time in response to a comment about women of color leaving the school.
Several students involved in these efforts said they feel administrators’ emphasis on ideological diversity poses a challenge to their cause, since they said it implicitly leads to a decline in other dimensions of diversity.
Amanda R. Matos, a first-year Master in Public Policy student, said she was “concerned”  with the school’s focus on increasing conservative representation because she said she thinks it might impact the school’s racial and gender makeup.
“By only focusing on increasing conservative voices, we are inadvertently pushing back and delaying the importance of racial diversity and gender diversity,” Matos said.
Kennedy School spokesperson Doug Gavel declined to comment.
Bryan Cortes, a MPP/MBA student who is involved with the HKS Latinx Caucus, wrote in an email that he “welcomed” the initiative to bring in more conservatives, but he wanted administrators to have “the same sense of urgency” to increase black and Latinx representation.
“A few of us have joked that at least they should invite Ted Cruz to increase the Latinx/Hispanic representation in the pool of conservative voices on campus,” he wrote.
Professor Khalil G. Muhammad said wrapping ideological differences into conversations about diversity undermines the primary goal of promoting diversity.
“Sketching the whole point or value system to accommodate political diversity ultimately will erode the very reason for diversity, which grows out of civil rights organizing and the need for policy that would make real the context for greater access to people of color who had been historically marginalized both in terms of their bodies and their voices in institutions like Harvard and elsewhere,” Muhammad said.
Gavel declined to comment.
The introduction of the diversity task force report opens with a mission statement: “The mission of the Harvard Kennedy School is [to] train public leaders and improve public policy to make people’s lives safer, more prosperous and more fulfilling through our teaching, research and engagement with practice.”
But the debate between proponents of ideological diversity and proponents of racial diversity at the school has opened up conflicting interpretations of that mission.
For Elmendorf, it often means advancing “the value of civil discourse.”
“Respecting each person means to me listening to their perspective, trying to see the world through their eyes,” he said in a February interview.
“We need to see more of that civil discourse in the members of the US Congress, in many foreign leaders and we need to model that here in the Kennedy School as well,” he added. “That’s why we insist about bringing people with a wide range of views and hearing them out.”
Standing in front of attendees and protesters at the DeVos event in September, Fung emphasized the need for school affiliates to escape “our own echo chambers.”
“The Kennedy School is all about understanding differences and building bridges,” he said.
Rosi Greenberg, a second-year MPP student, said that while administrators are placing emphasis on engaging with different political viewpoints, many students believe promoting racial and ethnic diversity better trains students to advance equitable public policy.
“It's not just diversity to include as many different people as possible, it's diversity to move forward agendas of more equity in our society, more structural justice,” Greenberg said. “The reason to have diversity is not just to have a lot of different people in the room—it's to be able to move forward policies and practices that are more equitable.”
Elorm F. Avakame, an MPP/MD student, said the lack of available mentors of color at the school creates a disconnect between the school’s offerings and student’s interests.
“There is a lot of energy around antipoverty policy,” Avakame said. “I would like to see kind of a similar energy around race and racism and real scholarship around that work, not just how it manifests in a contemporary moment, but how the history of this country has been shaped by those forces.”
The school has pledged to take a number of steps to address students’ concerns about diversity and inclusion—according to Gavel, they will hold implicit bias training for application readers, “monitor searches to identify opportunities” to change faculty hiring processes, and “evaluate the benefits and costs” of a post-doc program for scholars from underrepresented groups.
Some students worry, though, that the pace of change around racial diversity remains slow, and MPP student Claris J. Chang criticized administrators for being “conflict averse.”
“The new thing that the diversity and inclusion and excellence report said is to speak bravely and listen generously, and I don't think our leadership is modeling speaking bravely on what they believe in,” Chang said.
Fung agreed that leadership should do “more of that,” and can better train people to engage in future conversations around difference.
“I have heard that faculty and students don't have the skills and the capacities that they need to have these difficult conversations when people disagree and I certainly agree with that,” Fung said. “I think we all need to do better.”
—Staff writer Alexandra A. Chaidez can be reached at alexandra.chaidez@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @a_achaidez.
—Staff writer Ruth A. Hailu can be reached at ruth.hailu@thecrimson.com. Follow her on twitter @ruth_hailu_
Within the span of just the last decade, Harvard College has seen the creation of an Office of Student Life, a merger of that very office with the Freshman Dean’s Office, the establishment of an honor council, and the formation of a new diversity office—each, administrators say, in the hopes of better serving the needs of an ever-changing student body.
“The job of university administration is to preserve the values, ideals, interests, and longevity of the institution,” former Dean of Student Life Stephen Lassonde wrote in an email. “Students represent a piece of each of these, so administrations are duty-bound to understand their needs and change policies and practices that affect their students.”
But it’s not just students and their demands that are changing.
With these shifting needs, the occupants of University Hall too have been remaking themselves to keep up—in number, makeup, and level of administrative responsibility. The shape of the College administration differs radically from that of even a couple decades ago.
At the beginning of former University President Derek C. Bok’s tenure in Massachusetts Hall in the early 1970s, faculty at American universities dealt with most mid-level administrative tasks themselves.
In recent decades, though, many universities have seen the increasing concentration of administrative responsibilities in the hands of individuals who often do not occupy a place in the classroom, higher education experts say.
According to a number of College administrators, professors, and outside experts, these trends are especially apparent in Harvard College’s administration.
At the University level, the number of administrative support staff at Harvard is substantially greater than that of 16 comparably-sized, non-profit, private universities, according to data provided by the National Center for Education Statistics.
In fall 2016, the number of “student and academic affairs and other education services employees” at Harvard stood at 954. In comparison, Harvard’s 16 peer institutions averaged 235 such administrators. At the low end, Brigham Young University Provo had 40 such administrators, while Johns Hopkins University had 836. Many of these peer institutions, however, have fewer graduate schools and total faculty members than Harvard.
Harvard spent 44 percent of its core expenses in 2016 on academic support, institutional support, and student services. Only one of the 16 schools of similar size and characteristics—St. John’s University at 48 percent—spent a higher percentage. This is despite the fact that Harvard pays its professors the most—on average $230,292 per professor in 2015-2016—of any private nonprofit university in the country, according to the Chronicle of Higher Education.
University spokesperson Melodie L. Jackson wrote in an email that differences between universities may account for some of the difference in administrative staff figures.
“As a research-intensive institution with a global footprint, wide breadth of graduate and professional educational offerings, undergraduate residential model, and museums, libraries, and other offerings that help maximize the student and scholar experience, Harvard’s academic enterprise includes many different components that make up our vibrant community,” Jackson wrote. “Maintaining the excellence of these diverse endeavors requires the commitment of students and faculty as well as staff.”
“Any comparison between institutions would need to account for the range of offerings and activities that make each university, including Harvard, a unique place,” she added.
The University does not release specific data about the number of administrators. But according to figures compiled by Michael B. Poliakoff, president of the American Council of Trustees and Alumni, this number has grown over the years.
The relatively large size and cost of Harvard’s administration may be indicative of what some scholars have termed “administrative bloat,” namely, the unnecessary and costly expansion of academic administrations. However, Poliakoff noted that this characterization may be premature.
“Harvard’s [ratio of administrative to instructional expenditures] has gone up significantly over the past year, and it’s above the average ratio for Ivy League schools,” he said. “There may be good reasons for that, but certainly the idea of professionalizing the administrative class is going to have a higher price tag.”
“It is important to remember that a high ratio does not necessarily mean misplaced priorities, since the circumstances of different institutions vary,” Poliakoff wrote in an email.
Not only the size, but also the composition of the College’s administration has been changing.
College administrators have sought to diversify their own ranks in order to reflect changes in the makeup of the student body. Over the last few decades, the College has seen a dramatic increase in the diversity of its undergraduates along geographic, racial, economic, and gender lines.
Dean of Freshmen Thomas A. Dingman ’67, who has worked in administrative roles at the College for 45 years, said this has been a conscious effort in the Freshman Dean’s Office.
“The staff has been scrambling to keep up so that students could look at people in these different roles and see themselves and feel confident that somebody gets them,” Dingman said.
Dingman said that though there remains more to be done to diversify administrative staff, recent changes are a step in the right direction.
“While we have some distance to go in that regard, I think there have been important changes in the makeup of the staff,” he said.
Dean of the College Rakesh Khurana echoed Dingman, saying increased diversity among College administrators reflects a desire to mirror the changing demography of the student body.
“I’ve definitely been committed to ensuring that the diversity of the leadership of the College reflects the diversity of our student body,” Khurana said. “This has been important to me, because I think you cannot understand the diversity of our students if we don’t have a diverse leadership in the College.”
Christopher P. Loss, associate professor of public policy and higher education at Vanderbilt University, said the increasing diversity of Harvard’s administration conforms with national trends. He argued that the current political climate has only increased the need for more diversity in administrative ranks.
“Certainly a mix of ideas is always an important thing, especially when universities have been on the defensive for some time that we actually aren’t that great at having dissenting opinions,” he said.
More diversity is not the only consideration that the College is taking into account with new administrative hires. College administrators say the quality of applicant pools, both in terms of experience and academic pedigree, has deepened.
All four resident deans of freshmen, full-time administrators who oversee programming for first-year students, hold doctorate degrees. Dingman said this is to ensure that students and faculty see them as having the “same chops” as faculty deans, their counterparts in the houses. Along with managing their administrative responsibilities, faculty deans teach part-time, which requires a doctorate degree.
“We’ve wanted for our deans not to look like the ‘baby deans’, or the deans that are like the house deans but lack that credential,” Dingman said.
He also noted that he did not think it was necessary to have a doctorate degree to be an effective resident dean, but said such a credential could help these administrators gain credibility with the faculty.
Loss said that the fact that administrative hires are better qualified is not unique to Harvard, but rather a national trend in higher education over the last several decades, shown in part by the rise of masters programs in higher education administration.
Brent J. Evans, an assistant professor of higher education and public policy at Vanderbilt University, said the rise of higher education administration degrees is indicative of the professionalization of the College administrator position.
“There’s been an increasing number of administrators in higher education at large that has climbed steadily over the last several decades, and alongside of that there’s been a tremendous push to professionalize that career path,” he said.
A majority of the 21 employees listed on the College’s Office of Student Life website—excluding five administrative managers—have a master’s or doctorate degree in education.  All but two have some form of a master’s degree or higher.
Historically, Harvard has tended to hire from within the family. But in recent years, the College has increasingly looked beyond its gates to find the most suited applicants for administrative jobs.
“Harvard is one of those places that has a pretty durable reputation as a place that likes to hire graduates of its institution,” Loss said.
According to Dingman, administrators previously had more of an “inclination” to hire from within the institution, often not even comparing applicants to external candidates.
“I think there’s been more willingness and encouragement to go outside of Harvard,” Dingman said.
William G. Tierney, a professor of higher education at the University of Southern California, said that at elite institutions, specifically, the need for higher-quality and more diverse applicants has oftentimes given universities no choice but to hire from without.
“You want people with a specific background and a specific vita, so you need to look outside your neighborhood to see who’s available,” Tierney said. “And when you’re trying to expand in terms of race, class, and gender, you also need to hire more than the people you know.”
Poliakoff said higher standards in administrative roles at many colleges across the country reflect a shift towards approaching hiring in ways similar to that of the business world.
Specifically, educational institutions have been using outside firms more and more to conduct searches for job candidates.
“There has been an increasing trend in colleges and universities to imitate the practices of the business world and even the corporate world,” Poliakoff said.  “It used to be that institutions tended to...hire everyone, including upper level administrators, basically using [their] own instincts and expertise.”
“You see it stated over and over again, of ensuring that an institution is run like a business,” he added.
At Harvard, while recent national searches for high-level administrators have been largely composed of figures inside the College, even internal search committees sometimes rely on outside help.
Hiring outside search firms can be extraordinarily expensive, Poliakoff said. He cautioned, though, against judging the decision to use them too quickly.
“Is this where Harvard wants to prioritize its funding?” Poliakoff asked. “Is the benefit of going outside and looking for people who have the particular profile and paying those sorts of rates, is this something that’s actually good for the institution?”
“I put that out as a question,” he said.
—Staff writer Jonah S. Berger can be reached at jonah.berger@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @jonahberger98.
— Staff writer Yasmin Luthra can be reached at yasmin.luthra@thecrimson.com.
Economics Professor Roland G. Fryer, Jr. is being investigated separately by Harvard and the state of Massachusetts and has been barred by University officials from setting foot in the research lab he heads, according to individuals with knowledge of the situation and documents obtained by The Crimson.
The Harvard investigation—led by the University’s Office for Dispute Resolution, which investigates allegations of sexual and gender-based harassment—is based on at least one Title IX complaint filed with the office. Fryer is the subject of at least two Title IX complaints, according to two of the individuals who filed the complaints.
One of the complaints specifically alleges Fryer committed “egregious” acts of verbal sexual harassment, according to Monica R. Shah and Naomi R. Shatz, lawyers at Boston-based firm Zalkind, Duncan, and Bernstein who are representing the woman who filed that complaint.
The woman's complaint alleges Fryer spoke about sex in the workplace, made “sexually inappropriate comments” to and about employees and others, and “objectified and sexualized” women including female staffers, according to the lawyers.
Shah and Shatz wrote their client first reported Fryer’s behavior to Harvard officials roughly a year ago and that “she was retaliated against for seeking relief.” The two lawyers also wrote Harvard failed to enforce its policies meant to protect employees from workplace discrimination and sexual harassment.
“Our client found that when the object of her complaint was a star faculty member, those policies were not enforced,” Shah and Shatz wrote.
Fryer wrote in an emailed statement provided by his lawyer that he denies committing acts of discrimination or harassment.
“Let me state unequivocally that I have not — and would not — engage in any discrimination or harassment of any form,” Fryer wrote in the statement. “Any claim to the contrary is patently false.”
Shah and Shatz wrote their client has filed complaints with Harvard and with the state of Massachusetts.
The Massachusetts Commission Against Discrimination has accepted the woman’s complaint and is now investigating Fryer, according to documents obtained by The Crimson and two individuals with knowledge of the situation. MCAD enforces Massachusetts laws forbidding unlawful discrimination based on traits including gender, race, sexual orientation, and gender identity.
The Harvard investigation is also moving forward. In March, the University forbade Fryer and his chief of staff Bradley M. Allan from entering Harvard’s EdLabs—a think tank Fryer founded in 2008 that examines the economics and roots of racial inequality—according to Nancy B. Cyr, the EdLabs finance and grants director.
Fryer’s lawyer, Boston-based attorney George J. Leontire, wrote in an emailed statement Monday that the allegations against the professor are “outrageous.”
“It's disgraceful the complainant's lawyers have chosen to publicize their unproven accusations rather then [sic] to allow the legal process to determine the merits of their client's claims,” Leontire wrote. “Professor Fryer looks forward to a full and impartial forum to address these outrageous allegations.”
University spokesperson Rachael Dane wrote in an emailed statement Monday that Harvard is aware of concerns surrounding the working environment in EdLabs.
“Harvard is deeply committed to providing a civil and inclusive work environment for all members of our community,” Dane wrote. “We are aware of and take seriously concerns raised about the treatment of staff in the Education Innovation Laboratory at Harvard University (EdLabs), including whether staff members have been treated with the dignity and respect they deserve.”
Fryer is a rising star both at Harvard and in the broader field of economics. The complaints and investigations come roughly three years after Fryer won the John Bates Clark Medal, the second-highest honor in economics after the Nobel Prize. He was the first African American to do so.
The outcomes of the two investigations could have implications for Fryer’s career. The Harvard investigation could result in penalties ranging from “reprimand to dismissal,” according to FAS procedures. The MCAD investigation could lead to a public hearing and—if Fryer is found to have committed illegal discrimination—a damages payment possibly amounting to thousands of dollars. The complainant could also choose to pursue the case as a lawsuit in state or federal court.
Leontire said in an interview last week he believes Fryer will emerge from any and all investigations unscathed.
“We’re confident, whether it’s Title IX or anything else, that Professor Fryer is going to come away from that situation without any issues,” Leontire said. “That’s all I can tell you.”
This account of events is based on interviews with 47 individuals, at least 23 of whom are current or former EdLabs employees. Many interviewed spoke only on the condition of anonymity to describe confidential Title IX proceedings or because they said they feared retaliation from Fryer.
Shah and Shatz wrote their client first approached Harvard’s human resources department with concerns regarding Fryer’s behavior in June 2017.
The two lawyers wrote the “treatment” their client had “endured” in EdLabs up to that point was “egregious.” Shah and Shatz—referencing comments Fryer allegedly made in EdLabs regarding sex—wrote their client “was subjected to a sexually hostile and demeaning environment” in the lab.
“Her supervisor [Fryer] frequently discussed sex in the workplace, made sexually inappropriate comments to and about employees and others, and objectified and sexualized women, including his staff,” Shah and Shatz wrote in an emailed statement Monday.
In an interview last week attended by Fryer’s lawyer and a court stenographer, four current and former EdLabs employees—Cyr, Rucha P. Vankudre ’07, Meghan Howard Noveck, and Tanaya Devi—said the professor and lab staff at times participated in “banter” that included discussion of employees’ dating lives. Vankudre said that, had the conversation made anyone feel “uncomfortable,” EdLabs staffers and Fryer would have “stopped immediately.”
In a separate interview last week also attended by his lawyer and the stenographer, Fryer admitted participating in these conversations but said he never spoke about the physical act of sex. Fryer said he has “zero recollection” of commenting on individuals’ sex lives publicly in EdLabs.
Cyr, Vankudre, Howard Noveck, and Devi said they do not remember Fryer ever making remarks about individuals’ sex lives in the workplace.
“To the best of my knowledge, none of the banter has ever been sexist or misogynistic,” Vankudre said.
Fryer admitted in the interview he sometimes discussed employees’ dating lives and said he always did so in “a group of people.”
“If someone comes up to a group of people and says, I went out on a date and went to play putt-putt golf—I’m just making up a hypothetical—it is quite possible I said, ‘Really? You went to putt-putt golf on a first date?’” Fryer said. “Or if someone said they took me to McDonald’s but it was really cool, I might say, ‘Wow, McDonald’s.’”
“Commenting on someone’s dating life—I guess I have commented in that way, but other than that, no,” Fryer said.
In their statement Monday, Shah and Shatz noted Harvard has specific policies meant to “protect employees from discrimination, sexual harassment, and other workplace treatment.”
The University’s Title IX policy, which forbids all forms of sex discrimination including sexual harassment, defines sexual harassment in part as “lewd or sexually suggestive comments, jokes, innuendoes, or gestures.”
Shah and Shatz alleged Harvard failed to enforce its policy after their client raised concerns regarding Fryer.
“Our client and others who have worked in EdLabs have encountered Harvard’s two-tiered system of justice: one for high profile faculty members and the other for the rank and file,” Shah and Shatz wrote.
For the past several years, EdLabs has produced research—including a controversial study on racial bias in police shootings—regularly re-reported in national news outlets. The lab boasts prominent donors and supporters including Condoleezza Rice, the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, and the Ford Foundation.
Fryer has headed the lab, located on Mass. Ave just feet from Harvard Yard, since he established it a decade ago. He has served as the public face of EdLabs, featured in glowing media profiles as he racked up awards and accolades. Three years after founding the lab, Fryer won a MacArthur Genius Grant for his research examining racial and economic inequality.
The two lawyers also wrote their client suffered “retaliation” after she reported allegations regarding Fryer, though the lawyers did not specify who perpetrated that retaliation.
Harvard’s Human Resources department has a strict policy forbidding retaliation against affiliates who “in good faith” raise concerns or file complaints regarding “actual or perceived violations of Harvard University’s policy or unlawful acts.”
Harvard’s Title IX policy also prohibits the subject of a complaint from retaliating against those who filed the complaint.
“Retaliation against an individual for raising an allegation of sexual or gender-based harassment, for cooperating in an investigation of such a complaint, or for opposing discriminatory practices is prohibited,” the policy reads.
Dane declined to comment on the woman’s charge that Harvard failed to enforce its policies.
Harvard’s Title IX Office began looking into EdLabs at least as early as Dec. 2017.
Six former EdLabs employees said they were contacted by Seth Avakian, Harvard’s Title IX coordinator for FAS and the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, at various times between Dec. 2017 and March 2018.
One individual contacted said they spoke to Avakian about concerns and allegations regarding Fryer’s behavior that, if true, would violate Harvard’s policies forbidding sexual harassment. The individual said Avakian replied he previously heard similar allegations.
During the conversation, Avakian and the individual also discussed a hypothetical Title IX investigation into Fryer and what that might entail, the individual said.
Responding in part on Avakian’s behalf, Dane declined to comment on Harvard-led inquiries surrounding Fryer and EdLabs.
“In keeping with University policy, we do not discuss details of individual circumstances,” she wrote in an emailed statement Monday.
Harvard affiliates can report violations of the University’s policy forbidding sexual and gender-based harassment in one of two ways. In one option, affiliates can file an informal complaint—meaning Harvard will not conduct an official investigation, but may take steps to address issues raised in the complaint.
The second option involves filing a formal Title IX complaint. To do so, Harvard students, professors, staffers, or some third party must submit a written complaint to ODR.
As of May 2018, Harvard had received at least two formal complaints against Fryer.
One complaint was filed by the client now represented by Shah and Shatz. A separate complaint was filed by an individual roughly a month ago.
“I can confirm that on DATE: Monday, April 16, 2018 5:50p. I filed a formal complaint against Prof. Roland G. Fryer, Jr. with the Office for Dispute Resolution, alleging violations of both Title IX and workplace sexual and gender harassment policy in place at the time of my employment,” the individual wrote in a statement last week.
Both complainants spoke only on the condition of anonymity.
After a formal complaint is filed, ODR performs an initial review of the allegations contained therein. If ODR decides the behavior described in the complaint likely violates Harvard’s sexual and gender-based harassment policy, the office launches an investigation.
The University considers alleged conduct a violation of its policy when the behavior is “sufficiently severe, persistent, or pervasive that it interferes with or limits a person’s ability to participate in or benefit from the University’s education or work programs or activities,” FAS policy states.
Three individuals with knowledge of the situation said ODR has launched at least one investigation into Fryer. Two individuals confirmed ODR is also investigating Allan.
Allan did not respond to a request for comment. Fryer wrote in an emailed statement that he has sought to create a welcoming atmosphere in EdLabs.
“The environment at EdLabs is very intense, fast moving and demanding -- reflecting the urgency of its mission to understand, and help reduce, racial and gender inequality in America,” Fryer wrote. “That said, I have worked diligently to foster a deeply inclusive environment at EdLabs where all people and all perspectives from all walks of life are welcome and respected.”
Four former EdLabs employees said they were contacted within the last two months by Brigid Harrington, an investigator for ODR, about an investigation her office is conducting.
Harrington sent at least three of the four individuals an email in mid-May asking them to provide testimony related to an investigation being conducted by ODR specifically under the FAS sexual and gender-based harassment procedures. The Crimson reviewed copies of all three emails.
ODR Director Bill D. McCants confirmed via email that his office only contacts individuals asking for testimony if ODR is leading an investigation.
University spokesperson Tania deLuzuriaga declined to comment on Harrington’s behalf.
Two current EdLabs employees—Noveck and Vankudre—said Fryer has never, to their knowledge, behaved in a sexist or misogynistic manner.
“I’ve never witnessed Roland engage in anything that I would consider to be sexist, misogynistic, racist,” Noveck said in the interview last week. In an earlier interview, Noveck said she currently works remotely roughly 80 percent of the time and last worked full-time in EdLabs in 2012.
“I find the idea that he’s sexist, it’s completely absurd,” Vankudre said in the group interview.
Vankudre pointed to the fact that three of the four senior managers in EdLabs are women.
“I think if you’re sexist, you don’t choose women to run your lab,” she said.
At least since March, Fryer has been unable to enter the lab he founded.
At any point during the complaint process, Harvard’s Title IX Office can implement “interim measures” designed to “protect the initiating party or the Harvard community,” according to FAS procedures.
These interim measures may include “restrictions on contact, course or work schedule alterations, changes in housing, or increased monitoring of certain areas of campus,” the procedures state.
Harvard appears to have taken interim measures against Fryer roughly two months ago.
On March 14, five University officials stopped by EdLabs and held a closed-door meeting with lab staffers, according to EdLabs finance director Cyr. She said the visiting officials included Avakian, Dean of Social Sciences Claudine Gay, FAS Senior Human Resources Consultant Sandy Stergiou, FAS Assistant Dean for Faculty Affairs Kwok W. Yu, and Executive Director of Harvard’s Center for African Studies Susan E. Cook.
At the meeting, the five officials told EdLabs staff Harvard was taking several steps related to Fryer and the lab, according to Cyr. The officials did not explain why Harvard was taking these steps, Cyr said.
Specifically, the officials said the University had banned Fryer and EdLabs Chief of Staff Allan from setting foot in EdLabs, according to Cyr. The officials also announced Harvard had installed Cook as the interim executive director of the lab, Cyr said.
An internal Harvard directory currently lists one of Cook’s titles at the school as “Executive Director (FAS FCOR EdLabs Staff).” Cook is not listed on the EdLabs website, which still names Fryer as the lab’s faculty director.
The five officials also outlined a new protocol for all communications between Fryer and staffers, Cyr said. Under the new system, Fryer and Allan were required to copy Cook on all messages the two sent to EdLabs staff, according to Cyr.
Four individuals with knowledge of the situation confirmed Cyr’s account. The individuals also said the Harvard officials at the March 14 meeting specifically described the new policies as “interim measures.”
Dane declined to confirm or deny whether Harvard had taken interim measures against Fryer, though she pointed to the FAS sexual and gender-based harassment policy and procedures.
“We review all concerns brought to our attention to determine whether there is a hostile environment on our campus, and as needed, put in place measures to support members of the community. We continue to encourage any member of our community who has experienced inappropriate behavior to come forward,” she wrote.
Asked about the March meeting and directives in an interview last week, Fryer’s lawyer Leontire confirmed Harvard has barred the professor from EdLabs as part of an ongoing investigation. He declined to say whether the inquiry is a Title IX investigation.
“I’m not saying Title IX; I’m just saying investigation. I think that’s what we do have here,” Leontire said in an interview last week. “No one is going to deny this event took place and that some interim measures have been put in place.”
Leontire added he believes the measures imposed comprise “standard protocol.”
“Obviously the University has received some information that caused them to use what has been described to me as fairly standard protocol in the process of evaluating information,” Leontire said.
Leontire declined to say who told him the policies were “standard protocol.”
University Title IX Officer Nicole M. Merhill confirmed via email that, though Title IX coordinators can implement interim measures during any formal or informal complaint process, not every ODR investigation involves interim measures. Merhill noted the majority of complaints result in interim measures.
Merhill added there are no uniform set of interim measures. She confirmed the measures applied are always tailor-made for that situation.
In the interview last week, Leontire repeatedly refused to elaborate on either the March measures or what he called the “information” that sparked them.
“In that process, people who were involved in discussion on that are told not to discuss,” he said.
People involved in a formal Title IX complaint are “free to share their own experiences” but cannot reveal “information that they have learned solely through the investigatory process,” according to FAS policies on sexual and gender-based harassment.
Leontire confirmed in the interview that the interim measures against Fryer and Allan were still in place. He also speculated as to why Harvard implemented the policies.
“I think the fact that the University took the actions that they took means that they’re looking at a question,” he said. “It could be a serious question. It might not be a serious question.”
At the close of an ODR investigation, the office compiles a report detailing its findings and makes a set of recommendations. Given Fryer is a Faculty member, ODR will send its final report to the FAS dean, who will then decide whether to take action.
FAS procedures for sexual and gender-based harassment by faculty state ODR-suggested “sanctions may range from reprimand to dismissal.”
Only the Harvard Corporation, the University’s highest governing body, can vote to revoke a faculty member’s tenure. Fryer earned tenure in 2008 at age 30, making him the youngest African American to ever win a tenured professorship at Harvard.
As ODR continues its investigation, a separate inquiry into Fryer is progressing at the state level—specifically, within the Massachusetts Commission Against Discrimination.
MCAD enforces Massachusetts anti-discrimination laws, which prohibit discrimination on the basis of “membership in a protected class, such as race, color, creed, national origin, age, disability, gender, gender identity, sexual orientation, and more,” according to the MCAD website.
It is unclear exactly when the woman represented by Shah and Shatz filed the MCAD complaint. Massachusetts law stipulates MCAD complaints must be filed within 300 days of the most recent alleged instance of discrimination.
After an individual files a complaint with MCAD, the Commission must determine whether the complaint “can be accepted,” according to the MCAD website. If the Commission accepts the complaint, MCAD will then kickstart a “formal investigation,” according to the site.
As one of the first steps of that investigation, MCAD mails a copy of the complaint to the “named ‘Respondent(s),’” the website reads.
Fryer has received a copy of the MCAD complaint, according to documents obtained by The Crimson—meaning the Commission has chosen to pursue an investigation.
The complaint names Fryer, Allan, and Harvard as respondents, the documents reveal.
During an MCAD investigation, a Commission investigator gathers information by interviewing witnesses, making “site visits,” and reviewing relevant documents, according to the MCAD website.
The MCAD process could ultimately result in a decision ranging from dismissal of the complaint to the imposition of damages against Fryer potentially amounting to hundreds of thousands of dollars.
The complainant could also choose to withdraw their complaint from the MCAD and instead pursue a lawsuit in state or federal court.
—Staff writer Shera S. Avi-Yonah can be reached at shera.avi-yonah@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter at @saviyonah.
—Staff Writer Angela N. Fu can be reached at angela.fu@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @angelanfu.
