News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The past eleven years have brought dramatic changes to Harvard, and we have been fortunate to have University President Drew G. Faust at the helm for that time. As the University’s first female president prepares to leave her Massachusetts Hall office at the end of June, we are appreciative of the direction in which she has steered this university during her tenure.
The role of University president has grown to include the titles of fundraiser and lobbyist. This has lead Faust to focus her energies on Harvard’s presence and perception beyond Cambridge. From spearheading diversity initiatives and building a new future across the Charles River, Faust has made decisions—sometimes controversial, but almost always difficult—that will impact the University for decades to come. While we have not always agreed with Faust, Harvard has, by and large, benefited from her judgement, constancy, and restraint.
As she moved into Mass. Hall in 2007, Faust moved forward with many University-wide projects initiated by her predecessor, Lawrence H. Summers, choosing to maintain the status quo. While she may not have begun her tenure by significantly changing the University’s course, her approach to leadership, including its conservative elements, became absolutely essential to keeping Harvard together throughout the following decade.
Just a year into her tenure, the Great Recession struck, taking with it an estimated $11 billion from the endowment within 12 months and threatening the operations of the entire University. Faust and her staff took immediate action to cancel or stop many projects, most notably stopping all construction on the new Allston campus expansion in 2010. While this move particularly upset relations between Harvard and Allston, it was the right decision in retrospect. The stability of the University's finances demanded financial conservatism. Indeed, renewed progress on the Allston campus, which is slated to open in two short years, is a testament to the power that the endowment and changing economic prospects hold over this school. Harvard’s endowment today has recovered to its pre-recession levels.
Faust continued to make the right choices for Harvard’s finances after the recession. The University’s record-setting capital campaign, which concludes in a month, has raised over two billion dollars more than its initial goal.
Despite the success of the capital campaign, however, much attention has also been paid to the endowment’s disappointing returns under her tenure. While we cannot blame Faust wholly for the actions of the Harvard Management Company, which manages the University’s finances, HMC should have been more closely examined and restructured sooner rather than later, as only in the past two years have changes been made. Due to the endowment’s lackluster performance, financial cutbacks from the recession have persisted—for instance, within the College, hot breakfast has still not made a return to the Houses since its removal in 2009. Nonetheless, we appreciate Faust’s efforts in the campaign to convince alumni and other donors to strengthen the University’s financial wellbeing.
As Harvard’s first female president, it is fitting that one of the main tenets of the Faust presidency has been making Harvard a more diverse and inclusive university. Many of her initiatives, such as the expansion of financial aid in 2007, have seen much success. Indeed, financial aid spending has increased by nearly 90 percent since the expansion.
The extent to which Faust has impacted student and faculty diversity is more difficult to assess. The College’s student diversity has increased over the course of her tenure, although, barring her initiatives with respect to financial aid, it is unclear whether Faust herself has influenced admissions to the College. As for the faculty, the diversity of those tenured has been increasing over the years, but the rate of growth remains too slow. We have previously noted that a lack of faculty diversity can cause cultures in certain departments to be unwelcoming to underrepresented groups at Harvard.
In alignment with this concern, the Presidential Task Force on Inclusion and Belonging—a body that Faust herself commissioned—recommended that the University do more to bring in and retain a diverse body of faculty in its March 2018 report. While it is disappointing that more had not been done concerning this issue throughout Faust’s tenure, it is heartening that she allocated $10 million of presidential funds to hiring new faculty in response to the committee’s report.
Still, the most prominent policy initiated under Faust—in the eyes of undergraduates—in her quest to make Harvard more inclusive was the sanctions against members of single-gender social groups. Starting with the Class of 2021, the policy bars members of these organizations from leadership positions in recognized student organizations and sports teams, and prevent them from receiving official College endorsements for prestigious fellowships. The sanctions were first announced by Faust in May 2016. Administrators initially justified the policy as a means to combatting  sexual assault and promoting non-discrimination on campus, but it would take almost two years of debate until the Harvard Corporation, of which Faust is a member, stepped in, codifying the policy for the foreseeable future. This step was a necessary one to end such a long and grueling debate on the topic and to ground a new policy that may do real good for Harvard’s social culture.
Nonetheless, many mistakes were made in the process of instituting the policy. Faust and others failed to recognize the difference between male final clubs and sororities by applying blanket sanctions to all unrecognized social organizations. Additionally, finalized implementation mechanisms for the policy were not communicated to the student body in a timely fashion.
Harvard’s now-codified social policy on unrecognized single-gender social groups is ultimately a good one, but Faust could have drastically improved the implementation process. As a result, despite her success in generally creating a more diverse and inclusive Harvard, the rollout of social group sanctions will be remembered as an error, and will remain an unfortunate stain on her presidency.
Faust’s tenure coincided with an increasingly contentious political climate, both in relation to national issues and campus-centered ones. In response, she took on an increasingly important role lobbying political leaders and advocating for higher education. In 2017, the University spent $610,000 on lobbying Congress, $60,000 more than it did the year before. These advocacy efforts were focused on federal research funding, student aid, higher education policies, and endowment taxes.
Faust has led these efforts, expanding her own lobbying as Harvard did. After the 2016 election, Faust described “ramping up” her efforts to protect undocumented immigrants and safeguard science research funding. Some of this has been in response to government actions threatening individuals at Harvard. Faust has publicly supported the DREAM Act, and she has even intervened on behalf of an undocumented student detained at an airport.
Indeed, Faust said this past February that University administrators are doing “everything [they] can possibly think of” to push for legislation securing legal protections for undocumented students and staff. Importantly, she has lobbied both through discussions with lawmakers and through appeals to the general public, for example, appearing on CBS this past September to advocate for a replacement to DACA.
In this vein, Faust has taken on a role as a sort of national spokesperson for academia, penning an op-ed defending federal humanities funding and advocating against a GOP tax plan she described as a “blow at the strength of American higher education.” Her lobbying prowess was illustrated during the fight over proposals in the GOP tax plan this past year to implement a tax on university endowments and change the treatment of graduate student tuition waivers. Faust made numerous public appearances advocating against these measures that targeted higher education.
At times, we have expressed our wishes that she had spoken out more—and more forcefully—on certain issues, including that of designating Harvard a sanctuary campus. Yet we remain supportive of her lobbying efforts on behalf of higher education in an increasingly contentious political environment. The University, and indeed the nation, was advantaged by her efforts.
From conservative spending in the face of a recession to increased lobbying in response to political turmoil, Faust has repeatedly crafted her policies in light of external circumstances. In doing so, she treated the Harvard presidency an as administrative position, above all else. A good administrator, however, need not be cautious in their work. As the Great Recession and other constraints have been lifted, Faust has rightfully broken her conservative streak in favor of more proactive and ambitious leadership.
Any leader of a large institution has certain expectations they must meet. For the president of Harvard, this requires stringent attention to advancing the University’s academics, promoting its finances, and representing the school’s interests on a national scale. Faust has succeeded in doing all of these things.
Exceptional leaders, however, must go beyond their positions and raise their institutions to new and unforeseen levels. In this regard, the University’s president should transcend expectations, establishing policies that look towards long-term growth.
Faust’s policy on social organizations and her advancement of Harvard on an international scale have done just this. The social group policy confronts over a hundred years of final clubs deeply embedding themselves within Harvard, and we applaud her efforts—however flawed—to take such a strong stance against them. In the later part of her tenure, Faust seemed willing to gamble her immediate popularity for the sake of the University’s long-term improvement. We believe this is often the mark of a true leader.
As we ourselves have recognized, Faust has sometimes struggled to implement these more proactive policies, but the mark of a truly phenomenal leader and an astute administrator is taking risks when the circumstances favor it. The Great Recession and the Summers presidency no longer obstruct the University’s daily functions, making the later part of Faust’s tenure the perfect time to consider the school’s longstanding challenges, such as exclusivity.
We urge incoming University President Lawrence S. Bacow to learn from Faust’s presidency. He need not necessarily imitate her early focus on financial conservatism. He should not exactly imitate her later attention to social groups and international growth. Bacow should note, however, that these distinct phases both made sense in light of their contemporary circumstances. Adapting to the campus and global climate is essential to the Harvard presidency.
Good leaders—and good Harvard presidents, specifically—must focus on what is needed in the moment, rather than trying to fit some ideal model of good leadership. To risk one’s own legacy with due constraint in tumultuous times, or with unsettling but beneficial policies in calm periods, makes for a truly great president.
Faust did just this, making her tenure an excellent one.
President Faust, you will be dearly missed.
This staff editorial solely represents the majority view of The Crimson Editorial Board. It is the product of discussions at regular Editorial Board meetings. In order to ensure the impartiality of our journalism, Crimson editors who choose to opine and vote at these meetings are not involved in the reporting of articles on similar topics.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Thirty-one years ago, when I graduated from the College of William and Mary, the university didn’t choose the student commencement speaker using grades or academic achievement. Instead the school held a public-speaking competition that I entered, and won. That’s why, on graduation morning, as a long line of my robed classmates snaked across campus towards the auditorium, I was still in the lounge of my dorm, trying desperately to think of something to say.
It’s not like I didn’t think about the speech in the days after the competition. But I had always envisioned graduation speeches as imparting some deep wisdom to the assembled graduates and parents. Unfortunately, my main idea sounded obvious and trite. I wanted to encourage the graduates to give something back to the society that had given them something so valuable—a college education. But that sentence takes a few seconds to say. I had more time to fill, but I didn’t know how.
When the line of graduates passed my dorm, I had finally run out of time. I raced downstairs and took a spot in line. We marched into the auditorium and before long it was my turn to talk. I spoke about the minor campus kerfuffle involving the cost of our robes, which was around $10 or $20 each (in 1987 dollars, of course). I said the money could have been used for something far more useful to society than graduation robes, which after that day wouldn’t do anyone any good. Surprisingly, the speech went over well.
That was 31 years ago. With a little more time to think, I realize now that I omitted something important back then. I told my fellow graduates that they should give something back because it was the right thing to do—that they owed the world something in return for all that they’d been given. I should have added that thinking beyond yourself when planning your career is more than a duty. It’s actually the only way a life of work can be truly fulfilling.
I don’t mean to say that the world’s only happy workers are Peace Corps volunteers or social workers.  Nor is raw ambition necessarily bad. As an economist, it’s my sworn duty to tell you that ambition makes a lot of good things possible. Sergey Brin and Larry Page may not have invented Google because they thought that the world needed a better search engine. They may just have wanted to make a lot of money.
But ambition is a strange thing. As you work toward some goal, you tell yourself that you’ll be exceptionally happy once you get it. Then you reach that goal, and you are happier than normal, but only for a short while. Then you’re after some other goal. This pattern may sound familiar. To get into Harvard you must have busted your humps in high school. After all that work, you were no doubt elated when you learned you were coming here. But how long did it take before the elation faded, you came back down to earth, and you started working for something else?
Psychologists have a term for this phenomenon: the hedonic treadmill. For people in the research world, the treadmill usually involves goals like getting a paper published or winning an intellectual argument. For some, it means winning a Nobel Prize. But like Harvard acceptances, the psychic rewards of those accomplishments don’t last forever, and soon after each is met, you’re off chasing another.
For me, getting off the treadmill means remembering why I became an economist in the first place. I’m fascinated with how the economy works, and I like to share what I learn about it with others. It’s nice to do that in a published journal article. But I can also do it in a Harvard classroom, in a public lecture, or just talking with someone who wants to learn.
And there it is—the giving back I was talking about earlier. Defining a career in terms of what you can do for others gives your work meaning that lasts longer than the fleeting rewards of the hedonic treadmill. For you, that career may be on Wall Street, helping firms get funding and workers get jobs. You could also work at a manufacturing plant, a small business, a non-profit, or a nursing home. What you do isn’t important. Why you do it is.
So, in this time of beginnings, spare a moment for how you want your career to end. When you retire, what problem would you like to have solved? Who would you like to have helped? You probably won’t be able to answer those questions today. But you can start moving today towards a career that feels more like a calling than a job. And don’t waste time. The next 31 years will go by faster than you think.
Christopher L. Foote is a Professor of the Practice of Economics and a research economist at the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston. The views expressed in this article are those of the author and do not necessarily reflect the position of the Federal Reserve System or the Boston Fed.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
As you’re well aware, the Harvard ticket to success that you’ve just earned puts you light-years ahead of the pack. Many in your class will have the option to join the ranks of the most privileged and powerful. But you also have the option to take another road, to challenge that world of power and privilege, and to transform it. Today’s interconnected world is one small boat, and right now, that boat is heading straight over the waterfall. We need a new direction, and fast, towards a world that puts people, planet, and peace over profit.
Fortunately, your generation is already leading the way. From the boycotts of “white only” lunch counters to Vietnam war protests and the women’s movement of the 1960s, to today’s Black Lives Matter protests, the fight for immigrant and LGBTQ rights, pipeline resistance, and the Fight for Fifteen, youth have always been the leading edge of transformation. I urge you to redouble the struggle and fight for the greater good like our lives depend on it. Because, in fact, they do.
More beholden than ever to Wall Street and war profiteers, the political establishment has brought us crises of historic proportions. A mere three billionaires now possess as much wealth as the poorer half of the United States. Meanwhile, stagnating wages and skyrocketing costs of living have left one in two American families in or near poverty, with 75 percent of Americans living paycheck to paycheck, and 45 million locked in student loan debt. With hardship compounded by systemic racism, the average African American family holds little over five cents of wealth for every dollar that a white family has.
Your future is also imperiled by skyrocketing U.S. militarism that’s making us less secure, not more. Consuming over half of discretionary expenditures, with over 800 bases around the world and special forces in 149 countries, the global sweep of American empire is unprecedented. Endless war in the Middle East has cost over $5 trillion dollars and untold carnage, while creating failed states, mass refugee migrations and worse terrorist threats. Meanwhile 2000 US and Russian nuclear weapons are on hair trigger alert, as flashpoints for nuclear Armageddon intensify from the Korean Peninsula to Iran, Syria, and the Russian border.
The climate crisis you face is beyond an emergency, with each year bringing new extremes of heat, storms, drought and floods. The foremost US climate scientist, James Hansen, has predicted a catastrophic sea level rise of 10 feet or more as soon as 2065. There’s not a moment to lose.
Fortunately these problems are intrinsically solvable. But we need solutions as big as the crises barreling down on us. We need a wartime-scale Green New Deal jobs program creating a 15-year transition to 100 percent renewable energy to turn the tide on climate change, revive the economy and make wars for oil obsolete; health care and education as human rights, with a student debt bailout; a humane economy including living wages, strong unions, worker cooperatives, taxing the rich; a welcoming path to citizenship and end to mass incarceration; a foreign policy based on diplomacy, human rights and international law, including the new treaty banning nuclear weapons.
The good news is that the momentum for change is unprecedented, with a record 61 percent of Americans—and 71 percent of millennials—now calling for a new major political party to better serve everyday people. Demand is also growing for election reform that liberates voters to vote for such candidates. A simple reform gaining momentum across the country, Ranked Choice Voting, allows you to rank your choices and, if your first choice loses, automatically reassigns your vote to your second choice. RCV ends the fear-mongering against independent candidates and voters who are fed up with the status quo.
Paraphrasing Alice M. Walker, the biggest way people give up power is by not knowing we have it to start with. In fact, you have that power—with historic crises that compel change, and public hunger that demands it. The younger generation has always provided the spark to make change possible. You didn’t create this crisis. But you—more than anyone—can fix it. For the sake of all of us, please keep leading the charge.
Dr. Jill E. Stein ’79 was the Green Party’s nominee for President of the United States in 2012 and 2016.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Almost 50 years after former University President Derek C. Bok’s administration instituted a novel framework for promoting racial diversity throughout the University’s schools, the question of whether Harvard can—or should—pursue race-conscious admissions policies remains unanswered in the national discourse.
As the University faces a lawsuit in federal court over their admissions policies from one direction and an investigation led by the Justice Department into these policies from another, the legacy of Bok’s efforts at diversification is on the line, according to University lawyers and affiliates.
For opponents of Harvard’s race conscious admissions policies, however, the issue is not one of diversity, but rather equality. Those who have brought complaints against the University have said they believe current policies discriminate against Asian American applicants and, therefore, are in violation of Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964.
The lawsuit and the separate, but related, Justice Department investigation aim to resolve this dispute. Now several years into legal proceedings, much remains at stake, according to Harvard affiliates, legal scholars, and opponents of the University’s policies.
In Nov. 2014, Students for Fair Admissions, an anti-affirmative action group, filed a lawsuit against the University in the United States District Court in Boston.The lawsuit filing alleged Harvard “uses ‘holistic’ admissions to disguise the fact that it holds Asian Americans to a far higher standard than other students and essentially forces them to compete against each other for admission.”
The University’s lawyers responded in kind and wrote a briefing which said Harvard “denies each and every allegation, statement, and matter contained in the Complaint and, in particular, denies that it has engaged in racial discrimination in violation of Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964.”
After roughly three-and-a-half years of litigation, both parties have maintained their arguments as the lawsuit remains in its preliminary stages.
Legal experts anticipate significant progress, however, in the next several months. Throughout the summer, Judge Allison D. Burroughs will receive briefings and hear arguments on whether the case can be decided by summary judgement—that is, without a trial. Burroughs, among others, has suggested the case is likely to require a trial, and has tentatively scheduled one for mid-October. This trial would likely involve experts from both sides, including admissions officers and legal scholars.
“What’s going to happen next is a little unusual,” said Matthew M. Cregor, who works for the Lawyers’ Committee for Civil Rights and Economic Justice, which is assisting with Harvard’s legal defense. “We’re gearing up to see this fought in court. Much of that battle will be a battle of the experts—the folks that each party has brought in to make sense of the data and make sense of the process.”
University administrators have said they believe challenges to Harvard’s admissions policies put the educational mission of the University at risk.
"There’s a great deal at stake here. The kind of diverse student community that is the hallmark of Harvard College is one we wish to preserve and, in order to do so, we would like to continue to take into account the wide range of factors that comprise any student's being and any student's file,” Faust said in a May interview. "Race is one of these factors, but it is only one."
In reference to the lawsuit, Harvard spokesperson Rachael Dane wrote, "Harvard College does not discriminate against applicants from any group in its admissions processes. We will continue to vigorously defend the right of Harvard, and other universities, to seek the educational benefits that come from a class that is diverse on multiple dimensions.”
For the Class of 2022, a record-high 22.6 percent of matriculants to date are Asian American. Also a record high, 14.5 percent of those planning to matriculate are African American. Latino students comprise 10.8 percent of the total, and Native Americans and Native Hawaiians 2.3 percent.
Edward Blum, president of Students for Fair Admissions and a longtime opponent of affirmative action, argued what’s at stake in the lawsuit is primarily the continuation of what he said he sees as illegal discrimination.
“The motivation behind the lawsuit is to end racial classifications and preferences in university admissions,” Blum wrote in an email.
In May 2015, several months after the lawsuit began, a coalition of 64 Asian American groups filed an independent complaint against the University with the federal Departments of Education and Justice, alleging that Harvard discriminates against Asian-American applicants to the College. The Department of Education dismissed the complaint. The Justice Department appeared to take no action.
Less than two years after the complaint was filed, in 2017, the Justice Department—now under the leadership of President Donald Trump and Attorney General Jeff Sessions—reopened the complaint and launched its own investigation into Harvard.
Some lawyers have said this investigation, as well the federal agency’s April 2018 involvement  in the SFFA lawsuit—in which the Justice Department filed a briefing calling for the unsealing of admissions data—have added a layer of complexity to the dispute.
Harvard has maintained its argument—namely, that it values diversity, but does not discriminate in its admissions processes. The University has repeatedly argued its policies do not discriminate against Asian Americans, and has maintained that the benefits of the diversity achieved by its policies are necessary to fulfill its mission.
As with the lawsuit, the 64 Asian American groups argued in their complaint that they saw Harvard’s policies as fundamentally discriminatory.
Yukong Zhao, president of the Asian American Coalition for Education, one of the 64 groups, said his organization’s belief that Harvard illegally discriminates against Asian Americans motivated the complaint.
“What we are fighting focuses on lawful discrimination against Asian American children,” Zhao said. “I don’t want to categorize our complaint as simply a fight against affirmative action. It’s a fight against unlawful use of race in college admission.”
Throughout both the lawsuit and the Justice Department investigation, the issue of access to admissions information that the University insists must remain confidential has loomed large.
The Justice Department requested documents including admissions data and files, as well as internal correspondence from admissions officers last fall. The University did not provide the documents until the federal agency threatened to take legal action. The documents which Harvard released were then offered for viewing to federal investigators under tightly controlled conditions.
This issue of confidential admissions documents later prompted the Justice Department’s intervention in the Students for Fair Admissions lawsuit. In an April 6 briefing, lawyers for the federal department called on the U.S. District Court to unseal certain admissions data and publically file that data. The University’s lawyers harshly criticized this move, including William F. Lee ’72, who also serves as the Senior Fellow of the Harvard Corporation.
Several legal scholars said the Justice Department briefing, though it will likely have little practical impact on the lawsuit, may have signalled a desire on the part of the department to become more involved in the suit in the future.
Former acting Assistant Attorney General William R. Yeomans, who worked in the civil rights division of the Justice Department for over 26 years, said he believes the department’s actions signify its leadership’s support for the private litigation which is occuring at the same time as its own investigation.
“I think what that filing represents is a pretty clear statement that the Department of Justice wants the private litigation to go forward and they support the private plaintiffs in the lawsuit,” Yeomans said.
Michael J. Klarman, a professor of constitutional law at Harvard Law School, said the department’s public, formal intervention in a high-profile affirmative action case is in line with previous Justice Department actions.
“I don’t think it’s unusual for an administration to weigh in on an important affirmative action case,” Klarman said. “The Reagan administration certainly weighed in against race-based affirmative action. The Carter administration had a decision on Bakke, which was the first of the affirmative action cases of the Supreme Court.”
“I think politically, this is an attractive issue for people who oppose race based affirmative action, because they ultimately portray it not simply as a violation of what they see as a ‘colorblindness mandate,’ but they see it as a form of affirmative race discrimination,” he added.
Yeomans said the Justice Department generally has jurisdiction over racial discrimination for institutions that receive federal funding.
“Any federal funding cannot be used for racially discriminatory purposes,” Yeomans said. “Generally, of course, the agency that administers the grants is responsible for ensuring that, but the Department of Justice also has some authority to report to remedy racial discrimination. And so, that would be what would motivate the Department of Justice to get involved.”
Yeomans also said, in the future, the department may join the ongoing lawsuit or file its own, but will likely closely follow the progress of the case regardless.
Many of those following the dispute over Harvard’s admissions policies closely, regardless of what outcome they expect, said they believe that what follows in the next months and years may broadly impact the viability of affirmative action at private universities throughout the country. Some, including Cregor, said they believe the lawsuit will proceed in some capacity to the Supreme Court.
Vinay Harpalani, an associate professor at Savannah Law School who specializes in race-conscious university admissions, among other issues, said he does not see a point in cases like Harvard’s going to the Supreme Court, as long as the political makeup of the court remains the same.
“I don’t know if they’ll go to the Supreme Court,” Harpalani said. “The Supreme Court has made a recent ruling. But I think changing the public discourse and raising other types of questions is, at least now, what I think is the bigger impact of these cases,” he said.
The recent ruling was the 2016 Fisher v. University of Texas case—in which Blum supported the plaintiff—which a number of lawyers said they believe serves as a useful point of comparison for understanding the legal challenges brought against Harvard.
This case was the most recent Supreme Court case which upheld the legality of the use of race in the admissions process, though it set strict standards for the implementation of such programs.
The ideological composition of the Supreme Court, however, may become more conservative with Trump’s possible future appointments, according to Yeomans. The Fisher case was narrowly decided 4-3, and cases such as the one brought against Harvard may have different outcomes if more justices critical of affirmative are appointed to the court.
Mishell B. Kneeland, one of the lawyers who represented the University of Texas in Fisher v. University of Texas, said she believes the courts have largely set up a legal framework for affirmative action and that the questions at hand in this case may be more societal issues rather than legal ones.
“It’s going to be important for advocates for affirmative action or diversity or whatever you want to call it, to explain that we really have pervasive effects of our old policies and what the benefits of an inclusive society are,” Kneeland said. “And unfortunately, that’s a normative, not a legal issue. And really where half of these battles are fought is in society, not court.”
—Staff writer Delano R. Franklin can be reached at delano.franklin@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @delanofranklin_.
—Staff writer Idil Tuysuzoglu can be reached at idil.tuysuzoglu@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @idiltuysuzoglu.
When Harvard Law School Constitutional Law Professor Laurence H. Tribe ’62 learned that Barack Obama—one of his “best students”—had been elected president of the United States, he reached out immediately to the President-elect to discuss how he might be of service.
“The decision that we made together, with [former U.S. Attorney General] Eric Holder, was that I would leave Harvard for a little while and start up a new office in the Department of Justice on an understudied and underfunded but really pervasive problem—access to justice,” Tribe said.
Tribe left Harvard in 2009 and spent close to a year getting the office off the ground. In 2010, he was officially appointed by Obama and Holder to serve as the first senior counselor of the Office for Access to Justice. Though the office was defunded eight years later by U.S. Attorney General Jeff Sessions this February, Tribe said he “learned a good deal” from the experience.
“I felt that I was making contributions,” he said. “I chose a topic that I knew a bit about but wanted to learn more about and that would feed back into my teaching and my writing.”
Tribe was not alone in his decision to head to Washington. Several members of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences, as well as professors from the Law School and the Kennedy School, also left Harvard to take on administrative positions following Obama’s election.
In stark contrast, very few Harvard faculty have joined the administration of President Donald Trump. Now, more than two years into Trump’s presidency, Carlos E. Diaz Rosillo, a former senior lecturer in the Government Department and Dunster House resident dean, remains the only faculty member to hold a high-ranking position in the administration.
Diaz Rosillo currently serves as Director of Policy and Interagency Coordination in the Office of the Senior Advisor to the President for Policy. He could not be reached for comment.
Faculty members who have worked in the federal government under previous administrations say the drop in Harvard faculty in Washington stems from reciprocal distaste. Harvard faculty do not want to work for Trump—and the administration does not want to elevate the academic elites against whom Trump built his campaign.
Several Harvard faculty members reasoned that ideological differences with Trump’s stances on a number of contentious issues may have disincentivized participation in the administration.
Consistent with the popular belief that Harvard faculty are predominantly liberal, the vast majority of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences identified themselves as “liberal” or “very liberal” in an April survey conducted by The Crimson. Eighty-eight percent of the Faculty indicated they believed Trump has done a “very poor job” as president so far.
Nevertheless, the shortage of faculty members in the Trump administration cannot be solely attributed to party affiliation.
Harvard Kennedy School Public Policy and Management Professor Mary Jo Bane wrote in an emailed statement that even conservative faculty members may be hesitant to serve in the Trump administration.
“Those who might have been invited to serve and happy to do so in a Romney administration...may well find this administration disagreeable,” Bane wrote.
Bane added that she believes Harvard professors working as bureaucrats would prioritize policymaking over politics, but might find doing so difficult in the current administration.
“Whether liberal or conservative, Harvard professors are committed to facts, evidence and policy making based on commitment to the public interest and the common good,” she wrote. “These particular commitments seem to be little valued by the current administration.”
Jason Furman ’92, an economics professor at the Kennedy School and chair of the Council of Economic Advisers under the Obama administration, noted that a number of his colleagues—including Martin S. Feldstein ’61 and N. Gregory Mankiw—served as high-ranking economic advisors in previous Republican presidential administrations.
In an emailed statement, Feldstein wrote that he is “not associated with the Trump administration.”
“I say to those who are asked or might be asked to join the government that it is an opportunity to serve the country and not the President as such,” he wrote.
Still, others—including Tribe—said they believe federal bureaucrats may experience internal conflict when affiliating themselves with an administration with which they disagree politically.
“I certainly know that many people feel a moral dilemma about being part of an administration that they think is doing lots of harm to the environment or to the rule of law or to immigrants or to any of a number of other fundamental American values,” Tribe said.
“They think that, maybe by staying, they will minimize the harm. I don’t know if people are fooling themselves, but that’s certainly what I imagine is the hope of many,” he added.
According to Furman, many past presidential administrations have drawn Harvard faculty, like former University President Lawrence H. Summers, to serve as advisers and high-level bureaucrats.
“There’s a long tradition of Harvard professors being very involved in presidential administrations. It goes back at least to John F. Kennedy,” Furman said. “My very strong sense is that Harvard is much more represented in the high levels of government than are universities that are similarly competitive—than Yale or Princeton or Stanford or something like that.”
“I think there’s something—not just that it’s a very good university, which it obviously is—but something about Harvard that people here are more policy-oriented, are more connected to Washington,” he added.
But unlike his predecessors, Trump has not looked to Cambridge when filling posts in his administration.
“I would imagine there were very few, if any, who were asked. I don’t think Harvard is high on the list of places that Trump or those in his inner circle want to be affiliated with or have any respect for,” Tribe said, pointing to what he called Trump’s criticism of institutions associated with “elitism.”
Graham T. Allison ’62, a government professor at the Kennedy School and assistant secretary of defense under the Clinton administration, agreed with this assessment.
“The Trump election was a rejection of elites, and for better or worse Harvard is kind of an epitome of these elites,” he said. “Trump is basically just a reflection of a large number of people who don’t agree that experts know what experts think they know. They don’t agree that Harvard knows best, they don’t agree that Washington knows best.”
Jill E. Abramson ’76, a senior lecturer in the English Department and the former executive editor of the New York Times, also said part of Trump’s political strategy involves criticism of elitism and bloated government.
According to Abramson, who has covered presidents and campaigns for years, Trump is part of a “historical lineage of presidents and political figures who basically ride down the government and say, ‘government is the problem, not the solution.’”
“People who are in academia and are idealistic about what the government can accomplish would not be attracted or drawn to serve in the Trump administration,” she said.
Economics Department Chair David I. Laibson ’88 said he was “not at all surprised” that very few faculty members were recruited by the Trump administration.
“I think the Trump administration is focused on a lot of broader cultural issues that put a wedge between our community and their worldview,” he said. “It's just not a natural overlap between the values in our community and the values espoused by the administration.”
Furman said Trump generally has “less of an interest in academic advice” and has left vacant or eliminated certain positions typically occupied by academics.
“[Trump] prefers, for example, to get his economic advice from the business community, not from economists, and so he has business types around him, not economist types,” he said. “There are just fewer academic types—not just in the White House, but throughout this administration.”
—Staff writer Delano R. Franklin can be reached at delano.franklin@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @delanofranklin_.
—Staff writer Amy L. Jia can be reached at amy.jia@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @AmyLJia.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard spent $16.4 million on advertising in 2016, tax filings show—enough to book three 30-second primetime spots on Fox’s broadcast of Super Bowl LII.
But the chances of Harvard actually purchasing such an advertisement are low. Walking around Harvard Square and the Greater Boston area, prospective students and tourists are hard pressed to find the typical trappings of such a sizeable budget—billboards branded with the University’s crest or posters emblazoned in crimson.
In many ways, the Harvard name sells itself, according to Law School Director of Executive Education Scott A. Westfahl. Even the University’s newer revenue-generating programs, including executive education and the summer school, benefit from the brand.
“I think the hardest part of my job is knowing that the Harvard brand is incredibly powerful,” Westfahl said. “We have to exceed expectations that are already really, really high.”
John Maguire, former dean of admissions at Boston College, distinguished Harvard from “institutions that are trying to position themselves in the marketplace,” which might need to engage in more general brand promotion.
He pointed to Southern New Hampshire University, which he said has been particularly successful at this goal through its aggressive advertising campaigns.
By contrast, Maguire said Harvard and its peer institutions have rarely needed to engage in this type of marketing. Instead, Harvard has chosen to allocate its sizeable advertising budget to promote short-term and traditionally less-emphasized programs, including executive and continuing education courses.
Among its flagship schools and programs, Harvard does not suffer from lack of interest.
Harvard Medical School’s marquee program, which grants M.D. degrees after four years of study, has a 3.5 percent acceptance rate and received nearly 7,000 applications last year.
But the Medical School does not pay to advertise this program, HMS Spokesperson Gina Vild wrote in an email.
The School of Engineering and Applied Sciences also takes a less active approach to marketing, according to SEAS spokesperson Paul Karoff.
“We do not have a marketing budget, period,” Karoff said. “Anything we do in that regard would be in the public website and just trying to raise awareness through free media.”
Karoff added that the College and the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, which grant degrees on behalf of SEAS, mostly handle promotion and recruitment to prospective engineering students.
James E. Paskill, principal and creative director at Paskill Stapleton & Lord, a higher education marketing firm, said universities advertise executive education—which consists of short, non-degree granting programs—differently than they do these long-term degrees.
“It's very tactical,” he said. “You're going to be choosing things that are going to drive people to a call to action right away, whether that's applying for the program or making a phone call.”
Much of Harvard’s advertising dollars go toward lucrative short-term programs, like the several executive education programs Harvard has developed in recent years  and the Division of Continuing Education’s extension and summer courses, according to University spokesperson Melodie L. Jackson.
“In general, this includes advertising and marketing expenses incurred by schools and departments across the university,” Jackson wrote in an email.
Business School Chief Marketing and Communications Officer Brian Kenny said this is especially important due to the high amount of competition within the field of continuing education.
“The executive education field, generally speaking, is a pretty crowded one,” he said. “Even as prominent as the Harvard Business School brand and reputation is, they constantly have to be out there reminding people that we do this and that we do it well.”
Harvard Medical School offers executive education programs as well, which it markets on multiple platforms, Vild wrote.
She wrote that the Medical School uses both digital and print advertising to reach different audiences—including academics, healthcare executives, students, and members of the general public.
By contrast, Westfahl said the Law School advertises to dispel misconceptions that it offers a “leadership program.”
Unlike other leadership programs for professionals, the Law School’s program is an opportunity for further education in the legal field, Westfahl said.
Schools and departments largely determine how to allocate their own advertising budgets. Some outsource their marketing efforts to independent firms, while others handle campaigns in-house.
Among the outside firms used is PBD Partners, a Cambridge-based digital media and advertising studio. PBD has created advertisements for the Harvard Extension School that debuted on MBTA trains and in Logan Airport.
Shannon Beer, the firm’s principal, said her firm works closely with schools to design materials that best serve the school’s interests.
“All design is a very iterative process,” Beer said. “As much as we want to know everything about [our clients], they’re always going to know themselves best.”
Some graduate schools prefer to keep most of their advertising in-house. Linnea L. DiPillo, a marketing specialist at the School of Public Health, agreed that “we know our programs best." She said this is why the School of Public Health does much of its own marketing.
In recent years, schools including the School of Public Health have started using their social media accounts as a cheaper, but still effective, alternative to expensive ad campaigns or mass-emails.
DiPillo said LinkedIn posts about the school’s executive education courses have constituted some of their most effective advertising efforts.
“People who are active on LinkedIn have already pretty much self-selected as being interested in professional development,” DiPillo said. “They’re looking for opportunities to grow, so we promote articles that we write about the courses.”
The School of Public Health has also specifically targeted their alumni with marketing materials for their executive programs.
“We mail to an internal list including our alumni for each program as well as purchase mailing lists from organizations that have a similar audience to what we’re targeting,” DiPillo said.
When Harvard does spend on its more high-profile programs, it does not plaster advertisements on public transportation, but rather invests in market research.
Mark Cunningham, an executive vice president at Massachusetts-based marketing firm Carnegie Dartlet, said this type of research is especially valuable for selective, prestigious institutions like Harvard that do not need to focus as much on brand awareness or increasing enrollment.
Cunningham said these universities conduct market research in order to determine the best strategies for their own digital marketing efforts.
“What perceptions you might understand and shift... can dictate the way that you might approach digital marketing,” he said.
Kenny said the Business School works to change certain perceptions about the school through school-wide marketing efforts. In particular, he said the school has emphasized the strength of its entrepreneurship programs in response to market research.
“Most people, if you were to ask them what schools they think of when they think of entrepreneurship, they immediately go to Stanford or MIT,” he said. “So, if you were to look across our social media and the promotional marketings that we do, we really emphasize entrepreneurship as a key component of what we teach.”
Marketing tactics differ between Harvard’s graduate schools. Westfahl said that the Law School’s marketing materials are intentionally understated to best appeal to their target audience.
“If something looks overproduced and flashy, lawyers are inherently skeptical about it,” Westfahl said.
“Our materials do not need to be as flashy.”
—Staff writer Madeleine R. Nakada can be reached at madeleine.nakada@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @maddynakada.
—Staff writer Luke W. Vrotsos can be reached at luke.vrotsos@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter at luke_vrotsos.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Almost all recognized student groups at Harvard share one common trait: a need for money.
From social gatherings to club retreats to ordinary operating costs, nearly every group must obtain funding to adequately serve its members.
The vast majority of funding for student groups at the College stems from the finance committee of the Undergraduate Council, the College’s student government. The committee, equipped with roughly $300,000 to dole out annually, receives funding requests from student groups throughout the year. The finance committee conducts weekly interviews with group leaders, weighing requests against the UC’s strict funding guidelines.
Yet over the past few years, as the number of recognized student groups on campus has spiked, funding has failed to keep pace. This spring, the finance committee faced a breaking point—ultimately choosing to tap into the UC’s emergency fund to shore up its budget.
In early April, though, the College announced that the student activities fee—the current source of funding for the finance committee—would increase from $75 to $200, changing the calculus for both the committee and for student groups at large.
Student groups at other institutions—including Yale, Princeton, and the University of Pennsylvania—often also draw their funding from fees paid by the student body. But despite similarly high levels of demand for student group funding at the four schools, Harvard’s peers have taken different approaches to ensure funding is available for their campus clubs and organizations.
Soon after the establishment of Harvard’s student governing body in 1982, the newly formed UC opened grant applications to campus student groups. Out of the $58,000 in the Council’s budget at the time, $30,000 was set aside for semesterly grants to campus organizations.
In the following years, as grant requests increased, the Council was forced to make adjustments.
“We get more than 170 grant applications each year, so the average grant that we can give gets smaller and smaller,” former Council President Noah Z. Seton ’00 told The Crimson in 1999.
Over time, the term-bill fee—which students are asked to pay to fund student groups—slowly crept up to compensate: from $10 to $20 in 1988 and then to $35 in 2001.
In 2004, after a concerted push by UC leaders to further increase the activities fee, the faculty—which retained power over term-bill increases when it originally established the Council—voted to increase the optional fee from $35 to $75 over a two-year period. The fee increase nearly doubled the Council’s budget.\
But, even with a larger pool of money, the finance committee continued to face the prospect of cuts to grants. In 2007, for example, the committee grappled with an end-of-the year budget shortfall.
Nonetheless, save for occasional financial obstacles over the years, across-the-board cuts to grants were infrequent, typically reserved for the end of the semester.
Recently, that changed. In fall 2017, the committee imposed an across-the-board cut on all but two weekly grants. In spring 2018, the situation grew more dire when an increase in recognized student groups on campus and higher funding requests totals led to across-the-board cuts consistently above the 25 percent mark. In late March, with the committee preparing to impose a 43 percent cut to its grants pack, the Council used part of its emergency fund to help the committee finance its grant requests.
Finance committee chair Henry S. Atkins ’20 said in an interview in late April that, without any changes in funding this coming year, weekly cuts will likely only continue to grow.
“It’s my expectation that next semester, we’re going to be seeing higher cut rates if no change happens,” Atkins said.
For years, UC leaders have asked administrators to increase the activities fee. In 2012, a report commissioned by the Council called for administrators to raise the fee in order to meet funding requests of student groups.
Dean of Freshmen Thomas A. Dingman ’67 said that, since the beginning of his tenure, one constant has been a demand for money among student groups.
“Students are always asking for more,” he said.
Still, Dingman said students have begun to find other ways to procure funding that do not involve the Council.
“I think one change has been that students are more entrepreneurial,” he said. “So in the absence of grants from the institution, they’ve been very creative about going out to develop their own resources.”
In April 2018, the College announced the activities fee would increase from $75 to $200.
UC leaders viewed the fee increase as a positive change. Council Vice President Nicholas D. Boucher ’19 wrote in an email that the increase will create a “sustainable source” of funding that will “widely benefit” the student body.
“It has the potential to change the amount of funding received by the UC which would affect, among other things, the amount in grants given to student organizations,” Boucher wrote.
The change, though, affects not only the amount of the fee, but also how the money is distributed. While the UC currently receives all money gathered from the activities fee, that will no longer be the case starting fall 2018.
Associate Dean for Student Engagement Alexander R. Miller has said new “funding board”—comprising College administrators, as well as undergraduate representatives from the UC, College Events Board, House Committees, and the Intramural Sports Council—will be charged with allocating the money gathered through the fee.
No longer will the Council automatically receive a set amount of money. Instead, the body will have to show that it—and by extension, the student groups it funds—deserves the money it receives.
“I think the board will also be asking, ‘So with the current funding you’re using, how are you assessing it, how are you engaging with students?’” Miller said.
Finance committee policy chair Seth D. Billiau ’21 urged the new funding board to consider the needs of student groups.
“I would really encourage the University to allocate more money to the UC if only to make sure that the financial stability of OSL-recognized clubs on campus is secure in the future,” Billiau said.
Miller wrote in an emailed statement that the College will work to provide “proper” funding for student groups.
“The College recognizes the importance of a thriving student organization community,” Miller wrote. “We are committed to ensuring that proper funding is provided to allow student groups to offer programming that enriches the student experience at Harvard.”
Miller did not directly respond to a question asking whether the Council will see an increase  in funding for student groups this fall.
In recent years, in order to backstop funding for undergraduate social programming on campus, University President Drew G. Faust has tapped into a portion of her presidential discretionary fund to support events like the [BLANK] party. But with a new president coming to Massachusetts Hall later this year, the future allocation of that fund is uncertain.
“President Faust has been generous in supporting social programming within our office and… we do recognize that she will be stepping down from her office effective June 30,” Miller said. “We feel that this increased fee would bring a sustainable funding source to student organizations, to student programming, broadly.”
“And it would get away from the model that we have built in the past where we relied heavily on philanthropy for student programming,” he added.
Funding for student groups at Yale bears some similarities to funding at Harvard. At both schools, the majority of funding derives from proceeds gathered from a student term-bill fee.
At both schools, students can opt out of the fee—$125 at Yale compared to the current $75 at Harvard—though the opt-out rate differs significantly between the two schools. These differences likely stem from the different routes Harvard and Yale students must take to avoid paying the fee.
To opt out, Yale students simply have to check a box on their application. At Harvard, however, students must send a letter to the College requesting a waiver before they can escape the fee.  The opt-out rate at the College has recently hovered around 1 percent, according to Harvard spokesperson Rachael Dane.
By comparison, Yale’s opt-out rate stood at 7.85 percent in 2014 and has increased since, according to Addison Jakubowicz, the finance director of the Yale College Council.
The higher opt-out rate at Yale can account for tens of thousands in potential lost funding.
“There are many students for which that additional $125 makes a difference and that’s completely understandable,” Jakubowicz said. “We just sometimes find it frustrating that administration expects us to uphold the same level of activities and events on campus with this shrinking number.”
It remains to be seen whether the fee hike at Harvard will lead to an appreciable increase in the number of students opting out. But the last time the fee was increased—in 2006—the opt-out rate did not increase, suggesting increases in the fee do not always correlate with higher opt-out rates.
At both Yale and Harvard, though, requests for money far exceed available funds. As at Harvard, student representatives at Yale have called for a fee increase to address the funding shortage.
“The [Undergraduate Organizations Funding Committee] did recently ask administrators to increase its funding,” said Heidi Dong, incoming vice president of the YCC. “This is an ongoing conversation, so it is still too early to say whether or not we'll be successful.”
Diego Negron-Reichard, a member of the Princeton undergraduate body that oversees student group funding, likewise said he believes an increase to Princeton’s student activities fee—currently the lowest in the Ivy League—is imminent.
“We think that Princeton will see an increase in students fees in the next two years,” Negron-Reichard said. “That's something the USG is lobbying for… mostly because we see the need for greater inclusive events and those are big, bigger ticket items.”
Administrators at Princeton are “very supportive” of a fee increase, according to Negron-Reichard.
While Harvard and Yale’s student governments have often struggled to meet the funding demands of student groups, the University of Pennsylvania is awash in funding for student groups.
Last year, close to $1 million was available to the roughly 230 recognized student groups on Penn’s campus, meaning average per-group funding stood at about $4,300. At Harvard, that figure stands at roughly $650 per group; at Yale, it is just $350.
Penn’s student group funding comes primarily from a $4,752 general fee, approximately half of which accrues to the student government and its funding arm, the Student Activities Council.  The fee, unlike at Harvard and Yale, is mandatory.
Student groups at Penn have two primary options to obtain funding: either apply for money through an large annual grant—decided upon in February of the prior academic year—or apply as needed to a smaller fund, distributed on a rolling basis throughout the year.
Michael Krone, incoming president of Penn’s Undergraduate Assembly, suggested maintaining two separate sources of funding can be advantageous.
“In terms of having money that is allocated on an annual allocation basis, it just saves a lot of time in the long run,” he said. “And then having the contingency fund is helpful because groups aren’t always going to know all of their expenses a year in advance.”
What student groups at the University of Pennsylvania do know is they will continue to have access to a consistently funded million-dollar pool of money for clubs and organizations.
But at Harvard—with an optional fee about to see a price hike and changes in how the fund is distributed—the future of student group funding is less certain.
“This year has been the particularly financially strenuous time for the UC Financial Committee, which has been tasked with distributing a fixed amount of funding to a growing number of student organizations,” Boucher wrote.
—Staff writer Jonah S. Berger can be reached at jonah.berger@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @jonahberger98.
—Staff writer Devin B. Srivastava can be reached at devin.srivastava@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @thebigsriv.

Sections
Forty years ago this year, Joel Seligman wrote “The High Citadel,” a book that explored problems he identified lurking within the “high citadel of American legal education”—Harvard Law School.
Seligman, a 1974 graduate of the Law School, delved into issues related to the school’s admissions policies, competition among students, teaching methods, and the perceived notion that Harvard Law was more oriented towards the private sector than public interest.
“‘The High Citadel’ was written in the hope that law schools can awaken to a broader sense of their public responsibilities,” Seligman wrote in the preface. “Institutions with the reputation of Harvard Law School should act as the conscience of the legal profession, using their independence and prestige as a means to cleanse the practice of law of excessive self-interest and stressing to their students the ethical responsibilities of the individual attorney.”
Fast forward to the present day, and a similar call to action has emerged.
Pete D. Davis ’12, who will graduate from the Law School this month, authored a report on public interest offerings at the school that has since gained widespread attention. The report, timed to coincide with the Law School’s 200th birthday, argues that while public service opportunities have increased and more graduates are opting for careers in the public sector, the school still has an obligation to further incentivize its graduates to pursue careers in public service.
Students and alumni have also voiced concerns about the Loan Income Protection Plan, the school’s loan repayment plan that assists graduates who pursue low-paying legal jobs. A group of Harvard Law students formed a coalition in the fall with the goal of improving the program and ensuring that students who wish to enter public service jobs can do so without crushing debt.
As the Law School enters its third century—and amid a political climate characterized by increasing public distrust in government—questions about its purpose and duty to the world have caught the attention of its students, faculty, and alumni. Echoes of Seligman's words can be heard in the recent wave of student activism around public service, which looks unlikely to die down anytime soon.
Historically, Harvard Law graduates have overwhelmingly gravitated towards the private sector.
Ralph Nader, a 1958 Law School graduate and five-time presidential candidate, wrote the introduction to Seligman’s “The High Citadel.”
“It is not easy to take the very bright young minds of a nation, envelop them in conceptual cocoons and condition their expectations of practice to the demands of the corporate law firm,” Nader wrote. “But this is what Harvard Law School did for over a half century to all but a resistant few of the 40,000 graduates.”
Nader was not alone in his push for greater public interest participation. A Crimson article published in 1989 documented student backlash to the elimination of the Law School's office for public interest law placement.
The article reported that Robert C. Clark, the dean at the time, had decided to nix the office due to budget cuts. Students were still able to receive advising on public interest career options, though there were no full-time advisers specifically focused on the public sector.
The decision was met by protests. Nearly 300 students attended a rally for public service law, and 1055 of around 1600 enrolled students signed a petition directed at Clark.
The article also reported that at the time only 6 percent of Law School graduates pursued public interest careers.
Financial barriers have long served as a deterrent to public service careers. The Harvard Law Record recently re-published an article from 1977—the year before “The High Citadel” came out—about a faculty proposal to defer tuition payments until after graduation.
Stephen G. Breyer, a former Law School professor and current justice of the United States Supreme Court, expressed concern in the piece that sizable tuition debt could deter students from pursuing public interest jobs.
“Committee member Prof. Stephen G. Breyer believes that some students may shy away from low-paying public interest careers because of their heavy financial obligations,” the article states. “Breyer believes that the Law School doesn’t provide sufﬁcient incentives for students with ﬁnancial obligations to enter public-interest jobs.”
Seventy percent of surveyed students in 1986 wanted to practice public interest law, according to a 1992 Crimson article, but Law School alum Richard D. Kahlenberg '85 said only a handful of students ultimately went down this path.
“Students enter law school because they want to be like Atticus Finch...[but] at graduation most go to corporate law firms," Kahlenberg said at the time.
Though the issue has never exactly lain dormant, in 2018, public interest at the Law School is once again dominating campus conversation. Law students have made clear that while opportunities for public service have come a long way, there is still room for improvement.
The 1992 Crimson article reported that 6 percent of Law School graduates that year pursued public interest, compared to the 16.84 percent of non-clerkship-bound graduates who did so in 2017. Public interest in these statistics includes careers in public interest, government, and education.
Davis first published “Our Bicentennial Crisis” in November. The book-length report charges that Harvard Law School—as the “longest continuously running law school in the United States”—must play a role in addressing public distrust in the American legal system.
The report describes itself as a “call to action for Harvard Law School’s public interest mission,” and it specifically challenges the school to meet a threshold of 51 percent of graduates going into public service.
In an interview this month, Davis said his campaign rests on a belief that the Law School has a duty to promote public interest.
“HLS has a mission statement; it’s ‘to educate leaders who contribute to the advancement of justice and the well-being of society,’” he said. “I believe in institutional integrity of the mission statement and I think we should always be pushing any one part of the Harvard community to better live up to our missions.”
Davis’s report quickly caught the attention of Law students, faculty, and alumni.
In February, Davis moderated a discussion on public interest between Law School professors Randall L. Kennedy, Carol S. Steiker ’82, Duncan Kennedy ’64, and Todd D. Rakoff ’67. Two months later, a group of Law School alumni signed an open letter addressed to Law School Dean John F. Manning ‘82, asking him if he intended to “present a detailed response to this rare student report.”
“The dean generally does not comment on correspondence with alumni,” Law School spokesperson Michelle Deakin wrote in a statement.
Nader, one of the alumni who signed the alumni letter last month, said in an interview last month he believes the Law School advances “corporate power.”
“They’re training legal plumbers instead of people who look out for the overall ability of the law to serve the people and the people to utilize the law in all dimensions,” he added.
In an email, Manning wrote that the Law School is “deeply committed to public interest” and that they “dedicate vast and growing resources to support that commitment.”
Manning also pointed to statistics indicating that students in the JD Class of 2018 spent 637 hours on average performing pro bono work during their time at Harvard—more than 12 times the requirement of 50 hours. In this class alone, students logged 376,532 hours of pro bono service, according to Manning.
Manning also wrote that the school is “on pace to fund for our graduates more than two dozen public interest fellowships.” The Law School guarantees summer public interest funding for every student working for a non-profit or the government, he wrote. Around 400 students rely on the program each summer.
Adam T. Stofsky, a 2004 Law School graduate, said that 20 percent of students going into public interest is considerably higher than the proportion he remembered back in the early 2000s.
“It certainly felt like the number was closer to 97 percent, 98 percent,” Stofsky said. “If you told me that 99 percent of Harvard law school students went to either law firms or a sort of tracked government job, I would not be surprised.”
He added that while “far more people should choose to pursue public interest careers,” the significant increase since his time as a Law student shows “a lot of improvement.”
“I think it [HLS] does a lot more than a lot of other law schools,” Stofsky said.
Jason Adkins, a 1991 Law School graduate who signed the recent alumni letter, said the path from Harvard Law to public service is not as well-supported—or well-trod—as it could be.
“There’s just not enough of the resources and not enough of the focus of the culture of the school and curriculum is geared in that direction, and more needs to be,” he said.
Manning wrote that his duty is to make sure students receive every opportunity to pursue their desired careers.
“My job as dean is to help our students find the tools, resources, and imagination to identify, pursue, and excel at careers that will provide them the greatest professional fulfillment and allow them to contribute in the ways most suited to their talents and aspirations,” he wrote.
Law students say the burden of high tuition debt remains an obstacle to pursuing careers in the public sector.
Law School tuition for the 2017-2018 academic year was set at $61,650, with the school budgeting $92,200 to include fees and allowance.
The Law School’s LIPP program aims to combat this problem by paying back some loans of graduates who enter low-paying legal careers—many of which are in the public sector.
Students publicly questioned some of LIPP’s policies this year, though. A group of more than 175 students and alumni wrote an open letter in the fall asking Manning to improve the program, charging that the Law School had “fallen behind” similar programs at peer institutions.
The Coalition to Improve LIPP, a group of Law School students committed to improving the LIPP program, grew out of this action. Coalition members drafted their own open letter to Manning this spring that called for changes to the LIPP program, including “improving the participant contribution scale,” increasing transition time for students moving between jobs, improving family leave and dependent care policies, doing away with the cap for undergraduate borrowing, and removing the cap for retirement asset protections.
Since then, the coalition has submitted recommendations to the Financial Aid Committee, which will pass their recommendations to the dean for consideration.
Rachel J. Sandalow-Ash ’15, president of the coalition and a first-year Law student, said that improving the LIPP program could help more students who wish to go into public service, but are wary of their sizable debts, to do so.
The coalition conducted a survey of the student body from November to January to gauge students’ career plans. Three hundred forty-one students filled out the survey, and Sandalow-Ash wrote in an email that the survey displayed response bias in favor of those who wanted to go into public interest work.
“We did this survey of the student body, and we found that about 30 percent of the student body said that if debt were not an issue, they would be pursuing public interest work but as things stand they are going into the private sector,” Sandalow-Ash said.
Sandalow-Ash attributed an uptick in student focus on public interest partly to the “political moment.”
“I think that this is particularly a political moment when people feel a need to use their law degrees to go out into the world and try to solve some of our most pressing problems of rising poverty and inequality and racial injustice and a whole range of different issues,” she said.
Kenneth H. Lafler, assistant dean for student financial services at the Law School, wrote that LIPP “is among the most flexible and generous loan repayment assistance programs in existence.”
“One of LIPP’s many advantages is that it allows graduates to choose when to enter and leave the program,” he added. “Unlike similar programs at most other law schools, LIPP recognizes that many graduates change career paths within 10 years of graduating for reasons that may be personal or professional.”
Stofsky said that without LIPP he would not have been able to have the career he has enjoyed.
“In my experience, the program has been very effective at supporting me. Could it be better, yeah. Could the income limits be higher? Absolutely,” he said. “But I do think they really saw through a lot of the issues that have impacted me as I’ve matured in my career.”
Manning wrote in his email that the amount of LIPP assistance has grown at a compound annual rate of 15.8 percent over the past 10 years, increasing from $2.6 million in fiscal year 2008 to $9.8 million in fiscal year 2017.
He added that LIPP “has been the fastest growing part of [the Law School’s] budget” and graduates receiving LIPP benefits have grown from 332 to 681 in the 10-year span.
Still, tuition costs have also risen significantly. For the 2005-2006 year, tuition at the Law School was $35,100. By the 2017-2018 academic year, tuition had almost doubled.
The bicentennial provides an ideal time to consider the Law School’s mission and the support the school provides, Adkins said.
“I think bottom line is this is a good time to reflect on that as a law school, including the students and the alumni to make some conscious thoughts about where we're going in the next hundred years,” he said. “It's the perfect time to consider those questions.”
—Staff writer Aidan F. Ryan can be reached at aidan.ryan@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @AidanRyanNH.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
From the vantage point of Avenue Louis Pasteur, Harvard Medical School’s behemoth New Research Building is an imposing presence. Sprawling over more than half a million square feet of floor space across 10 stories, it is the largest structure that Harvard has ever built.
The building boasts a wide array of amenities, including a café, auditorium, and fitness center, and about 800 researchers use its laboratories daily. It stands as a physical testament to the school’s research prowess and international prominence.
But it also represents another long-standing feature of the Medical School: intractable financial difficulties. Construction costs ran $260 million 15 years ago; coupled with the lack of a major donor linked to the project, this expense continues to saddle the school with debt.
This debt is not the school’s only financial challenge: Despite a successful capital campaign, the Medical School has closed nine out of the last 10 fiscal years in the red, last year running a $43.8 million operating deficit.  For administrators, balancing the school’s budget has long been a priority, but a number of challenges—including uncertain federal funding and supporting teaching hospitals—have made that goal illusive.
The New Research Building was built under University President Lawrence H. Summers in the early 2000s as part of a broader investment in the life sciences.
“We must not miss the tremendous opportunity that is inherent in this moment—excellence has its cost,” Summers said at the building’s opening in 2003. “The limits on what we can accomplish are the limits on the imaginations of our scientists.”
When it was built, Harvard could not find a namesake donor, who would usually fund about half the construction cost.
This was not the Medical School’s first New Research Building. In 1992, the school constructed a $57 million facility which originally had the same name, but it was renamed after New York businessman Warren Alpert donated $20 million.
More than a decade and a half later, the naming rights for the second New Research Building remain unsold. The school actively marketed them as late as 2014, when its website offered the opportunity for a donor to bestow a moniker on the building for $50 million.
The debt from the project has challenged the school’s finances for 15 years. Former Medical School Dean Jeffrey S. Flier, who served from 2007 to 2016, said the school had about $500 million in debt early in his deanship, much of which came from the construction of the New Research Building.
“We had a very large amount of debt, and that debt became a major part of our operating expense,” he said.
Flier said he paid down about $170 million of the debt as dean. He also said he recommended the school sell either the New Research Building or the adjacent—but older and smaller—Harvard Institutes of Medicine at 4 Blackfan Circle, in order to relieve some of the school’s debt.
The current dean, George Q. Daley ’82, ultimately chose to sell 4 Blackfan Circle instead of the New Research Building. After listing the building last year, the school has entered final negotiations after receiving about a dozen bids.
“It's clearly going to be a very, very important transaction for us,” Daley said.
The school’s difficulty with debt after the construction of the New Research Building was compounded by the 2008 financial crisis, which significantly decreased endowment returns, an important component of the Medical School’s revenue.
“Many of the financial issues facing the school have persisted since the financial crisis of 2008,” Medical School Chief Financial Officer Michael White wrote in an emailed statement.
While the school has some financial autonomy, Medical School administrators work with the central administration on fiscal planning. Jennifer Dilts, assistant vice president at the Harvard Office of Financial Strategy and Planning, said the University provides general advice to Longwood.
“We do provide some guidance to help them with that process. There is a University budget letter that provides some very high level information on inputs to their budget areas,” she said.
Vice President for Finance and Chief Financial Officer Thomas J. Hollister added that the University does not view budget deficits at individual schools as inherently bad.
“It’s interesting to read about the different schools over time at different economic periods and how it’s not uncommon for one or two schools to be struggling a little bit more,” he said. “There are times when budget deficits are appropriate if somebody is changing strategy, or if they are investing for the purpose or a reason to get a return later.”
Much teaching at Harvard Medical School does not occur in on-campus buildings, but rather in an extensive network of affiliated hospitals, with which Harvard maintains complicated financial relationships.
Its 16 affiliates include some of Boston’s largest hospitals, such as Massachusetts General Hospital, Brigham and Women’s Hospital, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, and Boston Children’s Hospital.
Of the school’s 11,436 total faculty, just 187 are tenured or tenure-track faculty based on campus in the school’s pre-clinical departments, according to the 2017 dean’s report. The rest primarily work out of hospitals.
Harvard Medical School has historically been more independent from its teaching hospitals than some of its peers. Many prominent medical schools—Johns Hopkins, Stanford, and the University of Pennsylvania, for example—own teaching hospitals named after the schools.
“In those schools, there’s one person [who] sits atop the whole thing, and there are major financial flows from the health system, whose budget is vastly bigger than the medical school, to the medical school,” Flier said.
For many years, Harvard did not receive any funds from its affiliated hospitals, unlike many of its peer schools. Flier said he created a plan shortly after the 2008 financial crisis that changed this arrangement.
“For the first time, all the Harvard-affiliated institutions would give some money to the Medical School,” he said. “It was extended in the end of my deanship, and increased. So that amount of money was new revenue to the school that helped us quite a bit.”
The school needs to manage many services for its vast faculty across the 16 affiliates.
“We're in a centralized way doing a lot of the responsibility for continuing medical education, compliance and education about clinical research, [and] conflict of interest,” Daley said. “That's very expensive.”
Harvard also supports some research programs at its clinical affiliates. Tax filings indicate Harvard paid at least $46.8 million in research awards to the hospitals in fiscal year 2016. Brigham and Women’s and Mass General, which both received over $10 million, were the top two recipients.
The school largely relies on federal funding and private donations to fund its operations, both of which fluctuate over time.
Longwood researchers depend heavily on federal funding, especially from the National Institutes of Health, as do most medical researchers across the country. Harvard Medical School researchers received $213.7 million in NIH grants during fiscal year 2017, though this figure may not include all grants received by Harvard researchers, many of whom hold joint appointments.
Last spring, this revenue source was threatened when President Donald Trump proposed a “skinny budget” that would have cut NIH funding by 18 percent.
Congress ultimately did not approve the cuts—and subsequent budgets actually increased federal science research funding—but the back-and-forth underscored the uncertainty surrounding government grants.
“The federal government is not as reliable a source of funding as it used to be,” Daley said.
Edward J. Benz, a professor of pediatrics and genetics at the Medical School, said the funding question changes how scientists conduct research.
“People are spending much more time writing grants about what they hope to do than they are actually doing the work,” he said. “Instead of pursuing your research truly on the basis of what you’re most curious and passionate about, you always have to be thinking about grantsmanship.”
Benz added that the funding environment can affect young scientists looking to begin their careers.
“The uncertainty is discouraging people from going into the field. They’re not sure if they’re going to have a real crack at being successful,” he said.
The Medical School has fundraised aggressively as part of Harvard’s University-wide capital campaign. Its campaign, entitled “The World Is Waiting: The Campaign for Harvard Medicine,” reached its $750 million goal in February. Since then, the campaign has hit $767 million; it ends June 30.
As part of the campaign, Daley said he toured the country for “meet the dean” events with potential donors.
Some campaign priorities, though, are harder than others to pitch to donors. Daley said in December that “the financial aid and education bucket” of the capital campaign was more difficult to fill than some other campaign priorities.
Looking forward, White wrote that the school is actively working to improve its financial condition.
“HMS will bring expenses in line with revenues through a number of management actions that promise to improve the finances of the School,” including renegotiated dining and building operations contracts, he wrote.
White also wrote that the school has expanded its executive education programs, a trend at Harvard that has been lucrative at other schools.
Daley said he is optimistic about the Medical School’s operating deficit.
“We are confident over the next two to three years, we will bring our budget back into balance,” he said.
—Staff writer Luke W. Vrotsos can be reached at luke.vrotsos@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter at luke_vrotsos.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
They’re known on campus as committee kids—the students whose names appear time and time again on the rosters of Harvard’s student committees, the ones who work behind-the-scenes with faculty members and administrators to formulate some of the College’s most far-reaching policies.
The committees come in a variety of forms. Some, like the Presidential Search Advisory Committee, include only a few College students, while others, like the General Education Student Advisory Board, are composed entirely of undergraduates.
According to Undergraduate Council President Catherine L. Zhang ’19, student committees like the Committee on Student Life—which she leads alongside Dean of Students Katherine G. O’Dair and UC Vice President Nicholas D. Boucher ’19—play a vital role on campus. The Committee on Student Life, in particular, oversees the rising sophomore housing lottery, discusses residential policies across Houses, and grants College recognition to student organizations.
“We’re bringing together students, faculty, faculty deans, administration—it’s a lot of really diverse stakeholders in the room,” Zhang said. “I think it’s been really great working with Nick and Dean O’Dair to set the agenda and guide the agenda, to be able to voice issues that are important to think about for the College moving forward.”
Nevertheless, some students have raised concerns about whether the committees accurately represent the student body. Some say the UC often appoints its own members to fill committee positions and nominates the same students to multiple committees, preventing diverse voices from ringing out.
“The pool of students is not as wide-reaching as I would like to see on these committees,” said Benjamin I. Sorkin ’20, a former UC representative who has served on three committees during his time at Harvard. “I think the UC could take a more active approach in diversifying the kinds of students brought in to student-faculty committees.”
Student committees form one of the greatest resources when administrators are looking to generate “very new ideas,” according to UC Education Committee Chair Sruthi Palaniappan ’20, who serves on the student-faculty Committee on Undergraduate Education.
“I think there have been some really prominent examples of where student activism has resulted in positive outcomes that were determined by the students,” she said, pointing to the Harvard Conversations program—a new initiative proposed by the UC this past semester, which allows students to get to know faculty through small dinner conversations—as an example of these tangible benefits.
Palaniappan said her role on the Committee on Undergraduate Education has allowed her to directly convey her views to administrators.
“Dean [of Undergraduate Education Jay M.] Harris is somebody that I’ve only gotten to know because of my role on the Committee on Undergraduate Education,” she said.
The Office of Undergraduate Education, led by Harris, agreed in February to partially fund the Harvard Conversations program.
Sorkin, who worked alongside Palaniappan on the Committee on Undergraduate Education in the 2016-2017 academic year, said a question on the Q Guide—Harvard’s online course evaluation system—about textbook costs came as a “direct result” of the committee’s work.
“I don’t think that the textbook affordability question was something that would have come out of it naturally, had we not brought it to their attention,” Sorkin said.
Sorkin said administrators on the Committee on Undergraduate Education frequently solicited advice from students. He said undergraduate input contributed to the success of the committee’s initiatives, including the new Education secondary and the First-Year Retreat and Experience pre-orientation program.
Not all students felt their ideas were taken into account by administrators, however.
Timothy D. Haehl ’18, who served on a student-faculty committee his junior year, said he felt students’ voices were drowned out by those of Harvard officials.
“It seemed like there was a Point A to Point B timeline already set, and whatever the students said didn’t really matter,” he said. “I don’t know if that’s indicative of all student committees—I would hope not—but there was a clear path that we went, and it didn’t really seem like the students had much voice.”
O’Dair said committee members who felt unheard should reach out to their committee chairs.
“I would really encourage students who feel like—even if it’s one meeting or multiple meetings—that they’re not being heard to approach the chair and let them know,” she said. “I think it’s important to whoever is running the meeting to know that students aren’t feeling heard.”
Former UC Vice President Daniel V. Banks ’17, who co-chaired the Committee on Student Life in 2016, said O’Dair made a conscious effort to give the committee a stronger voice in recent years.
“I think the greatest success of the Committee on Student Life was the repurposing and reorganization of it under Dean O’Dair,” Banks said.
While he acknowledged students might still not have as much power as they want, Banks said the situation has greatly improved since 2015, when the committee was “just a group of people shooting the shit and talking.”
In the fall of 2016, Haehl and Banks joined the social group sanctions “Implementation Committee”—a group tasked with recommending how to implement the College’s penalties on members of unrecognized single-gender social organizations.
Haehl, who had no prior experience on the UC or other committees, said he hoped he and his fellow committee members would “make a difference.”
“They were looking for people who were trying to make contributions to figuring out how these sanctions were going to be implemented, and I thought, as an athlete, that was going to be something I could help with and provide perspective,” said Haehl, a defensive back on the Harvard football team.
Banks also said he was “passionate” about the issue, but that he expected change to move slowly.
The implementation committee met several times throughout the year to draft recommendations for Dean of the College Rakesh Khurana as to how the sanctions should be applied.
Yet, shortly before the committee finalized their recommendations, they learned an entirely new committee was forming to reevaluate the sanctions as a whole and could overturn their advice completely—an announcement that came as a shock to many of the committee members, according to Haehl.
“I remember being pretty upset,” he said. “It felt like a pretty meaningless experience when it was all said and done.”
Dean of the College Rakesh Khurana has said he “stayed in regular communication with the co-chairs of the implementation committee” throughout its work.
For Banks, however, the opportunity to have even a small impact on social group policy outweighed the disappointment.
“I would continue serving right now on a committee that had to do with final club life because I was extremely passionate about dismantling what I saw as the most toxic part of Harvard’s social life,” Banks said.
Veteran committee kids like Banks—who said he was probably on “around ten committees” during his time at Harvard—seem to develop a different metric for success than Haehl.
Banks, Sorkin, and Palaniappan, all of whom have served on more than one committee, said they learned to expect changes to take a long time.
“Why I think veterans are inclined or brought in more often, is that they know things will take a year, or they go into it a little more pragmatic or willing to play within the system. I think administrators want a [student advisory committee] that gets along and works the way that they work,” Sorkin said.
Even when the committees do produce changes, Boucher said the changes are rarely “sexy.”
“It’s not a topic that you want to talk about when you're hanging out with other people or giving updates on what you do in your role, but it’s important, because those policies will ultimately shape how people are able to have social interactions at the college,” Boucher said, referring to party policy in the Houses, which the Committee on Student Life examined extensively this year.
This discrepancy can mean that students with little or no prior committee experience, like Haehl, can be disappointed by the pace of progress.
Still, Haehl said his time on the committee allowed him to develop “good relationships” with administrators with whom he otherwise would not have interacted.
“I had very honest and open conversations with them about everything happening around the school,” he said. “I get to know the things they’re going through, as leaders of student life, which is a very challenging job, and then they get to hear my perspective.”
Some students said they are concerned many committees tend to feature the same students as members. These students—many of whom are recommended to committees by the UC president and vice president—are disproportionately Council members, some undergraduates said.
“I think broadly across the College, the pool of people who sit on these committees is quite small, evidenced by the fact that I’ve been on three, four, five committees,” Sorkin said.
Haehl said he thinks what he called the narrow pool of candidates limits the diversity of voices.
“Some committees, I feel like, haven’t encapsulated the entire diversity of thought,” he said. “I would take issue with a lot of people being involved on student committees that are close friends of people on the UC because I think that’s a one-sided opinion.”
Palaniappan said this assessment does not take into account the fact that more UC members tend to apply to student committees in the first place.
“I think that maybe because of the kind of issues we focus on or the work that we do on the Council, it seems like more of a direct connection to also join one of those student-faculty committees,” Palaniappan said.
O’Dair said administrators do not look specifically for prior UC membership when appointing students to student-faculty committees but rather strive for “balance” with regards to class year, race, gender, and other identifiers.
“When we ask [UC leadership] for students, we don’t necessarily tell them that it has to be UC students—we ask that they look broadly,” O’Dair said. “We actually want to spread the wealth to the extent that we can: if there are people who have served on committees, I might ask for or look for recommendations of someone who hasn’t served on a committee before.”
Zhang said that UC representatives, having been chosen by the student body, are best equipped to represent undergraduates.
Banks said that, during his time on the UC, he made an effort to get non-UC voices onto committees. He said he hopes the UC will work to maximize diversity—both to ensure the committees are representative of the student body and because being on one forms an immensely rewarding experience.
“When you’re on these committees, you see how Harvard really works,” he said. “And that is so much—for a student to be able to see the inner workings of Harvard.”
—Staff writer Cecilia R. D'Arms can be reached at cecilia.d'arms@thecrimson.com.
—Staff writer Amy L. Jia can be reached at amy.jia@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @AmyLJia.
Since arriving at Harvard in Sept. 1949 as a freshman, Government Professor Harvey C. Mansfield ’53 has been a near constant presence at the University.
He has left only twice: once to spend two years to in the Army and once to spend two years teaching at the University of California at Berkeley.
At 86, Mansfield is far older than the average Harvard faculty member, but he is not alone. Twenty-five years ago—before the University ended its policy of mandatory retirement—it would have been nearly impossible to find a professor over the age of 70. Now, though, a significant cohort of scholars remain at the University well past that age.
While older professors bring years of experience to the classroom and are often sought out as mentors, the preponderance of septuagenarians can mean younger academics struggle to find a foothold at the University—especially when budgets are tight.
Since the 2008 financial crisis, which forced the Faculty of Arts and Sciences to trim its budget by $77 million, FAS has not grown its faculty; instead, departments have primarily hired to replace existing positions left vacant by departures or retirements.
But retirements are few and far between. Dean of FAS Michael D. Smith said in an interview last month that “on average our faculty aren’t retiring as they get older.”
“The average age of retirement is changing; the incoming age is not much different,” he said. “You see some of that being changed today in some of our disciplines where people are spending more time in post-doctoral positions because it’s harder to get a tenure track job at a particular age because there’s just not as many of them as there used to be.”
The size of FAS’s ladder faculty—a term that encompasses tenured and tenure-track professors—is at “an all time high” of 738 members, according to the FAS Dean’s Annual Report for 2017. That number, however, represents only slight growth—18 members, or 2.5 percent—from the 720 members comprising FAS’s ladder faculty in 2008.
In contrast, the faculty grew from 585 to 720 between the years of 1998 and 2008, representing an increase of 23 percent.
The recent final report of Harvard’s Presidential Task Force on Inclusion and Belonging emphasized the importance of increasing faculty diversity; however, this often requires hiring new faculty from younger, more diverse applicant pools.
Eleven percent of surveyed members of FAS are over the age of 65, according to a survey conducted by The Crimson in April. Of that group, a majority—68 percent—reported they identify as “male.” An overwhelming majority of respondents over the age of sixty five—91 percent—also reported they identify as “White” or “Caucasian.”
 The FAS has repeatedly said it is committed to not only finding the best talent, but also to diversifying its historically white, male faculty. In an emailed message to FAS affiliates following the release of the task force’s report, Smith listed a number of ways FAS is working to promote diversity, including in the faculty hiring process.
“Persistent attention to diversity, at every stage of each faculty search, is a constant theme in our search policies and procedures, and in conversations between the deans and departments, and within departments and search committees,” Smith wrote.
The FAS has made some improvements in this area, according to the Dean’s Report. The report reads that “women now represent 30% of the faculty and 43% of the tenure-track faculty. Minorities represent 22% of the faculty and 30% of the tenure-track faculty.” These numbers represent a steady overall increase in women and minority faculty from 2008. The number of female faculty has risen from 185 in 2008 to 221 in 2017. Likewise, the number of faculty of color has risen from 127 in 2008 to 167 in 2017.
The FAS recently reached gender-parity in the tenure-track of the sciences division for the first time—but the tenured faculty in the sciences are still disproportionately male.
Despite the upticks in female and minority professors, the overall composition of the faculty changes at a slow pace. During the 2015-2016 academic year, only nine faculty members retired, according to an annual faculty development and diversity report. Over the past eight years, more retirees have been white and male.
“Eight of nine faculty who retired were men, in clear contrast with the demographics of our incoming faculty. Of the 103 faculty who have signed a retirement agreement since the program launched in 2010, 90 are men (87.4%) and 13 are women (12.6%). In addition, four of the 103 faculty are minorities,” the report reads.
Harvard ended its longstanding policy requiring faculty to retire at age 70 in 1994, in order to comply with federal anti-age discrimination laws. The University, however, did not implement a formal faculty retirement program until 2009.
Smith said the formal program was designed to best benefit faculty who would be reaching a traditional retirement age.
“We thought about our whole approach to retirement for our faculty, spent time asking faculty what were they were looking for as they start to reach the end of their career and they were thinking about retirement, and how would they like to see that work and what would be most beneficial to them,” he said.
The 2009 retirement program was initially a one-time offer in the wake of the 2008 financial crisis. Nearly a quarter of the 176 eligible faculty members accepted the offer to begin a one, two, or four-year track to retirement with part-time teaching duties and the possibility of sabbatical as they prepared to retire.
In 2010, the one-time offer was made permanent.  The current faculty retirement plan, which is based on the 2010 plan, allows tenured faculty over the age of 65 who have worked at least 10 years at the University to work half-time for either two years or four years before retiring.
Under the two-year plan, faculty are paid two years of full salary while they work half-time. Alternatively, they can take two semesters of paid sabbatical and work two semesters full-time. Under the four-year plan, professors are paid their full salary for the first year and half their salary for the remaining three years. Faculty over the age of 73 only have the option of a two-year track to retirement, under which they are paid half their salary for both years.
Smith said this program has not only been beneficial to retiring professors but it has also enabled the University to better plan for future hiring.
“From our perspective, we now know that a faculty member is going to retire in the next four years so we can start doing things to get ready for that person to no longer be with us and hire some new people in this field,” Smith said.
Like Harvard, Stanford and Yale both offer phased retirement plans. However, under the two universities’ plans, professors are only eligible for the phased plan up until age 71 at Stanford, or 70 at Yale. Additionally, Stanford gives an extra one-year or half-year salary as an incentive to professors that retire under the phased plan.
Smith said Harvard also provides incentives to retiring faculty members, which are uniform for all retirees. He was unable to name an exact dollar figure for this incentive.
“There’s a fixed set of resources, there’s an incentive, but that is all of our faculty incentives so it’s not kind of a negotiating symbol,” Smith said.
Despite these retirement options, many professors choose to stay on at the University—and some professors, young and old, said this creates a number of challenges including a stagnant intellectual culture and a lack of diversity.
Former University President Lawrence H. Summers said he thinks the aging of the faculty has hurt innovation.
“The aging of the faculty has reduced the quality of the teaching, reduced the quality of research, reduced the spirit of innovation and lowered the University’s capacity for self-renewal,” he said.
Summers said that, when he first arrived at Harvard in 1983 as one of the University’s youngest tenured professors, faculty meetings did not see as much participation by faculty members over the age of 65, as a result of mandatory retirement.
“When I first came to Harvard there was mandatory retirement often at 65 and today, 40 to 50 percent of those who attend a typical Faculty meeting and therefore are participating in faculty governance are over 65,” he said. “That’s probably the biggest difference. I am not for bringing mandatory retirement back but some way of inducing many faculty to retire earlier is imperative.”
According to some professors, budgetary restrictions have made faculty growth difficult for their departments.
David I. Laibson ’88, chair of the Economics department, said he thinks the University’s other ambitious projects, such as the impending expansion of the School of Engineering and Applied Sciences into Allston in 2020 and Undergraduate House Renewal, have created “a set of trade-offs” that limit the potential for new hires.
“Our department would like to grow, but we recognize that the University faces enormous pressures in terms of all of the different items on our mutual agendas,” Laibson said. “I wish I could have Allston and House Renewal and a doubling of my faculty; that's simply not possible in the budgetary environment that we face.”
Funding for new hires recently got a boost—after the University-wide diversity task force released its final report, Faust pledged to set aside $10 million for hiring new faculty across Harvard.
Natesh S. Pillai, a recently tenured professor of Statistics, said there are advantages to bringing in younger faculty members.
“It definitely has some effect, because young people bring energy,” he said.
Mansfield himself agreed that an increase in older faculty can make it difficult to hire new professors.
“Maybe too many seniors in our department now,” he said. “We don’t have enough junior faculty, younger people, and maybe it’s old folks like me that are partly causing the problem. Lives have lengthened—people are stronger, live longer.”
—Staff writer Madeleine R. Nakada can be reached at madeleine.nakada@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @maddynakada.
—Staff writer Luke W. Xu can be reached at luke.xu@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @duke_of_luke_.

News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
UPDATED: May 22, 2018 at 8:11 p.m.
Kathryn “Kat” A. Taylor ’80, a member of the Harvard Board of Overseers, resigned her post Tuesday in protest of what she called Harvard’s “failure” to “adopt ethical commitments” when investing its $37.1 billion endowment.
Taylor, who joined the Board of Overseers—the University's second highest governing body—in 2012, wrote a letter to her fellow board members, the Harvard Corporation, University President Drew G. Faust, and President-elect Lawrence S. Bacow Tuesday announcing her resignation. In the letter, she noted she has been “pressing” Harvard to change its investment practices since she began her term.
“We should and would be horrified to find out that Harvard investments are actually funding some of the pernicious activities against which our standout academic leadership rails,” she wrote. “But that is where we still sit, vulnerable to the inevitable association with our investment targets that profiting from them demands.”
Taylor specifically pointed to fossil fuel investments. Colin Butterfield, the head of Harvard Management Company’s natural resources portfolio, said in April 2017 HMC was “pausing” investments in certain fossil fuels—though the University has repeatedly refused to categorically divest from fossil fuels.
The University has faced consistent pressure in recent years from faculty and students around the issue.
More than 100 Harvard faculty signed an open letter in April 2014 urging University President Drew G. Faust and the Corporation to divest from fossil fuel investments. In Feb. 2015, a group of 20 students stormed and occupied Massachusetts Hall— where Faust’s office is located—to demand fossil fuel divestment. And in March 2017, 20 members of the student activist group Divest Harvard blockaded University Hall to demand similar action.
Despite mounting pressure, Faust has consistently argued against divesting from fossil fuels, asserting Harvard can better tackle climate change through research.
“While I share their belief in the importance of addressing climate change, I do not believe, nor do my colleagues on the Corporation, that university divestment from the fossil fuel industry is warranted or wise,” Faust wrote in a letter to Harvard affiliates in 2013.
Taylor wrote an op-ed in The Crimson in March calling on the University to divest from fossil fuels. The op-ed marked the first time any member of Harvard’s governance boards publicly  supported divestment.
Taylor’s resignation letter did not solely focus on fossil fuels—Taylor also wrote she is concerned by other potential endowment investments.
“Some concerns I share with those outspoken among them pertain to the potential presence in that endowment of fossil fuel reserves we can never afford to burn, land purchases that may not respect indigenous rights, water holdings that threaten the human right to water, and investments at odds with the safety of children and first responders,” she wrote.
A group of residents in Cuyama Valley, Calif. recently raised concerns regarding a Harvard-owned vineyard that uses significant water resources in the drought-stricken region.
Taylor also criticized what she called the “opaque” nature of Harvard’s investments. The investments are held in a variety of funds, making it to difficult to get a comprehensive picture of the University’s holdings.
“We don’t know what we don’t know, especially now that so much of the endowment is held in opaque funds,” she wrote. “And not knowing what endowment investments might be supporting will never be an excuse.”
University Spokesperson Melodie L. Jackson wrote in an emailed statement Tuesday that Taylor has long made her support for divestment known to members of Harvard's governing boards.
"Her individual opinion is respected and welcome, as are the diverse views of people across our community," Jackson wrote. "We agree that climate change is one of world's most urgent and serious issues, but we respectfully disagree on the means by which a university should confront it."
"As an academic institution, Harvard will continue to pursue a leadership role in seeking meaningful, effective solutions to climate change through wide-ranging research, education, community engagement, and dramatically reducing its own carbon footprint," Jackson added.
Taylor’s resignation comes just one day before her six-year term is set to conclude. In an interview, Taylor said she resigned now because she has used “every minute” of her term to work with students, faculty members, administrators, and other members of the University governance boards and has “failed to make any headway” on creating more transparency in Harvard’s endowment investment practices.
“My last remaining effort available within my opportunity set is to resign before my literal last day as an elected member of the Board of Overseers in protest over the lack of transparency about how Harvard’s endowment is managed and invested,” she said.
Taylor also used her letter to bid farewell to her fellow Overseers and call on them to continue her work.
“My only regret in resigning early is missing the chance to bid you a proper goodbye,” she wrote. “I fervently hope that all of you will demand accountable financial transactions on behalf of us all as I have tried to do.”
—Staff writer Jamie D. Halper can be reached at jamie.halper@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @jamiedhalper.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
The idea of an endowment tax once seemed a distant possibility. Throughout her 11-year tenure, University President Drew G. Faust fielded questions from lawmakers skeptical of the tax-exempt status of Harvard’s now-$37.1 billion endowment. But a serious attempt to tax universities never came close to becoming law—until Dec. 2017.
The sweeping, thousand-page tax overhaul Republicans passed that month turned Faust’s fear into reality: For the first time, Harvard and other institutions with endowments greater than $500,000 per student would be required to pay a 1.4 percent excise tax on the returns of their endowments. The tax would have cost Harvard $43 million had it taken effect in 2017.
In the years and months prior, lawmakers had repeatedly assured Faust she had nothing to worry about. But in the weeks leading up to the tax bill vote, it became clear higher education no longer wields the clout in Washington it once enjoyed.
Faust, who has called the tax “unprecedented” and “a blow at the strength of higher education,” said she was dismayed to see Republican members of Congress she once considered allies turn against Harvard and its peers.
“We were so reassured by everybody’s statements that there would never be an endowment tax,” Faust said in a May interview.
The tax dealt more than a financial blow; it also signaled Washington’s growing disillusionment with higher education. In July 2017, the Pew Research Center published a survey revealing 58 percent of Republican respondents indicated they believe higher education has a negative impact on the country. The endowment tax formed legislative evidence of a problem the leaders of top colleges and universities could no longer ignore.
Meanwhile, Harvard was six months into a presidential search. It was becoming increasingly clear—more than perhaps ever before, the University’s pick would need to advocate not only for the country’s oldest university, but for American higher education as a whole.
“The president of Harvard, as a consequence of the position, is a spokesperson for both higher education and is a spokesperson for Harvard,” presidential search committee leader and Harvard Corporation senior fellow William F. Lee ’72 said in an interview in April.
The search committee hunted for the University’s 29th president for nine months, soliciting input from hundreds of thousands of Harvard affiliates. Ultimately—on Feb. 11, 2018 around 3 p.m.—the committee formally selected one of its own, searcher and Corporation member Lawrence S. Bacow.
Bacow thought he had quit higher education administration for good when he stepped down as the president of Tufts University in 2011. But the Pew poll and endowment tax served as wake-up calls.
“I realized that the next several years were going to be even harder for higher education that I think some of them had thought,” Bacow said in an April interview. “I realized that this was a time in our nation’s history that people needed to step up to the plate.”
Some time near early December—the same month the endowment tax passed—Lee asked Bacow if he would consider quitting the search committee to become a contender. Bacow stepped off the committee and onto the path to the presidency.
“We thought it was important to have a president like President Faust who could speak broadly to the importance of higher education not just at Harvard, but in this country and across the world,” Lee said in a May interview.
The search committee had decided: With his reputation as a highly regarded former university president, his familiarity with Harvard’s inner workings and challenges, and his track record promoting free speech and financial aid, Bacow was the man for the moment.
Though $43 million may seem a small proportion of Harvard’s endowment, Faust said in February the endowment tax will have a “significant impact” on the University’s ability to fund certain programs.
“What it will do is put constraints on our ability to fund the variety of undertakings that are central to our mission—financial aid and research, public programs, the variety of endeavors across the University,” she said.
Wisconsin Rep. Ronald J. Kind ’85, a Democratic member of the House committee in which the tax bill originated, said he sees the endowment tax as a “revenue grab” to compensate for tax breaks the legislation handed to large corporations and wealthy individuals.
Kind called university endowments “one of the last places” Congress should be looking to fund these tax breaks.
But experts say revenue from university endowments amounts to chump change for the federal government; in fiscal year 2017, net federal tax collections totaled to nearly $3 trillion.
Jason Furman ’92, an economist at the Harvard Kennedy School and the chairman of the Council of Economic Advisors under former President Barack Obama, said he has never heard a “substantive” defense for the tax.
“This was motivated by political retaliation against elite universities which are perceived to be supportive of Democrats and it was done in a bill written by Republicans,” he said. “It was really very much a political expression of views about elite universities.”
One of those views centers around a perception private universities are unaffordable—and, as a result, inaccessible to most Americans.
Neil G. McCluskey, an education expert from the Cato Institute, a conservative think tank, said that, as costs of higher education rise, he thinks the marginal benefit of pursuing a four-year college degree tapers off.
“I think that the value proposition of higher education just broadly… has decreased as the amount that we’ve spent on it has constantly increased,” he said.
New York Rep. Tom Reed, a Republican co-sponsor of the tax bill who particularly advocated for the endowment tax, questioned the utility of a classic college education.
In an interview, Reed emphasized what he considers the “surplus” of four-year degrees in American job markets today, which he said results in a shortage of individuals with the technical skills needed for many careers.
“[Colleges are] still teaching to the traditional models, the traditional curriculums, as opposed to adopting and aligning their curriculums up with the demands in the country and encouraging those careers,” Reed said.
Frederick M. Hess, an education expert with the American Enterprise Institute, said there is a “lot more skepticism” of higher education among the right “as to whether it is actually an intellectually serious enterprise.”
McCluskey said cost concerns are only intensified by the “perceived left-wing bent” of higher education.
“They will say, ‘Why is it you cost so much when you have so much money?’ But a lot of the message is, ‘How dare you cost so much and horde so much money and do all these things and say all these things that we don’t like, and that make our constituents unhappy?’” he said.
Reed said that, while he believes private colleges and universities put forth a “great effort” for first-generation and low-income students, he is concerned “hard-working families” in the middle class get insufficient support.
Faust said the notion that a Harvard education is unaffordable stems from misconceptions about Harvard’s financial aid program, which completely covers the cost of attendance for students whose families boast annual incomes below $65,000. Families with annual incomes between $65,000 to $150,000 contribute no more than 10 percent of their income, according to the College’s financial aid website.
As misconceptions abound, Faust said she and Bacow both recognize this is “a very challenging time for higher education.”
“The issues surrounding the endowment tax represent much bigger issues for higher education: that it is not well-understood, that there is growing hostility to what is seen as elite and elitist higher education, that people don’t understand our financial aid policy, so they think we’re not accessible, we’re not affordable, that we have nothing to do with them,” Faust said.
In many ways, the soul-searching Harvard and other elite universities have undertaken in the wake of the endowment tax mirrors the Democratic party’s self-examination after President Donald Trump’s election in 2016.
Just as Democrats are facing accusations they failed to adequately consider issues confronting white, middle-class Americans, higher education institutions have found themselves reckoning with the perception they only cater to liberal elites and minorities.
“That’s something that universities—Harvard and others—need to think about, which is what have we done lately for people in wide swaths of the country who don’t have children here or can’t understand what Harvard does,” Faust said in December.
David W. Leebron ’76, the current president of Rice University, said he thinks colleges and universities on the East Coast can sometimes exist in a bubble.
“We’re all parochial to some extent and I think folks in Washington and New York and Boston sometimes forget that there’s a big and important world outside that geographic area,” he said.
Leebron also said anti-higher education sentiment may have “hardened” under the Trump administration, which has taken aim at a number of priorities shared by Harvard and its peers. He particularly pointed to issues surrounding undocumented students and research funding.
The Trump administration moved in Sept. 2017 to rescind Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, an Obama-era program that allows undocumented youth to legally live and work in the United States. DACA provides legal protections to many of Harvard’s undocumented students; Faust recently ramped up her lobbying efforts to urge Congress to pass permanent protections.
On at least five trips to Washington since the election, Faust also advocated for preserving federal research funding and financial aid.
While Harvard has expanded its federal advocacy in the Trump era, the origin of higher education’s image problem with Republicans traces back to well before the real estate magnate set foot in the political arena.
“Nothing started on Jan. 21, 2017. It had roots, but, certainly, it has grown,” Corporation and presidential search committee member Jessica Tuchman Mathews ’67 said in a recent interview.
Harvard, as an emblem of American higher education, has often drawn scrutiny and skepticism.
“Harvard’s principle image is as the pinnacle of higher education in the United States, if not the world,” Mathews said. “I mean, if you ask somebody to give you a one word answer about the apex of higher education, eight out of ten will say Harvard.”
Harvard has garnered a reputation for its top-tier academics and its liberal leanings; during the Cold War, it earned the moniker “Kremlin on the Charles.”
The politics of its faculty and students continue to overwhelmingly fall left of center. In a recent Crimson survey of the faculty, 83 percent of respondents identified as either “liberal” or “very liberal.” And nearly 70 percent of respondents to The Crimson’s survey of the College’s Class of 2021 reported holding left-of-center political views.
In March, Harvard’s Presidential Task Force on Inclusion and Belonging released its final report concluding that “many conservative students on campus engage in self-censorship to avoid possible alienation from peer groups.”
And Harvard has also seen its fair share of controversy surrounding conservative campus speakers. Speaking invitations to United States Secretary of Education Betsy DeVos, sociologist Charles A. Murray ’65, and former Trump Chief Strategist Steve Bannon sparked protests among students who found their views offensive or extreme.
Unlike protests at University of California, Berkeley and Middlebury College—which turned violent and ended presentations prematurely—demonstrators at Harvard never physically inhibited speakers from delivering their talks.
In a Washington Post op-ed in November, Harvard Law professors Jack Goldsmith and Adrian Vermeule wrote Harvard students have been “relatively respectful of conservative speakers.” Yet they warned of a “pervasive progressive orthodoxy” at the University, and cast much of the right’s animosity toward higher education as emblematic of an ideological rift.
“Educational institutions should not be surprised when these attitudes and behaviors prove unappealing to a Congress and executive branch that are largely in the control of conservatives,” they wrote.
Faust said in December she worries about negative perceptions of higher education reverberating around the country and the halls of Congress, which she called “directly tied to many of the free speech debates and conversations that have been going on.”
“They have an almost caricatured view of what college campuses are like,” she said in May. “There’s a lot more diversity of opinion and openness to debate on this campus than many in the Congress believe, so we need to keep making that case, preserving and encouraging that diversity of opinion.”
Regardless of whether observers or university leaders believe animosity toward higher education stems from the fear it is too expensive or the fear it is too liberal, almost no one argues the animosity does not exist. Many agree it is symptomatic of a larger gulf between coastal elites and the rest of the country.
“That’s just a kind of proxy battle, to be honest, for deeper issues about how elites operate in our society,” said University Professor Danielle S. Allen, a co-chair of the diversity task force.
Allen said Harvard “does a lot of good work in the world,” though she also said Harvard can be seen as “arrogant.”
“It’s also very easy when you have a lot of advantages, resources, privilege, history, tradition, and so forth to become tone deaf and not be open to all the good and excellence that comes from other quarters and other contexts,” she added.
For members of Congress whose constituents view elite universities with skepticism, dolling out favors for university presidents is a tough sell. Faust said a number of lawmakers have made no secret of their disdain for higher education.
“Some people have said to me, just directly, ‘Higher education is liberal and not sympathetic to our point of view,’” she said. “That was hard to hear.”
When Faust leaves office at the end of June, the responsibility rests with Bacow to—as Faust put it—“make the case that higher education is a public good worthy of public support.”
After the February press conference announcing Bacow’s selection, Corporation and search committee member Shirley M. Tilghman said she thinks Bacow is particularly prepared to face the challenges ahead.
“We had come to recognize his vast knowledge and experience in higher education, which became more and more clear how important that was going to be as we learned more and more not just about the issues that were facing Harvard in the next two or three years, but the issues that were facing all of higher education,” she said.
Bacow grew up in Detroit, the son of two Holocaust survivors who emigrated from Europe after being freed from Auschwitz. He attended college at MIT before eanring an M.P.P., Ph.D., and J.D. from Harvard.
He rose through the ranks of MIT, earning the post of university chancellor before switching schools to become the president of Tufts in 2001. He led Tufts until 2011.
During his tenure, Bacow prioritized “affordability,” worked to expand programs for first-generation students and bolstering aid for low-income students, according to Lisa M. Coleman, who served as Tufts’s chief diversity officer during Bacow’s tenure.
The capital campaign Bacow launched in 2009 garnered $1.2 billion in donations by 2011. He converted a $15 million gift from Tufts trustee Karen Pritzker to a fundraising project designed to make the school more affordable for students from underrepresented backgrounds in 2006.
Bacow also navigated controversies surrounding free speech on Tufts’s campus. In 2007, a conservative student newspaper published articles many students and faculty found offensive. The newspaper faced penalties from a student-faculty committee, but Bacow annulled the penalties in defense of freedom of expression.
“The appropriate response to offensive speech is more speech, not less,” Bacow wrote to Tufts affiliates. “We must be vigilant in defending individual liberties even if it means that, from time to time, we must tolerate speech that violates our standards of civility and respect.”
While president of Tufts, Bacow also served on former President Barack Obama’s White House Initiative for Historically Black Colleges and Universities.
In a May interview, Mathews highlighted Bacow’s “extraordinary standing in the broad field of higher education” as an important factor in his selection.
Bacow has built relationships with members of the Massachusetts delegation over the course of his career; but when he takes Harvard’s reins, he will inherit a bigger platform and a broader lobbying agenda.
Kind said Bacow is not yet well-known on Capitol Hill. “As far as individual members—unless he’s had some working relationships in the past—he’s pretty much a blank slate,” Kind said.
In the coming months and years, Bacow’s ability to form relationships with lawmakers—particularly Republicans—beyond the Bay State will likely be critical to his ability to counter unfavorable perceptions of Harvard.
“It’s actually more important to be connecting with Republicans now instead of Democrats. With our Democratic alums, it was usually asking for advice: What should we be doing that we’re not? Who might we call that we haven’t?” Faust said in December.
During her presidency, Faust built a reputation as an advocate for the University, its students, and higher education as a whole. Hess said that, while Bacow may not currently have quite the same stature in the nation’s capital, his influence will likely grow with time, just as Faust’s did.
“With Faust, I would have said back when she was beginning, I think she had little or no sway in D.C., but becoming president of Harvard tends to overnight supersize one’s influence,” Hess said.
A number of Faust’s long-term lobbying priorities—immigration, research funding, and financial aid— will carry over to the Bacow era.
“I would expect President Bacow to continue the same very active presence in Washington that President Faust has followed,” Mathews said.
Bacow will also confront a number of immediate legislative challenges, including the pending reauthorization of the Higher Education Act, which contains provisions relating to financial aid—well as an amendment that could imperil Harvard’s single-gender social group sanctions.
Bacow is not going into the job under any illusion about the hostility he is likely to face.
When he took the podium Feb. 11 to address Harvard affiliates for the first time as the University’s president-elect, he acknowledged that some of Republicans’ concerns are warranted.
“These days, higher education has plenty of critics. And candidly, I think some of the criticism is fair,” he said.
Referencing his stint on the search committee, Bacow said he is well aware the task of addressing these critics will fall to Harvard’s 29th leader.
“I can say this, having served on the search committee for the first half of the search—we were mindful that the next president would have to deal with a challenging environment for higher education nationally,” he said in an April interview.
The president-elect has experience navigating this unfriendly terrain. As a member of the Corporation, Bacow has long had a seat at the table during high-level deliberations about how best to address anti-higher education sentiment.
“We need to do a better job of controlling our costs, we need to do a better job of operating more efficiently,” he said at the press conference announcing his selection.
“We need to collaborate with others, with peer institutions, with industry. And we need to be vigilant to ensure that our campuses are always open to new ideas, that they are places where our members feel free to express themselves, and also where every member of this community feels he or she belongs.”
Part of that effort will involve reaching out to regions of the country not heavily represented on Harvard’s campus.
During the final years of her presidency, Faust began making trips to high schools in cities across the country—including Cincinnati, Dallas, Miami, and Philadelphia—to speak about the importance of higher education and put a face to Harvard’s name.
She has also turned to continuing education programs and online learning as means of widening access to Harvard’s resources. The Harvard Extension School currently enrolls more than 14,000 students. The Kennedy School’s Institute of Politics recently launched the Seminar on Transition for New Mayors Program, a non-partisan program from incoming mayors from large U.S. cities.
These programs, Faust said, “can reach out to offer intellectual resources to people across the country.”
“We can have an impact far beyond the number of degree students who will always be limited in terms of what residential education entails,” she added.
When Faust passes the baton to Bacow, he will take up the challenge of increasing Harvard’s presence across the United States, Bacow wrote in a May statement.
“Colleges and universities create opportunity, spur progress, and improve lives in communities across the country and around the world,” he wrote.
“I look forward to traveling to places near and far to affirm the importance of higher education—and everything that it makes possible.”
As she hands over the reins, Faust is optimistic. She said Bacow has a “deep understanding” of Harvard and the challenges ahead.
“He will be excellent at this and his experience at Tufts gives him deep knowledge of higher education from the perspective of a different institution,” Faust said. “He has been thinking, writing, working in higher education for decades, so I can’t think of anybody better prepared to undertake this.”
—Staff writer Kristine E. Guillaume can be reached at kristine.guillaume@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @krisguillaume.
—Staff writer Jamie D. Halper can be reached at jamie.halper@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @jamiedhalper.
rf
Once every several decades, roughly 200 cardinals file silently into the Sistine Chapel to choose the next pope.
The cardinals do not emerge until they have selected their new leader, sometimes remaining inside—eating, sleeping, and voting behind closed doors—for days. Eager watchers in the Vatican City and around the globe learn the cardinals have made a decision when puffs of white smoke rise from the chapel’s chimney.
Some call the papal search the most secret search in the modern world.
Harvard’s most recent presidential search, though, may come a close second.
The University’s search process is historically renowned for its secrecy—and in Harvard’s hunt for the successor to University President  Drew G. Faust, conducted over a nine-month period between June 2017 and Feb. 2018, the search committee lived up to reputation.
The searchers kept information locked within an intimate inner circle. For much of the search—especially when the committee began interviewing final candidates—committee members all but refused to discuss top contenders with anyone other than their fellow searchers, according to individuals with knowledge of the search. The Crimson granted the individuals anonymity to discuss confidential search proceedings.
One individual involved in the search said the process did “feel a little bit like [cardinals] going into the Vatican until we see the smoke come up.” Another individual with knowledge of the search compared the committee’s tight hold on the information to a “cone of silence.”
The committee’s presidential pick did not break the cone.  Lawrence S. Bacow—a former searcher and member of the Harvard Corporation, the University’s highest governing body—was named Harvard’s 29th president on Feb. 11 around 3:00 p.m. The announcement marked the first time the vast majority of Harvard affiliates even learned Bacow was in the running.
Nonetheless, interviews with more than 200 individuals, as well as emails and documents reviewed by The Crimson, shed some light on the committee’s internal deliberations. For a long time, Dean of the Business School  Nitin Nohria led the pack of candidates, according to two individuals with knowledge of the search. The Crimson reported Nohria was likely a frontrunner in Oct. 2017.
But in early December, around the time Bacow stepped off the search committee to become a contender, Nohria’s star dimmed, the two individuals said. Once Bacow—the consummate insider—became a possibility, his name swiftly rose to the top of the list, according to the two individuals.
Much like the papal selection, the committee’s final pick came from within its own ranks.
The search began with an email.
 Faust sent a missive to Harvard affiliates around 1:00 p.m. June 14 announcing her plan to depart Harvard’s top position in June 2018. Roughly 10 minutes later,  William F. Lee '72—the senior fellow of the Corporation—sent a follow-up email officially launching the search for Faust’s successor.
Less than a month later, Lee named the people who would lead the search: the official 2017-2018 presidential search committee comprised the 12 members of the Corporation and three members of the Board of Overseers, the University’s second-highest governing body.
The committee swung into action with more emails, launching an outreach campaign that would eventually reach hundreds of thousands of Harvard alumni and affiliates. For the next couple of months—well into November—the search remained largely quiet, stuck in “information-gathering mode,” as Corporation member  Susan L. Graham '64 put it in a September interview.
Throughout this period, members focused on gathering input and refrained from seriously discussing individual candidates—even among themselves, according to Graham.
In addition to Lee's letters to Harvard affiliates soliciting nominations and thoughts on the challenges facing the University, searchers also began contacting leaders and experts in higher education, politics, and business in part to scout potential candidates.
“If I were to guess for you, we probably touched base by email, telephone, meeting with well over 400,000 people,” Lee said in an April interview.
The committee’s outreach bore fruit, drawing nearly 700 nominations for potential candidates including former United States President Barack Obama. Obama cropped up repeatedly as a nominee, according to several individuals with knowledge of the search.
In mid-August, the search committee announced the formation of two advisory committees: a faculty group and a staff group. A month later, the committee created a third advisory body, this one composed of students. Each of the three committees was tasked with canvassing their respective constituencies and reporting back to the searchers.
Like the search committee itself, the three groups remained mostly mum throughout the process. Leaders of all three groups repeatedly declined interviews during the search. Members of the student advisory committee prepared an official report outlining its findings and presented it to the searchers; the advisory group, however, did not release the report publicly.
In an emailed statement in May, Lee thanked the faculty, student, and staff advisory committees for their “energetic efforts,” which he wrote helped inform the search.
 Bacow played a somewhat more visible role than did most search committee members in these early months.
On Oct. 13, he spoke to a group of Latinx alumni and student group leaders in Loeb House as part of a meeting organized by Shirley V. Cardona, president of the Harvard Business School Latino Alumni Association.
The group had prepared a list of eight potential Latinx contenders for the Harvard presidency, Cardona said—but Bacow did not discuss specific candidates with the alumni. Bacow told the group the search committee had not begun making a list of candidates. The October meeting marked one of  the few interactions between searchers and alumni that made its way into the press.
“I was in full listening mode,” Bacow told a Crimson reporter as he left Loeb House the morning of the meeting. He declined to comment further on the search at the time.
In an interview after the meeting, Cardona said she and the Latino alumni association hoped to speak often with the search committee’s final pick.
“Our objective is to have an open line of communication with the president,” she said.
By late October, at least four likely presidential favorites had emerged: Harvard Business School Dean  Nohria, University professor  Danielle S. Allen, Dean of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences  Michael D. Smith, and University Provost  Alan M. Garber '76.
Michael T. Kerr ’81, one of the co-chairs of the Harvard College Fund Executive Committee who said he knows many search committee members “very well,” named these four as top candidates in Oct. 2017.
“From what I can tell those are the names that everybody thinks are on the shortlist of the internal people, and we’ll see what list comes beyond that,” Kerr said at the time.
All four repeatedly did not respond to requests for comment or declined to comment throughout the search. Smith and Garber again declined to comment for this story. Nohria did not respond to a request for comment.
Asked about her candidacy in May, Allen provided a written statement.
“The purpose of university presidential searches is to achieve a fine selection on the basis of a thorough, comprehensive, well-prepared process that equips fiduciaries with a full understanding of the needs, challenges, and possibilities of the institution,” she wrote in the statement. “Harvard has both made a fine selection and also probably still has room to grow in terms of maximizing the caliber of the search process and its value to the institution as a learning opportunity.”
More than a dozen alumni and professors speculated at the time that the Business School dean was the clear frontrunner. One individual familiar with the search confirmed that, in the early stages, Nohria far outstripped his competitors.
Nohria has built a reputation as a strong fundraiser and leader since his appointment as dean in 2010. He helped raise more than $1 billion for the Business School’s capital campaign and oversaw a drive to improve gender equity at the school. He was also instrumental in securing John A Paulson’s $400 million gift that renamed the School of Engineering and Applied Sciences.
Search committee members may have seen Nohria’s administrative experience, fundraising acumen, and familiarity with Harvard as advantages. The University has historically prized internal presidents, who often benefit from both institutional knowledge and greater ease with top alumni donors.
But in December, Nohria lost his lead. Two individuals with knowledge of the search said Nohria’s fall from grace came around the same time  Bacow stepped off the search committee.
One individual said Nohria fell short of the presidency in part due to concerns regarding his business background, which some committee members feared might prove unpalatable to Harvard at large—and to the Faculty of Arts and Sciences especially. Another individual said Bacow proved too tantalizing an option to resist.
“As soon as the list got expanded to someone the committee knew intimately, Bacow became the favorite,” the individual said.
Corporation member and searcher  Shirley M. Tilghman said in a May interview the committee considered other candidates just as seriously as it did Bacow.
“The committee spent a lot of time after he left the committee considering, I would say, a significant number of other candidates and I think we worked extremely hard and self-consciously to keep an open mind,” she said.
Asked in part about Nohria’s fall and Bacow's rise,  Lee wrote in an emailed statement in May that the committee was “fortunate” to garner “extensive input” from “a great many people” throughout the search.
“We learned a great deal which educated the search process,”  Lee wrote. “We are grateful to everyone who offered such helpful perspectives on Harvard’s future opportunities and challenges, as well as confidential views on a range of outstanding nominees.”
Baacow has long-standing ties to the University. He was appointed to the Corporation in May 2011; in the seven years since, he has become one of Faust’s closest advisors. Lee said at the press conference announcing Bacow’s selection that Faust often looked to Bacow when “solving hard problems.”
Bacow also boasts several Harvard degrees: an M.P.P. and Ph.D. in public policy from the Kennedy School, as well as a J.D. from the Law School. He has served in various positions at the Kennedy School, the Graduate School of Education, and the Law School. Nohria, by comparison, earned his undergraduate degree from the India Institute of Technology Bombay and his Ph.D. in management from MIT.
One individual familiar with the search said some members of the search committee particularly favored candidates with Harvard degrees.
“It wasn’t a deciding factor, but it was a tie-breaking factor,” the individual said.
As a final point in his favor, Bacow garnered the backing of some of Harvard’s faculty during the search.
In November, several members of the faculty advisory committee each sent separate emails to Lee and to the committee chair, Dean of the Arts and Humanities Robin Kelsey, suggesting Bacow as a candidate, according to a faculty committee member granted anonymity to discuss confidential proceedings. Kelsey did not respond to a request for comment.
Former Overseer Joan M. Hutchins ’61 said search committee member  Scott A. Abell '72 told her that, during the search, Harvard’s faculty “kept coming back” to the search committee asking that Bacow be considered as a candidate. Abell did not respond to a request for comment.
Bacow said in an April interview he was aware of faculty support during the search.
“As the search progressed, there came a point in the search in which a number of members of the faculty advisory committee wrote to Bill Lee, I believe—the senior fellow—suggesting that they thought that I should be considered as a strong candidate,” Bacow said.
One day in late 2017, while on a car ride home from the airport, Lee decided it would be “irresponsible” not to at least pose the question to his fellow searcher.
“So I called him and said, ‘What about you?’” Lee said at the February press conference announcing Bacow’s selection. “And we had a good discussion and he decided to think about it.”
Bacow mulled it over. He checked with his wife, Adele. Then he stepped off the committee and into Harvard history.
Soon after  Bacow’s emergence as a candidate, the committee—already close-mouthed—stopped talking to almost anyone outside their circle, according to two individuals with knowledge of the search.
One individual described the total silence as “going dark.” The other said the committee “tightened up” and “buttoned down.”
The faculty advisory committee—which met frequently with the search committee in the search’s earlier stages—was now kept out of the loop, cut off from search updates after their final Dec. 4 presentation to the committee, according to Law School professor and committee chair William P. Alford.
“Eventually the people charged with the real decision then had to deliberate amongst themselves, interview candidates and so forth,” Alford said.
During this stage, the group worked to slim its candidate list; The Crimson reported in late Dec. 2017 that the committee had narrowed its list of top contenders to under 20 names. Tilghman confirmed in a May interview that the committee compiled a shortlist of candidates, though she declined to specify the number.
As the year turned, the committee began interviewing the most promising presidential hopefuls.
Like most everything else in the search, these interviews were shrouded in secrecy. Committee members—sometimes in small bunches and sometimes in larger groups—gathered for hours in undisclosed locations to grill candidates in part on their visions for Harvard.
Bacow said in an April interview he was aware “other serious candidates” were being interviewed around this time.
“There were multiple rounds of interviews that were scheduled after that,” he said, referring to his December decision to step down and become a candidate. “I was told that weekends were being set aside to interview candidates and I just know from the scheduling, well, we had slots so they tended to do it on a Saturday and Sunday, one person in the morning, one person in the afternoon on each day.”
“I know that other people were meeting with the committee and I was one of those,” he added. “I was one of a number of folks.”
 Lee said the length and settings of different interviews “varied quite a bit” based on a number of concerns, including “who [the candidates] were and where they were” in terms of geographic location.
At least one interview likely took place in residential Belmont, Mass. on Jan. 13, offering a window into this stage of the process. Crimson reporters stationed in the street spotted Corporation member and searcher  David M. Rubenstein—conveyed inside a chauffeured black SUV—passing into the driveway of a fellow searcher’s mansion around 10:30 a.m. that morning.
The house—its driveway marked with a green mailbox bearing a “HAPPY BIRTHDAY” balloon—belonged to Overseer and search committee member  Tracy P. Palandjian '93. Over the course of the next hour or so, several other vehicles—some chauffeured, some not—also pulled in and discharged passengers, some of whom The Crimson later identified as search committee members.
Directly after this first round of arrivals, a separate black SUV with tinted windows pulled up to to the driveway and remained tucked beside the house for the next two hours before departing. The car—its license plate labeled “COMM81”—arrived around 10:30 a.m. and departed around 1:30 p.m.
An hour after that, a second black SUV with tinted windows—its license plate labeled “COMM80”—pulled in and also remained by the house for roughly two hours. That SUV arrived around 2:30 p.m. and departed around 4:30 p.m. Protected by the black-tinted windows, the passengers inside both SUVs remained invisible to Crimson reporters standing in the street.
When darkness fell around 5:30 p.m., the meeting appeared to disband. At least 12 individuals—two of whom The Crimson identified as Corporation and search committee members  Susan L. Carney '73 and  Joseph J. O'Donnell '67—piled into personal or hired cars and left the premises. One chauffeur, who arrived driving a Tesla, told Crimson reporters he was in Belmont to pick up “Scott”—likely referring to searcher  Scott Abell.
Immediately after that meeting, Lee declined to answer a question asking whether the committee interviewed candidates Jan. 13. At the time, he also did not respond to a question asking about the identity of possible interviewees.
Asked in a later April interview about the specific locations of candidate interviews throughout the process, Lee pointed to the Belmont meeting.
“That I’m not going to tell you. Then you’ll know next time. You already showed up in Belmont,” Lee said in April. “We have to keep some secrets.”
In the waning days of the search, the committee exhaustively reviewed its top candidates and measured their credentials against the task at hand.
Searcher  Jessica Tuchman Mathews '67 said the committee weighed each contender’s ability to lead and oversee the University’s faculty, students, and finances. Mathews added the search committee particularly sought a president who could advocate for Harvard and for higher education on a national scale and who could expertly handle University initiatives like the new Allston campus.
“I will say this,” Lee said in the April interview. “One thing I can promise you is that the search committee felt very comfortable with the information we had on every single one of the candidates before we made a decision.”
Tilghman and Lee said the search committee landed on a final choice roughly two weeks before Feb. 11, the date of the official press conference announcing  Bacow’s selection. Tilghman said the search committee picked Bacow by taking a formal vote.
“We were selecting a president,” she said. “We had to come to a decision.”
 Lee, Mathews, and Tilghman all said one of Bacow’s most laudable qualities—which contributed to his selection as president—is his extensive knowledge of the challenges confronting Harvard and higher education.
“The wonderful thing about President-elect Bacow is that he understands deeply, in my view, many of the challenges that Harvard is going to face in the next, say, five to 10 years,” Tilghman said.
Corporation member and searcher  Kenneth I. Chenault said in February he agrees with Tilghman, noting he thinks Bacow will be able to connect with people beyond the gates of Harvard Yard.
“He’s going to do an unbelievable job because he understands both the needs of Harvard, but also the needs of higher education,” Chenault said. “I think he will speak to the world in a very powerful way.”
The searchers presented their final pick to the Board of Overseers for approval and announced Bacow’s selection on the same day, according to Lee. That timeline matches procedures followed in the past three searches.
Unlike his presidential predecessors, though, Bacow was not forced to conceal his identity as he arrived at the Overseers’ Feb. 11 confirmation meeting, held in Harvard’s Loeb House. During the final moments before her official selection in 2007,  Faust at one point ducked into a shopping complex to avoid reporters.
Bacow, by contrast, strolled calmly past Crimson reporters standing outside Loeb that rainy morning. He did not even dip his umbrella to hide his face. Asked if the search committee planned to announce the new president that day, Bacow replied, “This is a Board of Overseers meeting.”
As the clock ticked toward 3 p.m. later that day, Corporation members including Bacow made their way from Loeb to the Barker Center. In the center’s Thompson Room, Lee mounted a prepared stage, faced an audience of roughly 100 Corporation members, Overseers, former Harvard presidents, and members of the press, and revealed the identity of the University’s 29th president.
Following Lee’s introduction, Bacow stepped up to the podium, grinning and sporting a Harvard-crested tie. He thanked the search committee for entrusting him with the keys to Massachusetts Hall, the traditional office of the University president.
In a brief interview after the press conference, Bacow said he still has a lot to learn.
Recalling the words he once spoke to a group of Latinx alumni as a searcher, Bacow told reporters, “I’m in sponge mode.”
—Staff writer Caroline S. Engelmayer can be reached at caroline.engelmayer@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @cengelmayer13.
—Staff writer Kristine E. Guillaume can be reached at kristine.guillaume@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @krisguillaume.
—Staff writer Jamie D. Halper can be reached at jamie.halper@thecrimson.com.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered

Dean of the College Rakesh Khurana called the controversial April 13 arrest of a black Harvard undergraduate “distressing” and said the College is working “very closely” to provide information and support to University affiliates in the wake of the incident in an interview last month.
Cambridge Police Department officers arrested a College student April 13 at the corner of Massachusetts Avenue and Waterhouse Street on charges including indecent exposure, disorderly conduct, and assault. Officers tackled the student—who was naked—to the ground after determining the undergraduate had previously taken narcotics.
CPD officers later wrote in a police report they tackled the student because he was making aggressive movements toward law enforcement officials. But members of the Harvard Black Law Students Association who witnessed the event have called CPD’s version of events “incorrect” and have said the officers tackled the student without provocation.
While on the ground, at least one CPD officer punched the student in the stomach five times in an attempt to unpin the student’s arms and handcuff the undergraduate, according to the CPD police report.
Khurana said the College’s goal is to “make sure that something like this doesn’t happen again.”
He also appeared to endorse the idea of revising current Harvard policies and procedures in the aftermath of the arrest.
“It’s clear that we have work to do to ensure that there’s clear understandings in our community about how our basic health services and security services work,” he said. “Whether protocols were followed or not is, to me, not the issue because this is not the outcome we want and so we should decide from what is the outcome we want which is the safety and well-being of our students and work backwards to ensure that the practices and procedures and protocols we have in place produce those outcomes.”
In the weeks following the incident, members of Black Students Organizing for Change—a group formed in the aftermath of the arrest—penned an open letter addressed to the “Harvard Community” demanding various University reforms in the wake of the arrest.
BSOC demanded Harvard provide financial and academic support for the arrested student and publish a report on the events leading up to the student’s arrest. The group also called on the University to designate all drug and alcohol-related calls to Harvard University Health Services as medical emergencies, to acquire a University-owned ambulance, and to expedite “hiring of Black and Brown counselors at Harvard Counseling and Mental Health Services.”
The group asked the University to agree via written statement by May 1 to implement these measures. University President Drew G. Faust later formed a committee to “review” the events leading up to the student’s arrest, though she said this committee did not come as a response to student demands.
Khurana did not directly answer a question asking whether the College plans to respond to the demands laid out by BSOC in the April interview. Instead, he noted Harvard is in touch with students who have raised concerns about the arrest.
“We’ve been engaging with a variety of different students in a number of venues, including the students who are helping coordinate and identify student needs,” Khurana said. “The University is engaging with them, and we look forward to continually engaging with them.”
He declined to comment on the specific nature of this engagement.
Khurana also declined to comment on the status of the arrested student. When asked whether he believed the incident constituted police brutality, Khurana did not directly answer.
“I don’t think anybody wanted the outcome that we saw,” he said.
Khurana also declined to comment on whether the University has been in contact with CPD in the weeks following the arrest. He declined to comment on whether he thinks CPD should pursue charges against the student.
Other University administrators have also publicly denounced the April 13 incident. In an email sent to University affiliates April 16, University President Drew G. Faust called the arrest “profoundly disturbing.”
—Staff writer Caroline S. Engelmayer can be reached at caroline.engelmayer@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @cengelmayer13.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Keiko Ogura, 80, a survivor of the atomic bomb dropped on Hiroshima, Japan in 1945, visited the Kennedy School to caution against the use of nuclear weapons worldwide Sunday.
Ogura was eight years old on August 6, 1945, when the United States dropped a nuclear weapon on Hiroshima during the final months of World War II. The bomb immediately killed over 80,000 people and caused widespread radiation exposure that would later kill tens of thousands more.
At 8:16 a.m.—when the bomb was dropped—Ogura said she was about 2.4 kilometers north of the center of the impacted zone.
“I was so scared,” Ogura said. “I was hit, pressed on the road, and I was unconscious.”
Ogura said she could not “forget the voices of the people dying.”
After staying silent for more than 30 years, Ogura said the death of her husband Kaoru Ogura in 1979 spurred her to tell her story. Her husband, who served as the director of Hiroshima’s Peace Memorial Museum, spent much of his life setting up interviews between survivors, journalists, and psychologists to examine and raise awareness around the deadly physical and mental consequences of the bomb.
Ogura said residents of Hiroshima in part chose to stay silent because they feared that, if they told the truth about their experiences, they would be shut out by loved ones and by society at large. In the wake of the bomb drop, some cancelled engagements and weddings after discovering their partners had been exposed to radiation, fearful the exposure might lead to genetic defects in their offspring, according to Ogura.
“People tried not to talk about what happened, but we were horrified every day,” Ogura said.
Yusaku Kawashima, a master in public administration student originally from Japan, helped organize the event. He said the event in part came as a response to the recent escalation in North Korea’s nuclear capability.
The White House has announced that President Donald Trump will participate in a June 12 summit with North Korea in Singapore, following the historic April 27 meeting between North Korea’s leader, Kim Jong-un, and President Moon Jae-in of South Korea. Trump, though, has said the summit may be delayed.
Reports say North Korea is planning on closing a nuclear test site this week as a “good will gesture,” according to the BBC.
“We are trying to make an opportunity for students or future global leaders to think about our core fundamental value of peace,” Kawashima said. “We wanted to show how cruel or how disastrous the consequences of war was over 70 years ago and, by expressing what happened in the past, people can learn what to do in the future.”
Ogura said she is “worried” she will never see a “nuclear free” world. Nonetheless, she called for nuclear reform to prevent a disaster from taking place in the future.
“We survivors work not to repeat the evil,” Ogura said. “Somebody who saw this evil needs to do something to prevent the evil.”
“Telling our story is, in a way, caring,” Ogura added.
Correction: May 26, 2018
A previous version of this story misstated the gender of Yusaku Kawashima.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
WASHINGTON, D.C.—It was supposed to be over.
When the Harvard Corporation voted to approve the College’s controversial social group penalties in Dec. 2017, many thought the University’s highest governing body had ended the debate once and for all.
The vote followed 19 months of controversy and conflict over the sanctions, which—starting with the Class of 2021—bar members of single-gender final clubs and Greek organizations from campus leadership positions, varsity athletic team captaincies, and certain prestigious fellowships. By the time Corporation members jetted into Cambridge Dec. 4, the College had formed two separate committees tasked with scrutinizing the policy, held one full Faculty vote on the subject, and produced three reports on the sanctions together totaling more than 90 pages.
The Corporation’s historic intervention in undergraduate social life was not only meant to close the chapter—it was meant to ensure the chapter remained closed. In a letter announcing the vote, University President Drew G. Faust and Corporation senior fellow William F. Lee ’72 wrote the Corporation acted in part to ensure Faust’s successor could not alter the penalties.
“The decision announced today is not contingent on the occupant of Massachusetts Hall,” Faust and Lee wrote.
Congress, though, had other plans.
Just eight days after the Corporation voted on the penalties, legislators approved an amendment to an until-then unrelated piece of legislation that ignited a new and possibly existential threat to the sanctions.
The amendment—a rewrite of the PROSPER Act, a higher education bill currently pending before the United States House of Representatives—could severely imperil Harvard’s ability to enforce its penalties. The legislation forbids colleges and universities from penalizing students who join certain single-gender social organizations; pending slight alterations, it could force the University to choose between the sanctions and millions of dollars of federal research funding.
Aware the bill forms a powerful opportunity, some final clubs and Greek organizations are now latching on to the PROSPER Act as their last and best hope to cancel the sanctions barring a lawsuit. The social groups—some of them veteran lobbyists, some lobbying for the first time—are flocking to the nation’s capital in an effort to convince Congress to champion their cause.
Harvard has not sat idly by. Mobilizing its increasingly complex lobbying strategy—already “ramped up” in response to Donald Trump’s ascension to the presidency—the University has argued it would be inappropriate for Congress to intervene in private Harvard matters.
As the sanctions debate edges towards the national stage, lobbyists on both sides face a new challenge: they must convince Beltway insiders the social groups provision is key to legislation some lawmakers and analysts say contains far more significant measures.
For the first time in the history of the penalties, Harvard and its social groups must contend with the fact that the University’s social group policy is wholly unimportant to many who could determine its fate.
When Neal McCluskey—director of the Cato Institute’s Center for Educational Freedom—learned some final clubs and Greek organizations had retained the Washington, D.C.-based lobbying firm Arnold & Porter, he was taken aback.
“Oh, they’re really serious,” he said.
Sitting in his office, surrounded by books including the Anti-Federalist Papers and John Locke’s political treatises, McCluskey explained Arnold & Porter has a top-notch reputation in Washington.
The social groups could use the firm’s “connections to talk to the right people,” he said. McCluskey added Arnold & Porter will facilitate the “kind of in-person lobbying” that is “most effective” on Capitol Hill.

Arnold & Porter is working with two sets of social groups leading the charge against Harvard’s sanctions: the Cambridge Coalition and the Fraternal Government Relations Coalition. The former—comprising all-male Harvard final clubs the Fly Club, the A.D. Club, and the Porcellian Club, as well as the Cambridge chapters of Sigma Chi, Sigma Alpha Epsilon, and Delta Kappa Epsilon—formed in recent months specifically to lobby against Harvard’s policy.
The lobbying firm’s second client has a longer history and a broader reach. FGRC includes the North American Interfraternity Conference, the National Panhellenic Conference, and the Fraternity and Sorority Political Action Committee, the premier political arm for Greek organizations in the United States. FGRC has worked with Arnold & Porter since 2015.
The two coalitions differ in the scope and size of their constituents, in their levels of Washington expertise, and in the range of their interests. Nonetheless, the Cambridge Coalition and FGRC are now entering into an unusual marriage—they have retained the same lobbying firm and are represented by the same lead lobbyists. They have spoken to lawmakers as a team. And they share at least one common goal: cancelling Harvard’s sanctions.
“I’ve been very impressed with how they’ve melded together on this one cause,” said Richard T. Porteus, Jr. ’78, the graduate president of the Fly Club.
Porteus said the two groups are pursuing the same broad lobbying strategy: meeting in person with key legislative players who have the ability to shape the PROSPER Act and bolster its chances of success.
The act, meant as a reauthorization of the Higher Education Act of 1965, was voted out of the House Committee for Education and the Workforce in Dec. 2017.  But its future is by no means certain; in order to become law, the legislation must pass both the Senate and the House. It is currently unclear whether the bill could garner majority support in either chamber of Congress.
Both the Cambridge Coalition and FGRC likely especially care about a single word embedded in the legislation: “recognized.” The draft of the PROSPER Act now before the House specifies that colleges and universities cannot punish students in “recognized” single-gender social groups—private institutions that choose to do so could become ineligible for federal support including research funding.

The word “recognized” means the legislation in its current form does not apply to Harvard, whose final clubs and Greek organizations have been unrecognized since 1984.
As the House and the Senate work through versions of the PROSPER Act, the coalitions have a window of opportunity to alter this language.
As part of this effort, the groups are particularly targeting lawmakers who sit on the House Committee on Education and the Workforce and on the Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor & Pensions, the group responsible for drafting the Senate version of the PROSPER Act.
Kevin O’Neill—the lead Arnold & Porter lobbyist representing both FGRC and the Cambridge Coalition—said in a May interview the groups are striving to develop “a solution that addresses all students.”
In April 2018, the two coalitions sent representatives to Washington, D.C. Judson Horras, the president and CEO of NIC, said social group alumni and current undergraduates—including College students—met with more than 450 lawmakers, representing roughly 80 percent of voting members of Congress. Dani Weatherford, executive director of NPC, said more than 200 individuals participated in that effort.
The social groups are also digging into their pocketbooks. The Cambridge Coalition spent $40,000 in the first quarter of 2018 lobbying around “issues related to the reauthorization of the Higher Education Act,” according to publicly available records.
In that same time period, public filings show FGRC spent $50,000 lobbying around the PROSPER Act. The first quarter stretches from Jan. 1 to March 31.
For at least one member of FGRC—FSPAC—activity around the PROSPER Act matches a longstanding pattern. Established in 2005, FSPAC has long sought to influence higher education laws.
But the group now seems to have zeroed in on Harvard’s sanctions; FSPAC added a member of the Porcellian Club to its 2017-18 board of directors.
In addition, publicly available documents show FSPAC earmarked some of its 2017 donations for three Republican legislators intimately involved with the PROSPER Act generally and the social group provision specifically.
The PAC gave a total of $22,000 to Representatives Virginia Foxx, a North Carolina Republican who introduced the act; Elise M. Stefanik ’06, a Republican from New York and a vocal supporter of the social group provision; and Brett Guthrie, a Kentucky Republican who introduced the amendment containing the provision. Foxx and Guthrie each received $10,000, while Stefanik pocketed $2,000, according to the documents.

Horras said the social groups believe it is important to defeat Harvard’s sanctions not only to protect single-gender organizations at the University but to broadly defend students’ Constitutional right to freedom of association.
“It’s easy to say that this is about Harvard, but this is about something much bigger than Harvard and everyone has to understand that,” he said. “People aren’t thinking about this in terms of Harvard, they’re thinking about this in terms of basic rights of assembly and speech and choice.”
Harvard picks its battles on Capitol Hill.
Director of Federal Relations Suzanne Day—the University’s lead lobbyist—said in a May 2017 interview the University tries to maintain “a sense of what’s realistic to be worried about.”
“You can be worried about everything, but we try to calibrate what we think is actually in the realm of possibility on the Hill and then engage to make a difference,” she said.
Rep. Guthrie’s Dec. 2017 decision to introduce the social group provision raised the PROSPER Act to that realm of possibility. In the months since, Harvard has indicated it is willing to fight against the legislation—and for the sanctions.
Earlier this year, Faust sent a letter to Stefanik denouncing the PROSPER Act’s social group provision. In the letter, Faust wrote she feels the amendment constitutes a distressing and intrusive effort on the part of Congress to dictate private universities’ internal policies.
“I worry [the provision] represents an effort by Congress to regulate student life and the shape and character of private institutions in a way that threatens to undermine that diversity of choice and experience,” Faust wrote.
In a May interview, Faust charged that support for the PROSPER Act’s social group provision runs counter to broader Republican principles.
“That lobbyists should be raising money to influence legislation to intrude in University affairs seems to me highly inappropriate and a level of government intervention that is surprising to find supported by Republicans,” she said. “It seems to me at odds with the whole philosophy of the Republican party.”
Stefanik—who declined to meet with Faust during the president’s most recent trip to D.C., citing scheduling issues—appears unswayed by this argument. In an emailed statement last week, Stefanik spokesperson Tom Flanigin wrote the Congresswoman “believes all schools should respect students’ right to freely associate.”
“This legislation is not specific to Harvard and will protect Constitutional liberties on campuses across the country,” Flanigin wrote.
The University, meanwhile, is backing its words with its wallet. In the first quarter of 2018, Harvard spent roughly $160,000 lobbying around a number of bills including the PROSPER Act, according to public filings.
And Faust is not the only Harvard administrator who has spoken out against the bill. Dean of the College Rakesh Khurana—who has largely become the face of the sanctions on campus—has also said he thinks the PROSPER Act’s social group provision is misguided.
“I think people should respect a private institution’s ability to organize itself around its mission,” he said in an April interview. “In particular, I believe that there should be deference given to educators in being able to pursue this mission.”
Khurana has said he believes the outcome of the fight over the penalties will determine the College’s ability to live up to its mission statement. The dean—who often repeats all 136 words of the mission from memory—has argued the final clubs’ exclusive membership practices go against Harvard’s commitment to non-discrimination and inclusivity.
“The College is trying to create an environment in which we are trying to convene the best students, faculty, and staff who want to make a positive difference in the world,” Khurana said in April. “We think it’s essential that one way that you make that is by being around people who are different from you, by living with them, by learning from them.”
He added final clubs “basically institutionalize segregation” and that “separate is not equal.”
Khurana and Faust have both said they are not in contact with members of the Cambridge Coalition.
In an April interview, Khurana offered a theory as to why members of single-gender social groups are lobbying against the sanctions.
“You know, the past can grab hold of you and because it can feel so pristine at that time or it could have seemed like none of the contradictions and the complexities of daily life were there, it’s very natural for people to want things to remain unchanging,” he said. “But as an educational institution, change is what education is.”
The PROSPER Act is over 600 pages long and contains dozens of sections.
Just one section of the bill addresses campus social groups—that provision totals three pages.
Some lawmakers and analysts say the provision that could determine the fate of Harvard’s social group policy is rightly buried in a bill that affects much more pressing legislative issues like financial aid and student loans. When Arnold & Porter produced an internal analysis of the top 10 policy issues at stake in the PROSPER Act in March, single-gender social groups did not make the list.
McCluksey said much of the concern and debate around the PROSPER Act in the House will likely center on issues of federal education funding and first amendment rights.
“It’s a fun thing to talk about, but when you get into the law itself, it’s going to be totally dominated by spending issues and how many aid programs you have and not really the more social stuff,” McCluskey said. He added legislators will likely also focus on “issues of free speech” and what he called the “shouting down” of controversial speakers on college campuses.
Rep. Raja Krishnamoorthi, a Democrat from Illinois who sits on the House Committee on Education and the Workforce, said in a May interview that the social group provision drew little to no attention during the committee’s mark-up of the draft bill in December.
Krishnamoorthi said the “accessibility of higher education”—not policies related to campus social groups—comprises the “number one issue” in the PROSPER Act.
“Why are we talking about this? I don’t want to minimize what is going on in this particular situation, but I’ve got kids who are struggling to pay for college,” he said. “This particular provision is not important to the welfare of the vast majority of people in college right now.”
Michael Woeste, a spokesperson for the Committee on Education and the Workforce, appeared to agree with Krishnamoorthi. Asked in part which components of the bill the committee considers most important, he did not mention the social group provision.
“The innovative reforms within the PROSPER Act are necessary to provide students with a high-quality education, and fix a system that has not been serving their needs,” Woeste wrote in an email. “Not only have we been able to put forward major reforms that improve the postsecondary education system for students like the expansion of Pell grants, innovation for apprenticeships and earn and learn opportunities, and simplification of student financial aid, but we have shown that those major reforms can be done while still being fiscally responsible.”
Ultimately, whether or not legislators view the social group provision as a priority may not matter, McCluskey said. He predicted the PROSPER Act will fail to pass regardless.
“There’s so little prospect of it actually becoming law,” he said. “So maybe it gets voted on by the whole House, but it doesn’t get any farther than that.”
Corporation member Jessica Tuchman Mathews said in a May interview she also thinks the bill is doomed in Congress.
“It’s a very, very remote possibility that thing goes anywhere,” she said.
Some alumni of Cambridge single-gender social groups have said they will consider suing the University if they cannot stall the sanctions through legislation.
Harvey A. Silverglate, a lawyer who has represented the Fly Club since the group retained legal counsel in Sept. 2016, wrote in an emailed statement in April 2018 that the decision to sue—not yet made—will depend in part on the outcome of the lobbying push.
He added the clubs consider the lobbying effort the “most prudent and effective thing” to do in the “near term” and that litigation was “always seen as a last resort.”
Porteus agreed.
“It’s the type of thing that you allow for the possibility but you don’t plan for its being an eventuality,” he said in April. “I know litigation is always the sexiest thing to go for [but] the legislative remedy is of most promise to us.”
O’Neill promised the two coalitions he represents will continue the fight regardless of whether the PROSPER Act ultimately passes.
“We believe we’re on the right moral side here and we’re on the side that’s in the best interest of the students and we will pursue all paths to get to that correct outcome,” O’Neill said. “We are focused intently on the legislative path today—if obstacles are created and there are other paths that get us to the right outcome, we’ll go down those other paths.”
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
In late February, the #MeToo movement—which, since October, has unearthed sexual assault and harassment allegations against men in industries ranging from entertainment to politics—arrived without warning on Harvard’s campus.
The Chronicle of Higher Education published two articles in which 18 women publicly accused Government Professor Jorge I. Dominguez of repeated acts of sexual harassment spanning nearly 40 years. The first reported incident occurred in 1979; the most recent in 2015.
The news sparked national attention and sent Harvard affiliates reeling. Within hours of the first article’s publication, students were sharing it on social media, many questioning why the University had not taken action against the professor long before.
Unlike many men caught up in the #MeToo movement, Dominguez had already been found guilty of sexual harassment once before—after a junior faculty member accused him of misconduct in 1983.
After the University temporarily sanctioned Dominguez, though, he continued to climb through the University’s ranks, assuming various administrative positions. He served as director of the Weatherhead Center for International Affairs from 1996 to 2006 and was named the University’s first Vice Provost for International Affairs in 2006, a position he held until 2015. As recently as fall 2017, he taught a freshman seminar.
The issue of sexual harassment extends beyond one professor. A recent Crimson survey of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences revealed that 28 percent of surveyed faculty indicated they know a department member who has experienced sexual harassment or assault at Harvard.
Yet, as a single case, Dominguez forms a powerful example of how Harvard has grappled with issues of sexual harassment throughout its history, both today and in decades prior.
The first Chronicle article sent shockwaves across campus.
Days after the article’s publication Feb. 27, Government Department Chair Jennifer L. Hochschild notified all Government concentrators the department would host a meeting March 2 to discuss “how better to promote and sustain a safe and respectful community.”
Students also scrambled to organize their own response. Government concentrator Elena D. Sokoloski ’18 started the social media campaign “#DominguezMustGo.” She and other students also arrived at the March 2 meeting wearing black in honor of the “Time’s Up” movement, started by celebrities in response to the wave of sexual misconduct allegations sweeping the entertainment industry.
Hours after the meeting, University Provost Alan M. Garber ’76 sent an email to University affiliates directly referencing the Chronicle article and asking those who had experienced “inappropriate behavior” to come forward and speak with the University’s Title IX Office, the Harvard body that works to prevent and respond to violations of federal Title IX policy, including sexual harassment.
Shortly after the Chronicle published a second article detailing further allegations March 4, Dean of FAS  Michael D. Smith announced FAS had placed Dominguez on paid “administrative leave” while FAS worked to conduct a “full and fair review” of the allegations brought against him.
The next day, Dominguez announced he planned to retire at the end of the semester and was immediately resigning from his administrative roles.
Hochschild wrote in an email to department affiliates that Dominguez’s retirement would not affect the “full and fair review” of the allegations against him.
As administrators worked to address the allegations, hundreds of undergraduate and graduate students released two open letters calling on the University to take more decisive action against Dominguez and to expand its efforts to combat sexual harassment. Graduate students also sent a second letter detailing more specific policy changes they wanted the Government department to enact.
Hochschild emailed government department affiliates March 9 informing them she had posted a “Statement of Principles” on the department’s website and that the department planned to take several steps to “create a safe, healthy, and intellectually exciting environment.”
She also announced a preliminary list of members of the department’s newly created Climate Change Committee,  formed in the wake of the allegations to improve department culture broadly.
Despite these steps, some individuals affected by Dominguez said they were dissatisfied with the University’s handling of the allegations.
Several of the women accusing Dominguez of sexual harassment sent a letter to Smith, University President Drew G. Faust, Garber, and Hochschild arguing the University is “ill-equipped” to investigate Dominguez.
The women stated the Title IX Office did not have the resources necessary and that Harvard instead needed to bring in independent investigators.
During the month of April, Smith and Garber sent the women multiple emails stating they could not comply with the women’s demands. In one of the email exchanges, Smith revealed FAS had filed a “formal Title IX complaint” against Dominguez.
“We share a commitment to a full and fair investigation of the allegations surrounding Jorge Dominguez,” Smith wrote in an emailed response to the women.
In the initial letter, the women also wrote that three individuals—including Suzanna E. Challen, a former Government Ph.D. student—had reached out to the Title IX Office about Dominguez in Nov. 2017. The women wrote the office replied at the time it did not plan to take action.
Smith wrote in his response it would be “inappropriate” for him to discuss specific issues raised in the letter because of the formal complaint.
After a person, or the University, files a formal complaint with the Office for Dispute Resolution alleging a Title IX violation, ODR then determines whether the allegations—if true—would violate Harvard’s policies forbidding sexual harassment and gender-based discrimination. If ODR determines a violation is possible, it then launches an investigation and issues a report at the conclusion of the investigation stating what, if any, violations have been found.
ODR is currently investigating Dominguez, according to an email Hochschild sent to Government department alumni in May.
When ODR investigates instances of misconduct, it judges behavior against the policy in place at the time of the incident, according to Title IX Officer Nicole Merhill. But ODR uses current procedures to conduct the investigation.
Challen and Nienke C. Grossman ’99, another signatory of the letter, said they were contacted by ODR to serve as witnesses in the Title IX process in the weeks following the initial publication of allegations against Dominguez.
Because Dominguez is a faculty member, a copy of the final report from ODR will almost definitely be shared with the dean of FAS.
In cases where there are allegations of harassment by faculty, the final report of the investigation is “provided to the Complainant and the Respondent, the FAS Title IX Coordinator for Faculty, the Title IX Coordinator of the School or Unit with which the Complainant is affiliated, as applicable, and the Dean of the FAS or his or her designee,” according to a written statement from Director of ODR William D. McCants.
The report also recommends specific actions against the individual in question ranging from reprimand to dismissal. Dominguez is a tenured professor; a copy of the University statutes states that only the Harvard Corporation, the University’s highest governing body, can dismiss a permanently appointed faculty member for “grave misconduct or neglect of duty.”
Harvard first took action against Dominguez in 1983 after Assistant Professor Terry Karl and a government graduate student accused the professor of various acts of sexual harassment. Then-Dean of FAS Henry Rosovsky sanctioned Dominguez by removing him from his administrative roles.
Just two years later, though, Dominguez was appointed to chair both the Special Appointments Committee in the Government department and the FAS Foreign Cultures subcommittee of the Core Curriculum.
Some Government students at the time said they believe the University’s actions were insufficient.
Michael P. Adams ’83, one of Karl’s thesis advisees, said the University remained silent on the issue when students attempted to raise concerns. He and two other undergraduates at the time, Michael A. Heller ’84 and Dove S. Scherr ’84, wrote a letter to The Crimson denouncing the University’s “secrecy on this issue” and its “unsatisfactory response.”
“We were saying this was happening and publishing the essay in The Crimson and talking to Time [Magazine], etc, but the University wasn’t talking about it, saying what was happening,” Adams said.
Rosovsky declined to comment on the handling of the Dominguez case in the 1980s.
“I think it’s a good thing that justice is finally being done,” Adams said, citing the impact of the recent Chronicle articles.  “But I can’t help thinking, if Harvard had dealt with this appropriately in 1983, 1984, none of those other women would have been harassed.”
In response to Dominguez’s case, a group of Government graduate students wrote a letter addressed to Rosovsky in 1984, according to then-graduate students Cynthia A. Sanborn, Jeffrey W. Rubin ’77, and Jill A. Irvine. Sanborn has kept a paper copy of the letter ever since.
In the letter, the students wrote the lack of information and the official secrecy from the administration on Dominguez was “damaging to the academic community as a whole.”
The students also demanded to be notified of findings about Dominguez’s misconduct as well as the status of his sanctions.
“We therefore request a public statement from your office that specifies the severity of the misconduct committed by Professor Dominguez, the sanctions imposed by the university, and other steps taken to prevent future abuses of power,” the letter reads.
According to a 1983 Crimson article about Dominguez’s punishment, the faculty misconduct policy at the time decreed “formal harassment complaints are investigated by an administrator and submitted to Rosovsky for a final decision.”
Rosovsky also declined to comment on the letter.
In addition to concerns over Dominguez himself, some graduate students said they were deeply affected by the departure of Karl, who chose to leave the department after the harassment she experienced.
Rubin said he feels many graduate students missed out on experiencing a true “intellectual community” in the department.
“They went off to do research and went somewhere else, some other town or university, got their Ph.D.s at Harvard, but did not have the richness, intellectual community, and professional networking that happened at Harvard,” he said.
Another Latin Americanist, like Karl, Philip D. Oxhorn—a graduate student at the time—said he feels more connected with other universities where he has worked.
Now a professor of political science at McGill University, Oxhorn said Dominguez’s misconduct was “no secret” amongst the graduate students.
“We all knew there was history, and we all knew it was likely to repeat itself unless more severe sanctions were imposed. And from what we now know, in hindsight, we’re not at all surprised,”  Oxhorn said.
Dominguez’s case was not the only instance of sexual harassment allegations facing the Government department in the ’70s and ’80s. In 1979, for the first time in Harvard’s history, the University officially reprimanded a faculty member—Government Professor Martin L. Kilson Jr.–for sexual harassment after Helene S. York ’83 alleged that he attempted to kiss her when she attended his office hours.
Rosovsky wrote Kilson a “letter of reprimand” and requested that Kilson write York a “formal letter of apology,” according to a 1979 Crimson article.
In Feb. 1985, just two years after Karl left Harvard, Government professor Douglas A. Hibbs Jr. resigned after a student complained he had perpetrated sexual harassment. The New York Times reported this marked the first time a professor resigned for this reason in University history.
Irvine, who was a graduate student in the department throughout those years, said he remembers that period as a “struggle.”
“The atmosphere was really tough, and it was not an easy place to be a female graduate student at the time,” Irvine said.
As the ODR investigation progresses, the University has taken broader steps to address issues of sexual harassment. Garber and Executive Vice President Katherine N. Lapp announced earlier this month that Harvard will now require all faculty and staff to complete an “online training module” created by the Title IX Office starting next semester.
Their emailed announcement noted the role of “recent events” in revealing the impact sexual harassment can have.
“As recent events across society have demonstrated, sexual and gender-based harassment remains a deeply ingrained problem,” Garber and Lapp wrote in their email. “It can impose enormous human costs, personally and professionally.”
University spokesperson Melodie L. Jackson wrote in an emailed statement earlier this month that the new requirement does not come as a response to allegations made against Dominguez.
Faust has also asked that a committee formed to look into the 2014 Sexual and Gender-Based Harassment Policy specifically address two issues: What “structural and cultural realities” lead to an environment in which harassment is more likely and what the University can do to earn people’s trust so they are confident in Harvard’s ability to evaluate their concerns.
Grossman said she hopes the committee will consider inviting alumni and Title IX experts to share their perspectives.
She added she believes the committee should make its final report public.
“[This] shows the community that the University is thinking about these issues and reflecting about them and trying to do things the best way possible,” Grossman said. “It gives Harvard the opportunity to be a leader on an issue that many universities are facing and to contribute in a positive way to stopping harassment on campus.”
On a more localized scale, the Climate Change Committee within the Government department—comprising undergraduates, graduate students, faculty, and staff—continues to meet. The group met twice in April and has created seven subcommittees to address separate issues, according to a May 17 email from Hochschild to alumni.
The subcommittee is examining issues including how to promote “departmental diversity among faculty and graduate students” and how to improve the graduate mentoring program.
Government Professor Steven R. Levitsky, who is chairing the Climate Change Committee, said the committee is considering commissioning an “external audit” of the department.
Levitsky said an external audit would not involve reviewing the Dominguez case, which does not all under the purview of the department. He said the audit would instead “explore the climate conditions that gave rise to systematic non-reporting of sexual and other forms of harassment.”
“I don’t think we are able to investigate ourselves in that matter, so what we want to do is figure out a way to organize an external investigation,” Levitsky said.
Levitsky said he and Hochschild are consulting experts and friends to determine who would lead this external investigation, whether outside professional consultants or professors from other departments.
Hochschild said the department has not yet raised this idea with FAS.
As the University continues to grapple with the effects of the Dominguez revelations, some say they hope the incident will spur the University to enact change going forward.
“The reason we brought this forward was primarily to try to press Harvard to do better, because we know it can do better, and it needs to for the sake of its students,” Challen said.
—Staff writer Angela N. Fu can be reached at angela.fu@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @angelanfu.
—Staff writer Lucy Wang can be reached at lucy.wang@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @lucyyloo22.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
When Lawrence S. Bacow takes the helm of the country’s oldest university in July, he will face a Faculty of Arts and Sciences more concerned with governance than it has been in decades.
Since the unveiling of penalties against single-gender social organizations in 2016, the Faculty has taken an increased interest in governing student life. Convinced the penalties constituted unprecedented administrative intrusion on a matter rightfully under the purview of the Faculty, some professors introduced several motions meant to kill the policy. In the end, though, the Harvard Corporation—the University’s highest governing body, on which the president serves as an ex-officio member—voted in Dec. 2017 to uphold the sanctions for the foreseeable future.
A decade ago, tensions were also flaring between the Faculty and the administration—specifically between the Faculty and then-President Lawrence H. Summers. In March 2005, the Faculty narrowly passed a 218-185 vote of no confidence against Summers, leading to his eventual resignation in Feb. 2006.
“It looked to me like the magnitudes of the rifts with certain segments of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences faculty were at a level where I thought it would be very difficult for us to advance on a whole set of fronts,” Summers said at the time.
During the 27th president's tenure, FAS members raised a number of concerns over how much sway professors should wield over University-wide policies like Harvard’s expansion into Allston—then widely regarded as a moonshot—as well as financial aid initiatives and the president’s own approach to management.
Bacow and Summers are both white, male economists named Larry; in the wake of the announcement Bacow would serve as Harvard's 29th president, many could not resist drawing an immediate comparison between the two men. Some University affiliates said at the time they had hoped for another female president or for the University’s first president of color—and not “another white man named Larry.”
Despite nominal and physical similarities, Bacow and Summers are in fact quite different, boasting dissimilar backgrounds and leadership styles.
But at least one element will likely remain as constant for the second Larry as it did for the first: an attentive Faculty eager to push the boundaries of its governing power.
Bacow and Summers share not only a first name, but also a discipline and undergraduate degrees from MIT. Both began their first university presidencies in Sept. 2001, and, during their administrations, both launched precedent-setting initiatives to expand financial aid for undergraduates.
The similarities in the two men's backgrounds, however, largely end there.
By the time Summers ascended to Harvard’s highest office in 2001, he had acquired decades of experience not only in academia, but also in politics.
In 1983, Summers started his career as one of the youngest tenured professors in Harvard’s history. He hovered on Washington’s periphery for much of the ’80s, serving as an economic advisor for the Reagan administration and the Dukakis campaign. In 1991, Summers moved to Washington full-time to serve as the vice president and chief economist at the World Bank. From there, he moved on to the Clinton Administration, where his political tenure culminated in his appointment as Clinton’s Treasury Secretary in 1999.
Bacow’s background, on the other hand, is more oriented towards university administration. He joined the MIT faculty in 1977 as a professor of environmental studies. In 1995, Bacow became chair of the faculty, a position comparable to Harvard’s dean of FAS.
Two years later, he rose to chancellor—the third highest administrative office at the university—which gave him responsibility over undergraduate and graduate student affairs.
He moved to his first presidency at Tufts in 2001, where he oversaw a number of initiatives on undergraduate social life and free speech as well as a $1.2 billion capital campaign. After he stepped down in 2011, he was appointed to the Harvard Corporation, the only body with the power to appoint or remove Harvard’s president.
Bacow began Harvard's most recent presidential search as a member of its search committee. By the end of the nine-month search, however, searcher had become candidate. At roughly 3:00 p.m. on Feb. 11, 2018, the committee named Bacow its final choice for Harvard’s 29th president.
Harvard’s president chairs the ad hoc committees on faculty tenures—one of several key ways in which faculty members can interact with the president. While former Dean of the FAS William C. Kirby said Summers’s role in these meetings was not unlike that of his predecessors, Kirby said Summers had a “much more direct” leadership approach.
“He believed very strongly in data and in the metrics of the case, in the way a good economist would,” Kirby said.
Summers’s directness generated controversy. In a Jan. 2005 conference, Summers posited that underrepresentation of women in science could potentially be attributed to “issues of intrinsic aptitude, and particularly of the variability of aptitude.”
While Summers apologized for his remarks, and the Corporation initially expressed confidence in his leadership. But the damage was done.
One month later, tempers flared when more than 500 faculty gathered in Loeb Drama Center for a chaotic Faculty meeting that concluded in a vote of no-confidence against Summers.
J. Lorand Matory ’82, a professor of African and African American studies at Harvard during the Summers era, proposed the March 2005 vote of no-confidence. Now an anthropology professor at Duke University, Matory said Summers had a “combative” style of communication and spoke while “thinking out loud.”
“I felt like there were no other options but to file the motion,” Matory recalled.
Ruth R. Wisse, a retired professor of comparative literature, said she would have liked to see Summers “succeed and prosper” as the University president. In the the midst of the controversy, Wisse decided to make a one-on-one appointment with Summers.
“As things began to evolve, I was really distressed by the degree to which he could not in any way effectively defend himself. I told him that he should have been marshalling support from the faculty,” Wisse said. “He thanked me for coming and did not react in any way—not impolitely, but that was the end of it.”
Summers said in an interview last week that he believed “forceful presidential leadership” generated many of Harvard’s most successful initiatives, including “the founding of the African American studies program, the establishment of the Kennedy School, and the creation of the Broad Institute.”
“At Harvard, there’s a tendency instead of doing the things that some people are most excited about, to do only the things that no group is strongly opposed to, that leads us to be inertial,” Summers said. “And I think that leads us to be very slow in responding to a changing world.”
Bacow’s leadership style, on the other hand, is more reserved, according to his former colleagues at MIT and Tufts.
Lonnie H. Norris, who served as Dean of Tufts’ Dental School during Bacow’s tenure there, said Bacow’s leadership “begin[s] with listening.”
“Part of his communication skills was really to listen and understand the problems or the goals or aspirations of people he’s working with,” Norris said. “And uniquely, he can incorporate those thoughts that they gave him and give them back to them to work with them and to solve the problem.”
Stephen D. Immerman, who worked as an administrator under Bacow’s chancellorship, said Bacow prioritized cooperation and camaraderie.
“He always operated as though we were there together solving problems and it didn’t matter about your position, what mattered was your expertise and your ability to cooperate and work together to achieve a common goal,” Immerman said.
David H. Marks, an engineering professor who served on the committee that hired Bacow at MIT, said Bacow is also “willing to put the time and energy into helping people to understand issues.” Sometimes, Marks said, Bacow would take colleagues who disagreed out on a run. The colleague would “normally come back convinced.”
“I don’t know if he runs them into the ground or what. But he had a unique way of engaging people and getting them to listen and to explore ideas,” he said. “He’s not a sledgehammer guy in any sense.”
The Harvard presidency carries a unique responsibility in its job description: chairing the monthly meeting of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences. The president does not serve a similar function at any of the University’s other schools.
Kirby said the University president’s relationship with the FAS is historically different from the relationship between the president and the faculty of any of Harvard's other schools. FAS members have a more “direct capacity to speak to the president,” according to Kirby.
“The Faculty have definitely found it valuable to have the opportunity to speak with the president,” Kirby said. “It gives the president a more public voice for certain types of announcements than otherwise might be the case. In question period, it also allows for utterly unscripted moments.”
Faculty took advantage of the question period during the height of tensions with Summers in Feb. 2006. Following a Crimson report that Kirby would step down due to pressure from Summers the previous month, members of the Faculty flocked to University Hall to speak directly with Summers. More than a dozen faculty lambasted Summers, challenging him on a series of issues including his relationship with Andrei Shleifer ’82, a personal friend of Summers who was implicated in a federal fraud lawsuit at the time. No professors rose to defend Summers at the time.
Wisse said she was upset by the way the Faculty “ganged up” against the president, adding she believes the University president should not chair the faculty meetings.
“The people who attend Faculty meetings tend to be a very narrow sliver of the University,” she said. “They are the most hawkily engaged and they enjoy the idea that sitting there with the President of the University is easy to aggress against if they want to.”
For the foreseeable future, though, Harvard's president will continue to lead Faculty meetings—so Bacow will soon begin taking his seat at the front of University Hall each month.
It will not be Bacow’s first time navigating relationships between faculty and administrators; across his time at both MIT and Tufts, he stood on both sides of the governance issue. He served as the MIT faculty’s chief advocate—the chair of the faculty—before taking on an administrative perspective as chancellor of MIT and, later, as president of Tufts.
When Bacow became MIT’s chancellor, he brought his experience chairing the faculty to the role, according to Daniel Roos, an MIT professor who worked with Bacow at the time.
“First, he understood the issues that the university faced. And he understood the governance structure of the university in terms of how to get things done. And he interacted with a whole range of faculty and faculty committees,” Roos said.
Marks said Bacow was particularly skilled at persuading MIT’s faculty to support efforts to diversify faculty hiring and change Title IX policies.
“A lot of faculty just don’t pay any attention at all. But it was pretty clear he had a sense of what was a good direction to move and a sense of whether the faculty as a whole would go along with it,” Marks said.
Jamshed J. Bharucha, who Bacow appointed to serve as Tufts’s provost in 2002, said Bacow emphasized transparency in engaging with faculty, which created an environment in which there were “no surprises.”
“He explains his decisions very carefully, very thoroughly. He doesn’t harbor secret agendas. Doesn’t play games,” Bharucha said. “Anybody can ask to speak with him and he is always available, which also builds trust with faculty members.”
Bharucha also said he thinks Bacow’s experience as both a faculty and administrative leader could allow him to transcend the traditional faculty-president divide.
“I don’t think it’s a question of presidential power versus faculty power at all,” he said. “He understands the proper role that faculty can play. He also understands that leadership means that the buck starts with you, and you have to take responsibility for the stewardship of the institution.”
In an interview last month, Bacow said he will be supportive of the faculty as president.
“My job as president is to enable the faculty to do their best work—their best teaching, advising and scholarship,” he said.
The job of the Harvard president has grown more complex in recent decades. The University is continuing to grow, encountering increasing opposition in Washington, and struggling to preserve its pre-eminence in the face of a powerful rival out west.
Matory said the University's 29th president will have to address diverse constituencies while balancing issues including financial concerns, faculty hiring, and debates over free speech.
“You have to deal with politicians, donors, and faculty who may be divided on methods,” Matory said. “There was a time in history when the president was a towering figure, but now it’s much more difficult to affect change.”
Kirby said that, though the FAS relationship with the University president is unique, it forms one of many relationships Bacow will need to balance.
“He will be a president with a considerable capacity for intellectual outreach,” Kirby said. “He will work well with faculty across the University. We in FAS must always remember he’s president of the whole university, not just FAS.”
For all their differences, though, Bacow may lead Harvard in the direction Summers wanted—towards what Summers called in his last commencement speech a “time when, because of Harvard’s bold investments and its magnetic power, Boston is to this century what Florence was to the 15th.”
After July, Bacow will be responsible for completing the Allston expansion Summers began in 2001—an expansion Bacow in February dubbed “the university of the future.”
“It was gratifying to hear him [Bacow] identify excellence, opportunity, and truth as central for Harvard, and I think those are exactly the right kinds of themes on which Harvard needs to build its future,” Summers said Monday.
“I think he’s shown himself to be an excellent leader in the past.”
—Staff  writer William L. Wang can be reached at william.wang@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @wlwang20.
—Staff writer Luke W. Xu can be reached at luke.xu@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @duke_of_luke.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Fifty-five percent of surveyed graduating seniors said they had favorable opinions of Dean of the College Rakesh Khurana, marking a rise from his historically low approval rating of 42 percent last year.
The senior survey—conducted annually by The Crimson—showed that 32 percent of respondents in the Class of 2018 said they had unfavorable opinions of Khurana, 11 percent said they had no opinion, and the remaining students said they did not have enough information to respond. Of the more than 1600 graduating seniors, 704 responded to the survey.
Khurana, who has largely become the face of the College’s controversial social group policy, has remained firm in his support for the penalties as the College has rolled out an implementation plan for the sanctions this year. Last spring, when Khurana garnered his lowest favorability rating to date, the sanctions' final form was still in flux and many students said they objected to the policy.
The sanctions, which took effect with the Class of 2021, bar members of single-gender final clubs and Greek organizations from holding campus leadership positions and varsity athletic team captaincies, and from receiving College endorsement for certain prestigious fellowships.
In March, the College announced a long-awaited enforcement plan for the sanctions. Earlier this month, the College debuted a three-tier system for determining the privileges that recognized social groups can earn and the requirements they must fulfill to avoid being penalized.
In an interview Thursday, Khurana said he wants students to understand that every choice he makes as dean is intended to “create a better experience" for them.
“I know there are things that people don’t necessarily agree on but I always respect people who have different points of view and perspectives on this,” Khurana said.
Khurana declined to speculate on what contributed to his higher approval rating this year.
“I just want students to know how much everybody cares about them here,” he said. “I know the College, with all of its challenges and imperfections, is committed to becoming and being a place where anybody who comes from whatever background can feel like they can flourish.”
Khurana’s approval rates were lower among respondents who identified themselves as members of single-gender social groups than those who did not. In total, 35 percent of respondents in single-gender social groups had a favorable opinion of Khurana, while 65 percent of respondents not in one of these groups said they approved of him.
The percentage of survey respondents who said they approve of Khurana was slightly higher than the percentage of respondents who said they have a favorable opinions of the College’s sanctions. In all, 40 percent of respondents said they have favorable opinions of the policy, 46 percent said they have unfavorable opinions, and 11 percent said they have no opinion. The remaining respondents said they did not have enough information to form an opinion.
Khurana’s favorability with the Class of 2018, though up from last year, is still markedly lower than the ratings from the Classes of 2016 and 2015. In 2016, 62 percent of surveyed seniors indicated a favorable view of Khurana, and, in 2015, 82 percent of surveyed seniors said they viewed Khurana favorably.
Khurana assumed his current role as dean of the College in July 2014. He is a professor of organizational behavior at the Business School and a faculty dean of Cabot House.
This year’s version of The Crimson’s survey, sent to every senior via email, was open from May 1 to May 12 and was anonymous. The Crimson did not adjust data collected for possible self-selection bias.
—Staff writer Caroline S. Engelmayer can be reached at caroline.engelmayer@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @cengelmayer13.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
On Nov. 7, 2017, the Faculty of the Arts and Sciences gathered in Science Center Hall B, a 492-seat lecture space usually reserved for the largest undergraduate courses on campus.
But the most contested topic on the agenda was not academic—instead, the Faculty were once again discussing the College’s single-gender social organizations.
Nearly two years before, Harvard had debuted a series of penalties that barred undergraduate members of single-gender final clubs and Greek organizations—starting with the Class of 2021—from athletic captaincies, leadership positions in recognized student groups, and College endorsements for prestigious fellowships like the Rhodes and the Marshall.
Within days of the May 2016 announcement, members of the Faculty and students began opposing the sanctions, sparking hotly contested debates that lasted months. In response to the penalties, a cohort of faculty led by former Dean of the College Harry R. Lewis ’68 drafted a faculty motion meant to kill the policy.
The November meeting kicked off with prolonged testimony from administrators. After Dean of the College Rakesh Khurana defended the sanctions, Computer Science professor Boaz Barak stood up, called for a vote, and the Faculty shot down the Lewis motion, 130-90.
The vote represented the end of organized Faculty opposition to the sanctions. Now, the penalties were in the hands of the Corporation.
“The outcome of the decision will be with the Corporation,” University President Drew G. Faust said an interview earlier that month. “The Corporation is the continuing presence of governance at Harvard, and that will make for continuity.”
By the time the next Faculty meeting rolled around in December, the Corporation had decisively stepped in. At that meeting, Faust read a statement announcing the body had voted to keep the May 2016 sanctions. The decision came amid a search for Harvard’s next president; the vote effectively committed Faust’s successor—announced in February as Corporation member Lawrence S. Bacow—to the policy once he takes office in July.
The Corporation’s intervention marked an unusual foray into undergraduate social life from a body typically charged with managing high-level University decisions. With the vote, the Corporation seemed to break—once and for all—from the historical precedent that the Faculty primarily govern student affairs.
As the aftershocks of the Corporation’s decision continue to reverberate through campus, and as a former Corporation member prepares to take Harvard’s top job, some wonder whether the University is entering a new era: the age of the Corporation.
The Harvard Corporation—the Western Hemisphere’s oldest corporation—has helmed the University for nearly four centuries. Oft-criticized for its insularity and opacity, the Corporation undertook a number of reforms in 2010, expanding its size from seven to 12 members in addition to the University president.
The 13-member Corporation—whose members include lawyers, business executives, and former higher education leaders—meets seven or eight times during the academic year and holds an annual summer retreat in Cape Cod. Much of the Corporation’s job consists of managing University affairs through subcommittees.
Former Corporation member Nannerl O. Keohane, who stepped down last year, said the body “periodically dealt with student issues” during her tenure.
“We don’t tend to get into the details of student life routinely, but we have several times, and we are responsible overall for the health and welfare of the University in the broadest fiduciary sense,” she said in an April 2017 interview.
Still, over the course of at least the past century, the Corporation has often left decisions on undergraduate life to the Faculty. The controversy over the Reserve Officers’ Training Corps during the Vietnam War forms one example.
In 1969, tensions on Harvard’s campus around the war reached a climax. ROTC, which trains and provides financial aid to commissioned U.S. military officers, drew ire from Harvard students and faculty alike for its connection the war efforts.
The Corporation held a number of meetings around the issue at the time, but remained relatively quiet on the subject.
Instead, the Faculty acted. Professors voted 207-125 in Feb. 1969 to withdraw academic credit from all ROTC courses at Harvard and to strip ROTC staff officers from their professorships.
Though then-University President Nathan M. Pusey wrote in the 1969-1970 presidential report that the Corporation “differed at important points from that of the Faculty,” the Corporation nonetheless approved the Faculty’s request. Though the Corporation unsuccessfully tried to negotiate new contracts with the U.S. Defense Department to keep ROTC units on campus, the Faculty continued to work to minimize ROTC’s presence.
Days after 300 students stormed Pusey’s home at midnight and tacked demands “to abolish ROTC immediately” to his door, the Faculty answered by overwhelmingly voting to reduce ROTC to an extracurricular.
In the President’s report, Pusey wrote that it was “difficult” for him to “explain the fierceness and the sense of haste which the Faculty of Arts and Sciences showed” in dealing with the ROTC issue.
The FAS decision held for more than four decades, until the University signed an agreement in 2011 to formally recognize Naval ROTC and to reinstall the program.
On the surface, the Corporation and the Faculty seem to agree more on the sanctions than they did on ROTC.
The Crimson’s April survey of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences revealed 55 percent of respondents indicated they support Harvard’s attempts to regulate undergraduate social life.
Fewer, though, approved of the Corporation’s hand in the matter. Forty-eight percent of respondents indicated they supported the Corporation vote, 25 percent reported disapproving of the move, and 27 percent indicated they had no opinion.
In the wake of the Corporation’s decision, some professors have charged the vote represents a deviation from Faculty’s proper role governing student life.
Frederick H. Abernathy, a professor emeritus in Mechanical Engineering, said policies relating to the College have typically been dictated by the FAS. He noted faculties and students across the University vary widely in age and that students are at “different stages of their life.”
“I think it would be wiser to leave social questions to Faculty members and not make everything uniform,” Abernathy said. “There’s a difference in age in the people at the Business School, the Law School, and the undergraduate College. They’re at different stages of their life, and the Houses supposedly offer supervision or help for people. I think, myself, the Corporation ought to stay out of that.”
In the Corporation’s December statement announcing its decision on the sanctions, Faust and Corporation Senior Fellow William F. Lee ’72 defended the body’s involvement in the social group policy.
“First, the University must act,” Faust and Lee wrote. “The final clubs in particular are a product of another era, a time when Harvard’s student body was all male, culturally homogenous, and overwhelmingly white and affluent. Our student body today is significantly different.”
Faust and Lee also wrote that “non-academic” needs fall under the purview of the Corporation, especially amid a presidential transition.
“Finally, and perhaps most importantly, the decision speaks to the responsibility of the University to meet the non-academic needs of its student body and to define the fundamental character of the College itself,” the two wrote.
“Each of these considerations implicates the fiduciary responsibilities of the board—all the more so, at this moment of presidential transition, when the community has an interest in being assured that the decision announced today is not contingent on the occupant of Massachusetts Hall.”
John E. Dowling, a Molecular and Cellular Biology professor who served as Faculty Dean of Leverett House for 17 years along with his wife, Judy, said he has seen faculty members become less involved in College decisions throughout the years.
Dowling, who called the increase in the size of the Corporation a “good thing” and “needed,” said he was surprised the body voted on the single-gender social organizations policy.
“It seems to me that such policies should be the province of the Faculty, led especially by the faculty deans in charge of the Houses,” Dowling said. “Do Corporation members really know about social life at Harvard, the role of the Houses and of the single-gender social organizations?”
Lyon College president and higher education expert W. Joseph King, who has published a number of books on higher ed governance, said it is “relatively rare” for University boards to intercede on matters of undergraduate social policy.
King added, though, that larger policy issues—like gender equity or diversity—could justify a board’s decision to intervene.
“You can argue that diversity is of strong importance to fulfilling the academic mission and therefore the faculty would want to be involved,” King said. “Also you can argue that from the governors’ board side. That’s where you get into these interesting tests of who has the authority and where it should ultimately stop.”
The Corporation’s role aside, some faculty members say the Faculty—on its own—has grown increasingly distant from undergraduate life. This decline, they say, coincides with an increase in the number of administrators at Harvard, especially at the College and in House life.
Lewis co-chaired the Committee on the Structure of Harvard College, which released an 86-page report in 1994 detailing the background and history of the College’s administration as well as recommendations to the FAS Dean for College life going forward. Lewis became Dean of the College shortly thereafter.
The 20-year-old report noted that “some may rue the loss of direct faculty involvement in the College over the last hundred years.” The report also stated “that College business has become far more technical, and a far larger management problem, than it was in the past.”
Dowling said that, when he first received tenure at Harvard, there was one vice president and no provosts—now, there are 11 vice presidents and a provost, leaving aside all the associate and assistant vice presidents and provosts.
“Growth of the administration is inevitable, but has the growth of the administration been excessive, and that many of the responsibilities formerly carried out by faculty members now carried out by administrators?” Dowling said. “The consequence is that I do not believe the faculty has the loyalty to Harvard that it once had.”
The 1994 report also noted that faculty are chosen based on their research and teaching abilities, which does not necessarily mean “that they would have effective management skills, or knowledge of personnel or budgeting, or the other talents of good administrators.” In light of the sanctions, former Mather Faculty Dean Michael D. Rosengarten—who stepped down from this post last academic year—said he supports this claim. In an interview last spring, he said not all Faculty members have a sufficient understanding of student social life.
“As far as the faculty at the University, I don’t think they have an idea what’s going on unless they’re part of the House. So most of it happens at the level of faculty deans,” he said at the time. “Some of the Faculty has no idea what’s going on in the Houses, and don’t understand the dimension of student life or the students.”
Some Faculty members, though, say they do see themselves playing the role of College administrators. These professors lament what they call their loss of the capacity to exercise or influence administrative decisions.
“Something that concerns me greatly, as a long time faculty member at Harvard, is that many of the faculty no longer feel they are involved in, or even consulted about, College or University governance—rather that the governance is now in the hands of the administration,” Dowling said.
English Professor James T. Engell ’73 said in a Faculty meeting in Dec. 2016 that the College’s social group policy “threatens a constitutional fabric” of the University.
“This may not seem evident today, but in retrospect may be seen as a turning point in the governance of the University, and would not be seen as a good turning point,” Engell said at the time.
In interviews later that month, Faust and Smith both denied that the policy threatens faculty governance. Faust said at the time that she thought Engell “kind of implied this might be the first step on a slippery slide to an erosion of Faculty rights and privileges and part of even some kind of diabolical plot to displace the Faculty’s rights.”
But Faust said the creators of the policy did not see it as “intruding on some space.” Smith said at the time it was “categorically false” that the Faculty had no input on the policy.
The sanctions took effect for the Class of 2021, and the College is moving ahead with its implementation of the policy, releasing a new plan in May that outlined the specifics of how administrators would measure compliance with the policy.
The Corporation’s decision may have put the single-gender social organizations to bed for the next five years, but the governance debate remains unresolved.
When president-elect Bacow moves into Massachusetts Hall in July, he will inherit both the sanctions and a vocal Faculty.
How will the relationship between faculty and Corporation governance change as Bacow takes the helm of the Presidency?
Lewis says the answer is still unclear: “That’s a good question, and I hope you figure it out.”
—Staff writer Lucy Wang can be reached at lucy.wang@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @lucyloo22.
—Staff writer William Wang can be reached at william.wang@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @wlwang20.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The historically all-male Harvard Glee Club has opened its membership to students of all genders, Glee Club President Connor A. Horton ’18 wrote in an announcement to club members and affiliates last week.
The Glee Club, a group of roughly 50 undergraduate and graduate men who regularly perform on-campus and on tour, was one of several Harvard performance organizations that remained all-male rather than merging with an equivalent musical group after the dissolution of Radcliffe College, according to Horton.
Horton said the Glee Club made the decision to open their membership eligibility after consulting with the historically female Radcliffe Choral Society, which also decided to make its membership gender neutral in April.
Horton said the decision to open Glee Club’s membership was opposed by some current members who were concerned that the introduction of women would lead to a change in the type of music the group typically sings.
“What it comes down to is a matter of tradition, and a long, long history of being an all-male organization,” Horton said. “Being one of the organizations that remained all-male after Harvard and Radcliffe merged, I think for a while we felt that our organization should stay all male because of the nature of the music that we perform.”
He added that the group will continue to perform its traditional style of tenor-bass music, written for lower voices, and that the audition process will remain largely unchanged, with members auditioning through the Harvard Choruses, an umbrella entity which includes the Glee Club, Radcliffe Choral Society, Harvard-Radcliffe Chorus, and Harvard-Radcliffe Collegium Musicum.
Horton said another point of contention in the club’s decision-making process was whether changing the gender breakdown of the group would negatively affect its social environment, which Horton described in his letter as a “lifelong fellowship.”
“We decided that the community we have in the Glee Club is not a product of gender composition," he said. "But I think that members having only experienced Glee Club as it was, that some people had a hard time imagining otherwise."
The decision to go coed was implemented through an amendment to the group’s bylaws voted upon by all active Glee Club members, according to the announcement. Though Horton declined to comment on the result of the vote, he said a two-thirds majority of all active members was required to implement the change.
Ultimately, Horton said he does not foresee any major changes to the group as a result of the decision, either musically or socially.
“I don’t see our social environment as particularly gendered,” Horton said. “But I do understand that as a traditionally all-male space, it can be difficult for someone who’s not male to feel welcome.”
The Glee Club joins a growing number of traditionally single-gender groups at Harvard that have transitioned to become coed in recent years. Starting with the Class of 2021, students can be penalized for participating in certain single-gender social organizations. Some social groups as well as the traditionally all-male cast of the Hasty Pudding Theatricals have gone coed since the announcement of the penalties in May 2016.
—Staff writer Molly C. McCafferty can be reached at molly.mccafferty@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter at @mollmccaff.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
For many union organizers at Harvard, the sunny afternoon of Aug. 20, 2016 was largely unremarkable.
Organizers with Harvard Graduate Students Union-United Automobile Workers spent the afternoon printing signs, chatting with voters, and planning events—work many of them had done almost every day for three years.
But off campus, a handful of organizers were taking a break from their work to bear witness to a different type of graduate student union. Two of their own, Rudi Batzell and Cristina V. “Tina” Groeger ’08, were getting married—exchanging vows while surrounded by friends and colleagues.
The wedding bore a distinct union touch. At the reception, guests could take photos with signs meant to resemble HGSU-UAW endorsement cards. In lieu of the union’s name, the cards bore the words, “Tina and Rudi’s Wedding.” Of the approximately 100 guests at the wedding, around a third were involved in some way with HGSU-UAW.
“One of the organizers, her wedding toast was this elaborate union analogy between union of two people and a labor union,” Groeger said. “So it was definitely very present at the wedding.”
Not every day during the five-year process of forming Harvard’s graduate student union was as happy as Aug. 20. Groeger, Batzell, and scores of other students spent the better part of their time at Harvard arguing student teaching and research assistants deserve a seat at the bargaining table, a process often marked by squabbles with administrators, delays, and setbacks.
But this spring, after hundreds of one-on-one discussions, one contested election, two hearings, and three National Labor Relations Board rulings, those students achieved their long-awaited goal. On April 18 and 19, 2018, 56 percent of eligible graduate and undergraduate students voted to accept HGSU-UAW’s petition to bargain with the University on their behalf.
As Harvard and the union prepare to begin negotiations, current and former union organizers remember the five-year process as convoluted, lengthy, and difficult—but ultimately worth the final result: the first student union in Harvard history.
Though the unionization effort first entered the public eye in April 2015, its roots stretch back several years before that.
The organizing effort began in the aftermath of the Occupy Harvard movement, according to Summer A. Shafer, one of the seven founding members of HGSU-UAW. During that campaign, which launched in Nov. 2011, student activists—many of whom later became union organizers—set up camp in Harvard Yard in an effort to bring attention to economic inequality on campus. After several months of protests, activists were forced to leave the yard due to extreme weather conditions.
Organizer Elaine F. Stranahan said a group of Occupy organizers’ goals shifted towards unionization in the winter of 2011 after “the camp actually literally blew away.”
“We changed and we morphed,” she said.
Early union advocates began meeting in the basement of red-brick Robinson Hall to craft an organizing plan.
Shafer said union organizers “learned to keep things very secret” during that early phase of the effort, nervously watching passersby from their basement bunker.
“They were so cloak and dagger, too, those meetings. It was like, everyone was on tenterhooks,” Shafer said.
“We were literally in the basement with the bars over the windows,” Stranahan added.
Shafer and Stanahan said the group’s first challenge was to convince graduate students of the need for a union—all without making their effort public. Those involved eventually decided to start a campaign to limit the size of graduate student-led course discussion sections. The number of students enrolled in each section had ballooned as the University faced budget challenges after the 2008 financial crisis; union advocates hoped to limit enrollment to twelve students per grouping.
The push, called the Harvard Teaching Campaign, was designed to “draw attention to the kinds of things that a union could potentially intervene in,” according to early organizer Steven A. Squibb.
The campaign had its own website and organizers distributed colorful posters emblazoned with a large “12,” one of which still hangs on the second floor of Emerson Hall. Graduate students also delivered a petition to Massachusetts Hall demanding smaller section sizes.
Many departments, including Romance Languages and Literatures, English, and Linguistics, eventually adopted the size limits, marking an early victory for the fledgling group. Groeger said, however, that the University’s response to the campaign was ultimately less than satisfying for organizers.
“They said, ‘Okay, Gen Ed. courses—maybe we’ll limit them to 15, but there’s no guarantee.’ It wasn’t all that we advocated for,” Groeger said. “So I think those were mutual frustrations with not feeling like we had adequate channels to be heard, to shape the policies that governed our workplace, and also just to sort of be taken seriously as employees.”
Shafer, Groeger, and Squibb now say the campaign was never a separate entity from HGSU-UAW. Shafer called the campaign “a front for the union.”
Alongside the Teaching Campaign, union organizers started to join existing graduate student groups around 2013. In particular, many organizers sought to join the Graduate Student Council, the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences’ main student government body.
The 2013 GSC was run almost entirely by union organizers—Shafer was elected GSC president, and union organizers John Gee and Benjamin A. Franta also won seats on the council as divisional representatives. At the time, Shafer called their election a “surprise coup.”
“We wanted to normalize the need for a union,” she said.
During the 2014-2015 academic year, the group of organizers started to “bring up the idea of a union more explicitly.”
This phase also saw divides within the ranks of organizers over the right path forward. Perhaps the most contentious issues was the group’s 2015 decision to affiliate with international organization the United Automobile Workers. Earlier that year, the union established an affiliation committee to explore all possible affiliation options, including beginning a stand-alone group, joining one of Harvard’s existing unions, and joining an international union.
Eventually, members decided in an online vote to pursue affiliation with the UAW.
“The UAW was the obvious choice for us, mainly because they represent the most graduate students in the country,” Groeger said. “The UAW at that point was really leading the fight for private university graduate student unionization.”
Shafer, who said she was initially skeptical of the UAW, said organizers thought the international union’s legal and financial resources would provide needed help during the push to unionize at Harvard.
“It was clear that there was going to need to be a lot more buy-in on the legal end in terms of funding,” she said. “If we’re going to have a sustained legal battle, we’re going to have to make this as professional as possible.”
Though Shafer said most organizers “ended up agreeing” the UAW would serve union members’ best interests, the fractures caused by disputes over affiliation did not go away overnight.
After the union affiliated with the UAW, Stranahan and Shafer said some skeptics from the old guard of organizers—many of whom were concerned with a lack of a written agreement from the UAW—were ousted from the effort in a series of “email [list] purges.”
“I barely made it through the first purge, and then I kind of kept getting re-purged,” Stranahan said. “But I was very neutral.”
Many of the organizers still involved after the turnover remain active in the union effort today.
In the spring of 2016, HGSU-UAW began publicly campaigning for an election on the issue of unionization in earnest. Per National Labor Relations Board policy, their first task was to convince a majority of eligible students to sign cards authorizing a vote over the unionization question.
From Sept. 2015 to Feb. 2016, organizers canvassed Harvard’s campus obtaining signatures. Over 60 percent of eligible teaching and research assistants from across Harvard’s schools eventually signed voter cards.
HGSU-UAW’s efforts to push for an election gained impetus from national developments. In August 2016, the NLRB overturned a Bush-era decision and reaffirmed its earlier stance that student assistants should be recognized workers under the National Labor Relations Act. Under the new ruling, private universities must recognize any union of student assistants that successfully wins an authorization election.
After the ruling, University and union representatives began talks to plan a Nov. 2016 unionization election.
In the months leading up to the vote, some individuals and loosely organized groups of students raised concerns about the potential union through forums, blogs, and, most notably, a Facebook group called “Against HGSU-UAW.”
Students opposed to unionization said they feared three things in particular: strikes, which they argued might imperil students’ research or their relationship with supervisors; dues, which all members of the bargaining unit would have to pay; and the UAW, which some felt was not an appropriate organization to represent Harvard’s teaching and research assistants. Members of Against HGSU-UAW also argued they did not have the resources to make an adequate case against the union given its support from UAW.
Eligible students headed to polling stations in Cambridge and Longwood for the first time on Nov. 16 and 17, 2016. While some complained of long lines at the Cambridge location, far more consequential concerns would linger and mar the election result in subsequent days and months.
Just after the vote, officials determined just over 1,000 ballots remained under challenge—meaning NLRB employees could not initially determine whether the students who had cast those ballots were eligible voters. After prolonged negotiations between the University and the union, the number of contested ballots fell to just over 300—still a significant sum.
Uncertainty about results of the Nov. 2016 election stretched on for days, then weeks, then months.
On Dec. 22 2016, regional NLRB officials tallied all the votes that both sides had agreed to consider valid. The preliminary result showed that 1,456 students voted against unionization, while 1,272 supported it.
“It just dragged on for months, and then we got the final vote count, and it looked like we weren’t going to be successful,” Groeger said. “And that was a really devastating moment.”
Both Harvard and HSGU-UAW eventually filed objections with the NLRB regarding the 2016 election. In briefs, union attorneys argued the University-generated eligible voter list was inadequate and incomplete and urged the NLRB to overturn the election.
University officials, meanwhile, contended NLRB officials had improperly invalidated a single ballot because the student who cast that vote drew a smiley face on the paper slip and wrote a short message to the vote counter.
After hearing arguments from both sides, regional NLRB hearing officer Thomas A. Miller wrote in his April 2017 recommendation that Harvard had “not substantially complied with voter list requirements.”
He wrote that, if the outstanding ballots did not change the election’s results, Harvard should hold a new election.
The University appealed the initial result twice in the subsequent months—once to the regional NLRB and once to the federal Board. Both bodies ultimately sided with the union, deciding in July and Dec. 2017 respectively that the 2016 voter list did not meet agency standards.
Following the national ruling, the remaining ballots were unsealed and counted in Jan. 2018, resulting in a final tally showing 1,526 votes against unionization and 1,396 in favor. Because the final count broke against unionization, the University and the union—as mandated by the NLRB ruling—began planning a new election.
On April 20, 2018, five years after the clandestine meetings in Robinson Hall, Shafer received a text informing her the votes from Harvard’s second-ever unionization election had been officially tallied.
This time, those in favor outnumbered those opposed.
“We were kind of stupid when we saw the message,” Shafer said. “We were going back and forth between hysterically crying and running around in circles, happy.”
Many things about the second election were different from the first.
In the year-and-a-half between the two elections, union organizers argued new developments on campus increased the need for collective bargaining. In 2017, GSAS announced lower than usual stipend increases for graduate students, sparking arguments from organizers that a union would ensure pay stability. Union organizers also made the case that the proposed union would advocate for improvements to benefits packages and would increase protections for students bringing allegations of sexual harassment.
Some organizers also argued Donald Trump’s ascension to the presidency made eligible voters more aware of the potential benefits of collective bargaining.
“The people who have been organizing for the union have been some of the most vocal when it comes to speaking out against things Trump has been doing,” union organizer Jack M. Nicoludis said. “I think that really helped us motivate.”
HGSU-UAW also advocated against Trump-era policies. After a travel ban placed on certain countries prevented several Harvard affiliates from entering the United States in Jan. 2017, HGSU-UAW’s International Student Working Group advocated for the creation of a hotline to advise students affected by the policy.
“We couldn’t just wait for the next presidency,” Nicoludis said. “We needed to make sure our voices were heard not just at Harvard—for our working rights at Harvard—but also just within the U.S.”
On April 18 and 19, 3,454 eligible voters journeyed to three polling stations in Cambridge, Longwood, and Allston with textbooks, messenger bags, and strollers in tow. After 16 total hours of ballot-casting, union advocates and opponents alike waited for a final tally.
Union and University officials gathered at the Thomas P. O’Neill, Jr. Federal Building in Boston on April 20 to count the ballots.
Union organizer Yueran Zhang was one of several observers who spent the afternoon of the count scribbling furiously in a notebook, checking NLRB officials’ count against his own tally of the bottle-green ballots stacked on three tables in the front of the federal building’s auditorium.
While the growing piles of “yes” ballots formed a comforting sight for union advocates at the first two tables, Zhang’s table ended up yielding less clear-cut results.
“Sitting there and watching the third table—for me, it was like a nightmare,” Zhang said. “That was just torture. I quit halfway. I thought, ‘I can’t do this anymore.’ I just left the room.”
At 3:35 p.m., NLRB official Eugene M. Switzer announced a final tally of 1,931 ballots cast in favor of unionization and 1,523 against. Union organizers—many of whom had been involved with the effort since the early days of secret meetings and poster-making—burst into fits of applause and tears.
Early organizers were not present shared in the melee of emotions when they heard the result.
By then, Groeger and Batzell had both finished their stints as graduate students and union organizers.
Now a lecturer at Lake Forest College in Chicago, Groeger said she first heard the news while teaching a class.
“It was exactly the moment when I took a break halfway through my class, and I checked my phone, and I got a bunch of messages saying, ‘We won!’” Groeger said.
“It was very hard for me to continue the rest of the day, but I held it together,” she added.
Zhang was less successful at keeping his composure.
“I cried. I cried a lot,” Zhang said.
Despite the successful election, the union had one last hurdle to face: Would Harvard decide to bargain with the fledgling group?
For 11 days following the vote, University representatives repeatedly declined to say.
The silence came during a challenging period for unionization movements at other private colleges and universities. In the months preceding Harvard’s second election, administrators at Columbia, Yale, University of Chicago, and Boston College had all refused to open negotiations after student assistants on their campuses voted to unionize.
At Columbia, administrators’ refusal to bargain with its student union prompted student teaching and research assistants to embark on a week-long strike at the end of April. Some organizers said they feared Harvard would follow the same path.
“I remain a holdout. Until they engage in their first successful act of collective bargaining, I am afraid that Harvard’s going to end up the way of the Columbia administration,” Shafer said in an April interview.
Despite organizers’ concerns, Harvard ultimately broke from the mold.
On May 1, University Provost Alan M. Garber ’76 and University President Drew G. Faust announced the University would uphold its commitment to bargain.
“In light of the outcome of the vote and the existing NLRB precedent, Harvard is prepared to begin good-faith negotiations, guided by our fundamental commitments as an academic institution,” Garber wrote.
Both before and after Garber and Faust’s announcement, HGSU-UAW began making preparations to head to the bargaining table. Almost immediately after the vote count, the union sent out an email soliciting nominations for its bargaining committee—the group that will soon begin negotiating with the University. On May 9 and 10, students voted to elect the 13-member group.
HGSU-UAW has also sought to build on issues they highlighted during the campaign. The union recently formed a “Time’s Up Committee” to advocate for policies meant to combat sexual harassment on campus.
After spending five years laser-focused on forming a union, organizers must now move into a new phase of work. Union advocates will now work to negotiate a favorable contract.
Looking back on the unionization effort, Stranahan said the length of the process was difficult for early organizers in particular.
“We had people who for years and years and years went every week to a basement meeting that seemed endless, that was difficult, that was trying, that was emotionally difficult at times,” she said.
Many long-time organizers, though, said this year’s result was well worth the wait.
“It was a validation of the work that I’d been doing during grad school,” Nicoludis said. “It was me feeling like there was hope.”
Groeger admitted the union has come a long way since she and Batzell were graduate students—but she said the body’s work is not finished.
“There are still a lot of hurdles, I think, before getting a first contract,” she said. “But I would say the organizers now are doing amazing work. And the task is always just to keep organizing, right?”
—Staff writer Shera S. Avi-Yonah can be reached at shera.avi-yonah@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @saviyonah.
—Staff writer Molly C. McCafferty can be reached at molly.mccafferty@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @mollmccaff.
Ever since they met at Visitas, Isabel Espinosa Moguel ’18 and Christian A. D. Schatz ’18 have walked similar paths.
They’re both music lovers. Espinosa remembers being impressed that Schatz played guitar in a mariachi band during their freshman year. “He knew all of these songs that my parents know,” she recalled. “We would bond over a mix of Mexican folk music and American folk music.”
They’re also linkmates and members of the same Christian fellowship. In fact, their friends often joke that Espinosa and Schatz are analogous versions of one another in their respective blocking groups. “We were always really comfortable around each other,” Espinosa said. “Both kind of goofy and silly, with the same sense of humor.”
Still, neither thought they’d date in college. They barely saw each other during their sophomore year, when Schatz was a member of the varsity crew team. By junior year, though, Schatz had decided that he was ready to shift his priorities and leave the team. “I think it was within a month that I asked her out,” he recalled.
The couple started talking about marriage early on. “We both have a very marriage-oriented idea of dating that’s consistent with our faith, which is really central to our relationship,” Espinosa said. But she wasn’t expecting Schatz’s proposal to come as a surprise. “He’s historically really bad at keeping secrets,” she said. “So I was like, ‘When it comes, I’m totally gonna know. He’ll be a nervous wreck. He’s not gonna be able to do it.’ And he really surprised me.”
The surprise came during a group visit to Walden Pond this spring. Schatz had coordinated ahead of time with their mutual friends. “I knew I wanted our friends to be very present in it,” he said. When Espinosa arrived at the pond, she found a series of hand-painted cards representing different moments in the couple’s relationship. The trail led to a bouquet of flowers, a letter—and Schatz.
“On the way, there were friends coming out of the bushes, people who ‘couldn’t go,’” Espinosa laughed. “It was sweet, but also really funny.”
The couple hasn’t finalized a date for the wedding yet. Both are heading to the United Kingdom next year to enroll in master’s programs—Espinosa in migration studies at the University of Oxford, Schatz in cultural geography at the University of Cambridge—and they’re planning to wed either before heading over, or during the winter break.
Schatz and Espinosa agree that their friend group has been as vital to their relationship as it was to the proposal. “Harvard was super hard, and we honestly could not have done it without our blocking and linking group and Christian fellowship,” Espinosa said. “I think our relationship, and marriage, will be a reflection of that.”
—Staff writer Nathan A. Cummings can be reached at nathan.cummings@thecrimson.com.
From day one, W. Connor Roberts ’18 and Maria McLaughlin Roberts ’18 have been getting the numbers to work. Connor, a Statistics concentrator, and Maria, who studied Computer Science, met at the Math Question Center during their first week of classes freshman year, puzzling out problems from Math 1a: “Introduction to Calculus” and ultimately joining the same study group for the class.
Though they survived first-year mathematics, the two would have to contend with other daunting figures before their friendly freshman study partnership became a young marriage this past December.
Take 3,395, for instance. That’s the number of miles separating Connor’s hometown of Toccoa, Ga. and Maria’s in Anchorage, Alaska. Or one in 12, the chances that the two would be put in the same house, where their habit of grabbing breakfast together in the dining hall eventually inspired their first official date in the spring of their sophomore year. For Connor, the most intimidating number might have been a large looming zero—the number of Maria’s former flames that had won her father’s approval.
“A lot of things had to happen to cause someone from Anchorage and someone from Toccoa to converge together at Harvard,” Connor said.
“I’ll just say we’re really lucky to have met each other,” Maria added.
They had a little help along the way. Maria and Connor credit Marlee E. Sabatino ’18, Maria’s freshman year roommate and another member of the Math 1a study group, with introducing them. Connor’s freshman year roommate O. Cole Whetstone ’18 served as confidante and consigliere to both Maria and Connor as they tried to gauge the other’s interest during freshman year.
Still, it wasn’t until sophomore spring that they finally “got sick of being just friends,” Maria said. On March 25 of that year, the pair went to the Harvard Square IHOP, a nod to their tradition of eating breakfast together in Dunster dining hall. Though they went late in the evening, it served as a literal breakfast for Maria, a Catholic, who was fasting for Good Friday. (The couple credit their faith with bringing them together. Maria said Connor, a Southern Baptist, had been raised in the same “church on Sunday, praying with your parents” environment that she was familiar with.)
Once they were dating, the pair found bridging the gulf between Georgia and Alaska relatively easy.
“People from Georgia and Alaska are kind of crazy in the same way,” Connor said. “Her family trudges around in camouflage pants and flies planes and hunts and fishes, and my family fishes and is outside all the time [too].”
Maria was also unconcerned about how her father, himself a Harvard grad who works in finance, would react to Connor, even though he had disapproved of many of her former dates. (Connor was on the board of the Harvard Financial Analysts Club.)
“I knew Connor wouldn’t be too intimidated by him,” Maria said. “I just felt like they were similar people so they’d get along really well.”
The couple got engaged in the Spring of 2017, on a trip to the North End that emulated their second date. Their marriage in December in Sea Island, Ga. featured several Harvard classmates—Kevin S. Xie ’18 and Mark R. Whittaker ’18 were among Connor’s groomsmen and Sabatino and Elena M. Breer ’18 were bridesmaids.
Since their marriage, the couple have been living in Boston’s Beacon Hill neighborhood. Connor, who graduated a semester early, has been working while Maria finishes her studies. After graduation, the two will move to New York, where Connor will start a job in private equity and Maria will work in software engineering. Eventually they hope to settle down in Georgia and raise a family.
“Looking back on it, it’s like ‘yeah, it is kind of crazy that we got married in college,’ and yes, it is young, and yes, it is an exception to the rule,” Connor said. “But also you wouldn’t make that exception to the rule unless it felt perfectly natural and you knew that’s what you wanted to do.”
—Staff writer C. Ramsey Fahs can be reached at ramsey.fahs@thecrimson.com.
Julia T. Thomas ’17 remembers the moment she first laid eyes on Benjamin N. Iuliano ’18. The scene was their middle school’s cafeteria.
“It’s not exactly the most romantic locale, but I remember looking at him and liking him immediately,” Thomas said. “I think I’ve had a crush on him since I was 11 years old, give or take.”
In the fall of 2009, the Sudbury, Mass. natives’ freshman year of high school, the two went to their school’s first football game. Iuliano, who had had a crush on Thomas for a while, “figured it was pretty much now or never” and asked her out on a date.
She told him she’d think about it.
“I said yes pretty quickly [after that],” Thomas said. “It was more that I just didn’t think he liked me, and so I was shocked.”
“I was prepared for a yes or a no, I wasn’t prepared for a maybe,” Iuliano joked.
Despite the halting start, the pair went on their first date about a week later, watching Ricky Gervais’ “The Invention of Lying” at the Framingham AMC.
Though the movie itself was “not that memorable,” Iuliano distinctly remembers agonizing over whether or not to hold Thomas’ hand.
“I was way too nervous to do it until like right at the end,” Iuliano said.
Eight years after that first date, Iuliano brought Thomas back to their high school’s football field. This time, Iuliano asked Thomas a much bigger question: Would she marry him?
“I said yes this time. I didn’t give him a maybe,” Thomas quipped.
The intervening eight years between that first football field question and the last saw the couple move from Sudbury to Cambridge, growing up together along the way.
For the first years of their relationship, the two lived out a charmingly high school romance, frequenting the Framingham AMC movie theater, spending time at local points of interest like the Grist Mill in Sudbury, and attending their high school prom together. Thomas often went to Iuliano’s wrestling matches, including a nerve-racking overtime win against their rival school’s team.
“He was really quite good, but it stressed me out to no end watching him,” Thomas said.
The two both got into Harvard, though Iuliano took a gap year before matriculating. Thomas hosted him for Visitas during his gap year, making Iuliano perhaps the only Visitas attendee to propose to his host.
At Harvard, the couple stopped going on movie dates so frequently, preferring to explore Boston’s North End (the restaurant Cantina Italiana was their special spot) or simply keep each other company around campus.
“We just really enjoyed being around each other constantly. It was nice being able to eat dinner together a lot...that more casual stuff was nice,” Thomas said.
The two had talked about marriage for some time, so Thomas had some indication of what was coming when Iuliano suggested they recreate pictures from their early relationship on a day out in Sudbury last December. They revisited the Framingham AMC, the Grist Mill, and other local spots. Unfortunately, the weather didn’t cooperate.
“It started hailing, pretty much. It was like ice, rain, and snow, and it was just miserable and cold but we still went out anyway,” Iuliano said.
“We had so much fun. It was awful, but it was so much fun,” Thomas added.
The hail finally abated for the final stop, the football field where Iuliano popped the question. The engagement ring was made from a pair of his grandmother’s earrings repurposed into a matching set of engagement rings for Iuliano and his brother. (Iuliano’s brother also married his high school sweetheart.)
“I was blown away that day. It was like an out of body experience, it was so wonderful,” Thomas remembered.
After graduation, Iuliano will join Thomas in Wisconsin, where he will be working for a video game company and she is completing a Ph.D. in Sociology. The two plan to get married in Memorial Church.
—Staff writer C. Ramsey Fahs can be reached at ramsey.fahs@thecrimson.com.
When Hassaan Shahawy ’16 proposed to Iman A. Masmoudi ’18, he shared a lesson his uncle once taught him. When deciding whether or not to marry someone, his uncle had advised, picture yourself starting a family then dying young, leaving your children in your partner’s hands. “Do you feel full certainty that that other person, without you being there, will raise your kids in the way that you want them to be raised?” Masmoudi said. “Will they be able to pass on all the character traits and values that you hold dear?” For both Masmoudi and Shahawy, the answer was an enthusiastic yes.
The two were friends first. They met at a froyo-centric Freshman Welcome event organized by the Harvard Islamic Society in the fall of 2014, and quickly developed an easy camaraderie. Then, in late February, Masmoudi took the plunge. “We were having conversation and I asked him, ‘That’s cool. How do you feel about me?’” she recalled. Shahawy struggled to respond at first, but “a week later, he had a whole speech about how he was sure he wanted to marry me.”
Shahawy more formally proposed in the fall of 2016, about two years after they first met. Masmoudi said yes.
Yet that fall marked more than one big change for the couple: Shahawy, a Rhodes Scholar, moved to the United Kingdom to begin a Ph.D. in Islamic Studies at the University of Oxford, while Masmoudi continued to work toward her undergraduate degree at Harvard. They manage the distance by watching virtually-synced movies together and Skyping regularly.
In a sense, the two are already married: They made their religious commitments and signed the legal documents at a very small ceremony last December. But they’re not done marrying yet. Masmoudi will travel to Tunisia to celebrate with her extended family and some of Shahawy’s Egyptian cousins in August, and the two will host a wedding in Los Angeles in September.
Post-nuptials, Shahawy will complete his Ph.D. and Masmoudi will divide her time between the U.K. and Tunisia as she works with a rural women’s cooperative that aims to create jobs for Tunisian craftswomen. They will set up a home together and try to cohabitate at least part of the time. In general, they are optimistic.
Yet Masmoudi has one lingering concern about the match. “He can’t tell the difference between real and fake flowers,” she said. “He just has no way of telling. One time, he brought me a rose and he was like ‘I’m so sorry. I thought it was real from a distance, but it’s actually a fake rose. I’m really sorry.’ Then I touched it and I was like, ‘This is a real rose. What’s wrong with you?’”
—Staff writer Laura E. Hatt can be reached at laura.hatt@thecrimson.com.
The first time Bassel C. Ghaddar tried to become Facebook friends with Sarah D. Mokh ’18, in the fall of 2015, she turned him down. They belonged to the same Boston-area Muslim group chat, but Ghaddar wasn’t an active member at the time and Mokh didn’t recognize his name. In fact, when they met at a group dinner a week later, she called him out for the random request, asking, “Do you typically add girls you don’t know on Facebook?” The words came out harsh. Both figured the relationship was over before it began.
Yet their paths continued to cross, thanks to the group chat, and they began to talk more and more. Mokh was a Near Eastern Languages and Civilizations concentrator with a focus on Islamic societies; Ghaddar, then a recent graduate of Tufts University, asked her for a reading list. They met up to discuss a particularly tough readings at Mount Auburn Cemetery. As Mokh recalled, “We ended up having such a good time that we never ended up discussing it. We walked through the cemetery for maybe four or five hours. I ended up skipping my section that afternoon.”
Propelled by a shared enthusiasm for the outdoors and each other, they began to organize frequent hiking dates. “We really love to set out early morning, spend the day on the mountain, have lunch at the summit, and then trek down,” Mokh said. The White Mountains, in New Hampshire, host some of their favorite peaks.
Before long, the two began to discuss the possibility of marriage. “There was never a formal proposal,” Mokh said. “We’re both Muslim and we’re both pretty traditional. Within the first few months, by the time we had the conversation that we were interested in each other and wanted to make things ‘serious,’ we both had the understanding that if it worked out it would eventually culminate in marriage.”
Still, there were a few early roadblocks. Their families worried that they might be too young for marriage, and wedding logistics were complicated by time-consuming and uncertain medical and graduate school applications. Happily, their families eventually came around, and admissions committees smiled on the match: Ghaddar began a MD/Ph.D. program at Rutgers University and Princeton University last fall, and Mokh will soon begin a master’s program in Middle Eastern and Islamic Studies at New York University, just a commute away.
Mokh and Ghaddar will wed in Boston this July.
—Staff writer Laura E. Hatt can be reached at laura.hatt@thecrimson.com.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Margo I. Seltzer ’83 began her nearly three decade career teaching Computer Science at Harvard almost by accident.
As an undergraduate at the College, she knew she wanted to pursue studies in Science, Technology, Engineering, or Mathematics; she had “always been a mathy science person,” she says. But she also wanted to avoid writing a thesis and undergoing a general examination—the latter of which “scared the living daylights” out of her.
So she propped open Harvard’s course handbook and ran through every single “mathy science concentration” which conferred honors without requiring a thesis or general examination. At the time, the College did not offer a concentration in Computer Science; Seltzer settled on the closest thing, Applied Math.
Later, deciding whether to attend graduate school, Seltzer made the final call based on an off-hand comment from an ex-boyfriend who implied she was not serious about the idea. She applied and enrolled in the Computer Science Ph.D. program at the University of California, Berkeley.
“I do not recommend this as a decision-making tactic,” Seltzer says. “But it sort of worked for me.”
More than 30 years later, Seltzer has become a well-known name in Harvard’s Computer Science department and within the School of Engineering and Applied Sciences more broadly.
She now plans to leave Cambridge; Seltzer announced in Dec. 2017 that she is departing Harvard for Vancouver, where she will take part in Canada 150, a multi-million dollar federal research program at the University of British Columbia.
As Seltzer prepares to bid the University goodbye, current and former colleagues and students say she will be sorely missed: as an academic and teacher, as an icon and advocate for women, and as a mentor and guide.
Across the arc of her career, Seltzer balanced teaching commitments with founding and running a startup, broke gender barriers while pushing for gender parity, and helped shape the rise of Harvard Computer Science. She was the second woman to ever receive tenure in the CS department.
“She is the essence of SEAS, she is the essence of Computer Science,” says Evelyn Hu, a professor of applied physics and electrical engineering. “It’s like losing something essential, like your liver, your heart, and to some extent, it is losing some of our soul.”
Reflecting back on her accidental start, Seltzer gives a less vaunted assessment.
“It seems to have worked out okay,” she says.
Seltzer began stuffing and straining her schedule to its limits at an early age.
As an undergraduate at the College, Seltzer took on various assistant teaching positions and also worked two different part-time jobs: one as a computer instructor and one as an employee at a company in Lexington that developed software to manage stock portfolios.
Carol E. Sandstrom ’83, who shared a bathroom with Seltzer in their freshman dormitory, Matthews Hall, remembers Seltzer once telling her over dinner that she had bought a car. Sandstrom, taken aback, asked why. Seltzer explained her old car had broken down and that she needed a replacement so she could keep “commuting to work.”
“I realized that she was basically holding down a full-time job at the same time that she was executing a demanding Harvard schedule—I don’t know, maybe she was taking five classes,” Sandstrom says. “That just struck me as kind of unusual, that she went out and bought a Toyota Corolla… I didn’t know that you could do that when you were 19 years old.”
But Seltzer was determined not to let her work commitments interfere with her studies or her teaching. She balanced all three competing claims on her time—a pattern she would continue throughout her time at Harvard, at one point working her way through the ranks of Harvard’s faculty while also launching and managing a start-up.
After a brief stint at UC Berkeley for graduate school, Seltzer returned to Harvard and earned a position as an assistant professor of Computer Science in 1992. Shortly before she started at Harvard, she published a software product she had begun developing while at Berkeley.
She created the software—a database program meant to make it easier to find and store information—in concert with her husband, whom she met at Berkeley. After publication, several companies expressed interest in the software, prompting the couple to work furiously to create an “industrial grade version” of the program.
For the next several years, Seltzer lived a double life: She spent her days fulfilling her duties as an associate professor and her nights building software with her husband.
“There were the first 40 hours where we did our day jobs and then there were the second 40 hours where we were building the software. So that was a little crazy, a lot crazy,” Seltzer says.
The end result was “Berkeley DB,” a high-performance software used to generate databases.
Seltzer and her husband then founded a start-up, dubbed “Sleepycat Software,” to maintain and sell Berkeley DB. Sleepycat Software remained profitable throughout its almost decade of existence.
“Timing is everything, and we really hit the first dotcom boom as the market was rising,” Seltzer says.
The duo ran Sleepycat Software for nine years before selling it to Oracle, which as of 2015 was the second-largest software maker after Microsoft. Though her husband left Oracle after a few years, Seltzer continues to work for the company.
Seltzer says her continued involvement with industry work ensures she remains “grounded in research that actually matters.”
“It’s sometimes easy to get interested in problems that I’ve described as ‘Well, if things could fly, dot, dot, dot,’” Seltzer said. “Connections with industry help make sure that I’m solving real problems and not making them up.”
Despite her industry ties, Seltzer did not neglect her teaching; four years after starting as an associate professor, she won the prestigious Phi Beta Kappa teaching award, given to three members of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences each year. Three years after that, she garnered the Roslyn Abrahamson award for excellence in undergraduate teaching. In 2000, she became a tenured professor.
Shortly after reaching that milestone, Seltzer was appointed associate dean of SEAS in 2002. She held the position until 2006. In the course of her career, she estimates she has taught roughly 50 iterations of nine different classes and more than 2,500 students.
Nathan Goodman, a former Harvard Computer Science professor for whom Seltzer once served as a teaching fellow, remembers Seltzer in the early years. He says she manages her demanding schedule—has always managed her demanding schedule—by working “amazingly hard” and being “very diligent.”
He recalled a time when—while working as his teaching fellow—she single-handedly filled out the class grading sheet when he almost forgot to submit enrollees’ grades to the registrar.
“She has a work ethic beyond belief,” Goodman says. “I’ve never felt I could keep up with her at anything.”
Beyond professional accomplishments and teaching honors, Seltzer’s time at Harvard has been dotted with gender-related milestones.
While at the College, she was the first woman to serve as conductor of the Harvard University band. She was the second woman in Harvard history to earn tenure in the Computer Science department and she was the first member of the SEAS faculty to ever give birth while holding a teaching position. When she steps down, she will be the first woman to ever retire from SEAS.
Colleagues and students say Seltzer set an example that has inspired women studying STEM across the years at Harvard.
“She faced—women in that generation, and sadly it’s still the case, face discrimination, prejudice, either overt or subtle,” Goodman says. “She never talked about it. She simply overcame it.”
“Hopefully with people like Margo as examples, it becomes easier for each class of women,” he says.
Asked about the Harvard accomplishments she treasures most, Seltzer in part points to the moment she had to tell then-dean of SEAS, Paul Martin, she was pregnant.
Martin had “never had this happen before,” Seltzer remembers. He asked her what she planned to do. Seltzer told him she would co-teach in the fall with another professor, have the baby in December, and come back to teach in the spring, bringing her child with her.
“And he was like, ‘Okay.’ And that was it,” she remembers. “So that was remarkable and astonishing and wonderful.”
Throughout the early years of motherhood, Seltzer—who later had a second child, a daughter—stuck to the policy of keeping her children with her. She remembers bringing her kids to work and on work-related trips, a decision she calls somewhat “crazy” in retrospect.
“Traveling with two kids under the age of five is really insane and yet some of the strongest memories I have and some of the memories that they have are those trips that we did together,” Seltzer says.
Others in SEAS say Seltzer’s unapologetic insistence on being both a mother and a professor reshaped Harvard norms for the better. Keith A. Smith, one of Seltzer’s former graduate students, says Seltzer made her kids’ presence in the office seem “perfectly natural.”
“My daughter was born eight months after Tynan [Seltzer’s son]. And it seemed perfectly natural that she would come to the office if that’s what we needed because Margo had set that example,” Smith says.
Smith emphasizes that Seltzer’s choice to bring her children to work did not “make her less productive or less accomplished.”
He points to one episode—near the time Seltzer was expecting her second child—when she and Smith embarked on a research project with peers at Carnegie Mellon University. The CMU collaborators included a male professors whose wife was also expecting a child.
Days after giving birth, Seltzer started work again, making comments on the paper the group was co-authoring, Smith remembers.
The CMU professor, by contrast, “disappeared” after his wife gave birth, Smith says.
“She’s sort of superhuman in that way,” Smith says. “The professor at CMU has told this story for years because he was so flabbergasted, because he was so wiped out with having a kid and his wife, and supporting his wife and everything, that he couldn’t imagine doing his work.”
In addition to setting firsts herself, Seltzer advocated for other women in the field and worked to improve the confidence of and retention rates for female students in Computer Science.
Seltzer serves as a faculty advisor for the group Harvard Women in Computer Science, a club that provides mentorship and education to women at Harvard and in Boston who want to pursue careers in computer science. Suriya Kandaswamy ’20, formerly one of Seltzer’s advisees, says Seltzer has focused on ensuring women in SEAS “build confidence” in their classes.
Janet Chen ’19, a former co-president of WiCS, said the group at one point sent a survey to female CS students asking them to name their most influential mentors.
“Overwhelmingly, Margo was the first person that people listed—and there are a lot of CS undergrads—but she has made time for everyone and made space for everyone in her life in her very busy days,” Chen says.
Fresh out of graduate school, Seltzer was yet again faced with a career-defining decision.
She was staring down a dozen offers to join top-ranked universities. This time around, though, she worked through her options methodically.
Citing her love for the city of Boston, Seltzer says she eventually narrowed her decision to MIT or Harvard. At the time, Harvard’s CS department was “tiny and essentially nowhere to be seen in the rankings,” Seltzer says.
But Seltzer was not daunted. She realized that, by picking the University, she would be able to leave her mark on the fledgling department.
“I’m a systems builder. You can build systems using computers, but you can also build systems using people. And so that was super appealing,” Seltzer says.
With Seltzer’s help—particularly through her efforts to advocate for and mentor junior faculty—the CS department has grown significantly. The department only had seven or eight faculty when she started, according to Seltzer. Today, the department boasts more than 35 professors.
But colleagues say she did more than simply build the numbers—she never shied from turning a critical eye to the department’s inner workings. Colleagues note Seltzer has always been very vocal in expressing her opinions.
“She was very vocal, much more than the rest of us dared to be, so it was really fun to have someone so determined to express our thoughts and our ideas and she was always at the forefront—a real leader,” said Efthimios Kaxiras, who worked as a junior faculty member in the CS department at the same time as Seltzer.
Director of Graduate Academic Programs in SEAS John Girash pointed to Seltzer’s “truth to power” as one of the things he will miss most about her when she leaves. He says he will also miss the way she refused to take “any guff, not taking any of the bureaucratic or administrative cultural cruft without saying why.”
Chen says she thinks Seltzer has never been afraid to say what is on her mind, even when “it’s an unpopular opinion or people don’t want to hear it.”
In one example, Seltzer critiqued the College’s controversial May 2016 decision to sanction members of single-gender social organizations. Seltzer, along with Lewis, Government professor Eric M. Nelson ’99, and Classics professor Richard F. Thomas, penned a Sept. 2016 op-ed in The Crimson arguing against the penalties.
Seltzer says she has always thought one of the most powerful forms of leadership entails “being willing to speak up when things aren’t going the way they should be going.”
As she prepares to leave, Seltzer says she knows Harvard can do a lot to improve. She says she hopes the University will continue to grow its Computer Science department, bring in young faculty, and make strides towards a more “inclusive” campus.
“I will miss my colleagues and my students because that’s what life is all about,” Seltzer says. “I really want to see Computer Science continue to realize all the potential that we’ve built.”
Seltzer will not be around Cambridge to help. But some say her legacy in the CS department will linger nonetheless.
“She’s inspired people to be not just students, researchers, scientists, but to be whole people, while also being students, researchers and scientists,” Girash says. “She’s made the place human.”
—Staff writer Alexandra A. Chaidez can be reached at alexandra.chaidez@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @a_achaidez.
—Staff writer Angela N. Fu can be reached at angela.fu@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @angelanfu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Dear Class of 2018,
Our four years at Harvard have been amazing but tumultuous, even if you take into account Harvard’s almost 400-year history. Our freshman year was Dean Rakesh Khurana’s first year as Dean of the College, and we were the first ones to be reminded consistently of the transformative power of our education. We watched as you all strutted your Halloween costumes down a catwalk at Haunted Hall, and stumbled back and forth between the Science Center Plaza and your freshman dorm for the first on-campus Freshman Formal. In our sophomore year, we shared existential crises on concentration declaration day, briefly united before pursuing our unique academic trajectories. Later that year, Harvard’s administration announced sanctions against single-gender social organizations, and for the ensuing years we would thoughtfully debate, critique, and consider the implications of the policy for our community. In our junior year, we had more existential crises as we navigated extracurriculars, potential thesis topics, travels abroad, and how to make the most of the time remaining. In the midst of it all, we used plastic forks in the dining hall, organized sit-ins, and protested alongside dining hall workers during the Harvard University Dining Services strike. 
And then came Senior Year. We came together time after time, at Senior Bars and Real World Series events, to let off some steam; to commiserate; and to celebrate thesising, post-grad plans, and our Match18 selections. Throughout all of this, we, again, critiqued Harvard, debated its policies, and tried to shape it in a way that reflected our values.
Nationally and internationally, it has been a notable four years: Brexit, Marriage Equality, Black Lives Matter, the Women’s March, international populist movements, the election of President Donald Trump, the travel ban, the #MeToo movement. At Harvard, students from all walks of life came together in support of our classmates, be it taking part in Black Lives Matter rallies, protesting the end of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, or simply taking time to stop and listen to our affected peers. This list does not begin to encompass the extent of our class’s activism, but it speaks to the magnitude of the issues which have informed our time at Harvard, both in the classroom and outside of it.
In short, there has not been a “normal” year at Harvard. Perhaps there is no such thing. But perhaps more than any other class, we’ve been acutely aware of Harvard’s successes and its faults, and we’ve held Harvard to a high standard because we believed it should be at the vanguard of inclusivity, innovation, and excellence in all that it does. We’ve critiqued Harvard because we believe in its transformative power (that’s right, Dean Khurana—we were listening the whole time).
As the first and second class marshals, we’ve seen the power of building a cohesive class identity senior year, of coming together as part of a broader community even as we pursue divergent paths. Our dream is for all Harvard students to have this sense of community and support every year at Harvard, not just through Freshman Week or Senior Bars. Class community should not exist merely for freshmen and for seniors, especially since the Task Force on Inclusion and Belonging showed that a sense of belonging decreases among sophomores and juniors.
In our four years, we, along with many of you in our class, have worked hard to increase support, funding, and programming for sophomores and juniors in an effort to build class community. Our sophomore year, a concentration declaration event, “Be There. Be Declared.” was organized for sophomores to celebrate declaring their concentrations in Annenberg Hall. Our junior year, many of you attended the “Class of 2018 Reflects,” an event which provided a moment to pause and reflect on past experiences before entering senior year. Last November, over 700 students signed a petition to put a referendum question on the Undergraduate Council’s presidential election ballot asking if the College should create more class-wide programming for sophomores and juniors, a measure that passed successfully.
Our Class of 2018 is not alone in trying to push for class-wide programming and community for sophomores and juniors. A Sophomore Class Day was organized in Fall 2013 by members of the Undergraduate Council. It did not happen again. In 2016, another sophomore declaration event was organized, but in 2017 the class was divided into the Houses to celebrate this important milestone. Across class years and across different student groups, Harvard students want to build more community. However, when key student and administration champions of sophomore and junior class events leave Harvard, current students are often left reinventing the wheel or starting from scratch when building class community. This should not be the case.
The Office of Student Life and Freshman Dean’s Office—soon to be the Dean of Students Office—are making huge strides in this area, but we hope that faculty, staff, students, and alumni all prioritize support for students of all years, ideally in the form of sustained, cohesive class-wide community events for everyone, regardless of House or extracurricular affiliation.
Previous First Marshals, such as Nina M. Yancy ’13, Jen Q. Zhu ’14, Sietse K. Goffard ’15, Reylon A. Yount ’16, and Riya N. Patel ’17 have told us the importance of building class community every year on campus, in order to sustain a cohesive alumni community after graduation. While we have done our part toward building this community senior year, we believe that there should be more programming tailored to the needs of students at each stage of their Harvard experience. This isn’t a panacea for increased inclusivity and belonging at Harvard, but we believe it is a step in the right direction.
But, more than anything, we want to leave Harvard with a note of gratitude. Thank you, Class of 2018, for being an amazing, diverse, thoughtful, passionate, and brilliant class with whom to spend our last four years. We love this class, and we believe that you will significantly and genuinely make an impact on the communities of which you will be part. You will all go out and continue to understand, question, and debate your world, and you will leave the world better because of it. In short, we believe in Harvard not because of its long and storied traditions, but because we believe in you.
Thank you, Class of 2018, and congratulations! We did it!
Berkeley E. Brown ’18, a Social Studies concentrator in Lowell House, is First Marshal of the College’s Class of 2018.
Wyatt M. Robertson ’18, a Psychology concentrator in Quincy House, is Second Marshal of the College’s Class of 2018. 

News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
English professor Amanda Claybaugh will be Harvard’s next dean of undergraduate education, Dean of the College Rakesh Khurana announced in an email to students Wednesday.
Claybaugh will replace Jay M. Harris, starting July 1. Harris, who has served as dean since 2008, announced he would step down in Dec. 2017. As the dean of undergraduate education, Claybaugh will be responsible for the administration of the undergraduate curriculum at Harvard, including oversight of the Program in General Education, academic advising, and career services.
Khurana wrote that Claybaugh’s experience as faculty member in the English Department has prepared her for her new role. He noted she has taught courses including Humanities 10, has served as chair of the Committee on Degrees in History and Literature for four years, and “led the development” of History and Literature’s ethnic studies track.
She received her Ph.D. in English from Harvard in 2001 and returned to the University to begin teaching in 2010. In his email, Khurana wrote that Claybaugh is a “superb teacher and mentor.”
“Professor Claybaugh cares deeply about your academic experience, is attuned to the changing nature of our student body, and I know that she will serve all of you very well as our next Dean of Undergraduate Education,” he wrote. “Among her strengths, Professor Claybaugh is someone who listens deeply and works collaboratively to come up with creative solutions.”
Khurana also praised Claybaugh for work creating “greater diversity in the teaching faculty.”
This announcement comes during a time of administrative turnover at Harvard. University President Drew G. Faust announced last summer that she will step down from Harvard’s top post starting July 1; a lengthy search process determined Lawrence S. Bacow would be her successor in February. Dean of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences Michael D. Smith announced in March he would step down, and Dean of Freshmen Thomas A. Dingman ’67 will also retire in June.
—Staff writer Caroline S. Engelmayer can be reached at caroline.engelmayer@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @cengelmayer13.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
