News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
To the Editor:
I was disappointed by last week’s editorial about Computer Science 50: “Introduction to Computer Science I” and its handling of academic dishonesty. Having taught CS50 once upon a time and, I believe, introducing "cheat-detection," allow me to clarify a few things.
The reason cheating appears to be a more significant problem in computer science than other disciplines is because we have the technology to detect it. I am confident that if other subject areas had automated ways to detect such behavior, they would find similar patterns.
Having investigated academic dishonesty in computer science for 25 years, the vast majority of cases are not the result of intentional malicious action. Instead, they arise from academic stress of the form, "My problem set is due in an hour and I'm completely lost. I cannot afford to get a bad grade on this." The fact that CS50 chooses to deal humanely with such stress is, as we say in computer science, a feature, not a bug.
Saying CS50 does not provide suitable support for students is false: CS50 has a staff of approximately 80 for approximately 700 students, with a student to staff ratio of approximately nine-to-one. CS50 offered 308 staff-hours of office hours per week. Thus each student could potentially have had almost 30 minutes of personalized office hour attention. CS50 offers free tutoring. The course staff held 147 tutoring sessions last fall. These sessions have a maximum three-to-one student to staff ratio and last 60 minutes. Note that these are all in addition to weekly lectures and sections.
I treat Harvard students like adults. Adults realize that they damage only themselves by cheating. If we can make it easier for students to complete work honestly, they will learn more. I personally applaud CS50 course instructor David J. Malan '99 and the CS50 staff for being responsive to observed student behavior. They are deeply thoughtful in watching what happens in their class and paying close attention to best practices at other universities.
Margo I. Seltzer '83 is the Herchel Smith Professor of Computer Science and former instructor of CS50, CS51, CS61, CS161.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
A University-wide diversity task force at Harvard released their final report to the public in late March. In the  44-page document and appendices, the task force outlines a working framework of “Four Goals” and “Four Tools” as well as a set of eight recommendations meant to help the University address issues inclusion and belonging among students, faculty, staff, and academic personnel across Harvard’s schools.
University President Drew G. Faust, who convened the task force in Sept. 2016, responded to the report in an email to Harvard affiliates last week, in which she outlined plans to begin implementing its recommendations before she steps down in June. As part of these plans, Faust decided—in consultation with President-elect Lawrence S. Bacow—to designate $10 million of presidential funds to increased faculty recruitment and renewal.
Faust also appointed John S. Wilson Jr., the President-in-Residence at the Graduate School of Education and the former president of Morehouse College, as a senior adviser and strategist to the University president on diversity and inclusion initiatives. Wilson will oversee efforts to improve inclusion at the University and will hire central administrative personnel to conduct this work for the duration of this spring and next academic year.
Below, The Crimson annotates some of the report's key recommendations.
The “Four Goals” for bolstering inclusion and belonging at Harvard establish a framework via which each school can form concrete practices and implementation plans for inclusion and belonging. The task force created the four goals based on the feedback they received during outreach sessions after releasing a draft executive summary in Sept. 2017.

The second goal focuses on integration on an academic, professional, and social level throughout Harvard that permits everyone to “be their authentic selves.” The four areas of focus include academic and professional excellence, responsive curricula, collaboration and teamwork, and improved mentoring. Some specific recommendations involve incorporating “input from students into faculty-led curricular planning processes.” The goal is to adapt to student demand by establishing new courses, hiring new faculty, and integrating student input into the process of crafting syllabi.


This goal highlights a central theme throughout the report—that the University must work to “promote academic freedom alongside mutual respect and concern.” In the introduction, the document states, “we heard a clear theme that many conservative students on campus engage in self-censorship to avoid possible alienation from peer groups. We cannot afford to presume a necessary conflict between protecting academic freedom and a culture of mutual respect.” This third goal has three separate “areas of focus”: examining disciplines like history and psychology to connect with one another, developing skills for difficult conversations, and creating time and space for difficult conversations.

The proposed “Four Tools” for inclusion and belonging stem from the four goals. These four tools are already in existence at the University, but the task force charges there must be a more coordinated effort to improve diversity initiatives at Harvard. In previous sections of the report, the task force asserts that, though the composition of the University has become more diverse overall, progress across groups has been “frustratingly uneven.”

The “Eight Recommendations” are addressed to the President and Provost, according to Allen, who said these recommendations are direct action items for the president. The first three recommendations, dubbed “High-Impact First Steps,” comprise the task force’s short term goals. The last five recommendations, dubbed “Sustained Focus on Inclusive Excellence,” comprise longer-term goals aimed at creating institutional structures for inclusion and belonging at Harvard.
Faust has already begun to act on goals listed in both of these sections, though some will come under Bacow’s purview once he moves into Massachusetts Hall in July. In addition to the $10 million fund for faculty renewal, Faust established a requirement that deans and administrators must produce plans to advance inclusion and belonging within their schools or units.

The first recommendation is one that has remained consistent through the task force’s two iterations of the report: a commitment to “inclusive symbols and spaces.” This recommendation urges the University to revise its alma mater and its values statement.
The report also recommends using the Smith Campus Center as a shared space open for programming that supports “civil disagreement,” which harkens back to the task force’s emphasis on enforcing academic freedom. Faust announced Tuesday she and Bacow will work with Allen to brainstorm ways the University can create “community conversations” to bring contrasting perspectives into a productive discussion.
Part of this recommendation has already been fulfilled. The task force launched a competition in April 2017 to revise the last line of the alma mater, which had read “Till the stock of the Puritans die” since its composition in 1836. The winner of the competition, Janet B. Pascal ’84, authored the new last line of the alma mater: “Till the stars in the firmament die,” a change that took effect immediately with the release of the final report.

This recommendation proposes Harvard build two University-wide research centers, one focused on “identity, politics, and culture” and one on “higher education, inclusion and belonging, and organizational change.” The report suggests both centers should be designed by a group of the faculty to bring diversity initiatives already taking place across Harvard’s schools into one space.
The “identity, politics, and culture” center would focus on bringing course offerings and programs on topics like race, gender, sexuality, and inequality from all of Harvard’s schools together under one roof. The second center—oriented around “higher education, inclusion and belonging, and organizational change”—would focus on supporting “efforts at Harvard to move forward on inclusive excellence.”
After the release of the draft executive summary last September, Ethnic Studies advocates criticized the report for failing to explicitly call for a program or center in ethnic studies, something ethnic studies advocates have requested for decades. In their most recent effort, the Ethnic Studies Coalition petitioned the University to create such a center and increase faculty hiring and renewal in the field.
In response, Allen said she viewed ethnic studies proposals as “College-specific” in an Sept. 2017 interview. On Monday, she said the final recommendation for the two centers marked the area where ethnic studies had its “greatest impact” on the entire report. 
The recommendation for enhanced mental health services is a new addition; it was not mentioned in the draft version of the report. The task force suggests the University should allocate resources more effectively to Counseling and Mental Health Services (CAMHS) through “strategic planning” in the form of campus-wide mental health and well-being surveys.
After the task force published its draft version of the report, the group conducted outreach sessions across campus to collect feedback on their initial iteration. Allen said the task force said many stakeholders across the University pointed to mental health as a concern, prompting the task force to formalize this recommendation.
“The mental health issue was one that really came out through a lot of different channels in that conversation as a key piece,” Allen said.
Faust has decided to allocate presidential funds to University Health Services to address the need for improved mental health services at Harvard through a “strategic planning process.”
“The Office of the Provost and the leadership of UHS have recognized that the demographic changes in our community have implications for the delivery of mental health care,” Faust wrote.

This recommendation reiterates the task force’s emphasis on “transparency” stated in the “Four Tools” framework. The task force proposes that the President and Provost conduct reports every three years, beginning in 2020, on all constituencies on which the report focuses. The task force recommends utilizing a standardized survey module consistent with modern data-collection techniques and working from the “bottom-up” in terms of participation.

In this recommendation, the task force responds to many calls from Harvard affiliates for increased faculty diversification and faculty renewal throughout the University. The recommendation suggests the University should work with its governing boards—the Harvard Corporation and the Board of Overseers—to allocate financial resources geared toward faculty renewal, support cluster hiring, and reassess the logistics of hiring plans.
This recommendation also calls for more collaboration with the Radcliffe Institute and Harvard’s other schools to support “curricular innovation.” This collaboration forms a piece of the report Faust has decided to implement immediately. Faust wrote the Radcliffe Institute will host a workshop next year led by Harvard faculty to discuss designs and organizational models that can foster work in inclusion and belonging, especially in curricular work.
This part of the report harkens back to themes in earlier portions of the document, including fostering a culture of “mutual respect” and establishing norms at Harvard that support female faculty and faculty from underrepresented minorities.
—Staff writer Kristine E. Guillaume can be reached at kristine.guillaume@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @krisguillaume.
—Staff writer Ruth A. Hailu can be reached at ruth.hailu@thecrimson.com. Follow her on twitter @ruth_hailu_
