News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Harvard men's and women's basketball teams opened up Lavietes Pavilion Saturday night for the annual Crimson Madness fan event. This year’s festivities featured the women’s side for the first time in the event’s history at Harvard.
Coaches Kathy Delaney-Smith and Tommy Amaker delivered opening remarks, expressing optimism for the 2018-2019 season and thanking the Harvard community for their support of both programs. Delaney-Smith enters her 37th season at the helm of the women’s team, while Amaker prepares for his 11th campaign with the Crimson.
“The theme for this year is the word sacrifice,” Amaker said. “If we can adopt that word and embrace that word, I think we have a chance to be really successful.”
A slam dunk contest, three-point shootout, and men’s intrasquad scrimmage were among the various activities featured in the fan event. Junior forward Robert Baker captured the slam dunk title, highlighted by a lob from classmate Seth Towns halfway up the Lavietes Pavilion bleachers. Sophomore guard Rio Haskett finished second.
Both the men’s and women’s sides participated in the three-point contest. Captain Sydney Skinner’s impressive string of converted shots landed her the women’s crown, while junior guard Christian Juzang bested classmate Justin Bassey for the men’s title. Numerous alumni returned to Lavietes Pavilion to support their former teammates, including Zena Edosomwan '17 and Chris Egi '18.
The night was capped off by a competitive scrimmage from the men’s team, although the highlight of the night was arguably the knockout contest between student-athletes and fans. Junior big Henry Welsh was the sole Crimson representative remaining but was outlasted by a fan, who was immediately inundated by the two teams.
The intrasquad men’s scrimmage ended in a 41-41 tie after Juzang drained a buzzer-beater triple for the White team. Bassey was the high man of the night with 15 points with first-years Spencer Freedman, Noah Kirkwood, Mason Forbes, and Kale Catchings suiting up in a Crimson uniform for the first time.
Among those not in action and recovering from knee injuries were juniors Bryce Aiken and Seth Towns. Captain Corey Johnson and senior Tommy McCarthy were also in sweatpants for the event.
The women’s side opens up their season on Nov. 9 against one of the nation’s top teams, defending national champions Notre Dame. Delaney-Smith exuded confidence in this opening matchup as part of her opening remarks.
“I think if any team that I’ve coached can compete with [Notre Dame], it’s this team we have here at Harvard this year,” Delaney-Smith said. “We are trying to bring our 12th Ivy banner back to Lavietes and I can tell you that...the atmosphere you create is incredible.”
On the men’s side, the season begins on Nov. 6 with its annual intra-Cambridge contest against MIT, before hosting Northeastern three days later at Lavietes Pavilion.
-Staff writer Henry Zhu can be reached at henry.zhu@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @Zhuhen88.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Nothing could be more unpredictable than the food at Annenberg, right? Enter Boston weather. We’re asking ourselves if this is a Katy Perry song, because we’re hot and then cold. The struggle of facing this meteorological mashup is real, but we’ve got some tips and tricks to pull you through.
Fake it til you make it
As Harvard students, we all already have a case of duck syndrome, and with “fakin’ it” at the top of our resumes, the weather is no exception. Leave the dorm without a jacket? Looks like we’re power-walking to Northwest Labs. Forget an umbrella on the only good hair day you’ve had this semester? Use the less-than-quality notes you just took in your 9 a.m. as a makeshift shield — you’re not gonna read them anyways.
You name it, we’ve waterproofed it
Sexiled by your roommate and forced to sleep in the flooded yard? Hop onto good ol’ Amazon and invest in some last-minute waterproof essentials, including pillows, mattress protectors, and, of course, fairy lights. Or, if you’re feeling extra creative, check out Japan’s “umbrellas for shoes.” They may not be for sale, but hey, the world’s weirdest inventions make for a great procrastination session.
Midterm Feels
They say pets begin to look like their owners, but can the weather begin to look like our feelings? With midterm season upon us and a blizzard looming in the future, let out your feelings with a few fellow frustrated friends. Better yet, check out the Best Places to Be Sad on Campus. It doesn’t matter why you’re stressed, Flyby’s got you covered — like the umbrella you forgot.
Frustration with the ever-changing fall weather is understandable, but then again, we hear the Boston winter may be slightly more frustrating. Better kiss and make up with this fall weather before it’s too late!
