News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Henry R. Lynch is a sophomore with a lifelong passion for acting. Concentrating in Linguistics with a related field in Theater, Dance, and Media, Lynch has starred in several productions on campus, most recently playing Eric Harris in Stephen Karam and PJ Paparelli’s play “Columbinus” in 2017, as well as Hanschen Rilow in “Spring Awakening.” The Harvard Crimson sat down with Lynch to discuss his approach to acting and his plans for the future.
The Harvard Crimson: How did your acting career get started?
Henry R. Lynch: When I was very young, about six years old, my sister was in a play. I was very jealous, and I wanted to do one, but you had in fourth grade to be in it. Then we moved to Wisconsin when I was in second grade, and you had to be in third grade to be in the show, but for whatever reason, for my third and fourth grade year they didn’t have them. So it wasn’t until fifth grade when I finally got to do my first play, which was this 20-minute play based on a children’s book… I played the Frog and I loved it, and ever since then I did every single school show through middle school, and then in high school I did stuff in Milwaukee. So that’s how it started.
THC: What roles have you starred in at Harvard, and do you have a favorite role from shows you’ve done here?
HRL: The first show I did freshman year was “The Mikado” and I played Pooh-Bah, and then I was in “The Rocky Horror Picture Show” where I played Rocky, and then last semester I was in “Spring Awakening” where I played Hanschen, and “Columbinus” in which I played Eric Harris/The Freak. “Columbinus” was definitely the most rewarding role I’ve done so far. It was really heavy subject matter as it’s based on the Columbine school shooting, and to be playing a character who is a real person was very interesting because I had never done that before. There was a lot of research—like reading his actual writings and journal entries—and reading about other people talking about how he was as a person from the outside. Just trying to figure out how to play this person who’s clearly a sociopath. You can’t approach it like a normal human being and the thoughts that would go through [his] mind [were] just completely messed up and wired [in a] completely different, horrible way from me. That was definitely my favorite show that I’ve done at Harvard, just because of the extra challenges it posed.
THC: You just touched on it a bit, but what is your general approach to preparing for a role?
HRL: Obviously it differs depending on the character, but it always starts with the text, reading it over many times, seeing what your character says and what other characters say about you, and figuring out [what] their relationship is with other people. And then, if you do have a role like Eric Harris, who is a real person, you have all this other wealth of information. Especially in “Columbinus,” in the first act I wasn’t explicitly being “Eric Harris,” because part of the role is figuring out which parts of the historical person you actually want to adopt and choose to use.
THC: If you had to pick one actor who has particularly inspired you in your life, who would it be?
HRL: Edward Norton. I’ve always loved him just because of the crazy differences in all the roles he does. I don’t know quite what it is about his performances that I find so exciting, but in “Birdman,” there’s a scene with him and Michael Keaton when they first meet, and there’s just something just so raw and real about Edward Norton’s acting in that scene. I watch that scene all the time and think if I could ever act like that, that’s what I want to be doing.
THC: Do you have desires to pursue other artistic endeavors, such as directing or writing, or do you view yourself as an actor primarily?
HRL: I’d definitely be interested in trying directing. I directed a scene for the Shakespeare Senior Recital my freshman year and it was an eight-minute thing, so it wasn’t much. I’m not a very organized person, so I’m still very afraid of trying to direct a full length production because there’s so many moving parts and bringing all sorts of things together. I think you have to worry about a lot more things from a directorial standpoint. As an actor, you just show up and a lot of that is already done for you, which is fun and great, but it would also be interesting and I think important to know the other side of it, so I’d like to try and direct a show here at Harvard before I graduate. As far as writing, I always wished I could be a writer, but I’ve never known how to approach it, so we’ll see if I ever get into it. But directing is definitely of interest to me.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Jonathan F. Sun would prefer we avoid the MIT Media Lab.
“I hate doing anything in the Media Lab lobby, because that space governs everything else. You can’t be there and be an individual,” says Sun, a third-year Ph.D. student in the Department of Urban Studies and Planning at MIT. Instead he suggests the Brain and Cognitive Sciences building—he says this is a better interview location.
“I have no affiliation with this building, but I wandered through one day, and I was like, ‘Oh, I like this building now,” he says.
Just inside and overhead is a massive golden mobile. It’s a constellation of neurons, dendrites and all, dangling from the distant ceiling in a convergence of art and science. Sun stares up in wonder.
“Lately I’ve been trying to merge the academic stuff and the creative stuff a little more closely,” says Sun, who just the week prior completed his Ph.D. qualifying examinations. “So I’ve been trying not to think about them as two separate things anymore. I’m trying to see them all as part of the same practice.”
This is a tall order to say the least. “Academic stuff” refers to Sun’s scholastic work in engineering and architecture.
And by “creative stuff,” he means his Twitter persona jomny sun (@jonnysun). Sun tweets in the voice of a naïve and grammatically challenged alien, whose thoughts about the peculiarities of human interaction are in turn both hilarious and endearing. These tweets have brought him over half a million followers, praise from the likes of Will Arnett and Lin Manuel Miranda, and a 304-page book published just last year.
A tall order, indeed.
***
“I started just playing online.”
Nothing about Sun screams ‘Twitter-famous.’ On this brisk February evening, he wears a black turtleneck, his herringbone pants cuffed over worn leather boots. A latte-colored overcoat is strewn over a nearby chair.
“My first actual tweet was something like, ‘Japanese money is really cool,’ because I was really into the design of currency,” says Sun. “That was as Jonathan Sun, the 19-year-old who just graduated high school and was trying to establish himself as a person.”
By all accounts, Sun could have established himself as any kind of person he chose.
“It was hard to define him. He just seemed to do whatever he wanted to do,” says younger brother Christopher Sun, a Ph.D. student in Industrial Engineering at the University of Toronto.
“He got into parkour. Pretty heavily,” continues Sun, referring to the street sport that involves running, climbing, and jumping over obstacles in urban areas.
“I think it was one of the first few days of drama class, and people were talking up Jonny Sun as this parkouring dude,” recalls Kevin Vidal, a high school friend and long-time creative collaborator of Sun’s.
Parkouring was not Sun’s only forte. He was also a skilled swimmer, rapper, thespian, and playwright. In 2016, Vidal produced Sun’s original one-act play “Dead End” at Theatre Lab in Toronto. Vidal describes the show as “essentially Waiting for Godot, but with a zombie.”
Though Sun eventually chose to pursue an undergraduate degree in Engineering Science at the University of Toronto, he very nearly studied theater instead.
A self-described “science-and-math kid, and also a drama kid, and also a visual arts kid,” Sun applied to both engineering and theater schools. Choosing between them was no simple task.
Sun remembers the advice his mother gave him at the time: “It’s more difficult to go back and get engineering training and an engineering background than it is to foster an artistic creative path at any point in your life.”
“At the same time, she also said to me how any experience I have, in any direction I take, is fuel for creative work in the future,” Sun continues. “So these experiences in engineering school might be interesting places to draw from when I make creative work.”
Following his graduation from the University of Toronto in 2012, Sun moved to the United States to pursue a Masters of Architecture at Yale. The transition was not easy. Sun dealt with “a little bit of culture shock” upon his arrival, and struggled to find a creative community.
“I had found a comedy family, and a sketch-comedy crew, and people to write with, to perform with, and to direct,”Sun says, describing his undergraduate experience in Canada. “And then I moved away for architecture. I couldn’t go and write with these people all the time, and I definitely couldn’t perform with them.”
While an undergraduate, Sun used Twitter simply to keep in contact with friends. After his move stateside, though, Twitter became something more: a way of staying in touch with his comedic and Canadian roots.
Sun deleted his tweets as Jonathan Sun.
jomny sun was born.
***
“I turned to the internet as a space where I could find like-minded people,” Sun says, explaining the community he found after creating the online persona jomny sun. “That became a really safe and positive and helpful space for me to go to whenever architecture school got stressful, whenever I felt like I didn’t know what I was doing.”
Humor forms a natural sublimation technique for Sun. Many of his tweets are quite funny, in their own silly, offbeat way. The following from 2014 is one of Sun’s more popular tweets:
LIFE HACK: give ur next child a normal name ME: are u still mad that ur mother and i named u Life Hack
Other tweets seem deeply personal. “I do see [Twitter] as a very confessional space,” says Sun.
One such tweet from this past January reads:
when ur in bed thinkig abt how the way u interact w each person in ur life is based on who u think they think u are and not who u realy are
The accompanying image is of a plush Ditto—a pink, blobby, and usually joyful Pokémon—lying in bed, peering sadly over its covers and clearly caught up in some kind of existential malaise.
“He is a warm and kind person, and at times funny,” says friend and fellow Ph.D. student Chaewon Ahn, describing Sun. “But there's more of a sadness, rather than being this happy-funny person.” This sadness sometimes bleeds through into his tweets, and it seems like jomny speaks with two voices: the happy aliebn, and the sad aliebn.
Sun embraces this dichotomy.
“I think the fun sweet spot that I’ve been able to inhabit is that balance of saying something honest and raw, but also packaging it in a way that’s fun and funny: the idea of being able to talk about your deepest darkest fears but also in a way that still makes it accessible.”
Sarah Kay, a prominent spoken-word poet and close friend of Sun, says she can clearly see the niche he has created online. She recalls one of Sun’s book signings at the Strand Bookstore in New York City.
“Someone in the room at some point in the night, not loudly but quietly to another person said, ‘I feel like this room is the friendliest corner of the internet,’” Kay says.
Sun’s Twitter does not limit itself to jomny-style content. Sun often replies to fans, publicizes his book signings, and retweets content he supports.
“I’ve made it a goal of mine to help signal boost other people, and give voice to trans communities, or LGBTQ communities, or other communities of color, and just help get those sorts of ideas and perspectives heard by a larger group of people,” Sun says.
In February, Netflix announced that Jared Leto, a Caucasian actor, would portray a yakuza—a Japanese gangster—in the upcoming original film “The Outsiders.” Immediately following this announcement, Sun’s twitter became strewn with retweets expressing outrage and accusing Netflix of whitewashing.
Sun has struggled with his identity as an Asian humorist.
At first, jomny sun was not at all connected to Jonathan Sun—Sun posted no identifying information on the account. He decided to tell jokes anonymously, citing concerns that his Asian identity would limit the audience his jokes could reach.
“That comes from a place of me growing up and not having many Asian comedians or writers to look up to,” says Sun.
Anonymity soon became more constricting than freeing. Says Sun, “There was stuff from my real life that I wanted to talk about more but couldn’t.”
“Over the years, I’ve peeled back the layers. I’ve tied my real identity to my online identity much more.” He vividly remembers the first time he posted his photo online.“A lot of young Asian people who had followed me started messaging me and saying, ‘I had never thought that you would look like me.’”
 
“Even to say that I have anxiety, and I’m dealing with mental health issues, and I’m also worried about all this stuff, and I have hopes and dreams and fears—even something as basic and humanizing as that—isn’t afforded to Asian characters most of the time,” he says.
Sun believes his mission is to be a “whole person”—a person of color with more than two dimensions.
It’s a lot to pack into 280 characters. But taken together, Sun’s tweets—ranging from lighthearted to angst-ridden—point to a whole greater than the sum of its parts.
“They’re all these small grains of sand that build up to a whole identity,”Sun says.
***
“I've always said ‘alien’—the typos are for visual effect.”
Sun’s book, “everyone’s a aliebn when ur a aliebn too,” is an orthographer’s nightmare. Spelling and grammar errors are abundant, and create a mood of freewheeling simplicity and childlike naïveté. Across its pages wanders an inquisitive alien, sent to Earth by its straight-laced brethren to observe mankind. The ensuing odyssey, ripe with misunderstanding (the alien mistakes animals for people and a snowstorm for the apocalypse) is one of innocent discovery. At its core, the book tells a story about finding one’s voice in a strange, new place.
“everyone’s a aliebn” takes its stylistic cues and emotional direction from Sun’s lovingly crafted Twitter-verse. The story’s alien protagonist, tubby and four-fingered with a large bean-shaped head, began its life as Sun’s Twitter avatar.
“Twitter was my notebook of all this stuff that I’d been thinking about and dealing with,” says Sun. “At some point I started looking back, and realized there were different threads that started to show up again and again.” Piecing these individual threads together led Sun to the concept for “everyone’s a aliebn,” and soon, a HarperCollins book deal.
Sun wrote and illustrated the book while a Ph.D. student, all the while maintaining the active Twitter presence he’d begun during his time at Yale.
He is now letting these experiences on Twitter inform his own academic research.
For his first-year Ph.D. research project, he undertook an analysis of geotagged tweets. Labeling these tweets as either “positive” or “negative,” Sun attempted to map out the happiest—and unhappiest—areas of cities. The project remained a proposal.
“I found that that was a very difficult thing to actually do,”Sun says with a laugh. “But I might revisit it.”
Going forward, Sun is unsure exactly how his future Ph.D. research will bring together these academic and creative pursuits. As a fellow at the Berkman Klein Center for Internet & Society at Harvard University, Sun hosted the Online Humor Conversation Series at MIT. The event consisted of panels and presentations bringing academics side-by-side with internet comedians.
Sun floats the idea of re-staging the series on a much larger scale—with upwards of 200 humorists featured—as a possible direction for his research. But that’s a concern for another day. With exams behind him, Sun finds himself in the midst of a well-earned break.
Post-interview, Sun will be flying out to Chicago for book signings, and he is ecstatic to meet his fans in the real world. “When you have a bunch of people fill a space, it’s immediately more real and present, and more emotional, than seeing a bunch of people tweet at you.”
As Sun becomes increasingly well-known for his creative work, the unusual path that has led him to this couch in the Cognitive and Brain Sciences building is all the more intriguing. It all seems to originate with his initial decision to pursue a degree in engineering as opposed to one in the dramatic arts.
“That’s something I constantly go back to,” Sun says.Would I be here if I made a different choice? Would I be further along? Would I be further behind?”
Sun ponders this for a few seconds. “I always go back to the idea that… having to choose between two is a false setup. You don’t have to actually choose one or the other. You can do both.”
In addition to turning to his mother for advice, he says he also asked his drama teacher. “She said something like, ‘It doesn’t matter what you choose. If you can live your life without wanting to make stuff, and without wanting to be an artist, go for it.’”
“But ultimately, if that drive exists, or if that kind of thing exists in your head, it’s going to find you. And you’ll be compelled to do it anyway.”
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
In anticipation of 12 to 18 inches of snow and blizzard conditions, Harvard will close its central administrative offices and the Faculty of Arts and Sciences on Tuesday, Dean for Administration and Finance Leslie A. Kirwan ’79 and Executive Vice President Katie N. Lapp announced in emails Monday.
The winter storm will hit in the middle of the College’s spring break, a time when fewer undergraduates are on campus and no courses are held. All dining halls are also closed.
Kirwan wrote that the school closure will not affect as many activities as it would had the storm occurred during a normal school day.
“Because it is Spring Break and classes are not in session, there are many fewer FAS activities being curtailed than would be the case during a normal week,” she wrote in an email.
“However, there are still a small number of activities requiring that employees who have been designated as essential must come to work,” Kirwan added.
Lapp also included in an email that individual schools “will communicate directly with their communities.”
Kirwan and Lapp both indicated that information will be disseminated through MessageMe, the Harvard Emergency page, University home page, and via phone at 617-496-NEWS.
The University most recently closed due to winter conditions on Jan. 4, in the midst of winter break.
—Staff writer Idil Tuysuzoglu can be reached at idil.tuysuzoglu@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @idiltuysuzoglu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
