Sections
The past year saw plenty of action: University President Drew G. Faust announced she plans to step down in summer 2018, a campus protest against Trump administration policies ended in the arrest of multiple Harvard professors, and Facebook founder and College dropout Mark E. Zuckerberg "at last" earned his Harvard degree. The Crimson looks back on the photos that captured 2017.
Early in the year—in January and February—Oscar-winning actress Octavia Spencer and Golden Globe-nominated actor Ryan Reynolds received the Hasty Pudding Theatricals Woman of the Year and Man of the Year awards, respectively. 
 

On Feb. 28, pop singer and philanthropist Rihanna spoke in Sanders Theater after she accepted the Harvard Foundation's 2017 Humanitarian of the Year Award.


Every year on the Thursday before spring break, upperclassmen storm the dorms of nervous freshmen to reveal which of Harvard's 12 residential Houses the first-years will call home for the next three years. Here, Madison C. Schmitt '19 leads members of Kirkland House in a chant the morning of Housing Day 2017, held March 9.
After a delayed announcement from the College Events Boards, students welcomed Dutch dancehall DJ Tiësto to campus as the headliner for Yardfest, Harvard's annual springtime concert.


Twelve years after dropping out of the College to work on Facebook full-time, Mark E. Zuckerberg finally earned an—honorary—Harvard degree at Commencement 2017.
At College Class Day, Dean of the College Rakesh Khurana and former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. shared a laugh—and later, a selfie. 

At the start of the 2017-2018 academic year, members of the Class of 2021 gathered for a selfie on the steps of Widener Library following Harvard's welcoming ceremony, known as Convocation. 

In Sept. 2017, 31 professors from Harvard and other Boston-area universities were arrested for blocking traffic in protest of President Donald Trump's decision to rescind an Obama-era program that gave legal protections to undocumented young people. Reverend Jonathan L. Walton was among those arrested. 



History Professor Kirsten A. Weld was also arrested at the Sept. 2017 protest. 



The Head of the Charles Regatta—the world's largest two-day rowing event—celebrated its 53rd anniversary this year. Here, the Harvard men's lightweight crew team got some extra practice in a few days before the competition kicked off. 

In November, after weeks and weeks of campaigning, Catherine L. Zhang '19 and Nicholas D. Boucher '19 were elected the president and vice president of Harvard's Undergraduate Council. The two heard the news at an election night party held by friends.



At the annual iteration of The Game on Nov. 19, Yale dominated Harvard, 24-3, to claim its first outright Ivy League title in 37 years. 
 
 

Harvard students and Yalies alike watched it all go down from the sidelines with varying levels of enthusiasm (and varying amounts of clothing). 
 

Yale's long-running Game tradition, the Saybrook Strip, saw multiple Yale students baring almost everything in a fit of school spirit. 


 
Dean of the College Rakesh Khurana had a top-shelf—or top-shoulder—seat. 

2017 also saw several varieties of animal make their way through Harvard's campus, ranging from turkeys to llamas. 
 
 
 

Near the end of the year, Fifteen Minutes Magazine selected its fifteen most interesting seniors after reviewing hundreds of nominations. 



Birdie Park '18, who runs a fashion blog called "Birdie In The Park," was one of the fifteen. 



So was Harry T. Newman-Plotnick '18, a neurobiology concentrator who by himself comprised the total membership of the Harvard Magician's Society his sophomore fall. 



The sun has officially set on 2017. 
Now, it's on to 2018.


News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Winter break represents a needed interruption for the majority of Harvard’s students to escape from the responsibilities of the classroom. For the student-athletes, the time off school is exclusively that—athletics continue.
The wrestling squad was one such team with obligations over the break. Four days after Christmas, a group of fourteen traveled to Evanston, Ill., to compete in the Midlands tournament. Of that group, six posted points for the team which finished the two-day tournament in 30th place.
“The Midlands is definitely one of the toughest tournaments in the country outside of the National tournament,” junior Nolan Hellickson said.  “It’s a great opportunity for our team to get challenging matches and see where we stack up with some of the best in the nation, especially the out of conference teams that we won’t see again until Nationals.”
Co-captains Josef Johnson and Kanon Dean spearheaded the group, both advancing to the second day of competition and racking up the best overall performances. Dean finished the weekend with a 3-2 record in the 184-weight class, one better than Johnson’s 2-2 mark in the 174-weight class.
On the first day of competition, only four other Crimson wrestlers picked up wins in the tournament.
“I’d say we started out the tournament a little flat,” senior Rico Stormer said. “We just didn’t really show up in our first-round matches and quite a few just lost. Then we started to pick it up after that, guys realized what was going on and stepped up. We had a really good performance from both of our team captains and they led us and kept battling through the second day.”
In the 30-person bracket of his weight class, Dean claimed three straight victories in the consolation bracket—each by decisions. Dean rounded out his third and final victory against EIWA opponent Kevin Parker of Princeton with a strong 5-2 decision.
The co-captain's initial loss came in his first match of the weekend as he squared up against the number four ranked Jordan Ellingwood of Central Michigan. The senior fell in a 16-4 major decision to Ellingwood who, at the end of the second day, claimed bronze.
Johnson faced a trek through the winner’s bracket portion of the 174-pound weight class. The defending National Championships qualifier, ranked number eight in his group, claimed an easy bye victory before downing Eastern Michigan’s Andrew McNally. Another decision, this time 7-2, propelled Johnson past the round of 16 and into the quarterfinals. 
In this fourth round, Johnson faced the number one seeded Zahid Valencia of Arizona State. Valencia reached the quarterfinals with falls in every one of his prior match ups—Johnson ruined the streak. The co-captain lost the bout to the eventual tournament champion in a 20-7 major decision. Johnson then lost in the following matchup against Indiana’s Devin Skatzka in the consolation bracket.
The only other Harvard wrestler to advance to the round of 16 was Hellickson. On the shoulders of a first round bye, the Des Moines, Iowa, native knocked out Lehigh’s Matt Parker in 5-1 decision to advance to the third round.
“I had a decent performance, but I hold myself to a high standard and that wasn’t met this weekend,” Hellickson said. “Getting a win to start the day was big and I feel I wrestled well through that match, but I need to carry that forward and build momentum through the tournament.”
In the round of 16, the junior squared up against the bracket’s number three ranked Ronnie Bresser of Oregon State. Bresser defeated Hellickson and finished the tournament with a silver medal.
“Losing my last match on a last second takedown was pretty disappointing and took away an opportunity to string together some quality wins,” Hellickson said. “But I can learn and build from it and carry that forward to the next couple months of competition.”
Exempting byes, the only other wins came from Stormer, sophomore A.J. Jaffe, and freshman Brock Wilson.
“It’s probably the second toughest tournament behind the Cliff Keen Tournament,” Stormer said. “There are a lot of regional opponents there, and a lot of really good schools. It’s not the performance we expect of ourselves and we’re always looking to get better. We’ve just got to figure out how we come out ready to go in the future.”
The Crimson still has time to get where it wants to be. With three more events before the commencement of division play against Bucknell on Jan. 19, the team has nothing to do but focus on wrestling. Harvard will compete in the F&M Open at Franklin & Marshall on Jan. 6.
“Being able to practice wrestling without having the pressures of school on top of you, it’s actually a pretty wonderful time,” Stormer said. “You’re really able to focus and make huge gains in the sport.”
With nothing else to do on a campus devoid of students, the team spends almost all of their time as a unit.
“It really brings us together as a team,” Stormer said. “Oftentimes we’ll play board games, just spend some quality with each other, really get a focus on wrestling and making good lifelong connections with each other. I think it’s really beneficial and it’s one of the highlights of my year.”
—Staff writer Cade Palmer can be reached at cade.palmer@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Two players from the Harvard hockey program will represent the United States in the 2018 Pyeongchang Olympic Games, USA Hockey announced at the National Hockey League’s Winter Classic on Monday. Junior forward Ryan Donato received this distinct honor, as well as former Crimson blue-liner Noah Welch ’05.
The NHL’s decision to withhold its players from Olympic competition opened the door for players not traditionally in the selection pool to vie for American roster spots. The 25-man roster unveiled on Monday includes players from European professional leagues, those with AHL-only contracts, and a few NCAA student-athletes.
Donato is one of just four Division-I skaters to make the team, joining Boston University’s Jordan Greenway, Denver’s Troy Terry, and St. Cloud State’s Will Borgen. All but three players on the U.S. roster skated with a college program, with BU and Yale being the most common alma maters.
Donato’s play this season may have tipped the selection scale in his favor. Through 12 games, the Scituate, Mass., native has tallied 20 points (12G, 8A) and owns a +7 rating. Donato, who has inked the score sheet in every game this season, sits atop the nation in goals per game (1.00) and places second in points per game (1.67), behind only Canisius forward Dylan McLaughlin (1.69).
Even as an underclassman, the Boston Bruins prospect was an integral part of the Harvard attack, recording 21 points (13G, 8A) as a freshman and 40 (21G, 19A) the following year. The junior’s performance last season earned him First Team All-Ivy and All-ECAC honors in addition to a spot on the NCAA Tournament’s All-East Region team
While Welch graduated a decade before Donato sported the Crimson sweater, he achieved similar levels of success while in Cambridge. A two-time All-American, the defenseman captained the team in coach Ted Donato’s first year behind the Harvard bench and reached the NCAA Tournament in each of his four seasons. In 2010, the Brighton, Mass., native was named to the ECAC All-Decade Team for the 2000s.
After graduating, Welch played 75 games for multiple NHL organizations including the Pittsburgh Penguins, the team that selected him in the second round of the 2001 NHL Entry Draft. Welch currently plays for Växjö Lakers HC in the Swedish Hockey League.
Donato and Welch are just the two latest members of the Harvard hockey program to represent their respective nations in the Winter Olympics, as 28 Crimson graduates have played, coached, or managed personnel for their countries. This list, of course, includes coach Donato, who laced them up for the Americans in the 1992 Albertville Olympics, just a year after graduating from Harvard.
—Staff writer Spencer R. Morris can be reached at spencer.morris@thecrimson.com. Follow Spencer on Twitter @SMorrisTHC.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
