News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
A career day from sophomore forward Chris Lewis propelled the Harvard men’s basketball team to a 76-67 win over Penn on Saturday afternoon at Lavietes Pavilion. The Alpharetta, Ga., native finished the contest with 25 points and five rebounds to cap off a weekend in which the Crimson topped two of the Ivy League’s top teams in less than 24 hours. Harvard (12-11, 7-1 Ivy League) now sits atop the Ancient Eight standings alongside the Quakers (17-7, 7-1), with five teams tied for third place.
“A lot of it comes from the trust my guards have in me,” Lewis said. “They told me they were going to feed it inside from the beginning and, with that faith they had, I knew I’d be able to work the way I wanted to.”
Lewis was a force to be reckoned with all afternoon. Rather than double-teaming the Harvard big man, Penn coach Steve Donahue opted to let Lewis—rather than the Crimson’s perimeter players—beat his team. And beat it he did. The sophomore scored 25 of his team’s first 54 points, all while not committing a single personal foul. Lewis hit hook shots in the lane, beat his defenders with post moves, slammed down easy dunks, cleaned up his teammates’ misses, and got to the free throw line.
“Trying to play through Lewis this weekend was a huge point for us,” Bassey said. “I know for all the guards collectively, [we] thought if we can get it in there, it just makes it easier for us because Chris is such a force down there. If they’re not going to double-team, he’s just going to work one-on-one or if they do, then it makes it easy to kick it out and he’s finding us.”
Harvard showed no ill effects from a tip-off that came just 19 hours after the conclusion of its victory over Princeton. The Crimson made four of its first eight field goal attempts and a 17-3 run in the first half gave Harvard a cushion entering intermission. After the Quakers got 14 of their first 17 points in the paint, the Crimson made it a priority to pressure the visitors into tougher shots. The strategy worked wonders as Harvard forced misses on nine of Penn’s first 10 three-point attempts and an 8-for-23 start overall. On the other end, the Crimson rode Lewis and was able to get good looks at the basket, with 12 of its first 15 points coming in the paint.
“I was very impressed and I wasn’t as concerned about them being up to play and the energy, playing hard,” Amaker said. “When you get in moments like that, you get concerned that you get so fast, want to do it so well and so hard that you get sloppy or you don’t have the execution. That wasn’t the case with us. We took care of the ball, we were pretty sharp and followed the game plan.”
Following a 9-2 run to start the second half, it looked like the Crimson was on the verge of being able to coast to an easy win for the second night in a row. Lewis set his career high with 12:20 to play and the Quakers seemed incapable of stopping him as the Harvard lead grew to 16 with just under 11 minutes to play. However, Penn made it interesting down the stretch and showed flashes of why it entered the contest unbeaten in conference play. A three-pointer by sophomore guard Ryan Betley cut the Crimson’s edge to single digits for the first time since the opening minutes of the second half. A Darnell Foreman jumper made it seven with 2:32 to play.
“Saturdays in our league are always a challenge,” Harvard coach Tommy Amaker said. “Penn playing their third game this week and all three on the road with travel, the toughness and fight they have, they are very good. I was very impressed with that, with them, and even more impressed with the way our kids were able to handle this whole weekend.”
But seven was the closest that the Quakers would get. Just as he did against Cornell a week earlier, sophomore forward Seth Towns delivered a three down the stretch to put the game on ice. Towns finished with 17 points on 6-of-14 shooting. Penn missed three of its final four field goal attempts as sophomores Justin Bassey and Christian Juzang combined to hit free throws at the same clip.
Bassey is often an unsung hero for the Crimson. He is typically tasked with guarding the opposing team’s best perimeter player, with his contributions often going unnoticed in the box score. On Saturday, however, Bassey was especially aggressive on the offensive end, attacking Penn’s defense en route to four assists and six free throw attempts. All told, the sophomore finished with 12 points—his second-most in a game this season—and seven rebounds all while forcing the Quakers’ perimeter players into tough shots.
One of those perimeter players was Penn senior guard Caleb Wood. Harvard was able to hold the Quakers’ top three-point shooting threat to an 0-for-8 mark from long range. As a team, Penn converted on just six of its 24 three-point attempts.
“A lot of it is personnel,” Bassey said. “A lot of it is knowing when you can help and being very aware of when they’re moving. Especially this weekend, Penn and Princeton, they both do a great job of finding their shooters and keeping them moving off a lot of screens. It’s always nice when we practice that as a team and it’s more of a team effort especially when we’re trying to switch a lot of things.”
For its part, the Crimson also did not light it up from distance, making just five three-pointers, well below its average of 9.9 triples in Ivy League contests. However, the hosts made up for the lack of range with Lewis’ presence inside and their ability to get to the charity stripe. After attempting just six free throws in the first half, Harvard took 15 after the break, converting on 13 of them.
For as much as the Crimson benefitted from a bevy of free throw attempts, it was perhaps even more successful when it came to limiting Penn’s trips to the line. While Lewis set the bar by not picking up a single personal, his teammates followed suit by only committing nine all game. The Quakers only shot nine free throws, an impressive stat considering that they got to the line 16 times in last night’s matchup with Dartmouth.
“We weren’t over-extended to where we were always chasing,” Amaker said. “I thought we really played inside-out defensively. We tried to keep people in front of us and we were trying to trust and rely on help.”
Another consequence of Lewis’ dominance down low was that Harvard was able to do a remarkable job of protecting the basketball against Penn. A week after coughing the ball up 13 times at Cornell and two weeks after an 18-turnover performance at Brown, the Crimson had just six giveaways on Saturday. Harvard turned the ball over just twice in the game’s first 31 minutes.
“It’s very refreshing and we talked about it at the half that we did a tremendous job of taking care of the ball and we did it pretty much throughout the whole game,” Amaker said. “It’s exciting to see that our kids are growing. We are getting better. It’s nice to have that happen for these guys because they put a lot of work in to see this happen.”
—Staff writer Stephen J. Gleason can be reached at stephen.gleason@thecrimson.com.





—Check TheCrimson.com for updates. Full story to come after the game.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Facing any measure of significant opposition and resilience is key for a team to stay competitive and dynamic. The Harvard men’s volleyball team (1-4, 1-0 EIVA) found itself in several of these fierce contests this past weekend. Although the Crimson forced its opposition to earn their victories, it was outplayed by their strength and sheer skill. After falling in straight sets against No.1 Long Beach State at home, Harvard lost in both games of the Morgan Classic.
STEVENSON 3, HARVARD 1
Coming off of two losses, the Crimson walked away disappointed after Saturday night’s performance. Though the game was its closest of the Morgan Classic, Harvard failed to secure the assurance of a hard-fought win. The Mustangs (5-5) demonstrated superior hitting percentages and blocking ability, characteristic of their forceful style. Stevenson proved its capacity to succeed under pressure from a vicious, hungry Harvard squad.
Junior blocker Trevor Dow got off to a fast start with kills and a phenomenal service ace, but the Crimson’s early pushes fell short with the Mustangs winning the first and second set 25-21 and 25-22, respectively.
Sophomore libero Chase Howard had a great showing with 17 digs. Senior captain Riley Moore similarly impressed with a .600 hitting percentage—his third straight match above .500.
Harvard responded effectually to Stephenson’s aggression in the third set. Sophomore hitter Erik Johnsson tallied two kills in a five-point streak to win 25-22. Yet, the Mustangs emerged from the early back and forth of the fourth set with a final set victory of 25-21.
Harvard registered 46 digs and 3 service aces from Dow. It heads into next Friday’s game against Saint Francis (Pa.) with a 1-6 record but ample time to prepare for a win. This will be their second EIVA game of the season.
NEW PALTZ ST. 3, HARVARD 2
In the first round of the Morgan Classic on Friday, the Crimson began formidably, only to lose narrowly to its opposition. New Paltz St. (5-2) retained a fairly successful season thus far, and tactfully played to the length of the match with a solid defensive effort.
Harvard crushed the first set 25-14, only for the Hawks to respond with a 25-14 set of their own. The third set saw back-and-forth trading for the first eight points, and each team had decent streaks leading to a 24-24 tie. New Paltz closed off a kill and attacking error to take the heartbreaking set from the Crimson at 26-24. Clinching the fourth set by capitalizing on several attacking errors and two service aces from senior setter Marko Kostich, Harvard tied the Hawks nine times before succumbing in the fifth set 15-12.
Senior captain Jack Heavey recorded a season-high 11 kills, and Dow accumulated four aces from the service line with nine kills to spark the momentum from early on in the match. Though the stats reveal a stellar performance from the Crimson in nearly every set, New Paltz St. walked away victorious by taking advantage of occasional offensive blunders and persevering through its matchups.
LONG BEACH STATE 3, HARVARD 0
Harvard, who had struggled to gain momentum early in the season, had its work cut out for them on Friday night. Long Beach State (11-0, 0-0 EIVA) is the number one ranked team in the nation, and are undefeated thus far.
Long Beach State looked to put a quick shutout under its belt, but the Crimson kept its errors to four in the last set and made 26 total attempts in a formidable attempt to prevent a shutout. The 49ers put up 13 kills in the second set, with junior TJ DeFalco racking up 8 kills overall. DeFalco has averaged 3.03 kills per set this season. Setter Josh Tuaniga also contributed 22 assists.
The first set saw a .500 hitting percentage for Long Beach State, while Harvard averaged .156.
“They’re one of the best defensive teams we’ve seen all year,” Kostich said. “We were passing well, we were hitting fine, but even we were getting good, clean hits, they were getting everything up. That’s tough to stop.”
The 49ers won the set 25-15, and its players went into the second set with confidence and communication. Taking advantage of Harvard’s eight errors and low hitting percentage of .062, Long Beach State mustered 13 kills.
After another sizeable loss of 25-15 in the second set, the Crimson rebounded to confront Long Beach State’s dominance.
“We started talking much better as a team,” Johnsson said. “We were very quiet in the beginning, and that makes a big difference.”
Johnsson accumulated 7 kills and 21 total attempts. Vigorous communication of the team made a big difference in the effectiveness of both offense and defense in set three. The Crimson cut its errors to 4 and had a .269 hitting percentage.
Nevertheless, the 49ers continued committing to the front of the court, blocking numerous chances for Harvard to win even a single set. Long Beach State won the final set 25-20, having scored 47.5 points overall in comparison to the Crimson’s 38 points.
While the 49ers walked away with a victory, Harvard, too, left with reassurance for later success.
“Before we get into conference play, this is the best competition we can face to prepare ourselves,” Johnsson said. “So even though we took the loss this game, I think we’ll be better in the long run because of it.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Valentine’s Day might be a late capitalist invention that commodifies human emotion, but you still want a date. Lucky for you, we live in some twisted Black Mirror reality, so modern technology can help you find someone (whom you later break up with after getting back your HUHS infection results). To aid your search for love, we handpicked the most coveted bachelors for our second installment of the most eligible Tinder bachelors series.
5) John Harvard, 21 (1 mile away)



Although this silver (or bronze?) fox is clearly lying about his age and is into some “unorthodox” showers, no list is complete without the OG Harvard Daddy.
4) Morty, 19 (less than a mile away)



To be fair, you have to have a very high IQ to date the protagonist of “Rick and Morty.” If you do make the cut, maybe skip the Central Square McDonald’s date? Actually, don't take dates to McDonald's period.
3) Cookie, 20 (42 miles away)



Feel like cheating on your next-door sweetheart, the HUDS carnival cookie, or your late night booty call, Insomnia? This scrumptious charmer is an hour drive away, so certainly not as convenient, but perhaps more delicious.
2) Barry B, 18 (2 miles away)



You like jazz? Are you a fan of Jerry Seinfeld? Do you crave a different kind of buzz? Barry B is your man. After all, why hook up with someone from the Bee, if you can screw an actual bee?
1) NomDePlume Victor (1 mile away)



We’ve heard he’s in the PC. If Victor is royalty, then you can be his Meghan Markle.
