News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
While Harvard College gears up for a lawsuit on its undergraduate admissions process, the Harvard Law Review is facing a similar lawsuit. Filed by Texas-based group Faculty, Alumni, and Students Opposed to Racial Preferences, the new suit alleges that the publication uses discriminatory procedures when selecting new members. FASORP argues that the Law Review’s selection process, which in certain cases takes into account gender, violates Title VI and Title IX. We believe that this lawsuit threatens the First Amendment rights of the Harvard Law Review and is a disturbing attack on a student extracurricular.
FASORP has thus far failed to provide concrete evidence that the Harvard Law Review discriminated against students of a certain race by admitting underqualified editors. Merely incorporating race and gender into a holistic admissions process, as the Law Review does, is eminently constitutional, and is a goal of affirmative action that aims not to favor one race or gender over another ― it is to encourage diversity and openness in institutions that have historically been dominated by members of a privileged race or gender.
If anything, the Law Review demonstrates the effectiveness of this policy. Prior to implementing its new admissions policy, the Law Review had never elected a majority-female class. Since expanding its affirmative action policy in 2013 to include gender, the Harvard Law Review has reached a milestone by electing its most diverse class in its history 2016 and the first ever female majority class in 2017.
Moreover, the law does not impact everyone equally. Gender, class and race affect how the law is applied and who it protects; a diverse class of writers is necessary to encapsulate the lived experiences of all Americans. Just as we have stood by affirmative action in admissions processes, we support the Law Review’s current policy in admitting members and choosing articles.
The Law Review is hardly alone in recognizing the need for diverse perspectives. The New York University Law Review, another target of FASORP, also considers race, gender, or other background experiences in its holistic admissions process. This policy is in line with the Grutter v. Bollinger decision in 2003 that upheld affirmative action; we are thus skeptical of FASORP’s claim that it is discriminatory under the law.
FASORP’s lawsuit is likely to bring disastrous effects to the Law Review if it successful, undoing the publication’s newfound diversity. This would be more than a minor setback. Diversity in law schools, and their communities, affect how the law is interpreted and applied, and the law affects everyone. The Law Review therefore can, and should, give access to voices that represent us all.
This staff editorial is the product of discussions at regular Editorial Board meetings. In order to ensure the impartiality of our journalism, Crimson editors who choose to opine and vote at these meetings are not involved in the reporting of articles on similar topics.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
It was strange watching a Republican president criticize the Federal Reserve for its latest interest rate hike (the Board of Governors voted to raise the rate by a quarter-percent to 2.25). Gone were the days of a laissez-faire GOP lauding small government and market efficiency (though I already suspected this). The thought that government might exit the money market was now a “crazy” idea — a “mistake.”
Trump’s lament makes sense from the standpoint of GOP strategy. The economy is entering a tenth year of growth despite signs emerging of a looming slowdown. With congressional Republicans highly exposed going into the midterms and the White House up for grabs in two years, President Donald Trump has every reason to want to keep money moving. For stock prices to keep rising and unemployment to stay low, dollars need to be chasing dollars (profit in a nutshell).
That becomes tougher (at least in theory) when the cost of borrowing rises. Firms can’t source funds as easily. People get stuck in smaller homes and old cars. All because money is staying at the bank where it earns interest.
Add to all this that Trump can’t punish the interest-rate decision makers (the Fed’s governors have fixed fourteen-year terms) and his narrative ties out. In the Trumpian calculus, this is a classic moment of elites bulldozing the common man. It’s the same rule-by-experts that has drawn the ire of populists globally.
I have misgivings about the technicals of Trump’s analysis. The effective Fed funds rate is still ultra-low by historical standards. Current rates seem to be pricing in growth expectations more than inflation anxiety. The yield curve — a visualization of interest rates offered on different-length bonds — looks finally to be steepening (a refreshing change from the old talk of “inversion,” which most economists take as a sign of oncoming recession). In other words, the higher interest rate is not only not a reason to panic; it’s actually a sign of health.
But I have other misgivings too — more in the way of principle. It’s extremely unusual for a sitting president to bully the Fed, which is politically neutral by its charter, into pursuing a particular monetary policy. The only other instance we know of is Richard Nixon, whose back-room “arm-twisting” came out under warrant.
It also reads like plutocracy for a president to defend the Fed’s bond buyback program — which was designed to relieve the major banks of $800 billion of debt after the Great Recession — while slimming down spending on welfare, disaster relief, and the arts.
Perhaps most jarring though is trying to situate Trump in a tradition of free marketeers, as Republicans so often present themselves. I myself tried locating Trump’s comments alongside Ronald Reagan’s sermons against government intervention, George H. W. Bush’s promises to stonewall new taxes, and Mitt Romney’s talk of an over-dependent “47 percent” (a jab directed at Americans who collect government benefits without paying income tax). Trump’s comments seemed to lay bare a kind of two-facedness in the party.
There is the distinct sense, hearing Trump speak on the economy, that we are living on the ruins of a bygone Republican civilization. Radical individualism and corporate interest are all that’s left of the old pillars. Lindsey Graham, Jeff Flake, and — bar an upset in Texas’s November Senate race — Ted Cruz are its custodians.
It can be easy in that environment to spar over the technicals of governance, where the Republicans are more obviously exposed. These retorts often feel too self-assured, though. They ignore the real undergirding questions of economics, which are as much about society’s value frameworks — how we assess justice in process and outcome — as about the S&P 500’s daily close.
Whether it is “good” policy for the Fed to continue flooding the economy with dollars and lapping up securities is not a settled question. Trump has been clear that he views the balance sheet reduction as dangerous to continued prosperity. There are reasons to be skeptical of that position. Trump is implicitly advocating for long-term intervention in money markets — in other words, a new era of government distorting economic outcomes in favor of large financial institutions. The question of economic “values” is obviously relevant here.
I happen to think, like the Fed governors, that quantitative easing has run its course and that ending it will not stifle productivity. I also place a premium on a culture of corporate responsibility, which I worry we’ve watered down with a decade of government buybacks. For their part, many investors seem to side with Trump, perhaps hoping for a weak dollar in the long-term.
What we’re left with is a split democracy: One for the people; the other for the shareholders.
Henry N. Brooks ’19 is a Social Studies concentrator in Currier House. His column appears on alternate Thursdays.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Even before I took my first step into Harvard, people knew who I was: the pageant girl.
They say the cure for sexism is education: That the more educated people are, the more aware and the less judgmental they act. Yet, my experience at Harvard, the pinnacle of academic and intellectual curiosity, has largely been the opposite. In fact, I have never been in an environment more permeated with sexism than Harvard.
I’ve competed in scholarship pageants for the past five years, and can say with complete certainty that I am who I am today because I made the bold move to step out of my comfort zone and compete in my first pageant. As an insecure 13 year-old girl so shy that I was not even able to ask the librarian for a book, I competed in my first pageant watching “Toddlers and Tiaras,” where girls are depicted as catty and superficial, as preparation and ready to answer every question with two words: “world peace.” However, when I came to pageant weekend, I quickly realized how wrong I was. My fellow competitors were some of the most genuine and accomplished people I’ve ever met, creating a sisterhood of girls throughout the nation. In that weekend, I had an epiphany when a middle aged man came up to me, a newcomer that no one knew, and exclaimed how impressed he was with my performance of Flight of the Bumblebee on the piano; because a stranger had faith in me, I began to have faith in myself.
I love competing in pageants; it is a platform that fosters women’s empowerment for countless girls across the nation as it did for me, teaching the power of embracing femininity and building self-confidence. But ever since joining the Harvard community, something I absolutely loved has become something I’m ambivalent about. The misconception of pageant girls being catty and superficial is held even more adamantly by intellectuals. Thus, an activity I love doing is also a double-edged sword, becoming something that has caused my peers, both male and female, to discount their respect of me and their belief in my academic capabilities.
Freshman fall can be summed up with the sentence, “Hey, what’s your name?” However, whenever someone asks me that question, it is a conversation I dread because the immediate response is always “Oh, you’re Miss California right?” Yes, you are indeed correct; I am Miss California, but I am also Annie Lu, the social activist. I am also Annie Lu, the girl who loves debating and learning about foreign policy. I am also Annie Lu, the social entrepreneur who runs her own nonprofit. In fact, I found myself during Opening Days explaining to one guy why not all pageant girls are “dumb and materialistic” and why “I deserve to be here.”
This problem transcends pageants. It is about the toxic culture of judgment prevalent at this school. Although I embrace my femininity through pageants, beauty, and fashion, I can’t help but notice the fact that every day I have to take an extra step to show that I didn’t get here simply because of my face; I have to prove that I’m “actually smart.” At Harvard, many of us are given one label that defines us: a visor that obstructs the vision of others to see our multifaceted characters, boxing our personalities into only one idea. For me, this is “the pageant girl.” Coming from a place where my academic abilities and achievements were never questioned or doubted, I’ve realized that at the intellectual environment of Harvard, people are extremely quick to judge others. Yet, when we decide to see our peers only through a singular lens, it creates a one-dimensional community. Specifically, there is a fine line between being feminine and being respected, a misogynistic dichotomy rooted in the culture of intellect and perpetuated by both men and women that equates femininity with being less capable, driven, and accomplished. At this school, this toxic judgment stemming from our obsession with exclusivity and filtering the “inferior” out is manifested in every aspect of college life, whether that be the sexism in final clubs, the competitive comp process for clubs, or even the Smyth Classics Library that only lets you swipe in if you’re in the Classics Department.
Why is it that for women, beauty and intelligence have to be mutually exclusive? Why is it that my love for beauty and fashion has to come at the expense of respect? Why is it that at Harvard, we can’t see and relate to each other simply as people, unique and deserving each in our own way?
Perhaps it’s just the nature of being in an elite institution. But at the same time, it is also a mindset we can actively work to change in order to make Harvard a more inclusive and open-minded community.
Annie J. Lu ’22, a Crimson Editorial comper, lives in Weld Hall.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
When Rob Velella dons his Edgar Allan Poe costume to perform, he reads the short stories with his whole body and vocal range. Accents slip on and off, eyebrows dance, and arms gesticulate as he transforms from Fortunato to William Wilson to the The Angel of the Odd. If you can’t imagine Edgar Allan Poe being funny, you’ve never seen Velella work a crowd.
This past Saturday afternoon, he read for two performances in the Story Chapel of Mt. Auburn Cemetery; he added the second after the first sold out by Sept. Since Velella began performing as Poe in 2009, he has playacted in 13 states and been featured on NPR’s “Here and Now.” Velella seeks to cover the full range of Poe’s repertoire, which extends beyond gothic horror and tragedy to include comedies and romances.
He hasn’t always been this popular. Velella began Poe-ing because he was looking for a second job to fill the time between his seasonal occupations.
“The whole process was, ‘Well, what do I already know a lot about?’ And, ‘How do I turn that into a money-making scheme?’” Velella says. “I already know a lot about Poe.”
He offered to deliver lectures on Poe, but didn’t receive a lot of interest until he began offering to dress up in a costume and impersonate Poe instead. This was in 2009, the year of Poe’s bicentennial, which saw events and programs meant to celebrate his work and legacy, hosted around the globe.
“It really hit me then that it wasn’t just me that was really into Poe. Lots and lots of people are really into Poe,” he says.
Velella has always been interested in Poe. “When I was in college, I wrote my senior paper on Poe and his appearances in popular culture, which is unintentionally ironic considering what I do now.” He laughs.
The versatility and broad appeal of Poe’s works fascinated him. “The high-minded Ph.D. scholars are really into Poe, the general reader who's never gotten past a high school education loves Poe, and everybody in between... Poe's deep if he want him to be deep. He's just fun if you want him to be just fun.”
The gig isn’t all giggles though. Velella says downsides include actually being treated as the famous poet and seeing the line between him as a person versus him as a performer blur. “The last time I was performing in Nashville, Tennessee, four different women kissed me. It wasn't that they wanted to kiss me, they wanted to kiss Poe,” he says. “You didn't expect that — you were just asking an innocent question and then Poe basically gets sexually assaulted.”
Like many who dwell in the public domain, Poe is mired in misconceptions. For instance, it is a relatively unknown fact that Poe wrote more comedies than horror stories over the course of his career. Many also mistakenly consider Poe to be a drug addict and an alcoholic, assuming his first-person narration style is autobiographical.
“Poe is really complicated,” Velella stresses. “[Readers] have this idea that makes so much more sense to them that he's crazy or a drug addict or boozed up all the time and writes all these scary stories.” While Poe was an alcoholic, he was making an effort to control his habit, Velella says. “He's essentially writing these stories that are meant to scare people away from the dangers of drinking.”
Thus, Velella’s mission is to change the narrative surrounding Poe. “I don't think of myself as an actor, I think of myself as a literary historian who just presents the history of literature another way.”
Vellela’s work with Poe stems from a longer-held infatuation with 19th-century literature. “It’s a period of exploration and discovery,” he says. “What is the United States? What are we creating that identifies who we are to the world?”
Velella cites the rise of democracy and the fall of Eurocentrism as key events that shaped American literary styles during this time. The short story, he emphasizes, traces its origins back to this pre-Civil War period and offers a direct contrast to the epics and novels of Europe, which were mainly consumed by the elite.
“I know I get more work in October for a reason,” he admits. “But I'm trying to broaden people's understanding and complicate the assumptions that people make... I like taking literature and returning it to the masses.”
Indeed, Velella takes a very spontaneous approach to gauging the mood of his audience. He takes two folders to the podium: purple for planned stories, and black for all the rest. “Just in case I change my mind. And I have done that before, where I suddenly get inspiration, someone in the audience wearing a T-shirt or something and it reminds me of something and I’ll just switch it up.”
To further this goal, Velella takes questions from the audience in character. A common one is, “How did you die?” Velella-cum-Poe sputters in outrage every time. “How insensitive do you have to be to ask about death to a dead person?” The masses laugh and inevitably, the morbidity returns.
Sections
It is past 2 a.m. on a Tuesday evening when a mouse creeps out from under a grate in the Kirkland Dining Hall. It bolts across the floor toward the kitchen, followed by a friend who has just emerged from the same place in the wall. I am with my own friend, and (besides the mice) it is just the two of us, keeping the other company in this empty space. Two mice, two friends, 2 a.m. — and we are too exhausted to do anything but sigh and smile weakly at each other.
We are tired — physically, emotionally tired — and we long to slip into our beds and drift off to sleep. These days are so saturated, so dense, that I find myself wanting each one to pass quickly, to rid myself of its burden faster. To not think of all I should be doing, all I could be doing. To just let everything go.
Let everything go. I reconsider. Maybe not.
The mice disappear from my sight. I shiver, and my thoughts wander back to a distant Halloween.
***
Amidst the heyday of my childhood Halloweens, when my friends and I were old enough to trick-or-treat by ourselves and young enough to do so without shame, a neighbor whose name I will never know deposited a Fun-Sized Nestlé’s Butterfinger Crisp Bar in my candy bag.
I had never seen anything like it, and it was for exactly that reason that I could not eat it.
It was true that Butterfinger bars weren’t my favorite, but this was a Butterfinger-meets-Kit-Kat bar, and the novelty, the rarity of that prize was infinitely enticing to me. I had lived eight years of life without encountering such a thing, and I felt quite sure that I never would again. And so the candy remained untouched.
(I did many similarly nonsensical things at that age: I refused to open birthday gifts because they looked so elegant all wrapped up — yanking at bows and ripping apart glossy paper always felt a little sad to me. I played in the snow as gleefully as any other kid, but I never wanted to be the first one to charge across its delicate brilliance. A small ache always accompanied the disappearance of a beautiful thing.)
So it was with the Butterfinger Crisp bar. In the weeks following Halloween, my older brother prodded me repeatedly, reminding me that there was no point in going trick-or-treating if I wasn’t going to eat my candy. I knew he was right. But by that point I had exalted the Butterfinger Crisp bar beyond my own sense of rationality, and — if I was going to enjoy eating it — I would have to eat it at a really good moment. Since I had no knowledge of what that moment would be, I waited. Soon waiting became stalling and months passed as saving the candy became easier than making the decision to consume it.
I began to understand that a moment worthy of the Butterfinger Crisp bar would never come, and, if I was going to eat it, I would have to do so on some regular old day. And so I did. On a night indistinguishable from any other I sat on the floor of my room — I could show you exactly where — and ate my most prized piece of candy.
It was okay. I reaffirmed my ambivalence toward Butterfinger bars and noted with mild interest that candy goes stale sooner than I had thought. This anti-climax was my own fault, of course. I should have known that such intense anticipation was bound to come with disappointment. So I sighed, threw out the wrapper, and moved on with my life.
That night was still remarkable though. Here’s why. In the instant before I pressed the wafer-filled candy to my tongue, while the chocolate was already starting to melt on my fingers, I closed my eyes and said to myself: This is something you must never forget.
And it worked. Over a decade later I remember all of this. Not because the Butterfinger Crisp bar was the most magnificently scrumptious thing I ever tasted; no, it was simply because in that moment, I commanded myself to remember it.
***
The significance of this triumph was not fully evident to me until the second semester of my senior year of high school. A peculiar sense of urgency saturated that spring — I found myself hyper-aware of just how much there was to hold on to, how much I did not want to lose upon graduating. I thought back a decade prior to my empowering success with “the Butterfinger method” and attempted to replicate it by willing myself to remember every preciously mundane moment I did not want to forget: a walk to class with a friend, an afternoon in the park. But these memories became hazy within a few days. Soon I realized I was unable to remember anything other than the fact that I had tried to remember something.
It was infuriating. Memory proved to have its own vexingly random storage mechanisms whose operations were beyond my control. What if my brain only had the capacity for one self-selected memory? What if I had used it up on a stupid Nestlé’s Butterfinger Crisp Bar — a fun-sized one — which wasn’t even that great, and now I would never be able to do it again?
I knew I had to keep trying. I was distrustful of the Butterfinger method but I had not lost all faith, and so I began writing down all the experiences I did not want to forget. Lying in grassy fields with friends, the pages of my notebook filling, the afternoons endless, I would observe the intensity of my own scribbling, the quickness of my pulse. How wonderful it felt to care so deeply for something. And I would say to myself: This is something you must never forget.
***
So it is with leaving a place, and so it is with arriving at a new one. Open-eyed, alert; mindful of each passing instant.
Freshman fall found my friends and I ready to bask in the newfound concept of Halloweekend. It was Friday night, which also happened to be the night before my 19th birthday, and the autumn dusk was delightfully chilly as we skittered across the Science Center Plaza toward Annenberg. I no longer remember why we thought it would be a good decision to attend the freshman Halloween event taking place there — but we were freshmen, and perhaps that is explanation enough.
I do remember that we decided to arrive so fashionably late that, by the time we got there, nearly everyone else who had been there — if indeed there had been others — had left. The music still pounded dissonantly off the dark, wooden walls, and, with the chandeliers extinguished, the space was eerily unrecognizable. Light from a disco ball flashed over the portraits of scowling old men. I found this effect to be unintentionally much more haunting than the cotton floss stretched over the Berg’s panini presses. All of the tables and chairs were gone — where? — and in that empty, hollow space, I suddenly felt small and alone and cold. Young women often wind up feeling cold on Halloween, I thought glumly.
One of my friends laughed at the pathetic scene and then twirled toward the center of the hall, beckoning the rest of us to follow. And so we did. There was nothing else to do. Whooping and dancing, our arms and legs flailing wildly, merging into one, riotous group with the few other strangers there. At midnight, as Friday turned to Saturday and 18 turned to 19, we gave a great cheer that echoed off the walls and disappeared into the music. Under the vaulted ceilings of that old, old space, we danced onwards, understanding that we were still so very young and so very new to this place. There was still so little to cling to. My eyes wandered through Annenberg’s shadows, over the grim faces in the portraits, over the newly familiar faces of my friends, and, with a sense of resolve I recognized easily, I urged myself not to forget.
***
When the mice reappear in my line of sight, I am oddly comforted knowing that I can track their movements from afar. By now I have tucked my feet up under my chair, because maybe they are plotting to scuttle maliciously over my shoes.
Across the table, the light from my friend’s computer flickers over his face, and I know he must be watching a video, and suspect that it is not for a class. No matter. We will stay longer. We will keep each other company.
The dramatic beginnings and endings that characterized the past year-and-a-half feel remote; it has been quite a long time since I have consciously willed myself to remember a moment as I felt it passing. Now we always seem to be in the middle of something, caught in this present, numb to most other things. Soon we will leave this mouse-infested dining hall, we will head off to bed and drift off to sleep. We will hardly recognize that we have witnessed the disappearance of yet another beautiful thing.
Maybe I will forget this moment, and maybe I won’t. How good it feels to hope that I won’t. To sit here longer, simply because we can; staying here, now; together and safe.
Sections
It’s 1971 at the Harvard Divinity School and someone has just referred to God as a man. In response, several dozen students pick party noisemakers off their desks and blow. They fill the room with high-pitched, fart-like squawks.
It was Linda L. Barufaldi’s and Emily E. Culpepper’s idea. The two were M.Div students in Professor Harvey L. Cox’s Church 174 course, titled “Eschatology and Politics” and focused on the intersection of radical movements and theology. Barufaldi and Culpepper were frustrated by the default “he” used to refer to God — a precedent that ensured classroom conversation about religion remained male-centric. To fight this norm, they instituted a new rule: When someone used a male pronoun to refer to God, the class of roughly 70 students would toot noisemakers distributed by the two women.
Though Barufaldi and Culpepper didn’t know each other at the start of the semester, they soon began to realize that they shared similar feelings about the course. The curriculum dealt with Latin American movements, the American civil rights movement, and the women’s rights movement — but it failed to represent the voices of the people behind these movements, Barufaldi says,because the syllabus consisted exclusively of texts by white men. “I wrote a paper about how sick and tired I was of reading white men [writing] about everybody,” Barufaldi recalled in an interview. For one assignment, Professor Cox — who could not be reached for comment — asked students to critique the class in an essay. He noticed parallel ideas in Barufaldi’s and Culpepper’s papers and thought to introduce the two. “Maybe [he thought] we would sit off in a corner and be mad together or something, I don’t know,” Barufaldi says.
But Barufaldi and Culpepper did not sit silent. Barufaldi recounts being just one of 12 women in a class of about 500 when she enrolled. And M. Brinton Lykes, a Divinity School classmate of Barufaldi’s, remembers male students assuming that the female students “were there for social activities, rather than activism, rather than [for our] studies.” In other words, the school needed radicalization. Barufaldi and Culpepper elected to give their peers a hard, fast introduction to the 1970s women’s liberation movement.
The women brought their grievances to Cox, who encouraged them to draft modifications the entire class could vote on. They proposed three revisions: reading more texts by women, avoiding a generic “he,” and ceasing to use male pronouns to describe God. These changes were voted into classroom law nearly unanimously. Once the resolutions passed, students continued to blow their noisemakers if someone referred to God as male.
The noisemakers were Culpepper’s idea. They weren’t kazoos — as has been mistakenly claimed in the past — but the kind of party favor noisemakers that unfurl and make a loud, wet sound when you blow into them. These devices were a conscious choice. As Barufaldi states, “radical, anti-war, Constitution-loving lefties that we were, freedom of speech was on our minds. We wanted to have a light touch.” They didn’t want to censor their peers, so they purchased generic, party-store noisemakers in order to playfully make a point. Then they gave the receipt to Harvard for reimbursement. The cited reason for the purchase read: “Devices to impede the use of sexist language.”
Though they had support in the classroom, there was pushback from the Harvard community at large. On Nov. 11, 1971, a Crimson staff writer wrote an article entitled “Two Women Liberate Church Course” detailing the movement. In response, a Harvard linguistics professor, Calvert W. Watkins, snubbed their activism. He wrote a Crimson editorial titled “Pronoun Envy” — an allusion to Freud’s “penis envy” — arguing that the generic “he” pronoun was simply grammatically accurate and therefore not worth arguing over. Many linguistics professors signed the letter to show their support. But Barufaldi says she did not think much of Watkins’ missive. “It was like, ‘Yeah, that’s what we’re trying to change. Kind of missing the point,’” she says. Watkins was reinforcing the rules of language created by men — precisely the rules that these women were trying to break.
The duo’s activism incited controversy beyond Harvard’s campus. In early December, Newsweek ran a piece titled “Pronoun Envy” about the Divinity School women. The piece oozed with condescension, calling the women “distaff theologians.” Nevertheless, students in Church 174 stuck to their guns. Several men in the course penned their own opinion letters to the editor of Newsweek to defend the class’s decision. Barufaldi says that her male peers felt their intellect had been undermined: “These men were like, ‘What do you mean, we’re serious scholars, how can you act like this?’” Instead of writing their own letter, Barufaldi and Culpepper sent a single-word telegram to the Newsweek religion editor from an organization they made up called Women’s Inspirational Theology Conspiracy from Harvard (WITCH). The telegram read: “Hex!”
Despite the backlash, the pronoun controversy helped initiate a period of change for women in Harvard academia. The same week that The Crimson published “Two Women Liberate Church Course,” the school invited the first woman who ever spoke at Memorial Church, feminist theologian Mary Daly. Daly led an exodus out of the church, with Barufaldi, Culpepper, and the women of the Divinity School in tow. After two years of ceaseless activism, the Divinity School in 1973 established the Women Studies in Religion Program — the first women’s studies program in Harvard history.
Sections
It’s Tuesday night, and Noir is hopping. Patrons are crowded around a bar laden with appetizers, laughing off the stress of the day. Amid the drinking and snacking, the words “How Marching Band Can Change Your Life” suddenly flash onto a screen mounted on the wall, revealing the unmistakable title slide of a PowerPoint presentation.
Instead of a groan, the presentation slides — the stuff of lecture halls and boardroom meetings — draw earnest applause and cheers from the bar-goers.
You’re skeptical. That’s understandable. If you’re going to a bar on a Tuesday night, being reminded of work or school seems like it’d be incredibly undesirable. But this is no typical night at Noir: it’s PowerPoint night.
Debuting on Oct. 4, the PowerPoint Party drew a small crowd to Noir, a cocktail lounge located on the lower level of the Charles Hotel.
“Have you been holding back from your loved ones your obsession with the Olympic sport of curling?” the online registration form reads, “Bursting at the seams to talk about why Carly Rae Jepsen deserves the Nobel Peace Prize? Feel passionately about ‘The Dress’ and ‘Yanny versus Laurel?’ Or perhaps you just want to practice your public speaking!” By signing up, you commit to a three-minute PowerPoint presentation on any topic, pitting yourself against other presenters in a bid to win gift certificates to eateries in the hotel.
Molly S. Collins, the brand marketing manager of the Charles Hotel, said she was inspired to organize the event after attending a coworker’s dinner party where the guests engaged in similar software antics. “They decided they just didn’t want to have a party and drink. They wanted to have there be an interactive element,” she says.
Collins kicked off the night with her presentation titled, “How Marching Band Can Change Your Life.” She reflected on the traits she cultivated through marching band: a penchant for punctuality and the ability to “fall asleep anywhere.”
Then came Sadie Garside, the woman who hosted the party that inspired Collins to bring the PowerPoint Party to Noir. Fittingly, Garside’s presentation was called “Insider’s Look: How to Throw an Iconic Dinner Party.” Instead of giving a bullet point-laden informative session, she boiled down her art to “organization and invitation.” Besides her planning skills, Garside has also perfected the technique of weeding out true friends through her guest list. The ones that arrive in a blizzard are the real friends, she says, ““Everyone else won’t be invited next year.”
The fan-favorites of the night followed, beginning with Willie M. Hodel’s ironic “Success and Success.” Hodel sped through a slideshow bursting with buzzwords such as “big data,” “machine learning,” and “cutting edge,” he detailed how to achieve life’s peak goals — “business, money, profits” — with business-like efficiency.
“There’s a lot of... buzzwords and jargon,” Hodel says. “I work as a consultant, so I’ve kind of seen that side of the business… I thought it’d be very funny to kind of satire that.”
Next in line, Brian L. Dorfman delivered an impassioned presentation titled “Claudius: The Real Hero of Hamlet.” Utilizing select passages to detail King Hamlet’s corruption, Dorfman spun a re-evaluation of the traditional interpretation of Hamlet’s antagonist. After three minutes, King Hamlet became a good-for-nothing king who neglected his people, while Claudius embodied the honor and sympathy suitable for a ruler.
“I’ve had this topic idea for years,” Dorfman says. “But it’s only been a rant to my friends up until now. Finally, I can present it to strangers.”
Many of the audience members were friends of presenters, but not all. Karen L. Werner and Nicholas A. Gross learned about the event through Speak Up Cambridge, a local branch of Toastmasters International, a nonprofit focused on improving public speaking and leadership skills. The novelty, not nepotism, is what brought them through the door.
“PowerPoint is ubiquitous in my work, and always used in a certain way,” Werner says. “I think it has potential to be a creative medium too, but it’s also sort of too cut loose from corporate and too kind of make fun of that a little bit.”
Gross’s professional interests drew him in. “I work with a group that uses improv training to do science communication, so this is related to that in the sense of like, you’re taking PowerPoint and you’re mangling it, right?” he says. For Gross, the “mangling” of the PowerPoint here at Noir is akin to his work helping scientists “break out of the models that have been presented before in terms of... science communication.”
Collins has scheduled a PowerPoint Party for each Tuesday evening in October and hopes the series will gain traction.
“Harvard Square is filled with very intellectual, nerdy people who maybe want an outlet,” Collins says. “I thought it would fit our branding of the hotel, but also give people an alternative to trivia or just, something else where they can do something fun.”
Sections
Saul I. Tannenbaum never planned to become a municipal broadband activist. “I just kind of fell into it,” he says. “It wasn’t as if I always knew that I was going to be a fiery broadband advocate — it just grew organically.” He takes a sip of ice water then leans forward, bracing his forearms against his knees and lowering his voice to a conspiratorial whisper: “But this is personal for anyone who has to deal with Comcast.”
Tannenbaum leads a grassroots group called Upgrade Cambridge that advocates for the adoption of a city-wide municipal broadband network. Throughout much of Cambridge, Comcast maintains a monopoly on broadband infrastructure, which provides constant access to high-speed internet. New competitors are deterred by the high cost of installing the cables that run underground and connect to in-home internet routers, often leaving consumers with only one option.
For that reason, Upgrade Cambridge lobbies for the city to construct its own municipal network. Since a municipal system would be accountable to the local community and not a corporation, the group claims that it would provide faster and cheaper access to broadband connection.
Many liken municipal broadband to the public water system: Cambridge builds and operates the pipes, facilitating easy and reliable access across the city. Though Tannenbaum would prefer to outsource the operations of the proposed system to an established internet service provider, the sentiment of equitable access persists.
“Economically marginalized people — people who have trouble applying for benefits, looking for jobs, or participating in the booming Cambridge economy — will have more opportunities after this,” Tannenbaum argues. He cites data from the US Census Bureau’s American Community Survey, which demonstrates that, while nearly all high income households in Cambridge have access to broadband, only half of residents below the poverty line purchase subscriptions.
Upgrade Cambridge is not Tannenbaum’s first foray into what he refers to as “digital equity.” In 2014, Tannenbaum helped form the Broadband Task Force, a committee under the Cambridge City Manager’s Office that studied broadband access across the city. The committee’s final report, published in August 2016, recommended that Cambridge seriously consider implementing a municipal broadband system and encouraged conducting a feasibility study.
Yet, to the ire of Tannenbaum and other Upgrade Cambridge activists, City Manager Louis A. DePasquale has taken no action since the report’s release. “[DePasquale] seems to have forgotten that there’s revenue here,” Tannenbaum says. “The experiences of other cities show that the revenues of subscription — if done correctly — will pay for the construction and operation of the system and subsidize access for low-income people.” He glances downward and shakes his head. “Why he’s forgotten that, I don’t know.”
In an emailed statement, Cambridge Director of Communications Lee Gianetti defended the city’s policy, suggesting that the City Manager remains committed to digital equity but intends to pursue it through different means. “The potential for a $200 million capital investment to build a fiber to the premise broadband system in Cambridge and millions more to run and maintain a broadband system is not in the City’s financial plan,” Gianetti wrote. “Funding of a municipal broadband system would have a direct impact on existing priority areas,” including expanding early childhood education and affordable housing, he wrote.
Potential costs aside, many of the plan’s supporters are as motivated by their frustrations with Comcast as they are by the potential benefits of municipal broadband. “The overwhelming reality is that Comcast keeps raising its prices, but it doesn’t increase the services that you get,” says Nancy M. Ryan, who says she has been a Comcast customer for as long as the company has provided broadband access in Cambridge. “They’ll give you a deal for a year or two, and then all of the sudden you get a bill that’s 20 percent or 30 percent higher than your previous bill — suddenly your special deal will have disappeared,” she continues, exasperated.
Tannenbaum, also a customer, corroborates her experiences. “It’s terrible!” he says, shaking his head. The ice water long since forgotten, his tone becomes more and more impassioned as he airs his grievances. “It’s overpriced, the service is of poor quality, and it’s hell every time you need customer service!”
Tannenbaum’s concerns extend beyond his monthly bill. “Comcast wants to be Facebook,” he says. “It’s true for all the big broadband companies — they’ve maxed out how much money they can make from broadband connections, and now they want to become digital advertisers,” he continues. Under the municipal model Tannenbaum has proposed, Cambridge could prohibit the collection and monetization of personal data in their contracts with internet service providers.
“Comcast operates in a highly competitive marketplace, and we value, appreciate, and are grateful for all of our customer relationships in Cambridge,” Comcast Spokesperson Doreen I. Vigue wrote in an emailed statement. “To that end, we continue to update our advanced network in the city, where we’ve invested in a multi-million dollar expansion to reach new businesses.“
Nonetheless, Ryan hopes that a municipal broadband network would be more accountable to her community. “I’m tickled pink that we can finally get this out of the hands of Comcast,” she says, referencing Upgrade Cambridge’s advocacy work. “I was a part of a women’s activist group when the first cable franchise was going up [for bid] 30 years ago,” she recalls. “We actually tried to get a municipally owned system at that time, and when the city council wouldn’t pass it, we took it to the ballot. We had the whole cable industry against us, and we were about a dozen women doing bake sales to raise money to print fliers and educate the community,” she says, a touch of pride in her voice.
“We lost by 43 votes — but there was a victory in the sense that we put up a fight against an industry that was flooding people’s mailboxes with notices that would say things like “Danger! Danger! Danger! You don’t want the city to run your cable system; they don’t know what they’re doing,”” she adds.
Tannenbaum and Upgrade Cambridge have taken Ryan’s fight into the modern era, matching her energy and pushing for a response from the city. “I’m tickled pink by what they’re doing!” she repeats.
— Magazine writer Andrew W. D. Aoyama can be reached at andrew.aoyama@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @AndrewAoyama.
Sections
At Harvard’s annual activities fair two years ago, there was an odd club among the jam-packed crowd of sweaty, earnest freshmen: the Fifth-Generation Students’ Union. Clad in boat shoes and sunglasses, sweaters easily tossed over their shoulders à la JFK, the members of the Fifth-Generation Students’ Union entreated passing students to join their organization in order to give legacy students a much-needed voice on campus.
Of course, this wasn’t a real club — it was a joke staged by Satire V, a campus humor publication. But the premise of this gag lies in a seeming contradiction in Harvard’s admissions process. The admissions process looks to promote equity by taking into account race, socioeconomic status, and geographic location of applicants, while also giving preference to applicants whose parents attended the College — often a sign of a relatively privileged upbringing.
The history of this tension is decades long. But whether or not legacy preference contradicts the larger goals of Harvard’s admissions process has often spurred scrutiny and debate.
In 1990, the Department of Education’s Office of Civil Rights investigated allegations that Harvard used illegal quotas to deny Asian-Americans admission. Its conclusion? That no such discrimination existed — the Asian-American admissions rate was lower because of preferences given to legacy students and recruited athletes. The investigation also revealed written evidence of the strength of legacy status in the admissions process. Still, Harvard had “legitimate institutional goals” for maintaining legacy preference, according to the OCR report.
Despite the 1990 investigation — and the unprecedented scrutiny of the admissions process that it brought about — Harvard’s admissions process remained largely unchanged.
Students from the time remember no real campus action against legacy admissions developing during the investigation. Today, things are slightly different. In February of last year, the EdMobilizer Coalition — an advocacy group for first-generation students — published an open letter calling for more transparency in the legacy admissions process. It was signed by 13 different student and alumni groups from elite universities across the country including the Harvard Legacy Project, a group of University affiliates who hope to end the use of legacy preference in college admissions. A month after the open letter was published, students at Brown voted overwhelmingly to reconsider the use of legacy preference in admissions.
Still, legacy status remains a consideration in every admissions process of the Ivy League.
Today, Harvard faces a lawsuit by the anti-affirmative action group Students for Fair Admissions alleging that the College discriminates against Asian-Americans in its admissions process. This lawsuit and the 1990 OCR investigation afford a host clear parallels.
Both generated moments of serious reckoning over the fairness of Harvard’s admissions process — and such conversations naturally include questions about the legitimacy of legacy preference. Still, during both of these moments, coordinated efforts to dismantle legacy admissions remained nebulous at best.
***
The Department of Education investigation began in 1988 in response to allegations that Harvard was discriminating against Asian-Americans in its admissions process. Specifically, the Education Department wanted to know whether Harvard had violated the 1964 Civil Rights Act, which prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, religion, or national origin in institutions that receive federal funds.
In 1990, the OCR released its final report concluding there was no discrimination. With this report came glimpses into Harvard’s highly secretive admissions process. Much of this information showed the power of legacy preference.
The report contained, for example, comments that admissions officers wrote on application files. One such comment read: “Not a great profile but just strong enough #s and grades to get the tip from lineage.” Another: “Without lineage, there would be little case. With it, we will keep looking.”
The Crimson also reported that the OCR report revealed that children of alumni and recruited athletes “scored significantly lower on average in every category used by the College to judge applicants, with the sole exception of the athletic rating.” This seemed to directly contradict the University’s claim that the legacy tip functioned only as a tiebreaker between equally qualified candidates.
John L. Larew ’91, former co-chair of the Crimson editorial board, recalls that a majority of the board regularly voted to opine against legacy preference.
“With respect to legacy admissions, we argued on the editorial page that they were a vestige of a more aristocratic era, that they were inconsistent with Harvard’s educational mission,” he says.
Even though the investigation revealed that legacy preference was stronger than Harvard had claimed, there are few documents of anti-legacy admissions activism from the time besides opinions printed in the pages of The Crimson.
Larew points to the possibility that legacy admissions were not contested simply because of self-interest.
“The most cynical interpretation is that current undergraduates are already over the hurdle of admissions, and from here on out the legacy advantage will only benefit them,” he says.
After he graduated, Larew moved his criticism of legacy preference from the pages of The Crimson to the pages of mainstream media outlets. In 1991, he wrote a cover story for the Washington Monthly titled, “Why Are Droves of Unqualified, Unprepared Kids Getting Into Our Top Colleges? Because their dads are alumni.” It went on to become one of the first criticisms of legacy preference to garner national attention.
“For every legacy that wins, someone — usually someone less privileged — loses,” Larew wrote in the article. “And higher education is a high-stakes game.”
Multiple alumni who reported on the investigation for The Crimson say they believed that the unprecedented transparency surrounding the admissions process would lead to change. But, when asked if this transparency ever actually translated to changes in the admissions process, all of them say no.
“The Crimson worked hard to put more information out about what that investigation found, and I think it did bring sunlight,” Julian E. Barnes ’93 says. “But because the government did not find discrimination — because there was not a big campus outcry — nothing changed.”
Despite all of the information released during the OCR investigation, many then-Harvard undergraduates say the investigation was not especially memorable. For this story, I emailed 150 random alumni from the classes of 1991 and 1992 and asked if they remember the investigation. Of the 27 who responded, 22 said they have absolutely no memory of it. Five said they remembered it vaguely.
Though the investigation itself does not seem to be widely recalled, more students do remember the intense emotions that admissions controversies brought up — and still brings up today.
“It does remind me how fraught these issues are,” Cori Flam Meltzer ’92 says. “It just shows how little has changed in a fairly long period of time.”
Benjamin Dattner ’92 says something similar, though he doesn’t remember the investigation. “It’s a very fraught and emotional issue,” he says.
A theme that came up repeatedly as I spoke to alumni was the personal implication of legacy admissions. It is such a charged issue because — then and now — the personal and the political are inextricable. The admissions process is what got us into Harvard. It is what will impact our children one day.
“As an alumnus myself, I want my daughter to get into Harvard. Personally speaking, that would be great,” Dattner says. “On the other hand, you also want Harvard to continue to track the best and the brightest, not those who happen to be born on third base and think they hit a triple.”
I wrote to the class secretaries of every class that was on campus at the time of the investigation to ask if they could pass on a message asking if anyone remembers the investigation and would be willing to speak to me. All either declined or didn’t respond.
“Our Class of 1993 FB page has recently been toxic about this affirmative action case, and as Class Secretary, I have been part of the leadership team trying to keep the space a positive one,” Timothy P. McCarthy ’93 wrote in an email. “This would just re-ignite things.”
***
Outside Harvard’s campus, advocacy against legacy preference in college admissions has fluctuated: it has flared (sometimes) and been quiet (most of the time).
Shortly after the OCR investigation concluded that Harvard’s admissions practices were not discriminatory, then-Senate Minority Leader Bob J. Dole asked the U.S. Department of Education to review the propriety of legacy admissions.
“Now is the time to take the next logical step on the fairness front. The last thing we need in American education is a caste system,” Dole said at the time. “These alumni perks have absolutely nothing to do with an individual’s qualifications or merit.”
The Department never followed up on the request. Dole’s office declined to comment for this story.
Another congressional voice that arose against legacy admissions bore the name of one of Harvard’s most storied families. During his years in the Senate, Senator Ted M. Kennedy ’54 criticized legacy preference and worked on legislation to end its use in college admissions processes.
In a November 2002 speech, Kennedy declared “The legacy preference rewards students who had the most advantages to begin with. It is a birthright out of 18th-century British aristocracy, not 21st-century American democracy.”
Kennedy proposed a bill in 2003 that would make it mandatory for universities that receive federal funds to report the race and economic status of all legacy admits. It ultimately did not pass.
At first glance, Dole and Kennedy couldn’t be more different. Bob Dole was the leader of the Senate Republicans, a first-generation college student from a small town in Kansas, and received his undergraduate and law degrees from public schools. Ted Kennedy was a Democrat from Massachusetts and had a last name nearly synonymous with Harvard. Why did they emerge as the voices against legacy admissions in an otherwise quiet Congress?
“Legacy preference has always been unpopular with the American public, because they see it as an undeserved leg up for people who are already in the social elite,” says Daniel L. Golden ’78, who in 2004 won a Pulitzer Prize for his coverage of legacy preference in the Wall Street Journal. “It’s long been criticized by people whom you might describe as populist, people who come from less privileged backgrounds.”
Michael Dannenberg, who served as Kennedy’s senior education counsel during his time in Congress, says he and Kennedy believed legacy preference actively works against the goals of affirmative action — namely, racial and economic justice.
Both Dole and Kennedy, then, saw what they believed was injustice in the admissions process, albeit from different perspectives.
Dannenberg also cites Larew’s Washington Monthly article as one of the reasons he took up the issue of legacy admissions.
“I originally became aware of the legacy preference debate, and the issue in general, from a cover story that appeared in the Washington Monthly, in 1991,” he says. “I remembered that Washington Monthly cover story 10 years later when the race-based affirmative action issue came up, while I was working for Senator Kennedy. It is what led me to raise the issue with Senator Kennedy.”
***
Today, the landscape of advocacy against legacy preference remains diffuse.
The last surge of interest in the issue seems to have been in 2014, when Evan J. Mandery ’89 published an op-ed in the New York Times calling for the end of legacy preference in admissions.
“[Legacy admissions] is disastrous public policy,” he wrote in the op-ed. “Because of legacy admissions, elite colleges look almost nothing like America.”
Soon after this op-ed attracted the attention of other Harvard affiliates, a group of students, faculty, and alumni formed the Harvard Legacy Project. Mandery, who is a member, described the project as a group that allows people who dislike legacy admissions to make their position known publicly — as opposed to a group that meets regularly.
“There was a spike of interest in the issue following my op-ed in the Times. And I ended up speaking with a number of Harvard students, and that’s when the website and project was created,” he says. “It’s a way to take a public stand against legacy admissions in the Harvard context.”
In 2014 — as in the days of the 1990 investigation — the editorial section of The Crimson served as the hub of much of the criticism of legacy preference that took place on campus. Reina A. Gattuso ’15, also a member of the Harvard Legacy Project, wrote a column at the time in which she criticized legacy admissions. But, since graduating, she has not continued to actively advocate against it.
“I’m not super active in this anymore,” Gattuso says. “I was a columnist at The Crimson for a year and a half, ending in 2015, and after that, I have occasionally spoke out on issues, but I’ve not done concrete activism or advocacy since then.”
As of the publication of this article, the most recent item from the “Updates” section of the Harvard Legacy Project website dated to 2014.
More recently, in February of this year, the EdMobilizer Coalition published a letter in which it argued that legacy admissions are discriminatory and perpetuate economic inequality.
“We are specifically asking our universities to make all internally written admissions policies and data about legacy treatment public and to charge a joint committee of students, alumni, and administrators to re-evaluate its use,” the letter reads.
But Viet A. Nguyen, the founder and executive director of EdMobilizer, says it has been hard to garner support for the movement.
“We had to convince people within these universities, who eventually will benefit from legacy admissions, to say, ‘We don’t want that,’” he says. “Who is willing to invest the energy in dismantling a system that so many people in power benefit from?”
Since the publication of the letter, Nguyen has begun working with student leaders from different elite universities. The plan now, he says, involves gathering information at a local level about perceptions of legacy admissions among students and alumni.
“A lot of the work we’re doing right now is focusing on specific universities, especially ones where student and alumni populations may be more inclined to think critically about legacy admissions,” he says. “If one school [does away with legacy preference], there may be a domino effect. So that’s what we’ve been focusing our efforts on — seeing which one is the first domino.”
But the knowledge of EdMobilizer’s efforts doesn’t seem to have spread to the members of the Harvard Legacy Project. “I don’t know any effort organized specifically around legacy. I’ve never attended any rallies or anything like that,” Mandery, one of the Project’s founders, says.
When I bring up the EdMobilizer letter, he says, “Oh, I don’t know if I saw that.” In a later email, he clarified he had indeed heard about the missive — but did not recognize it at first from the way I described it.
***
Dean of Admissions William R. Fitzsimmons ’67 and Director of Admissions Marlyn E. McGrath ’70 declined to comment for this story because of the ongoing lawsuit. But University spokesperson Rachael Dane defended Harvard’s admissions process as a whole in a written statement. “Harvard College is committed to admitting a freshman class that is diverse on multiple dimensions, from its capacity for academic excellence to its ability to help create a campus community that gives each student the opportunity to learn from peers with a wide variety of academic interests, perspectives, and talents,” she wrote.
Since 1990, the argument that legacy preference favors wealthy white applicants has become complicated. As Harvard’s student body grows more diverse, so does the pool of applicants with legacy status. Recent analysis by Dr. David Card found that Asian-American legacy applicants are several percentage points more likely to be admitted than are their white counterparts.
But according to analysis done by Students for Fair Admissions’s expert witness Peter S. Arcidiacono, legacy preference to this day disproportionately benefits white students. Based on his analysis, Arcidiacono claimed more than 21.5 percent of white admits were students with legacy status, while only 6.96 percent of Hispanic admits, 6.63 percent of Asian-American admits, and 4.79 percent of African-American admits were students with legacy status.
Golden points to the possibility that not all legacies are created equal,and that legacies with bigger hooks still tend to be white.
“Somebody who applies who has 15 relatives who went to Harvard may get more of a legacy boost than somebody applies who had one parent who went to Harvard,” he says. “And somebody who applies whose family, over the years, has given a million dollars, may have more of a boost than somebody whose family just started giving and has given $500.”
In any case, Nguyen says he believes legacy preference — regardless of race — perpetuates cycles of economic inequality and should be eliminated from the admissions process.
“The goal isn’t just to get more rich people of color into these universities. The question is how do we get low-income people of color into these universities as well, and those aren’t legacies, typically,” he says. “I do think representation among race is very important, and we are strong advocates of that, but there also needs to be the intersection of class.”
Correction: Oct. 22, 2018
A previous version of this article incorrectly indicated that Evan J. Mandery '89 founded the Harvard Legacy Project. In fact, though he is a member of the project, he did not found it.
Sections
In April and December of 1895, two Harvard alumni — Prescott F. Hall ’89, a prominent lawyer, and Doctor Robert D. Ward ’89, a founder of American climatology — travelled to New York City to conduct research. Their subject: the caliber of immigrants. Unsurprisingly, their findings were xenophobic. The process for immigrant screening at Ellis Island “was radically defective and ineffective to keep out a large class of undesirable immigrants.”
Joined by Charles Warren, class of 1889, these three former Harvard classmates established the Immigration Restriction League on May 31, 1894 in Hall’s Boston law office. The aim of the organization was “exclusion of elements undesirable” from the country. Though less than a dozen core members executed the group’s operations, they amassed hundreds of paying members and played a critical role in the passage of the Immigration Act of 1917, which forced immigrants to pass a literacy test.
In the tradition of their Harvard educations, the League’s executives embarked on a faux-intellectual mission to build a scientific and logical basis for nativism. Until the League dissolved in 1921, they circulated flyers containing federal immigration statistics to hundreds of newspapers and every member of Congress in an effort to prove that an exponential rise in Eastern and Southern European immigrants had caused an “enormous increase in the number of criminals” and “the unemployed.” Yet they implored the public to “study these figures and draw your own conclusions,” claiming in an early publication that data was “essential to the intelligent consideration of this subject.”
Every letter the League circulated ended with: “The league advocates a stricter regulation of immigration, but not the exclusion of any immigrants whose character and standards fit them to become citizens.” In particular, the League was outraged by the way Ellis Island officials determined immigrant literacy. “The official figures as to literacy are not based upon actual tests,” they warned members in 1895, but relied upon immigrants truthfully disclosing whether or not they could read.
Hall and Ward brought flyers in several languages to Ellis Island, forcing over 1,000 immigrants to demonstrate their literacy. Not enough Italians were present during their first two trips, so, to maintain scientific integrity, they returned in 1896 and examined 3,174 Italians to obtain legitimate results.
To them, the evidence was incontrovertible: Upwards of 36 percent of Russians, Croats, Hungarians, Syrians, and Galicians were illiterate and a tenth of Italians lied about being able to read, according to their analysis. More importantly, the League traced an apparent relationship between immigrants from these countries and slums, finding “a very close connection between illiteracy and general undesirability.”
***
Hall, who served as the League’s executive secretary, was born in 1868 to a wealthy Boston family. He did not outwardly embody the image of an impassioned activist. He was a sickly child, his mother prevented him from playing with other children his age. He became a feeble and insomniac adult. Somewhat depressed, he found solace in spending hours observing flowers and insects in his garden, where he could not watch even a struggling worm without wanting to help it. “He never could bear to see anything suffer,” his wife wrote. This excluded Southern Italians, of course.
Hall’s infirmity reflected Northeastern elites’ insecurities at the turn of the 20th century. Nine million immigrants arrived between 1900 and 1910, nearly tripling the rate seen in the previous decade. Nativist sentiment rippled throughout the country with this sharp increase in Southern Italian and Eastern European immigrants.
“Boston Brahmins,” upper-class Bostonians, were, like Hall, especially troubled by what the League eventually labeled “racial suicide on the part of earlier settlers and their descendants.” They feared that “undesirable” immigrants would, through high birth-rates, eliminate the Anglo-Saxon, Brahmin class altogether.
The Immigration Restriction League was composed of these wealthy elites. Ward’s mother was a Saltonstall, a family line that descended from a London mayor, helped to found Massachusetts, and had attended Harvard since 1659. The Warrens, another prominent Boston family, had attended Harvard since 1759. And Hall had prepared for Harvard at Boston’s premier Nobles School, an all-boys feeder school that later became Noble and Greenough.
Beneath this aristocratic, intellectual facade lay deep racial anxieties. As of their first publication, the League’s rhetoric suggested the literacy test was just a politically expedient way to prevent immigration “of those who are without question the most illiterate and the most depraved people of that continent.” They stressed that English and Scandinavian immigrants — “of the most intelligent and of the most desirable races of Europe” — would pass the test with ease.
***
After its conception, the League mobilized an intense campaign to implement stricter immigration legislation, including a literacy test. They worked with dozens of labor unions, including the American Federation of Labor, and printed 140,200 flyers within four years. Their main advocate in Congress was Henry Cabot Lodge, a Massachusetts Senator from 1893 to 1924, with whom they exchanged sometimes daily letters over two decades.
Lodge regularly used the League’s statistics in congressional debates and took their suggestions when drafting legislation such as the Lodge-Corliss Bill. On Dec. 24, 1896, he wrote them, “I consider it one of the most vitally important measures which has been before Congress in my time.”
The bill passed both chambers, but was vetoed by President Grover Cleveland on March 3, 1897. The League was not discouraged and drafted nearly identical legislation to be considered by the next Congress. The League faced resistance from other sources. Chief among them were railroad and steamship companies who desired cheap labor. During another failed push to pass legislation, Lodge sent an urgent telegram on Jan. 7 1898, stating that “German steamship Companies making great effort against bill. Anything you can do should be done at once.”
Large sections of the public agreed. The League collected hundreds of editorials and columns from newspapers including the Los Angeles Times and Washington Post in support of such restrictions on the illiterate immigrants.
After decreased activity following the Spanish-American war, the League’s xenophobia became increasingly transparent in the first decade of the 20th century.
On Feb 1., the League published a bright-pink booklet titled “What of the Future?” It likened Russian and Southern European immigrants to the “barbarians” who overran the Roman Empire; accused Jewish administrators of placing “a black, obliterating mark drawn across the name of Christ or any reference thereto”; and said the aforementioned nationalities “contribute nothing to this country.”
Eugenics also came into play: Seeing as the “cruel and unusual punishment” clause of the Eighth Amendment would prevent actual eugenics, Hall wrote in 1908 that immigration could substitute in “eugenic results by selecting the better classes of aliens for the fathers and mothers of future citizens.”
Ultimately, the League’s idea of a literacy test was implemented by Congress. President Woodrow Wilson vetoed the bill twice, in 1915 and 1917, but — riding a wave of isolationist sentiment at the outbreak of World War I — his second veto was overridden on Feb. 5. Hall proudly logged the victory in the League’s record book in red ink. The act also established an “Asiatic Barred Zone” in line with the League’s belief that “orientals” were “still farther removed from the civilization of Northern Europe and America.”
The League was not done — in April of 1918, they proposed a Numerical Limitation Bill to set a quota on the number of Southern and Eastern Europeans immigrants. Any semblance of intelligent argument had vanished, with the League writing, “the effect of the reading test will presently diminish; partly through the natural spreading of education to the countries backward in that respect, partly because those same countries will make special efforts to promote elementary education.” Their racism against certain immigrants, regardless of education status, was fully unveiled.
The League disbanded in 1921, due partially to Hall’s death and partially to exhausted political capital — even Lodge saw no need to pursue further legislation. But Hall and his colleagues had helped spearhead a mass nativist movement — evidenced by versions of their literacy test passing Congress on four separate occasions.
Although their logic was widely accepted at the time, some people did see through the League’s intellectual facade. Joseph H. Senner, who had originally invited the League to Ellis Island to implement their literacy test, had a change of heart in 1898, and chose to start the rival Immigration Protective League.
In a letter circulated to German-American communities, Senner wrote, “The nativistic authors of such entirely superfluous new laws pretend that their only object is to protect the American laboring man against foreign competition. This is, however, only a poor excuse for their real scheme, dictated by that hatred of the foreigner.”
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
University of California, Berkeley economist Gabriel Zucman discussed the detrimental impact of tax havens on the sustainability of globalization during the first lecture of the semesterly Seymour E. & Ruth B. Harris Lecture Series in Economics Wednesday.
Speaking to approximately 50 Harvard affiliates gathered in Science Center Hall D — predominantly graduate students and professors — Zucman highlighted how shifts in global profits distort competition, exacerbate inequality, and decrease tax revenue in nations with low tax rates, so called “tax havens.” He characterized U.S. multinational corporations as “particularly aggressive in shifting to tax havens.”
Of the 40 percent of global multinational profits shifted to tax havens in 2016, U.S. based corporations were responsible for half, according to Zucman. He explained that these tax shifts result in increased income for wealthy shareholders and large tax revenues for the “haven” nations but place a burden on nations with higher tax rates.
“I think globalization, as it’s working today, is unlikely to be very sustainable if its main winners pay less and less in taxes and the rest of the population who doesn’t benefit from it has to pay, has to pay more,” Zucman said.
Zucman said in an interview after the lecture that he was motivated to give the talk in order to emphasize the social and economic dangers of the current tax structures. He said he also wanted to invite people to think about policy solutions and further research.
“If we don’t address these questions properly, then the risk is to see a rise in protectionism, in nationalism, a retreat from openness, a retreat from globalization, rising inequality, and all sorts of tensions between countries that can just end up very bad for the world,” Zucman said.
Senan Hogan-Hennessy, a research assistant at the Business School, said he came to the event because he was interested in Zucman’s focus on inequality. He said he was very impressed by Zucman’s presentation and his answers to the many questions posed by professors throughout the lecture.
“His answers to the questions were fantastic, like the professors here always jump in and grill the speakers, and he was just great at answering them,” Hogan-Hennessy said.
The Economics Department hosts the Harris Lecture series once each semester. In the last year, speakers have included Hélène Rey from the London Business School and Magne Mogstad from the University of Chicago in Spring 2018 and Fall 2017, respectively.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Nobel Prize-winning author J.M. Coetzee received the inaugural Mahindra Award for Global Distinction in the Humanities in a Sanders Theatre ceremony Wednesday afternoon.
Bookended by Bach solos by noted pianist Stephen Prutsman, the ceremony included an appearance by University President Lawrence S. Bacow and a discussion among 11 distinguished humanities scholars.
The award, named after Anand G. Mahindra ’77 and his wife Anuradha Mahindra, was created this year to “celebrate the work and vision of an internationally renowned public figure whose career has contributed significantly to the flourishing of the arts and humanities,” Homi K. Bhabha, director of the Mahindra Center for the Humanities, said in his introductory remarks. The award will be presented every two years.
Bhabha called Coetzee a “foundational writer of the century because he shakes our foundations.” Emphasizing Coetzee’s “slow-burning moral courage,” Bhabha called the author’s works “classics.”
Coetzee, 78, grew up in a white family in South Africa under apartheid. His first book, “Dusklands,” published in 1974, explores the psychological effects of conflict. He has won the prestigious Booker Prize twice — for "Life & Times of Michael K" and "Disgrace" — in addition to the 2003 Nobel Prize for Literature.
Bhabha said the award itself, which was sculpted by Sir Anish M. Kapoor in the shape of a jagged mountain with many peaks and valleys, represents the lifelong journey undertaken by its recipients.
“It is a long treacherous trek up until you reach the view from the top,” Bhabha said.
Bacow, in presenting the award, thanked Coetzee “for seeking summits through your craft and opening vistas through your work.”
In his acceptance speech, Coetzee noted the influence of reading the British “Children’s Encyclopædia” throughout his childhood, asking the audience, “What does it mean to have a mother tongue, and are there motherless people?” He said he has not yet come to terms with his own mother tongue, English.
The subsequent roundtable discussion between humanities scholars and artists began with Bhabha posing Coetzee’s question to each of the participants. The panel featured English Professors Stephen J. Greenblatt and Elaine Scarry, African and African American Studies and English Professor Jamaica Kincaid, Music Department Chair Suzannah E. Clark, and History Professor Nancy F. Cott.
The panelists discussed the virtues of and relationships between three of Coetzee’s favorite things: bicycles, Bach and Roget’s Thesaurus. Kincaid, who said she does not use a thesaurus, clashed with the other authors on the value of the tool, but admitted she had purchased eight in preparation for the event.
“I really enjoyed…how they were able to weave together Bach, bicycles, and Roget’s Thesaurus in such a fluent manner,” Allston resident Andrew M. Burlile, who attended the lecture, said.
Heather Baird, an Extension School student, said she has previously read several of Coetzee’s works.
“The speech only increased his mystery for me,” she said. “His writing is already cryptic, talking about the abstract parts of human relations.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Ayanna S. Pressley, a progressive Boston politician and the presumed representative for Massachusetts’s 7th Congressional District, spoke about Elizabeth Warren and sexual assault at a college media roundtable Wednesday.
Pressley defeated incumbent Michael E. Capuano in the September Democratic primary, and will run unopposed in November. She will become the first African American to represent the state in the U.S. House of Representatives.
At the roundtable, Pressley discussed Massachusetts Senator Elizabeth Warren’s recent release of genetic analysis supporting her claim to distant Native American ancestry, a claim President Donald Trump has repeatedly mocked. Pressley said rhetoric surrounding Warren’s Native American ancestry deflects attention from more important conversations.
During Warren’s time as a professor at Harvard Law School, she claimed minority status. However, Warren insists she never used her Native American ancestry to further her career.
“She’s not ever claimed membership. She is simply proving ancestry, which is different,” Pressley said. “Her hand was ultimately forced to do that to defend herself. But this is something that Trump does very well. This is a complete distraction, just like his birther argument around Barack Obama. It’s a distraction from the real issues.”
When asked if she believed it was politically smart for Warren — a likely 2020 presidential candidate — to release her DNA test results just weeks before the midterm elections, Pressley said she has not heard voters care about the issue.
“I’ve been on the ground in some of these other states, and when I'm spending time with people on their front porches, or around their living rooms, or at early vote polling locations in Georgia, for example, no one is talking about this,” she said. “This is some...very small universe of people, it’s been my experience, that are hyper-focused on this.”
Also during the discussion, Pressley said while in Congress, she would work to secure funding for anti-sexual violence organizations at the local level.
“I want to caution us, because I think with national movements like Enough Is Enough and Time's Up and Me Too that you can be so connected to the national part of it, but the work is going to happen on the local level in cities and states,” she said.
“What I will be fighting for [at] the federal level is an investment in those organizations doing that work, because more people are disclosing now than ever before. But organizations like the Victim Rights Law Center don’t have the pro-bono legal counsel to support these survivors in getting the justice they deserve," she added.
During her time on the Boston City Council, Pressley disclosed that she was raped in college. She has also previously said she survived childhood sexual abuse. Pressley addressed her experiences during the discussion.
“I’ve worked on a lot of polarizing, controversial, third rail issues, but the first time I received hate mail was when I disclosed I was a survivor of campus sexual assault,” she said. “I don’t regret having disclosed, because it is a transcendent issue. It is pervasive. It does not discriminate. And every day someone approaches me in a restroom, at a fancy fundraiser, in the halls of City Hall, walking the street, to say thank you for telling your story, it is my story too.”
—Staff writer Andrew J. Zucker can be reached at andrew.zucker@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @AndrewJZucker.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
At Harvard Divinity School Wednesday night, students, faculty and members of the public gathered to do what the Divinity School does well — get philosophical. Their pursuit: forming a better understanding of humans’ relationship to the natural world and imagining how it might evolve in the future.
The event, titled “Taproot: Stories of Nature & Restoration,” was put on by the Constellation Project, and convened thinkers from a variety of backgrounds, who spoke about everything from indigenous communities, to religion, to mental health, each in relation to nature and humans’ complex relationship with it.
Stacy A. Bare, one of the headlining speakers, spoke to the audience about being an Iraq war veteran who struggled with addiction and suicidality after returning to the U.S. Bare said the outdoors saved his life, and today he has dedicated his life to encouraging people to explore nature.
Bare spoke alongside Prathima Muniyappa, a researcher at the MIT Media Lab; and Andrew Nalani, a Steinhardt Doctoral Fellow at New York University. All three storytellers spoke about their own relationships with nature and spirituality.
During her presentation, Muniyappa discussed a new project that aims to reconcile cultural and ritual practices with the escalating expansion of human settlements. As part of her work with the MIT Media Lab, Muniyappa wants to “build a database where ritual knowledge is treated the same way as scientific knowledge.”
The event was led by Dr. Samuel S. Myers ’87, Director of the Planetary Health Alliance and research scientist at the Harvard School of Public Health, and Terry Tempest Williams, author and current writer-in-residence at the Divinity School.
“We brought together three powerful storytellers,” Williams said in an interview before the event.
“At the root of this is trauma. Trauma of war, trauma of loss of the natural world, trauma of violence of all kinds,” Williams said. “Tonight we are really looking at these stories and how they can lead us to a place of restoration.”
The Constellation Project was born out of a 2016 encounter between Myers and Williams. What followed was a two year long conversation, often over tea, between the two scholars about separatism among academics “where scientists don’t talk to theologians who don’t talk to humanists, who don’t talk to business people who don’t talk to attorneys or people in public policy.”
At the core of the project’s inception, for Myers, was the realization that humans’ relationship to the Earth was in crisis.
“Underneath that environmental crisis and that public health crisis, maybe there is actually a spiritual crisis — that there seems to be something fundamentally broken in our relationship to nature,” Myers said. “How is it okay to treat our atmosphere and our oceans as gigantic garbage dumps? What makes it acceptable to drive species extinct 1000 times faster than normal?”
In an open discussion after the speakers finished, attendees commented on how the event had changed their perspective on science, nature and spirituality.
“I think it's cool how they implemented public health, spirituality, and the environmental movement as a whole” Rachel D. Levy ’21 said. “Make people care a little bit more, step away from the science which is there and reestablish that personal connection with nature.”
Wiliams said that next semester the Constellation Project will be exploring climate by inviting elders from Greenland and Polynesia to try to find common ground between their experiences as “human in place.”
“What I hope people come away with is a little discomfort, some sparks, some new ideas, hopefully an interest in engaging in this conversation in the longer term,” Myers said.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Three years after its inception, Harvard’s Title IX policy review committee has produced an “interim” report of findings and recommendations, according to Organismic and Evolutionary Biology Professor Donald H. Pfister, the committee’s chair.
Former University President Drew G. Faust created the committee in 2015 when Harvard continued to face criticisms of its policy and procedures on sexual misconduct after it overhauled them in 2014. Title IX is a federal policy that prohibits discrimination on the basis of sex, and it underlies the school’s policies and procedures for handling sexual misconduct.
Faust tasked the committee with examining how Harvard implements its sexual assault policies, analyzing data on investigations, and potentially recommending policy changes. The committee, comprised of faculty from across the University and undergraduate and graduate student representatives, worked over the course of several years largely under the radar, evaluating the University’s practices regarding sexual misconduct and typically providing feedback directly to relevant administrators.
But after sexual misconduct allegations against prominent Harvard professors surfaced last spring — and as the #MeToo movement swept the country — Pfister said Faust expanded the group’s purview to address power dynamics in faculty relationships and other issues.
The new report — which has not been made public — contains findings and recommendations on both the initial charges and the added tasks, Pfister said. He added that the group particularly considered how the University can build a Title IX system that students trust.
“One of the big issues of all of this is thinking about trust and how to build and create an atmosphere where there's trust both in the people and in the system,” he said.
The report was not ready in time for the conclusion of Faust’s tenure at the end of June, but it reached University President Lawrence S. Bacow’s desk after he assumed the role. Pfister said it will be up to Bacow whether to release it to the University as a whole.
University Spokesperson Melodie Jackson wrote in an emailed statement that Bacow now has the report and is considering next steps.
“President Bacow has received the interim report, and he plans to consult with others across the university, including students, as he gives careful consideration to the report and the best next steps for the University,” Jackson wrote.
She did not respond to questions about whether Bacow has reviewed the report yet or intends to release it publicly.
Pfister said one portion of the report addresses power dynamics between senior faculty and students or faculty members of lower rank. Concerns arose about these skewed dynamics in spring 2018 when 18 women came forward and accused Government Professor Jorge I. Dominguez of acts of sexual misconduct spanning decades. In May, The Crimson reported that Economics Professor Roland G. Fryer was also under investigation for sexual misconduct and had been barred from his lab.
Pfister said the committee recommended that the University inform faculty about how to conduct relationships with each other in a professional setting.
“One of the things that we did was a survey across the schools: what's the message that the school is giving to their faculty about appropriate interactions,” he said. “We found that sometimes they were hard to find — these guidelines — and sometimes they were . . kind of inconsistent across the schools so we made some suggestions about that.”
University Provost Alan M. Garber ’76 announced in the spring that an online Title IX training module will be mandatory for all faculty this year.
Administrators also mandated Title IX training — offered online or in person — for all College students. The training saw a 100 percent completion rate after it was tied to course enrollment for the first time this year. The University’s Title IX Office also created a new brochure teaching faculty how to handle Title IX violation disclosures brought to them, according to University Title IX Officer Nicole M. Merhill.
Merhill said new Title IX initiatives stem from feedback from a wide range of sources including the policy review committee, feedback forms at the end of online training modules, and surveys.
“When we’re developing resources across campus it’s a collaborative effort,” she said.
The policy review committee also focused on how to address actions that fall in the Title IX policy’s gray areas, Pfister said. Gray areas are situations that may not qualify as Title IX violations but might still cause “atmospheres that aren’t healthy” and warrant further examination, he said. He said the committee suggested creating workshops and trainings to promote intervention before incidents occur.
Pfister said the committee has also discussed potential Title IX guideline changes from the federal government. U.S. Secretary of Education Betsy DeVos announced last fall that she was revoking some Obama-era Title IX guidance, and in late August a set of revised rules was leaked to the press. DeVos has yet to release the official rules, but if they are anything like the preliminary set, they could force significant changes to Harvard’s existing Title IX policies and procedures.
Pfister said that when — not if — there are changes at the federal level, the committee would take them up and determine how they might impact the University's policies. For this reason, Pfister said the committee will continue its work, even after producing this report.
“I think the work of the committee is going to be ongoing because of this shifting sand that any changes in the legislation or the recommendations that come down from Betsy DeVos will have to be looked at and evaluated,” he said.
The report also addressed how the architecture of new construction projects across the University might impact the sexual climate on campus, how phone apps might be used to connect students with Title IX resources, and how to build peer support systems, Pfister said.
Though the committee only produced this report recently, Pfister said the group does much of its studying and recommending on a rolling basis.
“We are given no deadlines, we're not told you have to report on ‘X’ date,” he said. “As we talk good ideas can surface and those good ideas can be taken home and be implemented or thought about for implementation.”
One such proposal recommended a shift in the language used in Title IX investigation reports. Pfister said the committee read a number of anonymized reports in the early stages of its tenure and suggested the Title IX officers make an effort to clarify the reports’ language and refrain from using highly legalistic phrases.
Pfister said the committee was scheduled to hold its first meeting of the semester this week, but that two of its four student seats may not be filled in time. The committee currently consists of Pfister, faculty representatives from eight of Harvard’s schools, Deputy Provost Peggy E. Newell, and two students — a graduate and undergraduate student.
—Staff writer Jamie D. Halper can be reached at jamie.halper@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @jamiedhalper.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Getting into Harvard is hard. But it’s a lot less hard if your family promises to pay for a new building, according to internal emails presented in court on the third day of the Harvard admissions trial.
John M. Hughes, a lawyer for Students for Fair Admissions — the anti-affirmative action group suing the College over its race-conscious admissions policies — introduced the emails in a bid to prove Harvard unfairly prefers the wealthy and well-connected. Hughes read each messsage aloud before grilling the College’s long-serving Dean of Admissions and Financial Aid William R. Fitzsimmons ’67 on their contents.
Hughes and Fitzsimmons faced off in court Wednesday as part of the high-stakes and high-profile trial in SFFA’s four-year-old suit alleging Harvard discriminates against Asian-American applicants. The trial, which kicked off Oct. 15 in a Boston courthouse, will likely continue for three weeks. If the case reaches the Supreme Court, it could decide the fate of affirmative action in the United States.
The handful of emails — most of them sent between administrators and admissions officers — hint at the College’s behind-the-scenes fondness for applicants whose admission yields certain practical perks. Hughes referenced the emails as he quizzed Fitzsimmons on the “Dean’s Interest List,” a special and confidential list of applicants Harvard compiles every admissions cycle. Though the University closely guards the details, applicants on that list are often related to or of interest to top donors — and court filings show list members benefit from a significantly inflated acceptance rate.
In one 2013 email headlined “My Hero,” former Dean of the Harvard Kennedy School David T. Ellwood ’75 thanked Fitzsimmons for his help admitting a set of students with very particular qualifications.
“Once again you have done wonders. I am simply thrilled about the folks you were able to admit,” Ellwood wrote in the email. “[Redacted] and [redacted] are all big wins. [Redacted] has already committed to a building.”
In a separate email Hughes presented, Associate Vice President for Alumni Affairs and Development Roger P. Cheever ’67 reflected on the pros and cons of another Harvard hopeful. This student’s family at one point donated $8.7 million to the University — but more recent years had proven “challenging,” Cheever wrote.
“[Redacted] was a devoted [redacted] Chair and generous donor,” Cheever's email reads. “Going forward, I don’t see a significant opportunity for further major gifts. [Redacted] had an art collection which conceivably could come our way.”
Cheever closed the email by noting he would “call it a 2” — an apparent attempt to score the applicant-and-donation package. After Hughes asked Fitzsimmons to explain the number, the dean said the “2” ranking meant the candidate would receive a boost in the admissions process.
Fitzsimmons described the boost given to a “2” applicant as “reasonably serious,” though not as significant as the preference given to a “1” candidate. The dean previously admitted in pre-trial testimony that greater “financial contribution[s]” can lead to higher ratings for individual applicants.
Yet another email Hughes read aloud Wednesday offered a window into how Harvard courts candidates whose families have deep ties to the University — and even deeper pockets.
After the family of an unidentified applicant donated $1.1 million to the school, former head tennis coach David R. Fish ’72 treated that candidate to a special tour of campus. He later wrote to Fitzsimmons describing the visit.
“It would mean a great deal to [redacted] and to [redacted] to see [redacted] at Harvard,” Fish wrote. “Thus we rolled out the red carpet and were all delighted that [redacted] had a great time.”
The public has long suspected that Harvard favors those who fund it. But blatant examples like those presented Wednesday — the promised building, the “conceivable” art collection, the "red carpet" treatment — rarely if ever become public knowledge.
The interest in the courtroom Wednesday was palpable. When Hughes displayed the emails on television screens at the front of the room, dozens of spectators in the chamber leaned forward in their seats to get a closer look.
Attendees seemed equally riveted by Hughes’s questions about the dean’s interest list. Apart from a few Harvard insiders, no one knew that list existed until summer 2018, when it bubbled up in court documents released as part of the suit. The filings showed that College applicants who make the list are frequently related to “high-priority” individuals who boast close University connections — people such as top donors or “other influential alumni.”
Harvard has been tight-lipped about who earns a spot on that list and why. On Wednesday, Hughes pressed for answers. He asked Fitzsimmons whether the list includes the “children of donors” and “other relatives of donors.”
“It could be,” Fitzsimmons said.
Hughes also grilled Fitzsimmons on how applicants wind up on the dean’s list. Fitzsimmons said the University Development Office — an office that solicits alumni donations — sometimes offers names to the dean. Summer court filings suggested the dean regularly sits down with Development Office employees and senior admissions staff to discuss specific high schoolers.
Fitzsimmons defended Harvard’s special treatment of applicants linked to top donors as “important for the long-term strength of the institution.” He said this tactic secures funding for scholarships, among other things.
Despite its low profile, the dean’s interest list has helped shape Harvard admissions for at least the past half-decade.
Documents published in June revealed that 192 current Harvard seniors — more than 10 percent of the Class of 2019 — are members of the dean’s list or the “Director’s List,” a similarly select group of applicants compiled by Director of Admissions Marlyn E. McGrath ’70 every year.
The June filings also show that students on the twin lists make up 9.34 percent of Harvard admits across six years, ranging from the Class of 2014 through the Class of 2019. The admission rate for members of the dean’s and director’s lists during this time period clocked in at 42.2 percent, more than nine times the overall acceptance rate for the Class of 2022.
In addition to a higher likelihood of admission, students on these lists see certain opportunities — such as staff interviews held on campus in the admissions office — that others do not, according to court filings published over the summer.
College spokesperson Rachael Dane wrote in an emailed statement in August that students on both the dean’s and director’s lists compete in the “same rigorous admissions process” as do all other Harvard applicants.
“The Dean’s interest list is inclusive of all applicants who the Dean of Admissions wishes to keep track of during the admissions process, whether they be children of donors, or an applicant the Dean met at some point in their high school career and wished to keep an eye on,” Dane wrote.
SFFA has noted that students who appear on the two lists — along with legacy students, recruited athletes, and children of Harvard faculty members — are overwhelmingly white. Students in these four categories make up roughly 29 percent of students at the College, which SFFA argues results in fewer spots awarded to Asian-American applicants.
SFFA first filed suit against Harvard in 2014, alleging that that Asian Americans applying to Harvard face higher standards for admission than do high schoolers of other races. The College has repeatedly denied all allegations of discrimination.
The trial is set to continue Thursday morning when Harvard’s lead lawyer, William F. Lee ’72, will question Fitzsimmons.
—Staff writer Delano R. Franklin can be reached at delano.franklin@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @delanofranklin_.
—Staff writer Samuel W. Zwickel can be reached at samuel.zwickel@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @samuel_zwickel.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Here we are: the second half of the Ivy League football season.
Though each team has just five of its 10 games remaining, all five of these games count toward the league standings. With non-conference play in the rearview mirror (don’t worry, I’m not going to pepper this ATI with Pearl Jam song titles), there is still plenty of time for the conference standings to shift significantly.
Currently, Princeton and Dartmouth lead the way. I’ll leave particulars for later in the article, but let’s just say they’re both extremely good and leave it at that. Penn, Yale, Harvard, and Cornell are each knotted at 1-1, and Columbia and Brown bring up the rear at 0-2. Here’s hoping for another shot at seven teams tying for the Ancient Eight championship.
YALE AT PENN
Let me set the scene of a typical Friday night at Franklin Field. Wintry wind whips through the bleachers, slicing through multiple layers of clothing and reducing beat writers’ typing speed to 10 words per minute. An agonizing halftime show features the Harvard Band. Stale pizza and cold chicken fingers are all that await in the media room.
These were the circumstances on Nov. 11, 2016, the last time The Crimson ventured down to Philadelphia to cover Harvard–Penn. If it seems to you that I’m acting like a wimp, you’d probably be right. I guess I need to invest in a warmer jacket.
This Friday night game will not feature weather conditions quite as dreadful — Yale (3-2, 1-1 Ivy) travels to Penn to take on the Quakers (4-1, 1-1) in mid-October, when the leaves are still clinging to the trees and winter woes have not fully taken hold.
I’ll be honest, I don’t know what to make of these Yale and Penn squads. The Quakers boast an impressive 4-1 record, with their lone loss coming at the hands of conference-leading Dartmouth. However, the team’s non-conference slate was not particularly challenging, and it barely squeaked out a 13-10 decision over Columbia last weekend. With star receiver Justin Watson having departed for the Tampa Bay Buccaneers, no Penn receiver is gaining more than 40 yards per game.
Yale was a heavy favorite to repeat as league champion entering the 2018 campaign, but so far the Bulldogs have shown signs of weakness. They lost in overtime to Holy Cross in week one, and like Penn, they also fell victim to Dartmouth in a 41-18 blowout. The Yale defense is allowing 12 more points per game than it did during its 2017 title season. Given home-field advantage, I’ll take Penn in a close one.
Penn by 1.5
PRINCETON AT HARVARD
Déjà vu can be pretty eerie. It’s inexplicable, really — you recall having experienced a detailed situation in the past, but it’s also happening right in front of your eyes in the same place, with the same people, featuring the same events.
I’m getting just a bit (read: a ton) of déjà vu ahead of this Saturday’s bout between Princeton (5-0, 2-0) and host Harvard (3-2, 1-1). In this case, however, it’s not so inexplicable. In 2017, the Tigers visited Cambridge armed with a strong record and a dominant offense that was lighting up scoreboards left and right. Entering last year’s contest, the Crimson had rebounded from a heartbreaking defeat at Cornell by beating a non-league opponent at Harvard Stadium.
There are a few small differences this time around. Instead of simply possessing a dominant offense, Princeton now has an absolutely unfair offense to go along with an equally unfair defensive unit. The Tigers are 5-0 in 2018, have scored no fewer than 45 points, and have allowed no more than 10. Yiiiiiiiiiiiiikes.
There is perhaps nothing more gratifying in sports than being a fan of a team that defeats a bitter rival, especially when that rival has strung together a run of dominance. That is the situation as Princeton enters Harvard Stadium this Saturday. In eight of the last 11 meetings between these two teams, the Crimson has earned the W.
Though the Tigers already began to turn the tide with last season’s 52-17 beatdown, you can be sure that they will not relent. Given Princeton’s offensive and defensive production this season, I’m not sure it’s even possible for the team to relent unless it leaves both its first and second string players off the travel roster.
Princeton by 14
CORNELL AT BROWN
I’m at a loss for words.
No, seriously, I don’t know what to write about this game. There don’t appear to be any major storylines, the two teams are not exactly the cream of the FCS crop, and this game only serves to keep Cornell’s hopes alive for one more week. “Maybe, just maybe, this is the year the Big Red can contend past week six,” they’ll say up in Ithaca. You just hate to see that.
Brown (1-4, 0-2) has had a rough couple of weeks due to a challenging schedule (to say the least). Back-to-back contests on the road against Rhode Island and Princeton resulted in a final cumulative scoring tally of 96-10. However, Cornell (2-3, 1-1) does have to travel a significant distance for this matchup and is coming off a 31-0 drubbing courtesy of Colgate.
If I’m being honest, here’s what I do know. One: I’d be losing gobs of money if I actually bet my picks on these games. Two: every time I pick against the Big Red, Cornell obliges by winning. Three: every time I pick the Big Red to come out on top, the team rolls over. Every. Single. Time. In other words, the following pick is bad news for the Ithacans for reasons one and three.
Cornell by 6.5
DARTMOUTH AT COLUMBIA
Hand, Foot, and Mouth Disease is currently terrorizing Dartmouth’s campus.
The ailment, commonly seen in children, has afflicted over 50 students, according to an Oct. 11 report in The Dartmouth. Hand, Foot, and Mouth even made an appearance in Major League Baseball this season — New York Mets pitcher Noah Syndergaard missed some time when he contracted it.
You’ve got to hand it to the Big Green — its team (5-0, 2-0) has been nothing short of dominant this fall. The team has pitched two shutouts so far, and it is just as adept on the other side of the ball, posting 39 points per game. I don’t want to end up with my foot in my mouth, but I don’t think this game will be particularly close.
One of Columbia’s redeeming qualities — a quality that will perhaps allow the team to avoid a beatdown until the second quarter instead of within the first 10 minutes — is its defense. The Lions (3-2, 0-2) held Lovett’s Tigers to their lowest point total of the season so far (still a ridiculous 45 points). The Columbia defense is allowing an average of 24.2 points per game, though Princeton’s output skews this result.
As Dartmouth travels to Robert K. Kraft Field, situated beautifully at the mouth of the Hudson River, it aims to improve to 6-0 ahead of next week’s tilt against Harvard. Not sure you even need me to make this pick, but I’ll hand it over anyway.
Dartmouth by 21
—Staff writer Jack Stockless can be reached at jack.stockless@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
When Dave Fish announced his retirement after 42 years, Harvard lost a coaching legend who immensely shaped the men’s tennis program. However, there was one person who was the obvious choice to be Fish’s successor, and that was Andrew Rueb ‘95.
For the past 11 years, he has helped Harvard to 192 victories and four Ivy League Championships as an assistant and associate head coach. Now he looks to continue the program’s tradition of excellence created by his mentor.
As only the fourth head coach in the history of the men’s tennis program, Rueb brings a unique set of skills and knowledge that comes from the vast amount of time he has spent around Harvard. He has been an undergraduate student, a graduate student at Harvard Divinity School, and has even served as a proctor, academic advisor, and teaching fellow over the years. Rueb was named the John Reardon Male Scholar Athlete of 1995.
“I definitely think its an advantage to understand how to walk this tightrope of high-performance athletics and world-class education,” Reub said. “When I speak to parents and players about managing the on and off court demands of Harvard, there’s extra weight behind those words because I’ve had to live it.”
During his years as assistant coach, Rueb became an ardent proponent of integration between the academic and athletic sides of Harvard.
“I think it really does help to be well connected with the academic life on campus,” Reub said. “Knowing that there [are] obviously certain pressure points in the academic calendar in anybody’s year, and so I think that give and take really helps with how [the student athletes] can do the best that they can in the classroom but also excel on the court.”
His commitment to the classroom is probably best shown by the Back to School Week program that has become an annual event since its conception eight years ago. After noting that both coaches and professors were not very familiar with what happens on the other side of the Charles, coach Rueb saw a “perfect opportunity” to bridge the gap between these two sides of Harvard. The program encourages coaches to sit in on class with their athletes and see what it’s like to learn from the all-star faculty that Harvard has.
“I think I was uniquely situated to help build some of that bridge but I also thought the other coaches were more than enthusiastic about learning a little more about what happens on the other side of the river, to get to know more professors, and to make those connections,” Rueb said. “It’s really been something taken on with both hands and it’s been great to watch it grow throughout the years.”
Rueb’s emphasis on learning also extends to himself, which he says is one of the many lessons he learned from his predecessor, Dave Fish. He cites humility and innovation as two of Fish’s values that he wants his own to players to learn.
“I think that again and again with the mentors and teachers I most respect, they tend to be the best students as well as good teachers,” Rueb said.
Coach Rueb’s experiences as a collegiate player and on the professional tour give him the knowledge and credibility necessary to coach a college tennis team. During his time at Harvard, he was named Ivy League Player of the Year twice and was inducted into the Harvard Varsity Club Hall of Fame in 2013. He refers to his time on the pro circuit as one of the best learning experiences he has ever had. He considers the highlight of his tennis career to be the chance to play doubles at Wimbledon in 1997.
“I always considered my four years on the tour my second degree after Harvard,” Rueb said.
His expertise in this area is not lost on his players, including sophomore Lane Leschly, who said that “for anything doubles related, he’s the best guy in the business.”
As for the future of the men’s tennis program at Harvard, Rueb feels that in addition to NCAA appearances and Ivy League titles, creating a strong team culture is one of his major goals.
“I want to see if we can continue to keep this as a program of significance, and what I mean by that is developing our young men’s character in a way that the university and our alumni can be proud of,” Rueb said.
Captain Chris Morrow felt that Rueb’s history with the program helps with the continuation of the program’s culture.
“It’s been a seamless transition, he knows Harvard inside and out. He was very well set up to step up into that role. [He’s] really big on character development,” Morrow said, “I think that’s something that stands out about him.”
Leschly also commented on the team’s atmosphere.
“He does an incredible job creating a really supportive and cohesive culture on the team that Fish had,” Leschly said. “So he’s continued that really well.”
With the 2018 season underway, Harvard Tennis has had good showings in Ivy competition and intercollegiate tournaments. But perhaps more importantly, the program is continuing to develop a culture of excellence under the leadership of its new Scott Mead ‘77 Head Tennis Coach, Andrew Rueb.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Both the Harvard men’s and women’s tennis teams saw action this past week at the ITA Northeast Regionals, and both squads had impressive finishes to the tournament. Fellow Ivy League school Princeton hosted the men’s tournament, which welcomed players from schools all around the Northeast, while Yale hosted the women’s side. Both tournaments ran from Oct. 11-16.
The men’s team sent six players down to the Lenz Tennis Center in Princeton, N.J., to compete, including captain Andy Zhou, junior Robert Wrzesinski, and freshman Brian Shi, who all earned seeded spots in the single’s draw. The rookie Shi played a hard fought match against Princeton, ultimately falling to his opponent 6-3, 4-6, 6-3 in the second round. Wrzesinski was unable to play his second round match, awarding the win to Sid Chari from Dartmouth in a walkover.
On the doubles side of the bracket, the Crimson was represented by three duos. Captain Christopher Morrow and Wrzesinski formed one pairing and, along with the team of junior Logan Weber and Shi, were seeded in the main draw of the tournament. In addition, Zhou and freshman Steven Sun competed as a twosome after achieving a 2-0 record at the 2018 Chowder Fest.
Zhou and Sun got off to a hot start, beating Wagner in the first round 8-2 and followed up with another strong victory, defeating Monmouth 8-3. Their luck ran out in the third round, however, falling 8-3 to Dartmouth. Shi and Weber, who were awarded a first round bye, were also able to reach the Round of 16.
Morrow and Wrzesinski found the most success of Harvard’s double’s teams, defeating Fordham in the first round 8-2 and then Penn in a close 8-6 match. They followed that up with an easy 8-1 win over St. John’s, but came up short against Columbia 8-4 in the quarterfinal round.
The star of the weekend for the Crimson was Zhou, who was able to replicate his impressive showing last year at the ITA Regionals and reach the semifinal round for the second year in a row. After a first round bye, Zhou encountered some trouble in his first match against Brown.
“I was really struggling and there were tough conditions outside, the weather was cold and windy, and it was pretty difficult to get over that initial hump to get back into a match play situation,” Zhou said. “It was difficult because I wasn’t in the right mindset.”
The Palo Alto, Calif. native was able to pull out the victory after the initial adversity, winning 7-5, 3-6, 7-6(4). Zhou thought that the win was a boost for rest of the tournament. He was able to follow that victory up with three more easy wins before falling to eventual champion David Volfson of Cornell.
“I was glad I was able to battle through that and come out with a win,” Zhou said. “I think things got a lot easier for me after that.”
Moving north to the courts at Yale, Harvard women’s tennis had five players competing, with four in the single’s bracket and one double’s team.
Junior Natasha Gonzalez and sophomore Anna Li joined up to compete as a double’s duo, and found an easy 8-1 win against LIU in the first round before falling to Brown 8-5.
The four single’s competitors all had a strong showing for the Crimson, with each reaching the second round of competition. Gonzalez again fell in the second round, this time 6-3, 6-2 to Syracuse. Freshman Rachel Lim, who earned a bye in the first round, had an impressive outing in her first time at the regionals. The rookie picked up a 6-1, 6-2 win in the second round, then defeated Penn 6-4, 6-3 before falling in the Round of 16 to Syracuse.
Junior Irene Lu was able to reach the third round after a first round bye and a three-set win victory over Brown, 6-2, 3-6, 6-1. In her next match against Columbia she did not fare as well and lost in straight sets 6-2, 6-2.
The last player standing for Harvard was junior Jenna Friedel, who put on a show just as impressive as Zhou did for the men’s squad. Her appearance in the semifinals was a marked improvement over last year’s tournament, where she lost in the second round. Friedel cited the team’s supportiveness as the key to her success this last week.
“It was my first time traveling with the new assistant coach, Coach Mason [Astley], which was an awesome experience,” Friedel said. “It was really great to have my team behind me, supporting me from campus.”
After a first round bye and a routine 6-3, 6-3 win over Buffalo, her third round match did not start as smoothly. After losing the first set 0-6, she said it was her teammates once again who helped her push through.
“It was a night match and I was the last match on that day so all of my teammates came out to support me,” Friedel said. “I managed to come back in the second and third sets and ended up winning that match...so that was a really good experience having them all behind me.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
With our first taste of real fall weather this week, it may be tempting to retreat to the warm, familiar depths of your bed and stay there for the entire weekend. However Boston isn’t afraid of a little fall weather and it would be a shame to miss all of the fall-themed events that Boston has to offer! Prove that you’re just as ambitious in your Boston explorations as your are with your psets by checking out these events this weekend!
Friday:
Peak Fall Foliage!
As you might have noticed, the trademark fall foliage of New England has begun to take over the streets of Cambridge. As it turns out, fall 2018 foliage is expected to peak in Boston on October 19th, aka Friday! While you may not think of the city as an ideal place to view natural phenomena, check out this list of the seven best places to see fall foliage in Boston. A foliage scavenger hunt would be the perfect way to kick off the weekend!
Saturday:
Spectacle Island Cruise
If you missed the last one, good news: Save the Harbor is hosting another free Spectacle Island Cruise this weekend! A trip to Spectacle Island is one of those Boston things that everyone thinks would be cool but no one ever actually makes the effort to do, so make yourself cool by actually doing it! For free! During peak foliage! If you’re ready to brave a crisp fall morning, show up at the World Trade Center dock at 10:30 a.m. to check in and embark on your trip aboard the Provincetown II.
Bonus: Sloth Day @ Harvard Museum of Natural History
This event is most certainly not bursting the bubble, but is way too good not to include. It seems like every day of the year is some random arbitrary holiday, and this Saturday just happens to be International Sloth Day (which is clearly very important and not arbitrary at all). Who even are you if you don’t celebrate International Sloth Day, so mosey on over to the Harvard Museum of Natural History for sloth-themed activities, including a special storytime at 2 p.m.
Sunday:
FogxMacbeth @ The Arnold Arboretum 
If you take the Orange Line all the way down to Jamaica Plain, you end up at a magical (and Harvard affiliated!) nature-filled paradise called the Arnold Arboretum. This fall, artist Fujiko Nakaya has created a fog-based art installation at the arboretum, and other artists have taken advantage of this installation to put on spectacular performances. This Sunday, the Actor’s Shakespeare Project will be presenting a free performance of Macbeth, specifically inspired by the arboretum and the fog installation. The play starts at 5 p.m., so grab a blanket and get your spooky season on.
We hate to burst your bubble, but Harvard isn’t the entire world. Go forth and burst the Harvard bubble with these Boston events!
