Sections
November 27th, 2018. 7:18 p.m. It’s a Tuesday. As finals begin to loom on the December horizon, my concept of time is slowly being reduced to countdowns. Six days until I’m murdered by my fourth SLS 20 exam. Fifteen days till my Stat 110 final spits on my corpse. And 24 days until CS 61 defiles my grave by digging me up and changing my shoes to crocs.
I’ve been studying for a solid eight minutes, so I decide to reward myself with 30 minutes of alternative productivity. For all of those who are unaware, this is when you procrastinate by doing something that’s technically productive, like cleaning your room or stalking your crush on Facebook, but clearly not what you need to be focusing on at the moment.
Catching up on emails is the perfect choice. I open my account to see 292 unread emails in my spam folder. Obviously, I have to diligently go through each and every one of these to make sure it’s not important. Cracking my knuckles, I take a deep breath to still my soul and prepare to stomach the electronic smörgåsbord of scam-bots, spam-bots, and sex-bots crowding the filter.
I get to work.
“Rebecca just unlocked her private video for you She wants to F*ck”: Deleted.
“Get cash now, $20,000. No risk! $$$!!!”: Deleted.
“Hey you f*cking loser! Wanna learn to talk to girls??”: Moved to inbox.
“HOT SINGLES IN YOUR AREA Rebecca Wants To Be Your F*CKBUDDY”: Deleted.
You know you’re in for a lot of emails when Rebecca has already emailed twice. But I can’t help but smile; it’s messages like these that remind me of my father.
Wait. Not like that.
I’m talking about spam emails in general. He’s the one who actually signed me up for all this junk, and, as a glutton starved for affection, I encouraged him do it.
September 16th, 2013. 3:45 p.m. It’s a Monday. In high schoolese that loosely translates to four more days till Friday.
I’ve been studying for a total of eight minutes, so I decide to reward myself with video games. I plug in my Xbox ready to cruise the streets of San Andreas until I hear my dad calling me. I race out of my room, thunder down our zig-zag staircase, and briefly compose myself before I gingerly knock on the door as I walk in.
He greets me with a “Happy Birthday” that’s so casual I almost miss it. Before I can even respond, he goes on to explain that he’s won me a gift. I look on his laptop to see huge text:
CONGRADULATION YOUR OUR 1 MILLIONTH VISITOR
ENTER YOUR EMAIL ADRESS FOR A FREE IPAD
I take a second to appreciate the artistic choices taken in spelling. Then, I face a lot of turmoil. Almost every instinct in body is telling me to take the offer.
Now, you might be thinking, Why would you sign up for such an obvious scam? How does your dad not know that this is fake? Did you really move that email to your inbox?
Three things:
1. My dad is technologically illiterate. It’s okay; he’s literally the smartest person I know. But at the end of the day he’s like 84 and could tell you what World War II was like. Back then, people were still using Zunes. And, even as recent as 2010, he thought LOL stood for “Lord oh Lord.”
2. My dad is the most intimidating man I’ve ever met. Not in the like 6’8” tatted up and could-bench-a-house type of way, but in the “I-will-never-amount-to-as-much-as-you-and-I’m-sorry-for-wasting-space-with-my-incompetence kind of way.” Most of the time, correcting him goes against the natural order.
3. Most importantly, my dad never does this type of stuff. He travels a lot for work — growing up there were some periods where he was gone for more than 80 percent of the year. He knows I’m the tech kid in my family, so it’s actually one of the nicest birthday gifts he’s ever personally handed me.
So I have the important decision to make. Do I tell my dad the truth and dash his efforts out of convenience like some heartless beast, or do I endure a barrage of spam emails for the sake of deepening our familial bond?
I sign myself up, and hit enter only to be presented with a field demanding my phone number, too. My will wavers for a moment. God is clearly punishing me for my hubris. To think I, a mere mortal, could appease my father with a simple email address. I clearly must double down to show the gods my sincerity. I type in my 10 digits and am awarded with a new website asking for credit card information if I want a free Macbook.
I turn to my dad with an Oscar-winning performance of shock and disgust as I explain that I don’t think it worked. Our shared disappointment becomes the catalyst for shared laughter and then a shared meal.
He makes delicious mini-sandwiches for the two of us. They fill me to the brim with food and fatherly love in the same way that my spam folder would soon be filled with fuckbuddy solicitations.
And after all these years you might ask if it was worth it, if I would do things the same way if I could go back in time.And I can say with complete and utter honesty that I definitely took the L on that one — what the fuck was I thinking?
November 26th, 2018. 7:48 p.m. I’ve made my way through a total of 291 emails. After 30 minutes of exposure to this dark side of humanity, my soul is weak, and my spirit is yielding. I’ve been ready to quit for 200 emails, but through sheer willpower I go on to read the last one.
“Want Daddy’s LOVE?? CLicK hEre fOR...” Deleted.
Sorry xXxSexyBear69xXx, I already have it.
Sections
When Kathleen M. Coleman arrived at her birthday party in 1981, she heard a loud noise coming from behind the kitchen door — not a human one. She’s now the James Loeb Professor of the Classics at Harvard, but back then, she was junior faculty in the Classics department at the University of Cape Town. As she sat on the couch, glass of wine in hand, someone finally opened the door, and a “bullet of fur” raced into the living room, up Coleman’s leg, and onto her lap. “I wouldn’t say that’s how I found Catiline,” she says. “Catiline found me.”
Coleman’s students had decided to get her a cat as a birthday present and asked around for any kittens that needed a home. Coleman’s colleague had a lead — her husband’s sister had found three strays hiding in the unactivated nuclear reactor where she worked. The creature sitting on Coleman’s lap was one of these rescues, a little tabby with a broken tail.
It was at this party that Coleman came up with an appropriately Roman name for her kitten: Catullus. But one of her students, a “ponderous man,” as she describes it, pointed out to Coleman that the stress in Catullus was on the middle syllable, so the “cat” sound wasn’t intact. “And so,” Coleman says, “he was Catiline.”
Catiline — who, according to Cicero, was a violent rebel who tried to overthrow the Roman republic — might seem like a strange name for a beloved pet. But Catiline the cat certainly lived up to his namesake. He was known for biting those who did not agree with him, from other classicists to clergymen. An avid hunter, he chased down birds, rats, and even golden moles, which he would pounce on as if he were playing a literal game of whack-a-mole. When Coleman moved to Dublin to teach at Trinity College in 1993, Catiline made an enemy of a college cat who infringed on his territory. Coleman describes him as a “very present” cat: He would always preside over dinner parties at her house, jumping from cupboards onto guests’ shoulders. When Coleman was away on sabbatical, one house-sitter reported that Catiline always kept himself busy around the house and garden. “That’s exactly how he operates,” Coleman says. “Always busy.”
Catiline was Coleman’s steadfast companion as she moved from Cape Town to Dublin, and eventually to Harvard. In Cambridge, he still asserted his independence, even when “suffering, as all elderly cats do, from kidney disease.” In his final moments at the veterinarian’s office in Porter Square, Catiline sat on Coleman’s lap, but as the veterinarian administered the drugs that would euthanize him, he wanted solitude. “He struggled out of my arms and leapt into his basket — that’s where he wanted to die. I respected that,” she says.
She put his ashes in a marble urn and buried it alongside a time capsule in her garden in Cambridge. She marked his grave with a stone inscribed with his name.
True to his active personality, Catiline’s spirit didn’t stay dormant for long. Shortly after his death, Coleman came down with a bad bout of pneumonia and was bedbound. It was then that she felt an irresistible urge to write. She struggled out of bed, sat down at her computer, and started to type out the story of Catiline’s life. “Normally typing, even something as innocuous as an email, is an effort for me, with much redaction and revision and backspacing,” she says. “But this just came straight out, as though it were being dictated from the next life.”
She knew the voice speaking to her had to have been Catiline’s. “He was a master of detail,” she explains. “Only Catiline could have remembered all of these episodes that had marked the different stages of his life.”
Hours later she emerged with a 17,000-word memoir that detailed the events of his life on three continents, which she says Catiline had dictated to her from beyond the grave.
Through his travels, Catiline had witnessed periods of intense political upheaval, including the end of South African apartheid. But this perspective came from a cat’s-eye view. “People who have read his memoirs — one or two people — have said, ‘He was living in Cape Town in the dying years of apartheid, but he doesn’t make any political observations,’” Coleman recalls. “I think that’s quite right, he wouldn’t make them, because, like all cats, he’s essentially self-centered. Excited as I might have been about the release of Nelson Mandela, it all just washed off Catiline’s back.”
One of her friends suggested that she find an agent and submit Catiline’s story for publication. However, the agent Coleman contacted didn’t receive “The True Story of Catiline, The Cat Who Lived on Three Continents” as warmly as she had hoped. “He gave an incomprehensible response. He said, ‘We don’t publish fiction.’ Why he should think just because a cat wrote it, it was fiction, I have no idea,” she says.
Not many pets can be said to have dictated memoirs to their human companions, but all relationships with another species, according to Coleman, are a little bit mystical. She hesitates to use the word “owner” to describe her bond with Catiline: For her, it’s more reciprocal. “You learn so much from having a pet,” Coleman says. “You can pretend you’re controlling the relationship because you can read into their behavior certain emotions, but really you cannot control [it], because the cat will always set the boundaries.”
For Coleman, Catiline’s life was his own. He was no subservient, docile pet — it makes sense that the headstrong Catiline would author his own memoir. After all, as Coleman puts it: “Who can ever make a cat do something it doesn’t want to do?”
Sections
I first encountered oat milk a year ago, after I had left Cambridge for winter break. While home in Los Angeles last January, I stopped by a coffee shop in West Hollywood called Alfred in the Alley. The shop shares a foliage-covered alleyway with Cycle House, a spinning studio that had its own E! Channel reality TV show in 2015. At the register, I asked for a large coffee with soy milk. The barista, who wore a black baseball hat embroidered with “Alfred” — the A sprouting large, majestic deer horns — just looked at me.
“We don’t have soy milk. We haven’t had soy milk for, like, a while. We do almond and we do oat.”
As late as last fall, zero coffee shops in Cambridge served oat milk. I hadn’t been home for more than two or three days in over a year because I stayed on campus all summer. So, I assumed this was just another LA health fad that popped up while I was across the country, like that restaurant in Venice where you order food via affirmation (“I’m decadent” for a vegan milkshake) and weekly coffee enemas.
A week after visiting the first Alfred, I went to a second Alfred location, just two blocks away from the first one. I asked the barista why they started carrying oat milk and she shrugged. “I don’t know, it tastes good, and I’ve heard it’s probably better for the environment.”
This is Oatly’s schtick: They’re the environmentally-conscious milk company. Their Instagram bio reads, “Our goal is to deliver products that have maximum nutritional value and minimal environmental impact.” And their Instagram captions often include climate change facts. On Aug. 26, they posted a picture of a millennial-pink apartment complex in the middle of a tame but still lush forest with a caption announcing that “switching from cow‘s milk to oat drink saves the planet 80% greenhouse gas emissions.” On Sept. 5, Oatly posted a profile shot of a man standing in the middle of a field, the sky behind him gloomy, wearing a morose cow mascot head. The caption reads, “To fully experience the potential impact of climate change, continue to drink cow’s milk, eat meat, and live your life unchanged.”
The oat milk trend positions drinking oat milk as environmentally beneficial, as if consumption can be a type of conservation. The emphasis is not on consuming less, but rather consuming the same, if not more, of something different. It’s common to align a brand with a cause (see “nasty woman” shirts, “pussy hats,” or even Amanda Hess’ New York Times article about period-blood absorbing underwear that branded itself as, somehow, anti-Trump). But positioning a food product as environmentally friendly associates the health of an individual body with the health of the entire planet. It’s as if the body and the planet are linked by an umbilical cord: What is healthy for the planet must be healthy for the body too.
Unsurprisingly, this link between the planet and the individual body is positioned in relation to climate change. In October, the very bleak Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change report warned that climate change induced floods and famine could start seriously damaging countries as early as 2040. With the threat of something as abstract and foreboding as total environmental decay, what are you supposed to do? How do you tackle a global catastrophe?
The thing is, on a day to day basis, you can’t. Environmentalism as a trendy advertising technique doesn’t seem to be so much about solving climate change as it is about easing our existential dread the only way we know how, by buying things we can put on or in our bodies. Linking the health of the planet to the health of the body makes solving massive threats seem plausible, like you can just personally decide to switch milks and then feel confident that at least whatever is going through your digestive tract isn’t as bad for the environment as something else.
But, it turns out, oat milk isn’t just a brief LA-only trend. When I came back to school this fall, one of the three coffee shops in the Smith Center served oat milk (Pavement) as did the most expensive Harvard Square cafes (Blue Bottle, Tatte, and Clover). Several very Cambridge cafes (Darwin’s, Veggie Galaxy, the Biscuit and Simon’s) — small cafes that play Mitski and have lots of vegetarian and vegan options — offered oat milk, too. What’s popular in LA cafes, like Alfred in the Alley, where Instagram influencers post pictures of the ‘$10 latte’ (a latte made with Pressed Juice almond milk), is now equally popular in Cambridge, a city I associate more with college students hyper-focused on papers and p-sets than with trends.
***
Oatly oat milk containers look like grey or light blue brutalist apartment buildings: They are very long, skinny rectangles. On the side of Oatly cartons, the company flirtatiously tells customers that “we are not like real companies,” each word in a different font. It sounds like the corporate equivalent of an 18-year-old girl telling boys on Tinder “I’m just not like other girls,” after she asks them to smoke weed and play Fortnite.
Underneath the middle-school-collage-looking text, Oatly explains that “we don’t place much value on business plans, target group analysis and brand awareness studies… all we are interested in is if you are interested in drinking great products made of great oats with a great nutritional value that are great for the planet.” They’re so eager to land on the “good for the planet” that they stumble over prepositions and punctuation marks.
Oatly’s branding doesn’t just position oat milk as an environmentally friendly drink, it also makes environmental consciousness cool and trendy. Their Instagram is filled with Oatly cartons positioned as hip accessories, as if the cartons are cousins of those tiny-rectangular glasses or Fjallraven backpacks. On Nov. 21, they posted a photo of a Brooklyn type wearing a yield-sign yellow sweatshirt and overalls, a container of Oatly peeking out of the overall pocket. On Aug. 29, it was a skinny white guy rollerblading on the Santa Monica boardwalk, a walkman attached to his shorts and a carton of Oatly in his right hand, like a clutch or a boom box. On October 30th, they even posted an illustration of a woman dressed as Oatly chocolate milk for Halloween, a sign with the Oatly logo hanging on her chest, over a pale yellow Kardashian-esque spandex bodysuit, the whole outfit styled with cat-eye sunglasses. Their brand is specifically about how individuals use and style their own container, as if environmental concerns are not only necessary and dire but also, on a more superficial level of looks, trendy and desirable.
And it has worked: In the last year oat milk has become very popular. Last week, Forbes reported that oat milk is slated to outsell other non-dairy milks, including long-beloved almond milk. It’s so popular that Quaker Oats is now trying to develop their own oat milk.
While oat milk existed before Oatly, Oatly helped launch the oat to the ranks of the almond and the soybean, the two most popular udder-less milk producers in America.Swedish scientist Richard Oste started Oatly, which has been producing and supplying Sweden with oat milk since the early 90s; their barista blend has only been available in the United States since the fall of 2016.
There’s a “barista blend” because oat milk specifically started as a niche milk for coffee. As Mike Messersmith, the general manager of Oatly US, explained to me in the Oatly offices (a WeWork in the center of Soho) oat milk was largely unknown in America. So, the company decided to introduce the drink into Americans’ palates through an already beloved beverage: coffee. In 2016, Oatly started serving their barista-blend oat milk at Intelligentsia coffee shops, a super sleek Chicago-based coffee chain. The company hoped that drinking an Oatly latte would introduce customers to oat milk with a “really great first experience.” Instead of selling cartons at the market and “asking someone to take five dollars of their hard-earned money out of their wallet to buy this thing called oat milk that they never heard of before,” customers could try Oatly at their favorite coffee shop for just an additional fifty cents or dollar.
Oat milk quickly became the new darling of the coffee community. Within two years, other equally popular coffee chains started to adopt Oatly because the milk was quickly becoming a best-seller at Intelligentsia. Chains like La Colombe and Blue Bottle started offering it alongside almond and soy.
I met up with Josey P. Dear, the director of training and quality assurance at La Colombe Coffee Roasters, to discuss oat milk. Dear explained to me that La Colombe, which has 30 different locations around America, started stocking New York City cafes with Oatly in June 2017. After the drink proved popular in New York and Los Angeles cafes they start offering it in other locations, like the Downtown Boston La Colombe.
Although Dear constantly researches and tastes new non-dairy milks, he was first introduced to Oatly by other baristas, specifically at an alternative-milk latte art throwdown. These throwdowns, which are sponsored by various alternative milk companies to introduce new products to baristas, are an almost-monthly event for New York City baristas. Dear confessed that out of all the alternative milks he has worked with, including soy, hemp, and almond, oat milk tastes creamiest in coffee. His fellow baristas usually agree, and, because they were so excited about a new milk perfectly foamable for lattes, they gushed about the creamy new product to customers. According to Dear, during La Colombe’s busiest hours, this means baristas might tell around 150 people per hour about oat milk.
This isn’t to say oat milk’s increasing popularity is necessarily terrible for the environment. Oat milk definitely is, at the very least, a bit better for the environment than dairy milk. Dairy milk’s production process is notoriously bad for the ozone layer: In 2015, the Food and Agriculture Organization detailed the extent to which greenhouse gases produced by livestock (methane, nitrous oxide, and carbon dioxide, which comes from the ever-increasing frequency of cows’ bowel movements and the pasture up-keep needed to nourish the cows who nourish us) contribute to climate change and air pollution. As the Oatly website explains, oats, compared to cows, require less land, water, and energy.
But even though oat milk is not as bad for the environment as dairy, the process of shipping and distributing oat milk is similar to the process for regular milk. Oatly even sits next to low-fat and half-and-half in the Whole Foods dairy aisle (even though oat milk doesn’t require refrigeration before the seal is punctured). So, drinking oat milk doesn’t actually help the environment. It’s just slightly less bad for it than a glass of skim (or almond and soy, milk alternatives that have their own environmental consequences).
And this doesn’t circumvent the problem that people are, in general, consuming and wasting too much stuff. As Wolf B. Marnell, the director of coffee at Pavement, explained, there’s an Oatly drought. The milk is so popular that the company has temporarily run out of the barista blend. Marnell’s backup for now is Pacific oat milk, but even that is running low. So, Pavement has been keeping soy milk around as a back-up for the back-up. Customers’ desire for oat milk has surpassed companies’ ability to produce. Now, as Oatly mentioned on Instagram, they will expand to keep up with the demand.
***
Don’t get me wrong, oat milk tastes very good. And I’m glad the Cambridge coffee community adopted the drink. I wrote this article at Darwin’s while drinking a cup of coffee with oat milk. Soy milk dissolves into little clumps, and I’ve never liked the taste of almond milk. But oat milk doesn’t have its own flavor; it just makes coffee very silky.
But maybe it tastes a little bit creamier because I’m told it’s better for the environment, so I feel like my individual body is somehow metabolizing a cure for impending climate disaster. And, of course the oat milk craze has spread to Cambridge, a college town where students solve abstract problems with abstracted solutions. Maybe it tastes so luxurious because it feels like environmental consciousness is not only necessary but also enjoyable and something I can concretely, physically, do.
—Magazine writer Jensen E. Davis can be reached at jensen.davis@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @jensendavis12. This is the fourth installment of her column, What Are You Lifting?, which explores different ideas and approaches to health in and around campus.
Sections
Around this time of year, FM usually publishes a feature called "15 Most Interesting Seniors," spotlighting ambitious and unusual members of the graduating class. The feature would consistently bring in some enjoyable interviews and a whole lot of web traffic. But it never felt quite right for us to decide who was “interesting.” We always told ourselves that anyone can be interesting if you ask the right questions.
This year, we’re putting that hypothesis to the test.
Brian P. Yu ’19, one of our Crimson tech saviors, scraped our class list and put together a randomized generator. It spit out the following 15 names. The list includes a few theater-lovers, one ukulele-player, the future governor of Texas, and, of course, a soon-to-be McKinsey consultant. We can't take credit for choosing these seniors, but we think they're pretty great, anyway.
—Marella A. Gayla '19 & Leah S. Yared '19, Magazine Chairs
When Genesis N. De Los Santos ’19 walks into the Harvard Art Museums, the photographer and I immediately know it’s her. She has the commanding presence of a performer — De Los Santos is the vice president of the theater troupe Black CAST — and her personality is matched with a pair of studded high heels. A History and Literature concentrator, De Los Santos has done just about everything on campus: She is the senior co-chair for the Association of Black Harvard Women, a member of Fuerza Latina, a Latinx outreach coordinator at the admissions office, and a volunteer in the Franklin After-School Enrichment Program at PBHA. Between that and her thesis, De Los Santos somehow found the time to talk with FM.
Is there something that ties together all the things you do on campus?
I wanted to give back — that’s an overarching theme of all of the things I do on campus. With the Undergraduate Minority Recruitment Program, it’s this idea that reaching out to minority students and to people who have historically not seen themselves at a place like Harvard could provide the opportunity for them to see themselves here, and to picture themselves walking through Harvard Yard and these hallways and know they have a place here.
I hear you’re writing your thesis on Dominican hair salons. Could you tell me a bit more about that?
My parents come from the Dominican Republic. Growing up in communities of color and around women in general, a lot characteristics of femininity are tied around how you wear your hair. My thesis is about hair in the Dominican Republic. A Dominican hair stylist is a woman who knows how to control curly and kinky hair, and essentially these straightening practices are a way in which sometimes erasure of blackness can happen in these communities. The Dominican hair salon is both a place of community and of cultural creation, but it’s also a way in which certain facets of identity are submerged by different practices that women do on their hair.
When you were little, what did you expect the you of today to be doing?
I didn’t expect to go to school here. It was never something that was on my radar or something that I thought I could attain. But I’m here, and I’m going to take up this space, and I’m going to be unapologetically myself in this place that I never once thought I would be.
It’s a crisp 41 degrees, and Hernan A. Cepeda ’18-19, who is graduating this December after taking a semester off, wants to meet at the river. He loves the outdoors, he explains, and the river is one of his outdoor spaces — to walk, read, toss around a football. (Halfway through our interview, we both agree to move inside.) For most of his life, Cepeda lived in warmer temperatures: born in Monterrey, Mexico, he moved to Houston, Texas in third grade. Now studying Economics, Cepeda cites his firsthand experience with the immigration system as inspiration for his future goals: His to-do list stretches from going to law school to running for governor of Texas.
Where are you from?
I was born in Monterrey, Mexico. I lived there until I was eight years old, and then my mom got a job as a teacher in Houston, so we moved there. So I have two homes. I’m a Mexican-American. I fully consider myself both those things. Especially with the whole political climate, and Trump, sometimes it feels like I’m both of these things, why can’t I be both? Sometimes it felt like you couldn’t.
Was it hard to adjust to a new country that young?
It was, yeah. When I moved here in third grade, I didn’t speak a lick of English. So that was difficult. I picked English up by watching a lot of TV with subtitles. I would also say that football helped me get Americanized in a way, helped me bond with people and just get introduced to American culture and Texan culture.
What did you want to be when you grew up?
I always wanted to be a lawyer. When we moved to the U.S., I saw and experienced firsthand how difficult the immigration process is, to do it legally. And that made me realize the power and the importance of the law. But I also realized that another way to help people is politics. So I want to be governor of Texas. I want to make immigration make more sense, because right now it’s a mess.
In a movie of your life, what actor would play you?
The first name that came into my head is Matt Damon, but he doesn’t look anything like me. So I’m trying to think of an actor who looks more like me. Oh — Tom Cruise. And he’s short, too, so that’s perfect. Boom.
What is the worst thing you’ve ever done?
Bonnie would hate this, but I sneak people into Leverett dining hall.
Hana Seita ’19 didn’t expect that she would end up at Harvard, but she also didn't imagine that she’d attend college in the U.S. at all. Growing up, she wanted to move to Japan. Both her parents are Japanese, and her extended family lives in Japan, but Seita was born in Alexandria, Egypt, and attended high school in Jordan. Seita attended international schools, speaking English at school and Japanese at home. Now she’s in third-year Arabic, which she is studying for her joint concentration in Government and Near Eastern Languages and Civilizations.
What was it like shifting between so many different cultures growing up?
Despite living in the Middle East for my whole life, I felt like I was never able to fully integrate into Middle Eastern culture. International schools in non-English speaking countries are odd because as soon as you step out of the school, it’s a completely different world. I always get asked why I am studying Near Eastern Languages and Civilizations here when I’ve spent my whole life in the Middle East, but it’s because I never really had the opportunity to explore this part of my identity.
Do you visit Japan often?
I visit around once a year, usually during the summer. In Egypt and Jordan, I felt out of place because I look different from everyone. In Japan I look like everyone, but I still feel like I don’t belong. Whenever I go into stores, people will talk to me in English. I think Harvard’s definitely the place where I feel like myself. Diversity is appreciated.
Do you have any idea of where you might live in the future?
I’m interested in international human rights law, and I don’t know what part of the world that will take me to. I really don’t care where I live in the future and I think it’s because I’ve learned so much from wherever I’ve been. I definitely didn’t have the best moments living as a minority abroad, but at the same time, I’ve learned a lot about myself from feeling like a foreigner.
What have you been proudest of learning at Harvard?
I’ve become more confident, but there are some things I still feel uncomfortable talking about. Whenever someone asks me, “Where are you from?” I’ll be like, “I guess I’m from Japan,” because whenever I say “I’m from Jordan,” the questions stop because people are so shocked. These are things that I still feel uncomfortable talking about, but I wouldn’t have been able to talk for an hour about all this freshman, sophomore year.
I recognize Ana S. Olano ’19 for the first time because she’s carrying two guitar cases, a ukulele and what she describes as a “bag of assorted instruments.” 
Olano is an Applied Math concentrator in Leverett, and we’re meeting in her favorite place on campus, the Leverett Library Theater. She sits on the couch with a brown guitar, playing the “Toy Story” theme song before transitioning into a song from “Up.” She has five guitars and a ukulele that she’s been collecting since middle school; their names are Hippie, Eclipse, Sam, Buzz, and Suki Lele, but the one she’s playing now doesn’t have a name. 
“It’s got to come to you,” she tells me when I ask how she names them. “That’s why this one isn’t named yet. But it’s got to be something melodic, not something too bisyllabic, easy to say. I think that when the time comes to name my child, I will have had some practice.”
What did you want to be when you grew up?
When I was a kid, I wanted to be an astronaut, and that was because I saw the movie Toy Story, and I was obsessed with Buzz Lightyear. My whole room was decked out in Buzz Lightyear things, and I dressed up as Buzz Lightyear for three or four years in a row. Defying gender norms from the very beginning.
What’s something you’ve done at Harvard that you’re proud of?
When I came here as a freshman there wasn’t really an outlet that I could see for musicians to have an unstructured space to play their music, be together, and just create a community around their music-making. So during first month of my freshman year, I knew some people from my classes, from my entryway, from [the First-Year Outdoor Program], and I told them, “Hey, let’s just host a jam session, like a coffee house” in the Canaday common room. I thought it was going to be something small, but the room was completely packed. There were 40 to 50 chairs inside but so many people came that there were people watching from outside. It was such a hit that I reached out to the Freshman Dean’s Office and collaborated with the Queen’s Head Pub to continue these events. So this was a bi-monthly event that went on for two years.
What’s your Tinder bio?
“Just a stray hydrogen looking for ionic bonds.” And then the second line is, “Do you want to have a guitar jam with me?”
Is there anything else interesting you want to add?
When I do two truths and a lie, I always say I got a shoutout from the Pope, and that is a truth. Several students here organized the first-ever hackathon at the Vatican, and I was one of the two students to go. We went to Rome and we went to the Papal Blessing on Sunday, and he says something like, “And a blessing for all the university students that are here in the Vatican this weekend.” So that’s pretty dope.
It’s a remarkably sunny afternoon for late November when I meet Josh B. Kuppersmith ’19 at the Newell Boathouse. He starts by giving me the grand tour. We stroll down to the dock, where we have a beautiful view of the Charles; we pass through rows of erg machines and hallways plastered with plaques and photographs; we walk downstairs to the historic wooden rowing tanks. 
Kuppersmith, who has been rowing for eight years, seems to feel fully at home in the boathouse, telling me that he spends well over 20 hours here every week. With a twinge of sadness in his voice, Kuppersmith adds that his last practice of the semester is today at 4:30 . Alongside rowing, he studies Applied Math and works on a start-up called Zoba at the Innovation Labs. We sit down in the men’s lightweight rowing lounge, which smells faintly of perspiration and deodorant.
Why do you row?
First of all, it’s hard work and it’s really gritty, and I think that’s taught me a ton about perseverance and about sacrifice — so it’s not just getting up in the morning to row but also sort of the grueling workouts and a lot of emotional ups and downs. But I think the bigger reason is just the team component of the sport. In any team, in any boat you’re in, the boat really only moves if all eight people and coxswain are perfectly in sync, are not only physically doing same motions but mentally in the same place, striving towards that common goal. It makes victories and successes that much sweeter.
When you were young, what did you think you’d be like at this age? Are you similar to what you imagined?
I think I’m sort of similar. I was very — not quite analytical — but just interested in figuring out the way things worked at a young age. I always thought I’d be an architect or some sort of architectural engineer, someone like building things that worked really well. I really liked bridges, I thought bridges were really cool.
What is your most valuable possession?
I’m not sure that I have a lot of things that really are super unique. But I guess what I would say is that I have a lot of items that I’ve pulled out of my dad’s closet over the years, many of them kind of retro-style or just fun items. Some of them I’ll wear, some of them I don’t, but there’s a lot of items I have scattered throughout my closet or wardrobe that have some sentimental value. I think for me, here, it's just helped me think of home, and it’s really easy to miss home a lot when you’re here.
Maetal E. Haas-Kogan ’19, whose first name is pronounced “like the month May, and then tall,” often comes to a landing on the top floor of the Science Center when she’s stressed to look out over Oxford Street and the surrounding architecture. The San Francisco native is no stranger to the Science Center: Haas-Kogan is a History of Science concentrator and aspiring medical student. She sat down with FM (literally, on the cement floor) to discuss her thesis, love of nature, and celebrity doppelgängers. 
What is your thesis about?
I'm writing about, very broadly, sterilization uses and abuses in the United States for different communities of women in the ‘60s through ‘80s, and looking at the mobilization of different terms, either to advocate on behalf of sterilization as a birth control method or to fight against sterilization abuse and coercion.
How did you become interested in that topic?
I've always known I was very interested in women's rights, then I went to Alabama my sophomore year over J-term. It was after the 2016 election. I just felt very disconnected coming from San Francisco then coming to Harvard, and just staying in these liberal bubbles, so I reached out to the ACLU and was like "Can I just come and be in Alabama for a little bit and work for you?" Through that I got really interested in criminal justice and engaging with those issues. Then this past summer, I worked in women's health in jails, and that spurred wanting to do this thesis.
What's the most embarrassing thing that you're willing to admit that you've done?
I really like nature peeing, so if I have to pee on any sort of walk or anything, I’m just like, okay! Especially if it's nighttime and there's no one around, I just like, squat in a bush and pee.
If Hollywood were to make a movie of your life, who would play you?
I aspire to be April Ludgate, but really I think I’m just Jessica Day.
What book do you think everyone should read?
When I was little I loved “The Phantom Tollbooth.” I think that just reading “The Phantom Tollbooth” every once in a while and trying to — I should read “The Phantom Tollbooth” again. I feel like when I've gotten older, I've gotten less prone to adventure and spontaneity and imagination, and I think that “The Phantom Tollbooth” is just such a cool way to think and I love that book.
I’ve been shuffling around the Loeb Drama Center for a few minutes, glumly trying each locked door, when Sherry T. Gao ’19 comes sweeping down Brattle Street in a floor-length black coat. She swipes us into a side door and ushers me through a maze of dark hallways into the sudden brightness of the Loeb Shop, where she and the rest of the production team build sets from the ground up.
A Chemical and Physical Biology concentrator and once-competitive figure-skater, Gao has burrowed fully into the performing arts scene here at Harvard. She is vice president and mainstage coordinator of the Harvard-Radcliffe Dramatic Club and a performer for the Harvard-Radcliffe Modern Dance Company; by the time she graduates, she’ll have taken part in 30 productions as performer, stage manager, or producer. 
Perched on a stool in the cavernous studio, Gao is completely at ease, even as various industrial saws start buzzing. She calls this studio, where she sometimes spends up to 40 hours a week, her home.
What draws you to theater?
The power of theater — which I’ve only started thinking about here at Harvard — is that you choose what stories you tell, especially being on the creative and administrative side. Last semester I put on “A Very Potter Musical,” and the director and I knew from the very beginning that we wanted a staff of mostly women-of-color and a cast of people-of-color — claiming spaces for people who look like us and identify like us.
When you were a kid, what did you think you’d be as a grown-up?
I wanted to be a pilgrim because when I was in kindergarten, they put on this hat I really liked. Then I wanted to be a dentist until I realized how gross mouths are.
What class would you teach at Harvard?
Managing Your Lactose Intolerance While Being Addicted to Cheese and Boba.
Tell us about the last dream you had.
Every time I have something to do in the morning, I dream I’m running late. This morning I had a meeting at 7 a.m.; I had a series of dreams, and I was late to this meeting in all of them.
Do you have any advice for senior year? 
Don’t ever miss chicken tenders day. The honey mustard and barbecue mixture? Iconic. Also, I don’t check the weather before I go outside, so I’m always surprised by rain and I’m always wearing sandals. Author's note: It is 38 degrees. Gao is wearing shorts. Check the weather before you leave your room for the day. As it turns out, most people already do — it’s just me. It’s really just me.
Kian C. Simpson ’19 is a self-proclaimed “type B+.” He’ll try his best, but if things don’t work out, he tries not to sweat it. People probably feel like he’s “a stereotypical Californian,” and when he tells me this he laughs. 
Simpson hails from the Bay Area, and his high school experiences tutoring Oakland middle schoolers have fueled his dreams to someday pursue work in education, whether in a school district or a startup. At Harvard, he’s found a home in the Asian American Brotherhood, on The Crimson’s Business board, and on the club basketball team.
What did you think you'd be like at this age when you were younger?
I thought I'd be super polished and know exactly what I wanted to do. The only thing I wanted to do was to be proud of what I had done. And that's what I'm constantly working towards. But I really thought I would know what was going on. Turns out everybody is just amidst some existential crisis.
Did you have a dream job when you were younger?
When I was younger, I wanted to be a doctor for a bit. I have this autoimmune disorder where I will eventually go blind in one eye. So I thought that I would love to figure that out. I had to take medicine and I would go in once a month and I would get infusions. At the infusion center there were a lot of kids with a lot worse conditions and after that I was like “I don't think I can do this.” I would see leukemia patients, people with much worse conditions than me and then eventually, you'd stop seeing them. And that was really hard for me. But I think, I'm actually kind of grateful that I've been able to see that. Like my condition really isn't that bad and I feel knowing that things can be so much worse afforded me a kind of perspective that a lot of people might not ever have.
Best bathroom on campus?
Underneath Memorial Church. There are offices and there's this enormous bathroom that is pristine and there's no one ever there. It's glorious.
Any last thoughts?
It's kinda funny. When I got randomly chosen, I was just like, “Oh my god. Am I interesting? Am I interesting?” and I was just thinking “Oh my god, what do I even do? What do I do on campus? Who am I?”
So one of the many existential crises everyone’s going through—FM triggered one of sorts?
Yeah, you know, my weekly existential crisis came a little bit earlier because of that email.
Jamie A. Hawkins seems to know everyone in Eliot. As soon as we sit down, a friend comes over to say “hi.” About five minutes later, two others drop by with an “Eliot Events Package Dues” sign. When they realize I’m interviewing her for an article, one friend mouths, “She’s amazing.” 
Hawkins, an Economics concentrator with a secondary in Philosophy, has picked the Eliot dining hall as our interview location because the House is a central part of her life. Hawkins chairs the Eliot House Committee and deeply values her communities of all kinds. She volunteered on the First-Year Social Committee as a freshman, works as a Peer Advising Fellow, and serves on the Senior Class Committee. 
Why did you decide to get involved in Eliot HoCo?
I’ve always been a community individual. I’m from New Orleans, which is a small city, but it’s a community-oriented city, you know. We love food, and food kind of centers the community. There’s a lot of people from a lot of different cultures, so that’s kind of how people connect with each other. And then we also center around, like, celebration. Mardi Gras is a thing that happens in New Orleans — everyone gets out of school —so we get a week off of school growing up, which is kinda crazy, but that was fun. So, I've always been community-centered.
What’s on your bucket list for the rest of your senior year?
I really hit my bucket-list items this semester. I've taken every entry-level course here that's terrible, so I took CS50 this semester; also I did Ec10, Hum10, and LS1A, and then I did Math 21A, and now I'm doing CS50. I don't know why that was something that I wanted to do, but I did; you know, liberal arts education, I wanted to get that whole experience in there. Other things that I want to do my Senior Year include... I don't know. I think people are never satisfied in life. I'm pretty satisfied right now.
How would you describe your style? 
It's kind of weird, but I'm kind of a sneakerhead; I love tennis shoes — I'm not wearing tennis shoes right now, I'm wearing boots because it's winter — but I love tennis shoes. I think shoes really put the outfit together. My style is not very exciting, I will say that, but I always do try to, you know, hit 'em with the shoes.
On first glance, it’s an just another elegant room with an old, aristocratic air: hardwood panels stretch from the ceiling to the floor, and high windows refract the light of a soft winter sun. But centered in the Horner Room is a large power saw. A paint-stained drop cloth covers the floor, with hard hats and stage props strewn across its surface. “This is where I spend most of my time,” Ned A. Sanger ’19 says, gesturing across the space with pride. Sanger is an expert with the power saw — in rooms like this one, he constructs the sets for several of Harvard’s theatrical productions.
How did you get involved with theater at Harvard?
I arrived as a freshman and was looking for community. I found the Hyperion Shakespeare Company and thought, “Wow, these are really swell people,” so I stuck around. And once you work on one show, people from tons of other shows ask you to work on their productions — you start thinking, “Oh, I’m kind of popular now!” I’ve mostly been a stage manager and a producer. It’s eaten my soul every semester, but it’s been extremely rewarding. My first semester I tried acting — it was a ton of fun, and I still think it’s one of the most fun things in the world — but it’s one of the most fun things in the world that I’m terrible at. I soon realized that my destiny was not on a stage but behind it or around it, which I’m fine with.
Do you have a favorite memory from one of the shows you’ve worked on?
One semester I ran the Hyperion Shakespeare Company’s Scene Recital. It’s the most welcoming and fun show at Harvard: everyone who auditions is cast a part, and it gives you an opportunity if you don’t have a lot of experience and don’t want to play Servant Number Four. Trying to manage this group of 40 people had driven me mad — but in the end, I was tearing up.
What’s it like to watch something that you’ve produced?
It’s a little bit terrible. I don’t think I can watch anything I’ve worked on in a way that a sane person would. For example, [the Harvard-Radcliffe Gilbert and Sullivan Players’ production of] “Patience” had in its set an elevator, which had a floor indicator that we’d rigged up to be controllable from the light board. It didn’t always function well. So whenever I’d watch the show, it would be with immense anxiety, because sometimes it would start to move and then just flop over and dangle. It was terrifying! You watch for all these details that you labor over, that you put eight hours into — and then I asked a friend who saw the show what he thought of the elevator indicator, and he hadn’t even seen it.
Like most of the seniors featured in this issue, Matthew J. Reynolds ’19 didn’t expect to be one of our chosen 15. As a Molecular and Cellular Biology concentrator with a secondary in Global Health and Health Policy, he has been more preoccupied with figuring out his career plans after graduation; namely, when to apply for medical school, or where to travel and work once he leaves the Harvard bubble. Over his four years, Reynolds has served as co-president of Harvard Buddies, an organization that mentors and works with kids undergoing treatment at Massachusetts General Hospital, and researched the development of drug resistance to novel antimalarials at the Harvard School of Public Health, which is the subject of his thesis.
What is your proudest moment?
Through the Buddies program, I was working with a family there, for maybe six months, and they had a sad story – a single mother, and she had three young children – and she needed a lot of help, and I got close with the family over time. I started to help them get free flights back and forth from their home – they’re from Connecticut – and about six months later, I received a text, and she said, “We’re in Boston, we would really love to see you, will you come to the aquarium with us?” Long story short, I did not end up going, but the fact that they texted me meant a lot. I felt that I had made an impact on someone. I felt like I meant something to their lives.
Which celebrity would play you in a movie about your life?
Matt Damon, because he’s from here, from Boston.
Describe your dancing style.
Too much arms, apparently. Way too much arms. I’ve been told that I have to do what I do with my arms with my legs.
If you could have any superpower, what would it be, and why?
I’d pause time, because there’s not enough hours in a day. Get some extra time to do what you need to do.
Favorite bathroom on campus?
The new ones at Cabot Library, in the Science Center, with the hand-dryer sinks. They’re pretty cool.
Once upon a time, Monet J. Lee ’19 thought she was going to be a doctor and a violinist. She studied chemistry and practised religiously. Then came college, and with it, a desire to explore that overrode her notions of what life would be. She wound up concentrating in Economics, with a secondary in Global Health and Health Policy, but she found other ways to keep music in the tempo of her life: classes. Case in point: we’re sitting in Paine Hall, the Music Department concert building, and one of Lee’s favorite hideaways — and we’re talking about echolocation, dancing, and The Smiths.
What’s been your favorite class at Harvard? 
A seminar on Alvin Lucier, who’s this modern composer. It’s taught by Professor Claire Chase, who’s this superstar flutist in the [music] department. It’s very modern music, the weird shit you would listen to and think, “That’s not music at all.” The first day, I remember my professor was like, “I gave you dot clickers. I want you to close your eyes and pretend you’re a bat listening to echolocation, listening to the interactions between sound and space.” It was very weird — I was like, “What the hell is this?” It was just a really unique experience; it completely undermined my expectations of what music is.
Describe your dancing style.
Painfully awkward but entertaining. I love ’80s music. I’m really into “Take on Me” by A-ha. David Bowie. Devo. The cheesy songs that your parents listened to, which my parents would always play at home. Really weird, but I’m not a good dancer.
Which celebrity do you want to play you in the movie of your life?
I’d say Joseph Gordon-Levitt, because the roles that he plays — I’m thinking “500 Days of Summer,” where he’s this romantic, this huge idealist — I think that’s me. He overthinks the little things. It’s either him or Zooey Deschanel in “500 Days of Summer.” I’m thinking of someone who’s kind of quirky, but also loves The Smiths.
Sofia Shchukina ’19 is, to a certain extent, a stereotypical Harvard student. She is an Economics concentrator who interned for McKinsey & Company during her junior summer, and she will be returning to work for them following graduation. Her background, however, is anything but. Shchukina grew up in Russia and attended school in England from age 12 onward, and is fully bilingual in Russian and English — but dabbles in other languages as well. FM sat down with Shchukina to learn more about economic crises and the aspirations of her nine-year-old self.
What is your thesis about? 
My thesis is on financial crises.
Awesome, not that they’re awesome, obviously, but that’s super interesting.
No, that’s exactly how I feel researching them. You go through the country samples, and you’re like “Wow, no crises, this is so boring.” And then you’re like “Uh, that’s good, that’s really really good. No crises.”
When you were a kid, what did you think you’d be like at this age?
I was always a pretty ambitious kid, which is probably a typical thing for Harvard people, but at seven… I really wanted to be a writer for a while, so I thought I’d honestly make it by age 14. It would be a massive disappointment if you told my seven-year-old self, here I am, 21, no one knows my name.
What HUDS food best represents your personality?
If I had to pick a dhall food to embody me, it would 100 percent be the HUDS grilled chicken breast. A) because I’m pretty boring and basic like it, but B) because I literally eat it every day and it’s literally a joke with the people at the grill. They like see me and they’re like “chicken?”
When he speaks to you, whether asking or answering a question, Alan D. Estrada ’19 repeats a hand gesture reminiscent of a soft point. It’s not aggressive, as if he’s singling you out, but it’s also not vague — it’s a milder version of a “gotcha” pose, and it draws you in. An Applied Math concentrator, Estrada grounded himself at Harvard through his faith and involvement in community service. When he laughs, he takes his glasses off to laugh with his whole face. 
What’s a class at Harvard that changed the way you think about something?
For quantitative thinking, [STAT 110: Introduction to Probability] definitely changed my perspective on how to solve problems and view the world inside that lens. In terms of morals, the one course that really helped me was [VES 150: Intermediate Film Production], and I think the most important thing I took out of it was learning to listen, to pay attention to things and slow down… To be able to pick up on the little things that some people might find insignificant.
Where do you see yourself ten years down the road?
I think I’m probably going to be in the technology field, but I know I’ll still be helping people.
Can you describe your dancing style?
You should ask my friends that question… I don’t care how I look when I dance, if that tells you anything.
What advice would you give to a friend starting Harvard as a freshman?
Be intentional about the things you do. Don’t let cynicism in. It’s an easy thing to pick up on, pretty quickly. But good things are always going to happen. This is definitely rooted inside of my faith.
If you were a HUDS food, what would you be?
Clam chowder.
What’s something you’re proud of?
I’m really proud of taking risks in my education. I think it paid off, in being able to go into something not knowing what it was going to be like. And taking really challenging classes helped me to dig deeper.
It’s 8 p.m. on the last Thursday of classes when I met Zuneera Shah ’19 in the Smith Center, at the tables by Bon Me. The people sitting around us are either typing quickly and staring into their computer screens or slumped in their chairs — everyone seems to be capitalizing on a second-wind or waiting for one. But, somehow, Shah is still bubbly and smiling at the end of the week (and the end of the semester). She’s headed off-campus the following morning and gone until Monday night, but she still makes time to sit down for a couple questions with FM. 
If you could have four people at a dinner, living or dead, who would it be?
I think I’ll have coffee just because dinner is too fancy, and I would have to be fancy. But coffee is chill. I think I would want to definitely have bell hooks... Then Frida Kahlo, just because I think she’s really fantastic and was unapologetically herself. And then… this is hard! I would have to say Jhumpa Lahiri. Oh, and Arundhati Roy — two of my favorite South Asian writers.
If you were an ice cream flavor what would you be and why? 
I think I would be something not too flashy and not too sweet but also really good. Not cookie dough. Strawberry? No, too fruity. Pistachio? Too specific. I think I would be hazelnut. It’s kind of classic, but it’s also really yummy and also has an interesting flavor. Author's note: Fifteen minutes after the interview, Shah texts me, rethinking her ice cream flavor. I really want to be rocky road because there’s a lot goin’ on in it, but it all comes together in the end which is pretty much my life.
What’s your dream scenario for you in ten years?
I don’t really know occupationally. I’m a senior so I should have more perspective but I really don’t. I mean I could say that in ten years if I was a writer and just chilling writing and having a nice time living in a nice warm place.
What’s something you’re tired of?
People asking me what my future plans are.
What would you title your autobiography?
“I Don’t Know How I Made it Here.”
What’s something you won’t be doing in ten years?
Hopefully I will not be Snapchatting. That would be sad.
If you could tell all Harvard students one thing, what would you tell them?
I would tell them to calm the fuck down. We all need to chill, seriously.
Correction: Dec. 8, 2018
A previous version of this article incorrectly indicated that Hernan A. Cepeda '18-'19 moved to Austin, Texas in third grade. In fact, he moved to Houston, Texas in third grade.
—Andrew W. D. Aoyama, Katie C. Berry, Anna Kate E. Cannon, Jensen E. Davis, Sonia F. Epstein, Vivekae M. Kim, Norah M. Murphy, Nina H. Pasquini, Drew C. Pendergrass, Emma C. Scornavacchi, Abigail L. Simon, David H. Xiang, and Luke W. Xu contributed reporting.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Both the No. 2 men’s squash team (4-0, 1-0 Ivy) and the No. 1 women’s squash team (1-0, 1-0) handily defeated Dartmouth (No. 7 in men’s, No. 10 in women’s) to begin their Ancient Eight seasons.
“Dartmouth is a strong team this year, so we definitely wanted to kick [the Ivy League season] off on the right note and get a decisive win,” men’s sophomore Sam Scherl said. “The rest of the team and I were just really focused today, and ready to get the job done.”
The Crimson men’s squad won eight matches, conceding just one to the Big Green (3-1, 0-1). The top six Harvard players — in order, freshman Victor Crouin, freshman Marwan Tarek, junior Timmy Brownell, Scherl, freshman George Crowne, and junior Sean Hughes — each emerged victorious from their respective matches three games to none.
Crouin, the Crimson’s number one player, cited getting off to a strong start as the factor that propelled him to a sweep victory in the inaugural match of his career.
“The first few points of the first game were important,” the Var, France native said. “I showed [my opponent] that I was not going to give him anything. I did well in the first game, which gave me a confidence boost for the rest of the match.”
Crouin added about his debut, “It was my first match for the team, so I was really happy to play and I wanted to do well. It was great to get a point for the team.”
Scherl, Harvard’s number four player, agreed with the importance of getting off to a hot start, and added that maintaining that performance is what allowed him to pick up his decisive win.
“Coming out strong is always important,” he offered. “[So is] keeping the intensity up through the match, not giving your opponent anything to work with, and keeping your foot on the gas. [My opponent] was a strong player, but I kept him under control.”
The team will look to use this set of matches as a springboard as it considers the rest of the season that lies ahead.
“The most important part of our season is January through February,” said Scherl, the South Orange, N.J., native. “Right now, we’re just ramping up and making sure that we’re not leaving anything on the court this year.”
On the women’s side, the Crimson was equally dominant against Dartmouth (1-2, 0-1), if not more so. The team won all nine of its matches, and all but one were taken three games to none. Each of the Crimson’s top six players — in order, senior Sabrina Sobhy, juniors Gina Kennedy and Amelia Henley, senior Kayley Leonard, junior Eleonore Evans, and senior Sophie Mehta — won in straight games.
Henley, much like Scherl did on the men’s side, saw unwavering play as the impetus for her victory.
“[My opponent] was definitely a solid player — she ran a lot and she received a lot of balls — so I had to be consistent with my game and keep up the pressure,” she commented. “I couldn’t step back at all; I had to be on my game.”
Henley, as did much of the women’s squad, certainly dictated play on the court. Effective timing of cross-court shots ensured that her opponent was constantly moving around and gave her the upper hand in the match. Even so, she viewed shot placement as something that the team as a whole could further improve upon.
“We’re working on being more creative and attacking,” Henley added. “It’s still being patient and not trying to win too early, but we’re working on our game at the front. I’ve been working on my deception, so a pivotal moment for me was when I hit cross-court from the front and [my opponent] ran in the opposite direction.”
Coming off of a national championship win last season, the women’s team looks to keep up its ability to outlast opponents on the court.
“We’ve been doing well with our fitness and our strength,” said Henley, the Kent, United Kingdom native. “We’re all really fit and ready to have a long, hard match. We want to be able to carry on longer than the other teams, and I think that proved true last season. When it got close, it seemed like our team was the one that could consistently keep up a good level of play even when we were tired.”
After a winter hiatus, both the men’s and women’s teams will pick up the season at home in the Murr Center. The women have a doubleheader against Stanford and Cornell, while the men are scheduled for a single matchup against Cornell.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
