Sections
Before he downloaded The League, Cesar A. Villavicencio ’18 was disillusioned with dating apps. He had gone on date after date, shifting from Tinder to Grindr to Bumble and back, but the connections all felt “shoddy.”
“There was a point where I was becoming almost a serial dater, and there might have been a lot of great connections that I might have missed because I was so jaded from the process,” Villavicencio, an inactive Crimson business editor, says. He was looking for something meaningful, something that the routine of swipe-right-and-repeat lacked.
Villavicencio’s search led him to The League, a dating app increasingly popular among Harvard students that aims to deliver you from the Sisyphean rolodex of uninspired bachelors and bachelorettes on Tinder. Its motto is “Meet. Intelligently,” which tells you a lot about The League’s approach to dating apps, its appeal to the students of the Ivy League whose name it echoes, and why it has faced numerous allegations of elitism.
The basic premise of The League is exclusivity. Users are selected through a rolling application for “ambition”—a quality determined from your Facebook and LinkedIn (yes, actually)—and matches are created by an algorithm that factors in interests and career goals. You get three curated matches a day, unless you want to pay $249 for The League’s annual membership, which gives you an impressive two additional matches per day.
According to Janet J. Ho ’19, who interned at The League as a product manager last summer, the app’s mission is to create “power-couples,” which makes the careful selection of matches essential.
“I think that’s their mission,” Ho says. “To be the anti-Tinder and to be the anti-hookup culture and to really show you people who are serious about dating and serious about finding someone else to be the other half of their power couple.”
It’s a mission that works for Villavicencio, who says the slow pace of The League forms a nice break from the profuse impersonalities of what he calls the Usual Dating Apps.
“It just makes every single match a little bit more special, every single date a little more special,” he says.
But there are costs to more meaningful connections, at least in The League’s Theory of Dating. When you sign up, you indicate your height, race, and religion. When you start using the app, you can filter matches by these same characteristics, which is an approach that seems to request controversy. But don’t worry—you’ll get filtered too.
Ho says these filters are “not really discriminatory,” but rather “knowing what you want.”
“They really want their users to be picky and to really have an idea of what they want,” she says. “They basically want to build off of that and hand-deliver you people that they think you’re actually going to date and make a connection with.”
Villavicencio seems less comfortable with filters, especially the race one. But he says discrimination can be seen as a natural preference in dating, which is “unfortunately more reflective of our society and culture rather than anything that’s inherent about The League.”
“Even if you don’t allow to filter by this, people are still going to be doing that,” he says.
Other students, though, say there is something nonetheless unsettling about the instantiation of discriminatory sexual preferences into a dating app that prides itself on exclusivity.
Brandon N. Wachs ’18, who is on the The League’s 13,000 person long Boston waitlist—there is a waitlist; are you surprised?—says he finds The League’s heavy emphasis on exclusivity “concerning.”
“The whole premise of it to me kind of screams very Charles-Murray-Bell-Curvey, you know what I mean? The elite will just stay with the elite,” Wachs says.
Wachs hasn’t used the app yet (“I just wanted to see what it was,” he says, repeating the curiosity common to everyone I interviewed), but he understands why it might appeal to Harvard students who want partners who understand the pressures they face. Still, he maintains that The League’s “pretentious” marketing is the wrong way to approach the issue.
“The whole thing is like ‘This is an elite group,’” Wachs adds. “To me it seems like everything within the Ivy league that you don’t want, that makes people kind of pretentious a-holes.”
Ho argues accusations of elitism are misguided. The League’s admissions system, she says, is open to people from all sorts of backgrounds, to the beautiful and the damned and everyone in between.
“It doesn’t really discriminate against you based on where you came from or what your background is. If you’ve made a name for yourself and are successful, then The League has its right to choose to draft you into the app,” Ho says. She says it is not so different from Harvard’s own admissions system.
And for all of its ambitions of becoming the “anti-Tinder,” The League might not even be so different from its lowbrow nemesis, at least to Harry H. Hager ’21. Hager says he downloaded The League over winter break because he was “bored.” He expected to see “a resume with a face on it,” but instead, found only “standard dating profile things”: pictures, a bio, and the option to swipe left or right.
“It’s like Tinder but much slower,” Hager says. “It’s so slow! You only get to see three people a day. It’s awful.”
— Magazine writer Luke W. Xu  can be reached at luke.xu@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @duke_of_luke_.
Sections
The alumni of three MIT classes—1885, ’86, and ’87—were marching down Huntington Avenue, en route to their annual reunion at Boston’s Symphony Hall, when they began to sing.
You can’t make crimson out of cardinal and gray
As Tech goes marching on.
We don’t give a damn for H-a-a-arvud
As Tech goes marching on.
It was June of 1904, and the alumni were swept up in a controversial plan to merge MIT—then known as Boston Tech—with Harvard University. Their song, sung to the tune of the Civil War ditty “John Brown’s Body,” was a battle cry for independence.
This was not the first plan for a Harvard-MIT merger. Beginning just a year after MIT’s inception in 1861, Harvard introduced several proposals to combine the two schools. Forty-two years later, the schools were considering their sixth alliance attempt, and it looked like this one might actually succeed.
Harvard’s science programs had long been struggling. In 1847, the textile magnate Abbott Lawrence donated $50,000—the largest sum the University had yet received from an individual—to establish a school devoted to “the practical application of science.”
Lawrence was an industrialist, and he saw the increasing economic importance of the applied sciences. He believed that thus far, higher education in America had “been somewhat neglectful in the cultivation” of “men of action,” whose “hard hands [were] ready to work upon hard materials.”
The Lawrence Scientific School was founded a year later. However, it did not become the technical school Lawrence had envisioned. Instead, classes were mainly dedicated to studying the pure sciences, and the year-long engineering program suffered from low enrollment and even lower graduation rates.
Harvard’s educational philosophy still largely espoused the ideals of “learning for learning’s sake.” Theodore Lyman (class of 1855), a wealthy zoologist and Lawrence School graduate, expressed this sentiment in an 1868 letter to his first cousin, Charles W. Eliot (class of 1853). As quoted by Bruce Sinclair in a 1992 essay, “Harvard, MIT, and the Ideal Technical Education,” Lyman writes, “The moment a chemist tells me that such and such facts apply to the manufacture of a thing, there I say goodbye, for of practical things I have more than enough in my daily life.”
Eliot’s views differed. Though he possessed deep, familial ties to Harvard, Eliot was MIT’s professor of chemistry—much to the disdain of relatives like Lyman. He promoted MIT’s new technical education in a widely-read essay titled “The New Education,” published in the Atlantic Monthly in 1869.
“The New Education” helped illustrate the chasm that was developing in educational theory post-Industrial Revolution. On one side stood Harvard: ancient, classical, patrician, a place that, as one MIT alumnus wrote later, “turns out philosophers, capable indeed of becoming tools of the very highest class, but only by means of several more years of training.”
On the other side stood institutions like MIT, just in their infancy, with visions of learning driven by an ideal of practicality. The new technical education would be focused, economical, and decidedly American.
In the same year that he published “The New Education,” Eliot was chosen as Harvard’s next president—on a split vote. He was deeply troubled by the struggling Lawrence School, which had one-third the enrollment of the fledgling MIT, chartered only eight years prior. His solution: incorporate MIT into Harvard.
To MIT’s founder, William B. Rogers, the plan was an “annexation” and “suicide.” While MIT could certainly have benefited from Harvard’s funds, resources, faculty members, and influence, it would lose “its essential character,” as bemoaned in an MIT document, “Considerations Bearing Upon the Proposed Agreement.”
“Why [should] the Institute... sacrifice the traditions and independence which have made her what she is, to enter an atmosphere that has proven stifling and soporific to her rival,” the report questioned, referring to the failing Lawrence School.
Proponents at Harvard argued that a technical education could benefit from the influence of the liberal arts, but MIT rebuffed arguments promoting “well-roundedness”—a disagreement that circled back to the dispute Eliot had examined in “The New Education.”
“Their minds would be confused by the conflict between the ideals of the two institutions,” one MIT alumnus wrote in 1904.
Another condemned this “great intimacy” more bluntly: “If [the plan] is carried out the students at Technology will lose their studious habits by contact with the frivolous influences of college undergraduates.”
MIT’s opposition held strong during the first 30 years of Eliot’s presidency, but the situation changed at the start of the 20th century. Gordon McKay, a multi-millionaire with an engineering background, decided to leave Harvard a massive four million dollar bequest. Now MIT’s president, Henry S. Pritchett, reconsidered the merger.
By April 1904, the infuriated MIT alumni association circled a petition requesting that MIT “entertain no proposition to unite, ally or associate itself in any way, financial or otherwise, with any other educational body.” By May, less than a month before alumni would rally in the streets against “H-a-a-arvud,” the petition had received 1,637 responses—of which only eight supported the merger.
A majority of the trustees from both schools were ready to proceed with the plan, but much to the relief of MIT alumni, it was never actualized. Its success was contingent upon MIT’s sale of its existing campus in Boston’s Back Bay, in favor of the present-day location of Harvard’s Business School; however, in September of 1905, the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court ruled that selling the Back Bay lands violated the original land grant to MIT, and the merger failed.
In abridged accounts of the MIT-Harvard clash, this is where the story ends. But in reality, by 1909, Harvard and MIT each had new presidents. Pritchett resigned three months after the plan’s demise, and a clean slate was set for re-negotiating an alliance.
By this time, MIT had long outgrown its Boston campus. Under newly-inaugurated President Richard C. Maclaurin, MIT relished in a successful fundraising campaign, which provided for purchasing new property in Cambridge.
Following this triumph, Maclaurin approached prospects of alliance with less skepticism than previous presidents had. Eliot had finally dissolved the Lawrence School in 1906, and Harvard’s new president, Abbott Lawrence Lowell (grandson Lawrence School’s namesake) was willing to shift Harvard’s engineering students, faculty, and funds to the new MIT campus and use three-fifths of the Gordon McKay income for the undergraduate engineering program.
From 1913 to 1917, Harvard and MIT operated joint degree programs, awarding approximately 300 joint bachelor degrees and 50 higher degrees in engineering. The students appeared to work collaboratively—the 1915 MIT Yearbook boasted of a new joint-publication called the Technology Monthly and Harvard Engineering Journal, which benefited from increased content and circulation under the two schools’ alliance.
Regardless, the partnership was short-lived. In 1917, the Supreme Court of Massachusetts ruled that the alliance violated McKay’s original intentions for the money to be used at Harvard. The merger, once again, was nullified.
That three classes of students graduated with joint Harvard-MIT degrees is a fact largely forgotten today. Instead, archival material from both schools focuses on the dramatic cultural clash that characterized this time period, a clash that challenged—and solidified—the identity of each institution.
Today the schools remain separate, but alternative forms of collaboration are celebrated. Just as one MIT alumnus wrote after a failed merger attempt in 1898, “As there is to be no wedding, let us hope for fruitful celibacy.”
—Magazine writer Sonia F. Epstein can be reached at sonia.epstein@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @sonia_epstein.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
It was a gritty effort right until the end on Friday night.
In a game that saw neither team lead by more than three possessions, Harvard ultimately came out on top against a visiting Brown squad at Lavietes Pavilion. Though the Crimson would lead for nearly the entire contest, neither club could seem to find its way offensively, as the Bears shot 38 percent on the night while Harvard would hardly best that mark, shooting 40 percent from the field.
Behind a career-high 21 points from sophomore guard Christian Juzang, though, the Crimson edged out Brown, 65-58. The 58 points were a season-low scoring total for the Bears.
“Coach says do whatever it takes to win, whether it means scoring zero points or, tonight, 21 points,” Juzang said. “It doesn’t really matter to me, it’s just picking your spots and making the right play and doing whatever it takes to win, tonight it just happened to be a lot of points.”
Though the Crimson would struggle at the line for much of the night, a pair of made free throws from Juzang and another set from sophomore forward Seth towns would ice the game late as Harvard earned its eighth win in conference.
DEFENSE WINS IT
Despite Brown coming off of a 91-point effort against Columbia the week before, Harvard’s defense slowed down Brown’s league-leading offense early and often.
Through the first frame, the hosts held the Bears’ high-scoring offense to just 25 points on 34 percent shooting from the field.
Despite slowing down Brown’s offense, the Crimson also struggled to find the bottom of the net, shooting 30 percent through the first frame. Behind a strong effort on the offensive glass and timely threes from Juzang and Towns, however, Harvard held onto an early lead.
“Both teams I thought struggled to get any kind of rhythm.” Harvard coach Tommy Amaker said. “I thought it was pretty obvious that neither team could get into a nice flow and rhythm, we had a few moments where we had a two-possession cushion and then could never really push it much further”
Tasked with defending Brown freshman guard Desmond Cambridge—the second-leading scorer in the conference—sophomore guard Justin Bassey came through for the Crimson on the defensive end.
After dropping a game-high 23 points in his team’s win against the Lions last week, Cambridge was held to just 10 points on 4-of-15 shooting from the field—the freshman’s lowest scoring total in nearly a month. With Bassey defending him for much of the contest, the Nashville native also struggled from beyond the arc, going just one-of-eight on the night.
“Justin’s a tough kid and he gets that assignment every game, the top offensive player on the perimeter,” Amaker said. “Just a tremendous effort from him with all the guys we have to go against and every time that he’s effective like he is against these kind of really good scorers, our chances increase dramatically to have a chance to win.”
The Crimson defense has held opponents to a league-best 66.5 points per game, a mark good for 44th best in the nation.
“They’re a really good offensive team, they normally average [78.7] points a game [entering Friday] and we held them to 58 so we did a lot of things right defensively and that’s our identity and our calling card,” Amaker said. “We knew that holding this team down would take a lot.”
AT THE LINE AND BEYOND THE ARC
Though Harvard has shot relatively poorly from three for much of the season—shooting just over 30 percent on the season—the long ball was one of the Crimson’s strong points on Friday night.
After going without a field goal for nearly five minutes during a stretch early in the first half, Harvard’s sharpshooters came alive to give Harvard an early cushion.
Between the 11:22 mark and the 7:33 mark of the first half, Juzang would nail three deep balls. A minute later, Towns would add one of his own to turn what had been a 15-11 deficit into a 23-15 lead with 6:27 to go in the first.
Much like it has through portions of the conference slate, the Crimson shot better from beyond the arc than from the field, shooting 44 percent from beyond the arc while going 40 percent from the field.
In contrast to one of its strong points throughout the season, the Crimson struggled to convert on opportunities at the line. The hosts went 17-of-26 at the line on the night. The nine missed free throws mark the most that Harvard has missed in an outing since missing 10 against MIT back in November.
“I think one of the major keys, and we talked about it before the game was who’s going be able to do the better job at the free throw line in terms of getting there and certainly converting,” Amaker said. “I knew we got a few there late based on them trying to foul us but I thought our ability to utilize the foul line was a big difference for us.”
For the Crimson, the difference at the line would be Towns. The sophomore would go to the line 12 times, converting on nine of those.
“We each have role cards and one of my roles is to get to the free throw line,” Towns said. “That’s always been a focus, I haven’t been doing it well throughout the season, but especially with the way they were calling it and how aggressive the other team was trying to deny the ball, you got to take advantage of it so I felt that was the easiest thing to do.”
The Columbus, Ohio native finished the night with a game-high 22 points on 6-of-16 shooting from the field and 3-of-5 from deep.
—Staff writer Troy Boccelli can be reached at troy.boccelli@thecrimson.com
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
With 4:34 left to play in the first half and 19 seconds on the shot clock, sophomore forward Chris Lewis caught a pass just short of the free throw line.
Having scored 14 points through the first 11 minutes of the contest, the Yale defense collapsed onto the 6’9’’ forward, but not before he found a cutting Danilo Djuricic to his right. Lewis made the pass and his freshman teammate laid in the ball in over a Yale defender to give Harvard its largest advantage of the night at 31-10.
The layup from the freshman not only capped a 17-0 run from the Crimson, but also extended a scoring drought the Bulldogs to nearly nine minutes.
A minute later Yale would finally score on a layup from junior guard Alex Copeland, but the Bulldogs (12-14, 5-5 Ivy League) would trail the rest of the way as Harvard (14-11, 9-1) would come away with the 64-49 win on Saturday night at Lavietes Pavilion. The win also clinched Harvard a spot in the conference tournament in March.
“I thought our first half defensive effort was outstanding,” head coach Tommy Amaker said. “I thought we guarded really well and had a mindset of really wanting to defend. That is a part of our identity.”
The 49 points from Yale marked a season-low while its 32 percent clip from the field marked the Bulldogs’ second-worst shooting performance of the season—second only to its 30 percent mark when the Crimson visited New Haven three weekends ago.
For Harvard, the offensive outpouring began early and came largely from Lewis. The forward scored the Crimson’s first eight points on a perfect four-of-four shooting to get Harvard off to an 8-2 lead just under three minutes into the game.
“It was just the feeds that the guards gave me,” Lewis said. “After I made the first one, I started feeling good and my teammates trusted me and they kept tossing it to me. They gave me great passes, great angles and it made it easy to score.”
In 34 minutes of action the sophomore finished with a game-high 18 points and 10 rebounds. The effort marked Lewis’ fourth career double-double.
To add to the offensive effort, the Crimson had what might be been its best offensive showing of the season through the first half. For a period of over 10 minutes from the 13:30 mark to Copeland’s layup at 3:20, Yale failed to put a point on the scoreboard. The Bulldogs made just five shots through the half, shooting just 23 percent for the frame.
“Defensively, we were getting stops, no second chance points for them and we were really just controlling the pace of the game and playing our kind of basketball,” junior guard Corey Johnson said. “It really showed in the first half, we were firing on all cylinders.”
Tasked with defending one of the conference’s best offensive players in sophomore guard Miye Oni, sophomore guard Justin Bassey rose to the task. Oni would finish the night with just seven points on 2-of-10 shooting from the field.
The offensive outpouring and gritty defense from Harvard early on would gave way to a much closer second half.
Behind some early baskets from Copeland and junior forward Blake Reynolds, Yale slowly cut down what was a lead as large as 21 in the first half. With 10:13 to play, freshman forward Paul Atkinson went to the line after being fouled by sophomore forward Seth Towns. The freshman made both to put the score at 47-38.
Nine would be as close as the Bulldogs would get, however, as a long three from sophomore guard Christian Juzang would extend the Crimson’s lead to 15 just over two minutes later.
Coming off of a career-high 21 points against Brown the night before, the Juzang followed up with another standout performance. The second-year added 13 points on 5-of-10 shooting from the field to go with a career-high eight assists.
“I think [Juzang] has been playing tremendous basketball,” Amaker said. “Really proud of how he’s been able to come in and take the reigns of the team as our quarterback, still have an aggressive mindset and also being really savvy and smart about when to pick his spots.”
The night also saw the return of captain Makai Mason for the Bulldogs. The senior guard had not seen action in nearly two years following Yale's first NCAA tournament berth since 1962 back in 2016.
The Crimson would spoil the senior’s return to the hardwood, however. Mason finished the night with eight points on 2-of-6 shooting from the field in 21 minutes. With the clock expiring and the game decided, the former Ivy League Player of the Year went to the line and missed a late free throw behind chants of “safety school” in the background.
“Our kids were doing exactly what we wanted,” Amaker said. “When it bears fruit like that, it is a huge shot in the arm for our guys.”
—Staff writer Troy Boccelli can be reached at troy.boccelli@thecrimson.com.

Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
