On a rainy day in early June 1968, thousands of spectators crammed into Sanders Theater for the annual Class Day speech. Recently widowed Coretta Scott King stood on the stage, ready to address the graduates. The crowd overflowed into Memorial Hall. The next day’s issue of The Crimson featured a photograph of Scott King on the front page, beaming and holding a bouquet of roses.
Coretta Scott King has not originally planned to occupy that stage. Members of the senior class had chosen her husband, Martin Luther King Jr., to speak at the event, and he had accepted the invitation. But just two months before Class Day, Martin Luther King Jr. was assassinated in Memphis, Tenn., where he had been preparing to march on behalf of striking Memphis sanitation workers.
Coretta Scott King took the stage at a fraught political moment. People across the country were reeling after her husband’s death. The war in Vietnam was in full swing. A fierce presidential race was underway, complicated by the assassination of Robert F. Kennedy ’48, which happened shortly before Coretta Scott King addressed the Class of 1968.
 
Harvard, like many other college campuses, was a hub of political activism in the late ’60s, with sit-ins and marches dominating headlines in The Crimson. On June 12, 1968, Coretta Scott King addressed a campus disillusioned by the draft and a spate of political violence.
Thomas P. Southwick ’71, one of many Crimson editors who covered the race activism after Martin Luther King Jr.’s death, said these assassinations “were probably as much as a shock and an awakening and a disillusionment as Pearl Harbor was for my father's generation.”
“We believed in Harvard as a force for good in an institution that advanced good causes. And I think a lot of our illusions were shattered that spring,” he added. “We knew it was significant, we knew it was making history, and we knew the eyes of the world were upon us.”
Before 1968, Class Day was reserved for skits and orations from speakers chosen by administrators. The Class of 1968 was the first to select its speaker. The handful of seniors who selected Martin Luther King Jr. sought an orator who would address “questions of war and peace” and “to dramatize the singularity of a year in which many seniors face immediate induction,” according to the announcement published in The Crimson.
Martin Luther King Jr. was slated to speak about “Asian conflict and urban crisis," in the words of the Class Committee. When the committee confirmed his widow to speak in his place, The Crimson reported that “Mrs. King's remarks may be brief, and the Committee may change its plans for the speech.”
Class Day would not have been the first time Martin Luther King Jr. had spoken at Harvard; He was a guest preacher at Harvard’s Memorial Church during the 1959-1960 academic year and delivered a lecture at Harvard Law School in 1962.
One of his more high-profile visits to Harvard fell during January 1965, just months after he received the Nobel Peace Prize, when among other things, he “declared that Negroes must turn to political action, as well as demonstrations, in the fight for racial justice,” The Crimson reported.
And April 1968 was not the first time Coretta Scott King spoke for her husband. She was quoted in The Crimson saying, “Whenever it was impossible for my husband to be in a place where he wanted to be and felt he needed to be, he occasionally sent me to stand in for him.”
Class Orator Henry Norr ’68 introduced Coretta Scott King at the ceremony. In his introductory remarks, Norr addressed perceptions of the Vietnam generation.
“If our generation in general, and the movement in particular, have to be described in a word or two, I would call them not a nihilistic generation but above all else a moral generation,” Norr said. “In this time of perpetual crisis and recurrent tragedy, a desperately moral generation.”
The guest of honor spoke on similar themes.
“In a power-drunk world, where means become ends, and violence becomes a favorite pastime, we are swiftly moving toward self-annihilation,” Coretta Scott King said to the crowd of soon-to-be graduates before her. “Your generation must speak out with righteous indignation against the forces which are seeking to destroy us.”
She lauded the spirit of political advocacy at Harvard and other campuses, and encouraged the students to recognize their own political power.
“Today’s student is now recognized as a significant political actor with amazing power to influence the course of societies all over the world,” she said. “I am a religious person in the most unqualified sense of the word but I will say emphatically that there is more moral vitality and honest searching for values of life animating the campuses today than can be found in our churches.”
On May 24 of this year, the day before Commencement, Nigerian author Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie will address the Class of 2018. Members of the Class of 1968 will also be on campus, celebrating their 50th reunion.
Jerry G. Nelluvelil ’18, a senior class marshal and co-chair of the committee that selected the speaker, said Adichie’s selection was partially “in response to last year it being two white men–the Commencement and Class Day speakers–and just understanding that because this is a ‘momentous’ occasion, wanting to be able to honor the memory of what happened 50 years ago.”
Adichie is best known for her novel, “Americanah” and a TED talk called “We Should All Be Feminists.” Nelluvelil said her work contributes the “conversation of race, gender—all sorts of intersectionality becoming more of a global discussion.”
“When Coretta Scott King was speaking, it was an incredibly intense moment for our national history,” he said. “Adichie helps us see that we shouldn’t just see how the world is but what we want the world to be. From Coretta’s time to now, some things have definitely changed, but there are a lot of other things that still need to be done, and I think that one of those things is in the realm of gender equality.”
—Staff writer Devin B. Srivastava can be reached at devin.srivastava@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @thebigsriv.
Sections
The Carpenter Center for the Visual Arts cuts a striking figure next to the traditional, red-brick charisma of Harvard Yard. Made entirely of unfinished concrete, the Center features sharp edges and sloping curves that somehow cohere into a neat structure tucked in between the Fogg Art Museum and the Faculty Club.
“Carpenter Center has no real front or back—its axis [is] diagonal to Quincy Street and entrance buried in the middle,” wrote one Crimson reporter in a 1967 feature about Harvard’s architecture.
Today, the Center is home to the Visual and Environmental Studies concentration, exhibition spaces, and the Harvard Film Archive.
Allotted a cramped, uneven space between Quincy and Prescott streets, the Center posed a challenge to design. This tremendous task was undertaken by Charles-Édouard Jeanneret, known as Le Corbusier—a celebrated modern architect and a former mentor to Josep Lluís Sert, who was then dean of the Graduate School of Design. Le Corbusier collaborated with Chilean architect Guillermo Jullian de la Fuente on the project.
The Center first opened to University students in 1963, a year after its completion, and was set to house Harvard’s nascent visual arts program. The class of 1968, which arrived in Cambridge in the fall of 1964, was one of the first to take advantage of this facility and the spaces and equipment it offered.
Alex Krieger, a professor at the Graduate School of Design, said the avant-garde architecture and hands-on artmaking ethos “would have been a little shocking” for the first students to take classes in the Carpenter Center. Krieger was a friend and colleague to Eduard F. Sekler, the first director of the Center.
“As you enter the building, walk past it on the sidewalks, and especially when you use that curious ramp, you are aware of art,” Krieger said. “You can observe it all.”
Faced with a stagnating department that was being outpaced by an explosive American art scene, Harvard decided to revamp its art program in 1954. The University assembled a committee of professors and art professionals to direct the future of the arts at Harvard.
Two years later, the committee released a report on the state of the visual arts at Harvard, and urged the University to “reëxamine its relation to the artist”—in particular, the artists on its campus.
“It is a curious paradox that, highly as the university esteems the work of art, it tends to take a dim view of the artist as an intellectual,” the committee’s report read.
The committee hoped to revive Harvard’s waning Department of Fine Arts by splitting it in two. The existing Department of Fine Arts was renamed History of Art because of its historical focus, while the proposed new program would champion the practice of art.
The committee anticipated that “the new Design Center, then, would stand as Harvard’s visible recognition of the importance of the living artist.” The forward-looking Design Center—which would later be named the Carpenter Center after its donors—would be a complement to the historically oriented Fogg Museum.
“Photography, film and television—whether used by the artist or by the advertising agent—can no longer be treated as marginal in a university that assumes its full responsibility towards its own academic community,” Sekler wrote in a Statement of Purposes for the building in 1963.
The steps first outlined by the committee were just the beginning, Sekler wrote. They were “the seeds of a programme with a potential for growth at a rate which is hard to foretell.”
And in the spirit of modern architecture, the form of the building followed its function. Krieger said then-University President Nathan M. Pusey ’28 “wanted to bring it into the twentieth century as opposed to remaining in an ancient tradition.”
“That included bringing the arts and contemporary artists to the University. It also had to do with bringing modern architecture,” Krieger said.
In Le Corbusier, Harvard found a modern architect suitable to its modern program.
With its sweeping curves and geometrical heaps of reinforced concrete, the Carpenter Center—the only building in the U.S. designed by Le Corbusier—has not only served as a facility for artistic production, but is also a work of art in its own right.
In Feb. 1963, a 45-member group of Harvard faculty and others drafted and signed a letter addressed to the Corporation lauding the new arts center and its chief architect.
“In selecting Le Corbusier you chose not a safe and familiar figure but the man you considered the most distinguished designer anywhere,” the letter read. “As a result, Harvard has been rewarded with a daring and distinguished building.”
 
Marking a radical departure from the puritan symmetry of the majority of the buildings in Harvard Yard, the Carpenter Center presents an asymmetrical network of pillars, platforms, and geometric frames bisected by a long, winding ramp.
An article published by Time Magazine in March of 1963 titled “The Hand and the Head” celebrated the Center’s architectural novelty in Cambridge. “Like all of Le Corbusier’s later masterpieces, the building is as free as sculpture. From every angle it offers fresh surprises,” the article read.
On both the inside and the outside, the entire structure is unified by its substance: untreated, unpainted concrete—an important material in both modern architecture and Le Corbusier’s artistic career.
Sekler wrote about Le Corbusier’s building in “Connection,” Harvard’s former journal of design, in 1963. The Carpenter Center, “by its mere presence, should inspire and stimulate visual awareness and creative activity,” Sekler wrote. “In bringing together ‘the hand and the head’,” the building would achieve its artistic unity.
At the $1,500,000 center’s dedication in May 1963, donor Alfred V. Carpenter told attendees, “This is your building— use it and enjoy it.”
While the committee that envisioned the Carpenter Center had philosophical concerns about teaching art, they also had practical ones. Committee members lamented “the relative lack of interest from Harvard College in practice courses offered by the Department of Fine Arts.”
“Among the results of our recommendations, we should expect an increase in participation by Harvard undergraduates in the visual arts program,” they wrote.
This goal of increasing engagement with art is visible in the design of the building: a ramp which bisects the entire building and reaches towards those on the outside.
“The ramp links the building in a very special way to its surroundings, into which it extends as in a welcoming gesture,” Sekler wrote.
Krieger said the empty space where the Carpenter Center now stands used to be a shortcut for Cambridge Rindge and Latin students between the Harvard Square T stop and the school. When he observed this existing function of the space, Le Corbusier decided to embellish the shortcut rather than obstructing it with his building, Krieger said.
“Now the walk wouldn’t be an empty piece of land against the blank walls of Harvard buildings,” Krieger said. “The ramp would allow kids to enter into the artistic world.”

News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
In his inaugural address this January, newly elected Cambridge Mayor Marc C. McGovern told the crowd of assembled Cantabrigians about his youth soccer team, Cambridge United.
“As a team, we were a true representation of the  Cambridge community,” McGovern said in the address. “We were proud of our diversity and our common goals.”
“When I thought about what I wanted for us moving forward, that team name kept coming to mind. Cambridge United,” he added.
Calling on his youth experiences as a Cambridge United soccer player, McGovern said he has a vision to bring Cambridge residents together.
“My goal for this term is to really move Cambridge to being a much more socially and economically just community,” McGovern said in a May interview. “I talked in my inauguration speech about Cambridge United because sometimes I feel that we don’t always live the progressive values that we say that we have.”
McGovern’s first 150 days have kept him busy. Already, he has grappled with what many consider an “affordable housing crisis” in the city and responded to an arrest of a black Harvard student by the Cambridge Police Department that sparked allegations of police brutality.
McGovern has lived in Cambridge his entire life, describing himself as “Cambridge-centric.”
At times, Cambridge can seem divided, McGovern said. He said residents of the city experience vastly differing rates of social and economic mobility, likening the situation to a “‘Tale of Two Cities.”
“You have Harvard and MIT, Google and Facebook and Amazon—all these multi-hundred million dollar institutions and companies,” he said. “But we also have a poverty rate that’s higher than the state average, death by overdose has doubled in the last year, and we have upwards of 500 people in our streets and in our shelters who are homeless every night.”
Yet according to McGovern, Cambridge is in a unique position to change the disparities amongst its residents.
“We have incredible financial resources, we have incredible institutional resources, we have some of the smartest people in the world living here,” he said.
“Next to my family, it’s everything. I love this city. I’m not the most well-travelled guy, but I’ve never wanted to live anywhere else. What I love about this city is that we’re not perfect, but we’re willing to work to be perfect,” he added.
McGovern’s co-workers on the Cambridge City Council—who were responsible for electing him into office—attest to his love of the city.
First-time City Councillor Alanna M. Mallon praised McGovern’s ability to “keep things moving.”
“The mayor is really the person that keeps things moving, and so I have a tremendous amount of respect for the job that he’s done in his first mayoral term to keep things moving, to keep things positive, and to keep us on track,” she said.
Wilford “Wil” Durbin, the mayor’s chief of staff, said that McGovern’s “compassion” is his driving force.
“Whether it’s with working with people that are homeless or people that are suffering from the opioid epidemic, I think compassion is the number one lens that he views everything through,” Durbin said.
McGovern knew from the start that one issue would dominate his two-year term. All 26 candidates that ran for Cambridge City Council this past November promised to address one of the city’s most pressing issues: affordable housing.
The nine elected members of the Council including McGovern now have the opportunity to live up to their campaign promises. McGovern, who has dealt with housing policy throughout his time in public office, called the city’s lack of affordable housing a “supply and demand issue.”
“A city needs to get to a vacancy rate of 5.5 percent. When you hit 5.5 percent of available apartments, you start to see rents come down. Cambridge was at about a little under 2 percent a couple years ago, we’re now at about 3 percent,” he said.
Throughout Cambridge’s history, Mcgovern said, the city's diverse population has formed as a result of changing industries. Historically, a host of workers from farmers to candy-shop owners to firehose producers have called Cambridge home.
More recently, biotech and pharmaceutical companies have been flocking to Cambridge—especially Kendall Square. Yet McGovern said that the innovation industry’s arrival could mean the outbidding of other residents—and the challenge of preventing such  displacement.
“Those people are coming whether people in Cambridge want them to or not. And they’re making good salaries,” McGovern said. “They’re either going to outbid a teacher for the apartment that’s currently available or you have to supply more housing.”
Even as Vice Mayor last year, McGovern worked to mitigate the effects of the affordable housing crisis. In April 2017, the City Council unanimously passed an ordinance raising the percentage of units that developers are required to set aside as affordable from 15 percent to 20 percent.
The City Council also recently raised incentive zoning that requires commercial developers to pay a contribution towards affordable housing for every square foot in their new building. According to McGovern, the contribution amount now sits at $15 per square foot, which is “generating millions of more dollars” that the city can use to fund housing.
To increase affordable housing, McGovern has proposed a number of policies including an affordable housing overlay, which gives developers incentives for affordable housing as well as tenant protections and tenant stabilizations to protect against evictions.
McGovern also suggested that Harvard and MIT could potentially help alleviate high demand on housing. Without incentivized housing from universities, graduate students often search for market rate housing, which may prevent residents from entering the market, he said.
“If you have four graduate school students that want to rent a 2 bedroom apartment and they double up, and they’re willing to pay $1,000 each, and that landlord can get $4,000, a family can’t compete with that,” he said.
As Cambridge works to increase the available affordable housing stock, McGovern said there are steps the city can take in the meantime to mitigate the inaccessibility of existing housing. He suggested the possibility of a “gap voucher” which would pay for the remaining rent not covered by income or federally subsidized funds like Section 8.
“With the ceiling for Section 8 and the floor for market rent, there’s a gap. So even people with housing vouchers cannot afford market rent housing in Cambridge,” McGovern said.
While addressing the affordable housing crisis was a foreseeable task for McGovern, the forcible arrest of a black Harvard undergraduate last month unexpectedly brought Cambridge into a national debate over race and policing.
On April 13 Cambridge Police Department officers arrested the student, who was standing off-campus—outside of the area over which Harvard University Police Department has primary jurisdiction, though only feet from Harvard Law School.
After CPD officers arrived at the scene, they spoke briefly with the student, who was naked and likely under the influence of narcotics, before one officer tackled the student to the ground and delivered five punches to the student’s stomach in an effort to handcuff him, according to a CPD police report.
In a video of the incident later published by CPD, the student can be seen standing still, surrounded by four officers, while the officers talk to him for several seconds. The student then turns around and takes two steps towards one officer before taking a step back and raising his arms to chest-level. Another officer then tackles the student from behind.
Hours after the arrest, the Harvard Black Law Students Association released a statement calling the incident an example of “police brutality.” In the following weeks, University affiliates met to process and protest the incident, and University President Drew G. Faust announced the formation of a committee to review the events leading up to the arrest.
Three days after the arrest, McGovern released a statement calling the arrest "disturbing."
“We have high standards for our police officers in Cambridge,” the statement read.
Earlier this month, McGovern came to Harvard to speak at an event in Sever Hall and took questions from students, including a question about the arrest.

In his response, he questioned the use of force used by CPD in the arrest, specifically the decision to punch the student.
“I’ve been a certified trainer in crisis prevention, the CPI, Crisis Prevention Institute which is all about the escalation and then the second component is about to restrain people. I’ve been a certified trainer in that for 25 years and never seen a training that punching is part of the curriculum,” McGovern said at the event.
At the event, McGovern also spoke about how CPD was “pissed” at him for his response to the incident. In an interview last week, McGovern said that he think his relationship with Cambridge is “fine” and that the police commissioner was “very supportive,” though he continued to describe the event as “disturbing.”
“That was disturbing. That was disturbing for the young man who was restrained. That was disturbing for the police officers,” McGovern said. “They don’t want to do that.”
McGovern also said he wants to ensure the police continue to hold themselves to a high standard.
“It’s all about making sure we have a police department that is responsive to the community, respectful of the community,” McGovern said. “That’s not to say that we don’t have that now, but you always need to self-evaluate.”
Going forward, McGovern said he hopes to hold a “community meeting” with Harvard affiliates to discuss the incident and how the city can learn from it.
“I’ve committed to holding a community meeting that will include Harvard and Harvard students in the fall—maybe not necessarily to talk about the incident specifically, but really to talk more about how do we grow and learn from what happened and what are our policies and how do we get better,” McGovern said.
—Staff writer Patricia J. Liu can be reached at patricia.liu@thecrimson.com.
—Staff writer Aidan F. Ryan can be reached at aidan.ryan@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @AidanRyanNH.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
This weekend, Harvard softball traveled to Athens, Ga., to participate in NCAA Regionals after winning the Ivy League Championship Series over Dartmouth. The Crimson’s playoff trip was its first since 2012, when it ultimately lost to Washington, 4-0, in the final round of the regional.
CALIFORNIA 10, HARVARD 1 (5 INNINGS)
With Northwestern winning its first game over California, the Crimson (23-18, 14-7 Ivy) and the Golden Bears (35-21, 7-16 Pac-12) met for an elimination game on Saturday afternoon. California maintained a balanced attack all game, scoring two runs in each inning to cut the game short after five innings and advance to the next contest.
Golden Bears pitcher Kamalani Dung was the difference-maker, as she pitched all five innings, gave up two hits, and struck out nine batters. Dung spun a perfect game with 12 strikeouts earlier this season against UTEP.
One of the two hits against Dung was a rocket, however. Junior co-captain Kaitlyn Schiffhauer launched a high fly ball to right center in the third inning, just missing a home run by a matter of feet. Junior shortstop Rhianna Rich followed with a bloop single that dropped in behind second baseman Lindsay Rood, which allowed Schiffhauer to race home with Harvard’s lone run of the game.
After pitching an inning of scoreless relief in the team’s opening game, junior Sarah Smith got the start in its second bout. Smith tossed 1.2 innings and lost just her second game of the season.
Eight different California batters recorded hits against Harvard’s staff. Three of these hits went for extra bases, with freshman left fielder Mikayla Coelho smacking a two-run homer in the top of the first to kick off the scoring.
GEORGIA 6, HARVARD 2
No. 7 Georgia (45-11, 16-8 SEC) represented the highest-ranked team Harvard would play all season. The Crimson held its own through seven innings of play but ultimately did not manage to mount much of an offensive attack against the Bulldogs’ pitching.
Georgia jumped on the board with three runs in the bottom of the first, which would prove to be all the offense it would need for the afternoon. Sophomore second baseman Justice Milz provided some early pop, knocking a home run over the center field wall in her first at-bat.
Harvard quickly answered with two runs of its own in the top of the third. With runners on the corners and two outs, junior third baseman Erin Lockhart laced a triple to right center, scoring co-captains Schiffhauer and Maddy Kaplan.
However, the Bulldogs did not relent, adding another run in their own half of the third and two more in the bottom of the fifth. Their pair of fifth-inning tallies came courtesy of RBI doubles off the bats of sophomore third baseman Jordan Doggett and senior left fielder Cortni Emanuel.
Harvard junior southpaw Katie Duncan got the start in the circle, and she went five innings. Despite allowing 14 combined hits and walks, Duncan buckled down and only allowed six Georgia baserunners to score. Her Bulldogs counterpart Mary Wilson Avant likewise threw five frames, though she did not concede an earned run and struck out eight Crimson.
—Staff writer Jack Stockless can be reached at jack.stockless@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
