News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
UPDATED: May 22, 2018 at 6:24 p.m. 
The Harvard Alumni Association and the Board of Overseers—the University’s second highest governing body—announced the names of their new leaders Wednesday morning.
Presidential search committee member Susan L. Carney ’73 will succeed fellow searcher Scott A. Abell ’72 as president of the Board of Overseers, the University’s second highest governing body. Gwill E. York ’79 will replace searcher Tracy P. Palandjian ’93 as the Overseers’ vice chair.
Margaret M. Wang ’09 will become the youngest president in HAA history, succeeding current president Susan Morris Novick ’85.
Both Carney—a federal appeals court judge and former deputy general counsel at Yale University—and York—the co-founder and managing director of Lighthouse Capital Partners—have served on the Board of Overseers since 2013. The Overseers, comprised of alumni who serve six-year terms on the board, are elected by alumni via mail-in ballot each spring. Carney and York will serve in their respective leadership roles for the final year of their terms.
At Harvard, Carney served as the past president of the Harvard Law Association of Washington D.C. and a former co-chair of the schools committee of the Harvard Club of Washington D.C. York is currently the co-chair of the Medical School’s board of fellows and a member of the dean’s advisory group for the Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences.
University President Drew G. Faust, who will step down in June, said in a press release that Carney and York will be “of great benefit” to President-elect Lawrence S. Bacow when he takes office on July 1.
Wang, a former Winthrop House resident and joint Economics and History of Art and Architecture concentrator, has served on the HAA Board of Directors for nearly 10 years. She said in an interview she is very grateful for the opportunity to be president and for all of the guidance she has received from alumni.
“Initially I had multiple reactions I would say. On the whole, just a lot of gratitude and excitement, feeling very honored to have this opportunity and looking forward to what I think will be a very adventurous year,” Wang said.
Novik, the outgoing president, said in an interview with the Gazette that Wang’s more recent graduation will be an asset to her leadership.
“As a recent graduate, Margaret will inspire the next generation of alumni, and I look forward to her bright and dynamic leadership,” Novick said.
The Harvard Corporation—the University’s highest governing body—has yet to announce the replacement for Bacow, who joined the Corporation in May 2011. Bacow will step down from his position on the governing body when he takes office on July 1.
—Staff writer Kristine E. Guillaume can be reached at kristine.guillaume@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @krisguillaume.
—Staff writer Jamie D. Halper can be reached at jamie.halper@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @jamiedhalper.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard University Police Department arrested two College students on charges of breaking and entering, drug possession, and trespassing Monday, according to public police filings.
The undergraduates broke into the Lowell House construction site, per a public HUPD log filed May 14. An officer saw them climbing on scaffolding and spoke with them, per the report. At that point, they “admitted to having cocaine in their possession.”
Both College students “were then placed under arrest” on three charges: breaking and entering in the nighttime, possession of a controlled substance, and trespassing, according to the log.
Lowell is undergoing renovations this year and next year as part of the College’s $1 billion house renewal project.
HUPD arrested the students during their second visit to the construction site in the early hours of May 14.
Officers arrived at the site for the first time that morning at 12:44 a.m. after receiving a “report” that “a group of five individuals” had hopped the fence and “entered the construction site area,” per the report. After arriving at the scene, officers “located all 5 individuals and conducted field interviews,” then sent the individuals “on their way.”
HUPD spokesperson Steven G. Catalano did not immediately respond to a request for comment Saturday.
HUPD returned to the site at 1:15 a.m., after a “report” that individuals had “climbed the fence into the construction site area,” per the police log.
The two students arrested by HUPD were not the only ones at the construction site when officers responded to the 1:15 a.m. report. A third individual was also there, although that person did not admit to possession of cocaine, according to the police log.
That third individual was “informed that complaints are being sought against them” for breaking and entering in the nighttime and trespassing and “was sent on their way,” per the log.
—Staff writer Caroline S. Engelmayer can be reached at caroline.engelmayer@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @cengelmayer13.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
On April 10, 1968, just days after Martin Luther King Jr.’s assassination, the Harvard-Radcliffe Association for African and Afro-American Students—AFRO for short—published an advertisement in The Crimson.
“Do you mourn Martin Luther King?” the advertisement read. “Harvard can do this.”
What followed was a list of four demands for improving the experience of black students: establish an endowed chair for a black professor, establish courses relating to black students, hire more lower-level black faculty, and admit more black students to Harvard.
King’s death brought newfound attention to ongoing black student activism at Harvard, both in the pages of The Crimson and on campus more generally.
“I have found that it's not necessarily that his death either inspired greater action or deterred or discouraged us, but that we strove to focus on the ideals that he expressed,” said Willene A. Jones Johnson ’68, who was a member of AFRO as an undergraduate.
The 1968 advertisement expressed an idea similar to Johnson’s.
“The most important thing is not to mourn Rev. King but rather to advance the liberation movement of the black people in this country in the most effective manner possible,” the students wrote. “Let Harvard know that superficial solutions to complex problems will only root more deeply the frustration and hatred tearing this country apart.”
 
“Yes, Harvard is indeed a microcosm of American society—there is no place for the black man at Harvard,” they added.
Mourning and protest were intertwined: While University President Nathan M. Pusey ’28 led a service for King in Memorial Church, black students held a separate ceremony outside, on the church steps.
“I think you see in the demands, some of the frustration that we felt, and the frustrations, obviously, were largely reflecting the horror that we experienced at the loss of Dr. King,” Johnson said.
Several black alumni recalled how small Harvard’s black population was relative to the student body as a whole in the late ‘60s. The black students who were accepted, however, came from all over the country and world.
“The black experience at Harvard was not monolithic because different people came there with different backgrounds, with different expectations about both what the Harvard experience was going to be and about what their experience, uniquely black at Harvard, was going to be,” said Lee S. Smith ’69, an early member of AFRO.
 
Smith said he thought the four demands were ideas that all black students could agree upon and coalesce around.
“The demands were things that I think we all shared. There should be more students. There should be more faculty. There should more opportunities. It was universal,” Smith added.
Charles J. Hamilton Jr. ’69, a leader of this movement who often reported on race for The Crimson, said he believed that the University was responsive to black students’ grievances.
“I will tell you that the University was extremely committed to really trying to explore how to address these issues,” he said. “I can't say enough about how concerned certain members of the faculty were and the administration.”
The demands had some immediate effects. At the end of April 1968, Chase N. Peterson ’52, then the Dean of Admissions and Financial Aid, pledged to increase recruitment for black applicants. According to a document that details the history of AFRO, the number of black students “doubled” the following fall.
In response to AFRO’s demands, the University also assembled a task force called the Faculty Committee on African and Afro-American Studies, chaired by Economics Professor Henry Rosovsky. The committee consisted of just one black  professor, plus two black students who were allowed to join the committee as “observers.”
Four major recommendations came out of the Rosovsky committee. It recommended that the University create an Afro-American Cultural Center, which was established in 1969. The committee also suggested that Harvard launch an African and Afro-American Studies “program.”
This recommendation sparked frustration from students and professors because it proposed a “program” rather than a department. A program does not receive all of the benefits and institutional support that a department does.
Ephraim Isaac, who Harvard later hired as the first black professor in the African and African American Studies department, said this initial recommendation indicated that the University “wanted to treat African studies as second class.”
Students protested the “program” recommendation in April 1969, and by the end of the month the faculty had approved the students’ demands to establish Afro-American Studies as a distinct department.
Looking back to 1968 today, students, professors, and alumni have varied perspectives on how fully the University has responded to each of the demands.
Many said they think the African and African American Studies Department has come a long way since its founding.
“It took years, some real fits and starts, but Harvard was lived into these ambitions to a remarkable degree,” Professor Lawrence D. Bobo, Chair of the African and African American Studies Department, wrote in an emailed statement.
“We now have the world’s most eminent department of African and African American Studies, covering the U.S., Africa, and Afro-Latin America with a strength and depth that no one else rivals,” Bobo wrote.
Junius O. Williams ’18, an African and African American Studies concentrator, specifically pointed to the “well-regarded” faculty that have helped push African and African American studies into the limelight.
“I think that the perception on campus about African and American Studies is definitely changing,” he said.
But even though the AAAS department has seen major developments, a dearth of lower-level black faculty throughout the Faculty of Arts and Sciences persists. According to the 2017-2018 Faculty Development and Diversity report, just 13 of 150 tenure-track professors in the FAS are underrepresented minorities.
As for the endowed chair, FAS Spokesperson Anna Cowenhoven wrote in an emailed statement that the University could not legally establish a chair for any “specific category of race.”
Though Hamilton acknowledged that there will never be a time without “challenges to our progress,” he said he believes Harvard has achieved the demands in the ways that he had hoped for fifty years ago when he drafted them.
“When I look at the college and the university as a whole, I must tell you, I don't know any university in the country that has done a better job than we have,” he said.
While some may believe the 1968 demands have been met, recent events have spawned new demands among black students at Harvard.
“The thing that is disturbing about Harvard today, to the extent that what I read and hear about, is that in terms of a sense of belonging, a sense of personal worth and integrity, there seems to have been a terrible backsliding,” Sheila Sinclair ’69 said.
In response to the Cambridge Police Department’s forcible arrest of a black Harvard student in April, a new activist organization—called Black Students Organizing for Change—quickly emerged.
The arrest raised concerns about Harvard’s protocols for responding to incidents like these. In a letter addressed to the “Harvard Community” and circulated on multiple email lists and Facebook, BSOC listed 10 demands outlining ways they want the University, Harvard University Health Services, and Harvard University Police Department to ensure students are kept safe when they call HUHS for help.
“Harvard University’s emergency response structure fails its promises to keep its students safe,” BSOC wrote in the statement.
University President Drew G. Faust, who called the arrest “disturbing,” formed a committee in the wake of the incident to examine the events leading up to the arrest and Harvard’s systems for handling similar incidents.
Fifty years after the four demands, black students and alumni seem to share one sentiment: there is still always progress to be made. When reflecting back on her years at Harvard and looking ahead to the upcoming 50th reunion, Johnson said she still feels a drive to fight for equity, as she did while a student in the ’60s.
“In today's environment, when many people at the age of 70 would be ready to retire, I think many of us who were engaged in the movement for social justice in the sixties find ourselves recognizing that the African phrase, ‘the struggle continues’—aluta continua—is still very relevant,” she said.
“We're still struggling and we're not going to give up.”
—Staff writer Ruth A. Hailu can be reached at ruth.hailu@thecrimson.com. Follow her on twitter @ruth_hailu_
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
With almost no prompting, Marlyn E. McGrath ’70-’73 can rattle off the exact day her husband graduated from Harvard: June 13, 1968.
There was heavy rain that morning and Commencement had to be held indoors, but McGrath remembers the date for a different reason: two days after Harry R. Lewis ’68 graduated from Harvard College, she married him.
She was a sophomore at Radcliffe at the time. Many said she was too young to get married.

“People were shocked,” McGrath says. “Family were shocked.” She describes the experience as “complicated” and “intense.”
“Nobody was happy about it,” she says. “Except we were perfectly happy.”
Lewis, two grades ahead of her, was only one year older. He had graduated from Roxbury Latin, a boys’ school, as a junior; at the time of his high school graduation, she was a sophomore at Winsor, a girls’ school. She lived in Brookline, he lived in Wellesley.
“One of my best friends threw a surprise going-away party,” Lewis recalls. “I must have mentioned to my friend that I was interested in her, because there she was at this party.”

The two began dating in college, at a time when Harvard’s social world was still strictly regimented: parietal rules governed the interactions between women, who lived in the Quad, and men, who lived in the Yard and River houses. Men wore jackets and ties to dinner. Male students earned admittance to Harvard at four times the rate women earned admittance to Radcliffe, so many students left campus during the weekends to find dates elsewhere.
Since then, Harvard has undergone decades of change—and Lewis and McGrath have been around to see it. Both have stayed in Cambridge and, in many ways, become campus institutions. Lewis is a tenured Computer Science professor and at one point served as dean of the College; McGrath has worked as the Director of Undergraduate Admissions for just over three decades.
Lewis and McGrath’s romance—with each other, with Harvard—officially launched on June 15, 1968. On that day, McGrath donned her mother’s wedding dress, hastily tailored to fit her, and married Lewis at the church around the corner from McGrath’s parents’ house in Brookline.
“By then everyone had gotten used to the idea that we were having a wedding,” McGrath says. “Everyone was being very civil and gracious.”
The newylweds held their reception under a tent in the front yard of her parents’ home—the house she and Lewis still live in today.
Lewis studied computers while at Harvard, at a time when the field was still in its infancy. He did not concentrate in Computer Science because the concentration did not exist yet—he would later help create it. He joined the faculty in 1974 and received tenure in 1981. From 1995 to 2003, he served as the dean of Harvard College, pushing through major changes like the randomization of undergraduate residential housing and the final steps of the Harvard-Radcliffe merger.
McGrath, who has degrees in Classics and Celtic Languages and Literatures, assumed the directorship of College Admissions in 1987. Over the course of more than thirty years, she has helped expand Harvard’s recruitment efforts to populations and geographic areas once overlooked.
At the time of their marriage, however, the pair hardly anticipated they would enjoy decades-long careers at Harvard.
“The military draft loomed over everything,” Lewis says. “Every one of my classmates had to confront this. Some went to Canada, some mutilated themselves in ways that would make them ineligible for the draft.”
“It was an incredibly intense time, that spring,” Stephen A. “Steve” Ness ’68 says.
Ness was Lewis’s best man—hey had bonded over their Applied Math 201 problem sets during their junior year. During Lewis and Ness’s senior spring, both bore witness to the turmoil brought by the war and the assassinations of Martin Luther King Jr. and Robert F. Kennedy.
“That’s what was hanging over us,” Ness says.
McGrath says they would have married regardless of the war, but that the war complicated their decision.

“It didn’t seem like the right way to begin a marriage, with her here and me in Vietnam,” Lewis says. “It would not just be affecting me, it would be affecting my family.”Lewis was able to secure a two-year commission at the National Institutes of Health in Washington D.C.; McGrath found a job there as well. When a lottery was instituted in 1969 to determine the draft order, Lewis learned it was unlikely he would need to serve.
Following the couple’s time at the NIH, Lewis and McGrath circled through Europe on a one-year travel fellowship Lewis won.
“Because I had literally gotten my activation forms while we were on our honeymoon, we treated the year ’70-71 as an extended honeymoon,” Lewis says.
Those three years marked the longest stretch of time Lewis and McGrath were ever absent from the University. When the couple returned, McGrath finished her college degree and Lewis began his graduate education at Harvard. McGrath began her own graduate education while he was finishing his, and eventually both completed doctorates.
“There was always a reason to stay at Harvard, because the other person was working on their degree,” McGrath says.
And so they stayed. They moved back to Brookline, close to where McGrath had grown up, and their daughters—Elizabeth M. Lewis ’01 and Anne M. Lewis ’07—enrolled in the same grammar school McGrath had attended. The sisters went on to attend not only Harvard College but also Harvard Business School.
“We are natives, in a way, of this place,” McGrath says. “We are institutional loyalists. We both owe much of our lives to Harvard.”
Both Lewis and McGrath came from families that were originally unlikely to send children to Harvard. Lewis’s mother, whose own mother was a Ukrainian immigrant who spoke little English and worked as a short-order cook, was one of the first women in her class at the University of Michigan’s medical school.
McGrath’s father’s family did not have significant financial means, but he nonetheless managed to score acceptance to Harvard.
“In those days, poor Irish kids couldn’t live at Harvard, so he actually walked from Brookline to Cambridge,” she says. “To me, the sacrifices that were made in the family to allow him to have his education were always very apparent.”
These memories have given Lewis and McGrath a deep appreciation for the opportunities a Harvard education can provide—and have influenced the ways both see their roles at the school.
For McGrath, this has taken the shape of decades-long recruiting efforts that have expanded and diversified Harvard’s applicant pools. She has worked to show more students Harvard can be an option.
“When we’ve been on family vacations, she always brings Harvard brochures with her and stops at the local high school and tries to meet with the guidance counselor,” Elizabeth Lewis says.
Through the connections he has maintained with his students and teaching fellows, Lewis has similarly sought to make Harvard feel “family-like,” he says.
“He and Marlyn both always described being an advisor as a tenured position,” says Larry Lebowitz ’82, who had Lewis as a professor and an advisor. Lebowitz recently established a professorship named in Lewis and McGrath’s honor. “They've both given their lives to the university.”
“A unique thing about my parents is that they always understood it was important for them to place Harvard above themselves,” Elizabeth Lewis says.
As the school has changed, however, both have encountered obstacles. Lewis was removed as dean of the College in 2003, when his position was consolidated with the role of the dean of undergraduate education. Many have speculated his removal was in part the result of an ideological clash with other members of the administration.
“Even though there are details in the way things are organized or values that are emphasized more than others—and we can all quibble with some of those choices—I think Harvard is still making its best contribution to the country,” McGrath says.
McGrath and Lewis have borne witness to several decades of change at Harvard—and have even contributed to some of those changes. But there are, of course, elements of the “old Harvard” the couple misses.
McGrath has fond recollections of “sherry hours.” (“You always invited faculty members to come for sherry… there was this kind of bridge between generations.”) Lewis reminisces about informal gatherings among professors, pointing to weekly outings to Legal Sea Foods. (“Everybody would sit around and eat fried fish, and they’d be doing math on the placemats, and it was great.”)
McGrath and Lewis have sought to compensate for these losses of tradition through their work, while understanding that, as Lewis says, “There’s nothing to do about it—the world changes.”
“A lot of people who have that kind of connection to a place going back that far would say, ‘It’s got to stay the way that I knew it. We’re not going to change it ever,’” says David A. Fahrenthold ’00, Elizabeth Lewis’s husband. “The magic of it is that it does change. They marry those two together, this old tradition, this long, Harvard tradition they come from, and the present.”
Fahrenthold met Elizabeth Lewis at Harvard; though the two had shared mutual friends, it was not until Last Chance Dance that they connected. The couple married in the summer of 2005.
“It’s pretty nostalgic,” McGrath says of seeing stories similar to her own repeat through the generations. “And very moving. We’ve been very, very lucky. We’ve had the privilege of serving this place that we really owe a lot to, and it has been, as someone once said, our church.”
—Magazine writer Sonia F. Epstein can be reached at sonia.epstein@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @sonia_epstein.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Christina Schlesinger ’68 comes from a family of artists.
“We’re all artists,” she says. “It’s just on my mother’s side, there was such a gene.” She recalls that her parents told her, “Go to Harvard and get an education. You can always be an artist.”
Schlesinger’s lineage is one that is deeply entangled with Harvard. Both her mother and grandmother attended Radcliffe College, her father and both grandfathers taught at the University, and the research library dedicated to women’s history was renamed after her paternal grandparents, Arthur M. Schlesinger and Elizabeth Bancroft Schlesinger, in 1965.
Given her family’s legacy, it was hardly a surprise when she was accepted to Radcliffe in 1963.
“I got my acceptance the day that Kennedy was assassinated, so kind of like nobody cared, and I didn't care,” Schlesinger recalls. “I just ended up going to Radcliffe because everybody in my family went to Harvard and Radcliffe, it wasn't like I thought about it. I was expected to—it was part of the program in a way.”
 
But even if Schlesinger seemed to belong at Radcliffe, she says her undergraduate experience was marked by pain and insecurity. Her parents divorced and she struggled to understand her sexuality. These challenges would ultimately propel her to an impressive art career, in communities far away from Harvard and back.
Schlesinger’s art, known for its unapologetic depictions of sexuality with painting collections titled “Dildos” and “Lesbian Sex,” is nothing like what she painted during her time at Radcliffe.
“I spent my four years at Radcliffe trying to come to terms with my sexuality, which I didn’t even understand until a couple years out,” she recalls.
Schlesinger said that, when she was at Radcliffe, Harvard’s visual arts program was in flux. Dissatisfied with the academic offerings in the arts, Schlesinger pursued her passion for painting outside of the classrooms, on her own.
She said she also felt dissatisfied and alienated by the rigid gender dynamics that governed the campus.
“We had to wear skirts to class. There was no place for us to eat lunch. When we were there, we had crummy little rooms,” she says. “It was only when boys started living on the Radcliffe quad that we had jitneys back and forth. We just walked in the cold. We had parietals. We were treated definitely like second-class citizens.”
Schlesinger majored in English, completing a collection of paintings for her thesis advised by Neil L. Rudenstine, who would later become president of Harvard; participated in anti-war activism on campus; and dated some boys. Though she has maintained many relationships from her college days, Schlesinger’s said her most formative experiences have happened largely after Radcliffe.
After graduating from Radcliffe and breaking up with her college boyfriend, Schlesinger moved to Los Angeles and lived in a tent in her friend’s backyard.
“When I went out to California, I never told anybody,” she recalls. “I went to Harvard, but I also never told anybody my last name because at that point my father was kind of famous, because he was a candidate Kennedy connection, and I was so determined to become my own person and not be a messenger.”
Though she kept one aspect of her identity hidden, Schlesinger became comfortable with another part: In California, she came out as a lesbian.

The move to California was meaningful on an artistic level as well as a personal one. At a bar, Schlesinger met Judy Baca, the woman who would become her collaborator. She says she was surprised by the immediate connection with Baca, since they came from such disparate backgrounds.
“Imagine I'm coming from Harvard, from Cambridge, from this very privileged family. Judy Baca was coming from like, poverty, you know,” Schlesinger says. “It was like we needed—it was just like we met each other and we filled in each other's worlds.”
Together, the two women founded the Social and Public Art Resource Center in 1976. SPARC, an organization that is still active today, strives to unite Los Angeles communities—particularly low-income youth—through public art, like murals.
Starting in 1974, Schlesinger and Baca mobilized hundreds of young people from a diversity of backgrounds to create SPARC’s most famous piece: the Great Wall of Los Angeles, a half-mile-long mural that depicts histories of different ethnic groups in California.
After teaching and supporting SPARC youth, Schlesinger formally transitioned to the role of middle school and high school teacher in her 40s and 50s.
“I became, along with an artist, I became a teacher,” Schlesinger says. “I think I realized the whole trick about teaching is that you just have to engage your students.  It's all about, you know, you can know everything but if nobody's listening to you. It doesn't make any difference, you know what I mean?”
But at least some of her students did listen.
A former student recently tagged Schlesinger in an Instagram post, describing her as a “an original bosslady” and a “fearless femme.” The student says Schlesinger was an important mentor to her younger self, as someone  who experienced similar personal struggles.
“There are rare people in your life who make an immense indelible impact. Chrissie made a profound impression on me as a restless, defiant smart-mouth, 13-year-old girl dealing with her parents' divorce, figuring out who she was, and combating a body and mind filled with hormones,” the post reads.
Schlesinger had taught this student in the eighth grade. She is now 32 years old, and a “very successful fashion person in New York,” according to Schlesinger.
SPARC was not the last art community that Schlesinger would join and impact. At the end of the ’80s, Schlesinger joined the Guerrilla Girls, a collective of feminist activist artists based in New York City. The Guerrilla Girls are best known for wearing gorilla masks, identifying themselves with pseudonyms of deceased female artists, and exposing gender inequities in artistic institutions.
As a Guerrilla Girl, Schlesinger took the name “Romaine Brooks,” after a lesbian painter whose work—“portraits of women who were so clearly lesbian”—inspired her during the early years of her artistic career. She was in charge of creating posters.
“In the middle of the night we'd go out with wheat paste and the posters and put them all over Soho,” she remembers.
“The cops used to come and chase us,” says Robin Tewes, who was a founding member of the group. “We'd have to drop the buckets and run. It was like three in the morning.”
“And then in the morning you’d wake up and there'd be all these cool posters, you know, attacking the art world, you know, saying and naming names, giving grades,” Schlesinger says. “We did a report card on galleries, you know, giving them these effort for failing, for not showing women artists.”
During the 50th reunion of the Class of 1968, Schlesinger will bring a different group of women together for a different kind of art project. The Leverett House Library Theater will transform into “Underground 68,” an artistic gathering place for alumni. Schlesinger will lead her classmates in creating a “Radcliffe Community Mural.”
“I put out this call for anybody in the class who wanted to be involved in this mural project and I'm thinking maybe I'd get two or three responses,” Schlesinger says. “I've got over a hundred responses. People are into it. They're so into the sense of a regular community, because we were the last class to graduate in Radcliffe Yard.”
—Staff writer Paula M. Barberi can be reached at paula.barberi@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @paulambarberi.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
On an average weeknight in 1967, you could often find Linda J. Greenhouse ’68 eating a burger alone in Harvard Square.
Greenhouse—then the features editor of The Crimson—was often expected to remain in the newsroom late into the night. However, as a Radcliffe student, she was not allowed to eat in Adams House with the rest of the staff.
“That was a privilege that Adams House extended to The Crimson but not to the Crimson women,” Greenhouse says. “Because we weren’t paying Harvard, so Harvard didn’t care to feed us. So The Crimson guys would all leave for supper, go to Adams House, and basically say, ‘well, goodbye.’”

Greenhouse says that acclimating to and excelling in The Crimson’s male-dominated newsroom was “a toughening exercise.”
“There was some teasing and some hazing, and it was a little hard to take in the beginning,” Greenhouse says. “But I think once I proved myself, we all sort of bonded as equals, and a number of those people became my lifelong friends.”
Greenhouse would overcome many such challenges over the course of her thirty-year career as a female journalist in male-dominated newsrooms, from The Crimson to the New York Times.
In the fall of 1964, Greenhouse was one of just three students accepted to The Crimson. She recalled that she was the only female freshman with “the nerve to comp,” or try out for the organization, though a handful of Radcliffe women were part of the paper. Greenhouse’s peers from The Crimson, most of whom are men and many of whom are still her friends, noted her talent early on.
Former Washington Post publisher Boisfeuillet “Bo” Jones Jr. ’68 remembers that Greenhouse was “game for everything.”
“What I remember as being particularly a special talent she had was being able to write a feature piece or write a profile, or something, where she, in a limited amount of time, could grasp a situation—the complexities of it—well enough that she could then write it in an interesting, clear, understandable article,” Jones recalls. “Linda fit right in.”

Greenhouse was covering Harvard at a time marked by tumult and uncertainty, on campus and nationally. During her time at the paper, she covered everything from Harvard’s involvement in LSD research to opposition against the war in Vietnam. She even tried her hand at sports reporting with coverage of the local racetracks.
Another colleague—R. Andrew Beyer ’65, a former Crimson sports writer who has gone on to write about horse racing for the Washington Post—wrote in an email that he often brought Greenhouse with him while covering the raucous local race tracks, where the two consulted with a “raffish” gambler and former Cuban consul known to them as “Mr. D” to gain insights into the sport.
Greenhouse continued the tradition even after Beyer graduated, producing such headlines as, “Top Racehorse Buffle Is Dead At Age Three” and “No Sweet Revenge for Dancer in Preakness.”
“It was a shabby place, and it was easy to suspect that it was teeming with corruption,” Beyer wrote of the race tracks. “With hindsight, the image of a future Pulitzer Prize winner hanging out in this environment may be hard to imagine. But Linda always seemed bemused by the seedy side of racing, and she loved the nobler aspects of the sport.”
On occasion, Greenhouse also offered analyses of other local sports. “I hate to be the kind of guy who upsets anybody's fond hopes, but this is one of those times when a sports-writer just has to be brave. The Sox won't win a single game. I just can't see it in the cards,” she wrote in an Oct. 1967 piece.
Greenhouse also devoted much of her time to covering the disparities in resources that isolated and undermined Radcliffe women at the time. Besides being barred from Harvard dining halls, Greenhouse and her classmates were also excluded from accessing resources in Harvard’s libraries. One of her bigger projects was covering the battle over the opening of Lamont Library to the women of Radcliffe.

“When I arrived at Radcliffe, it sort of seemed kind of ridiculous that Radcliffe had an undergraduate library which, as I recall, had an open door policy,” Greenhouse remembers. “There was Lamont Library in Harvard Yard, and women couldn’t go in? I mean, that’s crazy.”
By 1967, during the first semester of Greenhouse’s senior year, women were granted full access to Lamont. Though she denies she was a leader in the movement, Greenhouse acknowledges that she “probably brought it to people’s attention.”
“It was just an artifact of an age that was changing under people’s noses,” Greenhouse says. “It was one of the old things that gradually fell away, the remnants of the old Harvard—like a lot of other things, maybe too gradually.”
“Maybe I lit a spark, but I think it would’ve happened anyway,” she adds.
Outside The Crimson, Greenhouse, a Government student, excelled. She was granted membership in Phi Beta Kappa and graduated magna cum laude.
“She was really good at The Crimson, worked hard as an executive of it, and on the other hand, she maintained her life,” Jones says.
Another friend and Crimson colleague, T. Jay Mathews ’67, wrote in an email that he recalls times when Greenhouse was “annoyed at inconsistencies of a Harvard education.”
“I remember her walking out of the Crimson telling her sister Carol, also a student there, that ‘that section man is such a little boy,’” Mathews wrote.
Greenhouse still remembers the first time someone stopped the presses on her account.
The year was 2000, and Greenhouse—then the Supreme Court reporter for the New York Times—was waiting to learn how the Court would decide the contentious case of Bush v. Gore, settling the presidential election.
When she finally got a printed copy of the opinion in her hand and began the trek back to the New York Times’s Washington, D.C. headquarters, it was late at night, right at deadline.
“At that time, there was a press run that physically produced the next morning’s newspaper, and I arrived back in the office in Washington from the Court, having been there all day waiting for the opinion,” Greenhouse says. “Then holding the printed opinion in my hand, I heard the top editor say on the phone, ‘Hold the presses!’”
“That was really the first time in, by then, my pretty long career that I had ever heard ‘hold the presses’ with respect to me,” she adds.
The “pretty long career” that stretched from Cambridge to Washington was marked by unusual opportunities and shifting gender dynamics.
After graduating from Radcliffe in 1968, Greenhouse became a clerk for James B. Reston, a New York Times columnist who was then chief of the Times’s Washington, D.C. bureau. According to Greenhouse, the “thick skin” she developed as a woman at The Crimson was helpful in transitioning to her professional career.
“If anything, the Times was a more macho place than The Crimson had ever been,” Greenhouse says. “It certainly was not a warm and fuzzy place, and it never was, and it’s never going to be.”
“I would sort of say to myself, ‘Okay, I didn’t screw up today. That means chances are I won’t screw up tomorrow, or the next week,’” she adds.
Because of Reston’s sudden elevation to the office of bureau chief and the large staff that came with the position, Greenhouse was often able to freelance and pursue publication as a clerk, an opportunity she called “quite anomalous.”
“It was extremely helpful to me to basically make my way around the different parts of the newsroom peddling my ideas, just hoping to get the go-ahead to write this and that. It was quite a productive learning curve for me that year,” Greenhouse says.
Being hired by Reston, “the great of Washington,” was a sign that Greenhouse was making strides even at the beginning of her career, according to Jones.
“That was a great clerkship to get,” Jones says. “You have to be at the top of your game to get that.”
After about a year of clerking, Greenhouse was promoted to general assignment reporter. From there, she rapidly rose through the ranks, working as a correspondent in Westchester County, then covering New York state government in Albany. After a stint as the Albany bureau chief and a one-year break to earn her master's degree at Yale Law School, she returned to the bureau where her career began, in Washington D.C.—this time, as a senior correspondent covering the Supreme Court.
Greenhouse reported on the Court for over thirty years, from 1978 until her retirement in 2008. In 1998, she won a Pulitzer Prize in beat reporting for “consistently illuminating coverage” of the Court, and in 2004, she won the Goldsmith Career Award for Excellence in Journalism from the Kennedy School. By her own count, she covered a total of 2,691 decisions.
What Greenhouse remembers most vividly during her long tenure as a Supreme Court reporter was not any individual case or decision, however. Rather, it was the appointment of Sandra Day O’Connor to the bench in 1981 that struck her as truly momentous.
“It’s probably hard to grasp what a shock to the system that was,” Greenhouse says. “In the culture, it just seemed kind of ridiculous that a woman would be on the court. Of course not. And then, there she was.”
According to Jones, Greenhouse was “one of the great reporters of that age,” and the justices that Greenhouse covered recognized this and “admired Linda as a reporter.”
“She would know in detail the cases she was covering, the Court cases. They could be controversial cases, they could be ones that weren't so controversial, but she made sure she understood what the parties were litigating over,” Jones says. “She'd understand the issues so that when the decision came down, she could tell the public, first of all, what the Court decided before leaping off into the political ramifications of what they decided, and she had just such a good sense.”
Though Greenhouse retired from reporting in 2008, her lengthy career with the Times has not ended altogether: she now publishes a column on the Court every two weeks. Though she has not been in the newsroom for years, Greenhouse said she pays close attention to the strides made by “lots of young women in very prominent roles” at the Times, citing White House correspondent Maggie L. Haberman and Washington bureau chief Elisabeth Bumiller as examples.
“It’s got to be a very different atmosphere, but I can’t personally attest to it because I just haven’t been there for a long time,” Greenhouse says.
Greenhouse has also written a memoir and three books on the Supreme Court since retiring, and lectures  and serves as journalist-in-residence at Yale Law School.
“I teach full time so that I’m still in the classroom,” Greenhouse explains. “I don’t feel as old as I would expect today’s undergraduates to assume that I am.”
Jones speculated that Greenhouse also teaches in order to “give back in ways that she didn't really have when she was an undergraduate.”
“I don't know who her role models might have been, women, when she was in college, but she certainly could be one for women over the last four decades or so,” Jones says.
Beyond her reporting, Beyer said Greenhouse has lead “a largely exemplary life.” Jones describes her as “empathetic” and “self-effacing,” averse to bragging about herself yet “certainly not milquetoast.”
“She's quite an independent thinker and always has been, and she just has very good values: a decent person, fun to be with, engaging. She was quite popular among her Crimson colleagues,  hardworking, loyal as a friend,” Jones says.
“I think people would like her as a colleague or classmate or first cousin, you know?” he adds.
According to Mathews, as a journalist, Greenhouse has had an influence as both a woman in the field and a reporter who has “encouraged people of both genders.”
“Every woman who succeeds, as Linda did, encourages younger women who see that byline to consider the possibility that they can do it too,” Mathews wrote.
—Staff writer Molly C. McCafferty can be reached at molly.mccafferty@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter at @mollmccaff.
Sections
“They’re perfectly free to express their opinion, but we can’t do anything.”
So was Radcliffe President Mary I. Bunting’s response to twenty-three student hunger strikers, as recorded in a May 1967 Crimson article. The students, in their five-day hunger strike, were protesting the right to live off-campus. The strike garnered attention from media outlets ranging from WBZ and WNAC TV to the New York Times and Boston Globe.
It was a single act of protest in an era marked by anti-war organizing and racial justice activism. So why did the students feel the need to stage such a dramatic protest over what seemed to many to be a trivial issue?
Bunting was not a fan of off-campus living, which Radcliffe students demanded in the late ’60s. The president persistently stated that off-campus living had major financial implications. Bunting repeatedly said, in The Crimson, the Radcliffe Quarterly, and her own papers, that each student who moved off-campus cost the college $1000.
Bunting was committed to establishing a strong on-campus environment for Radcliffe students. Despite some opposition from students, she embarked on a campaign to fund the creation of a new house. A Crimson op-ed from May 1967 called her campaign for residential housing a “$10-million mistake.”
The saga of the Radcliffe hunger strike began in Jan. 1966. Radcliffe College announced that 30 students would be allowed to live in off-campus apartments, free of adult supervision. Radcliffe administrators invited interested students to write personal letters to apply for this housing. Seventy women applied for 30 spots, and the administration instead opted for a lottery system to select the 30 students—10 from each house—who would move off campus the next fall.
In the winter of the following year, students circulated two petitions with suggestions for saving money on the cost of running the dorms—they hoped these cost-saving methods would make the the lottery system unnecessary, so all interested seniors could have the option to move off-campus.
Bunting told the students that they “did not understand the finances” and continued with the spring lottery, increasing the number of students from allowed to live off-campus to 36. Radcliffe released the lottery results on April 14, 1967, granting 36 Radcliffe women permission to live off-campus for their senior year. Frustration increased among Radcliffe students, and some demanded off-campus housing be made available to all students, prompting the protest.
“It is something I always remembered with some ambivalence because of course there were so many important things in those years and it seemed so small to want to move off campus,” said Susan Levenstein ‘68,  who studied philosophy and participated in the hunger strike as a junior at Radcliffe. “But we felt like it was a power issue.”

The strike was documented by several outlets, with the number of strikers varying with each source. According to the 1965-67 Radcliffe College Report of the President, fifteen students began fasting on Wednesday; according to the New York Times, nineteen Radcliffe students began the hunger strike and did not start until Thursday, May 11. The Crimson reported that the fast began on May 11, with seven more Radcliffe Students joining the protest on May 12.
According to the minutes from a Radcliffe Government Association Meeting, fifteen original strikers undertook the hunger strike, and included some students who had been granted the right to move off campus.
“This was 1967, Levenstein said. “We were feeling very against all authority and very much in favor of running our own lives.”
Several other women who participated in the strike could not be reached for comment.
The administration of Radcliffe did not interfere with the hunger strike “since the students were not interfering with others or with the conduct of the College,” according to the 1965-67 Radcliffe College Report of the President.
According to the New York Times, the aim of the hunger strike was to “protect a system for selecting seniors who will be allowed to live in their own apartments off campus next year.”
But Levenstein said the Radcliffe Students banned together in solidarity to protest a deeper issue—a lack of power for students.
“There were people who thought it was exaggerated to have a hunger strike over such a small issue. One of the things that some people thought was, well you should save your hunger strikes for protesting the war in Vietnam.” Levenstein said. “I don’t regret it. I know that we felt passionately that this had to do with our control.”
Levenstein said she remembers her smell changing and “the very strong sense of solidarity” during the hunger strike.
“We were on a water fast, we really had nothing. Interestingly, one memory that I have of it is that you start to smell different,” Levenstein said. “That’s just a memory of what it is to be starving.”
“I don’t remember the hunger,” Levenstein added. “After a while, when you’re on a complete fast, I found that you don’t miss food so much, you don’t really feel like eating.”
According to Levenstein, the strikers hoped they would “win a small dip of power” as a result of the strike. To some, they succeeded.
On Sunday, May 14, the hunger strikers—with support from alumnae and faculty—developed a proposal to form an arbitration committee to settle the strike. In the proposal, the strikers stated that they only began the hunger strike after learning that “there is no way for students to effect a policy decision through talks, referenda, or letters.” After an endorsement by Helen L. Gray ’32, former president of the Radcliffe Alumnae Association, the strikers circulated a petition endorsing the hunger strike throughout Radcliffe Dining Halls.
Four of the 23 hunger strikers fell ill on May 15, the fifth and final day of the strike. The remaining 19 hunger strikers anxiously awaited Bunting’s decision. On 3 p.m. on May 15, Bunting publicly announced her proposal decision in Harvard Yard: Radcliffe College would assemble a committee of faculty, students and administrators to have a more representative debate on housing issues. Her announcement marked the end of the hunger strike: The striking Radcliffe students celebrated the end of their fast with roast beef, provided by the Boston Globe.
After five meetings and a collection of student input, the committee recommended students have greater input in housing decision and plans. The committee’s recommendations were non-binding and Bunting did not choose to implement them during her tenure.
Levenstein repeatedly said that she does not regret fasting despite the protests not yielding any immediate results.
“Whatever it was, we did feel that we had done something that was worthwhile and I’m glad I did it,” she said.
—Staff writer Ashley M. Cooper can be reached at ashley.cooper@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @ashleymcooper_
