It took a while before Hailey G. Davis ’18 felt at home at Harvard.
Davis, who transferred to the College after spending her first year at West Point, said her sophomore year in Cambridge felt like a “second freshman year.”
“It wasn't until the beginning of my junior year that I actually considered myself a Harvard student instead of just someone that goes to Harvard,” she said. “It felt like in order to find myself at Harvard, I had to forget the part of me that I had built up at West Point over the past year.”
Like many transfer students—who make up less than 1 percent of the total undergraduate body—Davis said the transition was at times difficult and socially isolating.
“Everybody in the House kind of already had a friend group. It's not they're not open to meeting people. They’re friendly. But it's that most people have kind of established who their close friends are,” she said. “I think you’re not necessarily looking for new friends like you were freshman year, so it’s harder to build deeper connections.”Davis is one of roughly one dozen transfer students that Harvard admits every year. Though the University has various support systems in place—a transfer student orientation, as well as transfer peer advising fellows—transfer students say that, often, it is up to them to fully integrate into life at the College.
Before transfer students face the challenge of adjusting to Harvard, they must tackle the obstacle of a lengthy transfer application process.
Students interested in transferring to Harvard must complete a minimum of one full academic year of college and a maximum of two. The transfer application requires essay responses, college and high school transcripts, college teacher recommendations, and high school standardized test scores.
The Harvard College Transfer Admissions Committee reviews all applications. The College Admissions website states that “The committee looks for a clearly defined academic need to transfer, a proven record of high achievement, and strong faculty recommendations.”
Dean of Admissions and Financial Aid William R. Fitzsimmons ’67 said the number of transfer students the College accepts varies, though it has hovered around a dozen each year.
“We’re given a number every year. Because of our very, very high graduation rate, the College needs to make a decision every year on what it will do with transfers. I think what we’ve been able to do recently is to admit roughly twelve transfers, and we’ve had somewhere in the neighborhood of 1,400 or 1,500 applications,” he said.
Because so few Harvard students enter the College after their freshman year, some transfers said they had to take it upon themselves to find their niche at the school.
Though Harvard holds a transfer student orientation and installs transfer PAFs, most of the time, transfer students said assimilating at Harvard happens organically: through residential Houses, classes, and extracurriculars.
Abbey M. Thornhill ’17, who transferred to Harvard from Wake Forest University, said her varsity field hockey team was a tremendously helpful resource.
“I was really lucky to have a good team, and they turned out to be my friends, because you are working toward the same goal together,” she said.
When Gillian Y. Hess ’18 transferred from Georgetown’s McDonough School of Business her sophomore year, she said she made many friends through her classes.
“I feel like at Harvard, there's such an emphasis on making friends through extracurriculars, but in my classes, people needed to do the psets together, so I was like, ‘Hey, I'm Gillian, and I'm a transfer student. Would you like to work on the pset together?’” she said.
Transfer students are also sometimes assigned to live with other transfer students, which undergraduates said can help with the transition.
“My roommate, which they assigned randomly, was another transfer student, and she ended up becoming my best friend and one of my current roommates. My other best friend was also a transfer student, and half of my casual friends were transfer students,” Davis said.
At the same time, Thornhill said that it was sometimes hard to make close connections with the other transfer students.
“I think a part of it is that there are people from all different backgrounds who wanted to do different things, since I think Harvard didn’t want, say, 17 transfer students with the exact same interests. So a natural consequence was that we didn’t all become really close,” she said. “That’s good in the sense that we didn't just become ‘the transfer student group,’ but rather that we all assimilated to the culture as a whole.”
Despite the difficulties of transferring, many transfer students said Harvard’s liberal arts education, learning philosophy, and extracurricular opportunities are more than enough enticement to make the change mid-college worth it.
Elena Y. Wu-Yan ’19, a transfer from the University of Pennsylvania, said she thought her former college’s pre-professional atmosphere left little room for her passion for jazz saxophone.
“I just felt like the arts scene overall [at UPenn] wasn’t as big as I would have expected it to be—and specifically for jazz, too—so I just wanted to be somewhere where arts were much more vibrant and like a thing on campus,” she said.
Similarly, Hess said she thought the pre-professional emphasis of Georgetown’s McDonough School of Business was too restrictive.
She had tried to take a higher-level economics course, but the university had prevented her from doing so because she was enrolled in the business school. Hess tried to transfer to the Georgetown College of Arts and Sciences, but the school told her she would have to wait until the end of the year and that there was no guarantee of a transfer.
“So I was thinking, ‘If I do apply to transfer to my own school, I don't know if it's worth it, and I might as well fight to transfer elsewhere...Harvard definitely gives me a lot more flexibility in terms of course diversity,” she said. “I was also attracted to its economics department.”
Alexandra Abrahams ’18, who transferred from Oxford University junior year, said Harvard’s teaching philosophy suited her learning style more than Oxford’s.
“One of the reasons why I transferred was because the method of teaching and learning at Oxford didn’t suit me at all,” she said. “I had thought that the tutorial system was going to be great, but I didn’t know that I would be spending most of my time in the library with a list of books to read and an essay to output.”
Despite Wu-Yan’s desire to attend a school with more arts opportunities, she said news of her acceptance to Harvard was bittersweet, because she felt reluctant to leave the friends she had made during her two years at UPenn.
Her decision to accept Harvard’s offer came after weeks of contemplation. Wu-Yan said she was finally persuaded to transfer once she realized she would be gaining more friends instead of replacing the friends she had made at UPenn.
According to Hess, one of the most common questions transfer students get is whether they regret not having the full, four-year Harvard experience.
“Looking back, I don't regret my decision at all,” Hess said. “I don't think I would have been able to handle coming in as a freshman. At Georgetown, I learned so much about myself, about the world, and about other people, and I took that knowledge and applied it to Harvard. And if I had not had that year at Georgetown, I definitely wouldn't be the same person I am today.”
—Staff writer Benjamin E. Frimodig can be reached at benjamin.frimodig@thecrimson.com.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Despite a career-high 31 points from sophomore forward Seth Towns, Harvard fell 83-76 against Columbia at Levien Gymnasium on Friday night. After jumping out to a 15-point lead behind a flood of early three-pointers, the Crimson defense gave up a 48-point second half to the Lions.
Much like it did last week, the Harvard offense came out shooting lights out—with the Lions playing a zone defense, the Crimson connected from deep early and often. Behind the sharpshooting of Towns and junior guard Corey Johnson, Harvard jumped out to a 17-6 lead within the first five minutes. In that span, Towns scored 10 while the Lions turned the ball over four times.
The closing act from Columbia would topple the Crimson, however, as the Lions’ offense came through late. After finishing the first half with just three points on one-of-four shooting from the field, junior guard Quinton Adlesh went off for 17 second half points for Columbia. The Lions closed the game out with five players in double digits while shooting 60 percent from the field in the second frame.
LIVE AND DIE BY THE THREE
In what’s becoming an almost recurring theme with Harvard coach Tommy Amaker’s squad, the guests jumped out to a double-digit lead within the first five minutes of the matchup. The manner in which it would do so, however, was uncharacteristic for the Crimson. After struggling from beyond the arc for much of the season, the Crimson scored 21 of its first 28 points from deep.
While the duo of Johnson and Towns was nailing the deep ball early, the rest of the team struggled to find its rhythm on offense. Sophomore forward Chris Lewis, coming off a double-double performance against Yale just a week ago, was held to just three points on two attempts through the first half. Harvard would be outscored 29-16 in the paint for the game.
“I thought Corey did as much as he could do, made some big shots to keep us engaged,” Amaker said. “We didn’t have enough of an inside presence. Thirty-seven threes, I don’t know if we have ever taken that many, so our inside game wasn’t what it needed to be, whether that’s driving it in there or posting it.”
Despite the lack of presence inside, the Crimson’s shooting from three was without a doubt an anomaly and a historic one at that—the 37 attempts mark the most since that the Crimson took 39 a year ago at Columbia and the 16 makes from deep mark the most made three-pointers since Amaker became coach in 2007.
STRUGGLING TO CLOSE IT OUT
After Harvard conceded its lead at the 15:13 mark in the second half, Columbia would go up by as many as nine before a late run from the Crimson put it within two with just over seven minutes left on the clock.
Down by a bucket and with the shot clock Lewis had the chance to tie the contest off of a pass from classmate Justin Bassey, but his layup barely grazed the iron. The Lions would grab the rebound and sophomore guard Mike Smith would dribble the length of the court and lay one in to give Columbia a four-point edge and a lead that it would not relinquish.
“We just needed to hang in there, I thought we did,” Amaker said. “I thought it was a big swing when Lewis missed the rim and Smith goes down and makes the layup. We had our chances and put some more game pressure on them but we didn’t take advantage.”
Despite holding opponents to an average of 66 points on the season, the Crimson struggled to contain the Lions late. At one point in the second half from the 15:45 mark until there was 8:27 left on the clock, the Lions failed to miss a shot—going a perfect nine-of-nine from the field in that span.
The 83 points from the Lions are the most that the Crimson has allowed this season.
“It’s a team loss, we win as a team we lose as a team,” Towns said. “So collectively, I don’t think our defense especially towards the end of the game was where it should have been. We didn’t stick to our defensive identity so we will really need to hone in on that.”
—Staff writer Troy Boccelli can be reached at troy.boccelli@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered

ITHACA, N.Y.—Despite holding the lead for less than nine minutes on Saturday night, the Harvard men’s basketball team narrowly edged out Cornell 76-73 to conclude its six-game road trip. A perfect 10-for-10 mark at the free throw line in the second half and balanced scoring that saw four members of the Crimson (10-11, 5-1 Ivy League) finish in double figures were critical in the tight victory.
Harvard’s backcourt, led by sophomore guards Christian Juzang and Justin Bassey, effectively contained Big Red star Matt Morgan, who finished with less than 20 total points for the first time since Jan. 13 against Princeton. However, a stellar shooting night from junior forward Stone Gettings proved to be a much larger headache for the Crimson. Gettings knocked down half of his field goals and three-point shots for a game-high 32 points.
Although Cornell (8-11, 2-4) shot inconsistently at the charity stripe in front of the home crowd —finishing the contest 10-of-18 —its leading scorer had converted on all of his free throw attempts going into the final minute of action. Down by three with 40 seconds to play, Big Red forward Josh Warren threw an overhead pass towards Gettings, who promptly attacked the rim and converted on the and-one.
Shouldered with the most critical free throw of the contest, Gettings was unable to maintain the steady hand that he had held for most of the game. The free throw clanked off the back iron, preserving a one-point Harvard lead. From there, the Crimson converted on its free throws and held on for the three-point victory.
“It’s always tough playing on the road in the league, so coming in we knew it was going to be a tough one like it was last night,” sophomore forward Seth Towns said. “Last two minutes, it was the same as it always is in crunch time. Just coming out with the W, just being in the moment and getting it done.”
Unlike its most recent Ivy League games, Harvard fell behind early and had to climb its way back into the contest before intermission. Sophomore forward Chris Lewis and freshman forward Danilo Djuricic were the sole offensive contributors in the game’s first eight minutes, combining for 12 points. Defensively, the Crimson’s perimeter defensive gaps resulted in four made threes for the Big Red, three of which came from Gettings.
Down 23-16 at the 9:30 mark of the first half, Harvard coach Tommy Amaker inserted sophomore forward Robert Baker into the lineup. The 6’11” stretch big had been sidelined since Jan. 6 at Dartmouth, but quickly shook off any rust he may have held. Baker converted on a lay-up within 20 seconds of checking in and snatched a takeaway in the paint two defensive possessions later. In nine minutes of action, the sophomore tallied four points, four rebounds, and one block.
“We were a little gassed and tired and the guys [that] came off the bench… we need all those bodies to help us and to have positive minutes,” Amaker said. “In particular Robert, a shot in the arm off the bench.”
Soon after Baker checked out of the game at the five-minute mark, a corner three from Juzang evened the game at 30. Towns, who was coming off a career-high 31 points against Columbia, provided another jolt of energy for the Crimson after a previously quiet start. The Columbus, Ohio native widened the margin to five, Harvard’s largest lead of the first half, after converting on a triple followed immediately by a deuce. Towns executed a plethora of ball-handling moves to open up shooting space, a facet of the game that he has developed extensively in his collegiate career.
Both teams shot over 45 percent in the first half and had nearly identical rebounding and assist numbers. Compared to last night’s three-point bonanza in Morningside Heights in which the Crimson attempted 37 triples, the team was more selective from deep range on Saturday night. Harvard converted 7-of-12 three pointers in the first half, and limited itself to 23 total attempts at a 47.8 percent clip.
Similar to Friday’s outing, the Crimson emerged from halftime lackadaisical on both ends of the court. The Big Red spurred a 13-6 run in the first four minutes to build a 51-46 lead. Cornell coach Brian Earl borrowed from the Columbia defensive playbook, engaging a full-court press on Amaker’s squad. Harvard handed the ball over twice in the first two minutes and struggled to adjust to the high-octane pace from the Big Red.
“It’s not like we haven’t seen [press defense] before or practiced against it, but we’ve been very tentative,” Amaker said. “I think I mentioned that last night and again tonight. We’ve just were not as aggressive going against it as we should be and we have some work to do.”
Bassey was able to break the team’s shooting slumps with a triple at the 15:33 mark, but the make was soon matched by strong interior play from several of Cornell’s bigs. Warren particularly had success inside with Lewis on the bench, outmuscling Djuricic for an easy basket at the rim, slightly missing on a layup, and drawing a shooting foul on Djuricic in consecutive possessions leading up to the frame’s second media timeout.
Despite the challenging defensive matchup, Djuricic had another impressive night coming off of Amaker’s bench. In 27 minutes, the freshman was three-of-five from deep while adding two blocks. This game marks the third straight contest in which Djuricic has converted on at least one triple.
After another scoring slump from both teams leading up to the nine-minute mark, the Crimson was re-energized by a lay-up off the left backboard from Lewis followed by a three from junior wing Corey Johnson, bringing its deficit to one point.
The ensuing minutes were largely a back-and-forth affair, with the Big Red unable to extend its lead beyond four. Harvard, down one point with three minutes remaining, took advantage of a missed bonus free throw from Morgan and regained the lead off of a Djuricic three. A minute later, Towns followed with a triple of his own from the top of the arc to extend the margin to 72-69.
“It was a big shot,” Towns said. “I had faith in it and I know my teammates did, but it was just a big shot for us. We weren’t going in those last five minutes offensively like we wanted to so just a shot like that, from anybody… I would’ve been just as enthusiastic.”
Accurate free throw shooting completed the Crimson’s successful fight back into the contest, a theme that has been prevalent throughout the season. After tonight’s win, the team’s season free throw percentage stands at 75.7 percent, second in the Ivy League behind Brown.
“I just thought that we showed great composure and were incredibly efficient down the stretch offensively,” Amaker said. “Big shots by Seth and Danillo and tremendous free throw shooting down the stretch, very, very proud of that.”
—Staff writer Henry Zhu can be reached at henry.zhu@thecrimson.com
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections

Regardless of if you’re a Patriots fan weathering the storm of hatred coming from every non-New Englander in your house or if you’re a hopeful Eagles fan praying that Nick Foles has another seven-touchdown game, this afternoon’s Super Bowl is likely to give your liver CTE. It’s the perfect occasion to showcase how much or how little you know about football, much to the annoyance of the people watching the game with you, regardless of which category you fall into.
If you’re trying to numb the pain of the work you’re foregoing to watch a game you may not even care about, we’ve got a drinking game ready to fuel your eventual victory parade or angry march once the final whistle blows.
An Introduction
Take a shot if you’re a Patriots fan. Take two if you’re an Eagles fan, or rooting for them just to spite your brazen New England peers. Thinking this seems like a striking example of inequality? We would argue that Patriots fans have already been annoying enough regarding Brady’s eighth visit to the Super Bowl, so the liquid kickstart ought to go to the milder side of the fans. Eagles fans need all the help they can get, especially considering that they have to watch the game within the Mecca of athletic arrogance.
A Literal Approach
If you're trying to actually watch the game and drink accordingly, take a shot every time a field goal is kicked, the defense forces a turnover, or a forty-plus yard pass or run is completed. Take two shots for every touchdown or defensive touchdown return. This may seem like a lot, and it is. Non-Patriots fans need this. As a Dolphins fan living with three Patriots fans, I need this. Do it for the culture. Do it for your sanity.
A Better Approach
If you don’t really care about the game and just want to keep your mind occupied while watching, it may be in your best interest to keep an eye out for some non-football related Super Bowl happenings to get you through the three hours.
Take a shot if three or more Brady jerseys are present in the room, if a Gronk Tide Pod awareness ad runs, if someone shushes the viewing party to hear a commercial, or if Chris Collinsworth makes a stupidly unnecessary observation (for example, “I’m sure Ertz hoped he would have caught that pass.”) Take two shots if the Brady-Belichick-Kraft conflict is brought up, if Mountain Dew runs a trippy halftime ad, or if you see someone hide a beer because a proctor walked by.
Down everything you have if the Patriots win. Yeah, I’m salty. No shame.
Though I've never experienced this, watching the Super Bowl can be fun (and totally not a reminder of how winning the AFC is a lost cause as long as Brady is playing). We hope that this guideline can guide you to a wonderful evening. If the Patriots lose tonight, fear not. They’ll probably be back next year. If the Eagles lose tonight, fear everything. Shutter your windows and bar your doors. The wave of New England football fan arrogance is lethal.
