News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Despite initial hostility towards the “flock” of LimeBike and Bird scooters that migrated to Cambridge this summer, Cambridge has now opened itself to a possible pilot program for the two companies. Given the financial and operational advantages that dockless electric scooters offer, we hope the City of Cambridge will commit to such a pilot program and do its best to work with these companies over the process to create modifications and restrictions that are both reasonable and effective.
As Birds and Limes have spread across the country, they have gained remarkable popularity and administrative scorn. The reasons for popularity are simple. The scooters are incredibly fun and easier to use than bikes, with speeds of up to 15 miles per hour. In comparison to pricey Uber rides down a congested road, infrequent bus services, and limited subway routes, these scooters are far more attractive and efficient. And once the user reaches their destination, there’s no hassle of carrying one’s own scooter up the stairs or finding a rack to dock a rental in. Birds and Limes can simply be left where they are for the next user.
Most importantly, these electric scooters are cheap. Some companies charge just one dollar to unlock the scooter, and then 15 cents for each minute of use. Bird has even begun waiving the dollar charge for those who are “‘currently enrolled in or eligible for’ state or federal assistance programs like SNAP or Medicaid.” The low cost of these services and the need for more efficient modes of transportation in poorer communities (where public transportation is often inadequate) makes these dockless scooters an important alternative.
These positives being said, electric scooters are not perfect vehicles. So far, there have thankfully been no fatalities, but doctors in various cities have reported injuries resulting from the use of these electric scooters and are pressing for the collection of public health data. While some injuries are to be expected for any form of transportation, it is still important that companies and cities work together to help riders obey traffic rules that will keep everyone safe.
Massachusetts’s current stipulation that powered scooters need brake lights and turn signals, for example, may be overkill for a machine that only goes 15 miles an hour. Whereas a requirement for riders to wear helmets (whose benefits at such speeds are also still being debated) is more reasonable and could be easily implemented. In response to such concerns in California, for example, one company proposed including a helmet with each scooter while another offered to require riders to post a selfie of themselves with a helmet before the scooter could be unlocked. Unfortunately, many riders disregard safety rules that are already in place. While this is the fault of individuals rather than companies, it’s a problem that should be resolved.
In addition to user safety, an important issue that dockless scooter companies can and should address is the possibility of clutter, especially in areas like Harvard Square, where roads and old and narrow. Cluttered scooters are not only an obstacle for pedestrians and other travelers, but are an active impediment to the mobility of people with disabilities. By working with Lime and Bird to implement “no-ride zones,” Cambridge can easily avoid such difficulties. These companies not only have the technology to be sensitive to clutter, but they have demonstrated swiftness and willingness to do so.
Although dockless electric scooters aren’t perfect and will certainly require some getting used to by the City’s administration and inhabitants, their ease, efficiency, and relatively low costs make them an important transportation alternative that needs to be explored and perfected. As the actions of Bird, Lime, and other companies show, these startups have both the technological ability and willingness to address issues of safety and clutter. Should Cambridge agree, they will most likely do the same.
This staff editorial is the product of discussions at regular Editorial Board meetings. In order to ensure the impartiality of our journalism, Crimson editors who choose to opine and vote at these meetings are not involved in the reporting of articles on similar topics.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
There is something deeply admirable to be said about man’s ability to exercise self-control. Whether it be following internally-imposed guidelines about dieting, limiting phone usage, or identifying time to allocate to leisure each week, recognizing an area for improvement and then taking action to implement that vision is one of the most unique skills in the human toolbox.
Indeed, the capacity for internal regulation offers a solution that is two-sided. Exercising self-restraint deters an actor from doing something that works against his or her goals, but, simultaneously, and perhaps even more powerfully, also encourages the furthering of said goals. For example, holding yourself accountable to a commitment to lose a few pounds might deter you from eating a third cookie at lunch just as much as it might inspire you to go for a run. The magic is that it disincentivizes the “wrong” choice as much as it incentivizes the “right” one.
When it comes to climate change, Harvard has not characteristically shied away from responsibility. Just this year, the University announced ambitious commitments to achieve fossil-fuel neutrality by 2026 and withdraw from all fossil-fuel sources by 2050. However, even with these goals in place, there is room to think further about how to execute our commitments most fruitfully. The times have never been more urgent, and with all that is at stake, we must seek unprecedented, internally-driven climate leadership from the University’s administration, particularly as external regulating bodies (like the U.S government) are falling miserably flat.
What exactly might this self-driven leadership entail?
It’s common knowledge that an item that costs more is less appealing to a rational actor than a substitute that costs less. Boiled down to basics, this is the ultimate fact that has long doomed dialogue about the merits of obtaining energy from renewable vs. fossil-fuel sources. Despite ever-falling costs, renewable sources are not yet less expensive than their non-renewable competitors.
But what if there were a way to intervene without any further technological innovation to reverse this equation?
We are in luck, and the answer is neither new nor complex. Since the 1970s, economists have advocated for a simple solution: to raise the price of non-renewables by taxing the carbon contained within them. In this way, non-carbon based alternatives become, comparatively, the lesser expense. Meanwhile, the revenue generated by the carbon tax can be used by the regulating body for a limitless list of causes, including investment in renewable energy technologies.
Since its innovation, carbon pricing in a variety of structures has been implemented around the world. Indeed, it is easy to sing the praises of bodies such as the EU that, as a result of their carbon price, are on trajectory to cut 2005 emission levels in half by 2030, all while generating €15.8 billion of revenue.
However, despite this promising evidence, the prospect of a carbon tax has become increasingly politically divisive at home. Most prevalent among conservative thinkers, opposition seems to be more directly related to generic resistance to any form of taxation rather than to concern about what’s best for the nation’s people and economy.
But, while our government stammers, the crisis is worsening. This is why we must call upon Harvard to act. It is high time that the University places a price on carbon. And internal regulation, a manifestation of self-control, is just the tactic to tackle it.
Enter the internal carbon tax. In this mechanism, an institution imposes a regulation — for each ton of carbon emitted, a predetermined fee is charged and then redistributed to a separate revenue stream — to which it will hold itself accountable. In other words, for each ton of carbon used, whether for heating or for travel, the levied fee is taken from the involved department and redirected to a carbon tax “piggy-bank.” Here, just as in the example of how a fitness goal discourages eating too much dessert in the same way as it inspires going for a run, we see two immediate benefits.
Firstly, the rising costs of the taxed fossil-fuels immediately render them less economically appealing, and consequently, discourage their use. Secondly, and, again, perhaps more importantly, the carbon tax “piggy-bank” creates funds available for environmental initiatives, technological development, and offsetting any inequities that might occur resultantly.
Internal carbon pricing is catching on, as both Microsoft and Yale University, among other prominent institutions, are pioneering its usage. Again, we are reminded of the power of self-control.
An internal carbon tax does not remove money from Harvard’s hands — rather, it re-allocates it in a socially-responsible manner that disincentivizes the “wrong choice” — the use of fossil fuels — and incentivizes the “right” one — investing in research and technology, which ultimately are the only hope we have for preserving our home as we know it.
Clea F. Schumer ’20 is an Environmental Science and Public Policy concentrator in Currier House.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
I happen to like Andrés Manuel López Obrador (known lovingly as “Amlo”), Mexico’s president-elect. He’s boisterous, populist, and intent on cleaning house. Yet he’s nothing like Trump. He might even be an antidote to the Trump effect, if the Democrats are willing to learn from him.
Amlo’s politics, called “Cardenismo,” are based on the legacy of Lázaro Cárdenas, Mexico’s president during the Great Depression. He championed a government-led recovery built on public works projects and intervention in key industries. He fostered the young Confederation of Mexican Workers, still the country’s largest union (with over 11,000 chapters). He drafted women’s suffrage legislation, though it would take 16 years to become law.
Amlo seems to take this legacy seriously. As mayor of Mexico City in the early 2000s, he adopted a pension plan for the city’s elderly and revamped much of the city’s transit infrastructure. Now, he’s promising to repave Oaxaca’s roads and establish rail lines across the southern gulf region. Maybe a tall order, but it suggests a pleasant optimism for a Mexican president-elect.
Since entering politics in the late seventies, López Obrador has held a number of different political affiliations.
In 1976, he joined the center-right Institutional Revolutionary Party, whose big-tent model he now plans to adopt for his own “Morena” coalition. By the late eighties, he had joined the new social-democratic Party for the Democratic Revolution, founded and run by the son of the ex-president Cárdenas. In 2014, he co-founded the National Regeneration Movement, the Cardenist labor party to which he now belongs.
The stiff nomenclature belies López Obrador — who is unmistakably of-the-people. On the issues, he has been remarkably steady since his first run in 2006: larger pensions for the poor and elderly (and smaller ones for ex-presidents), full integration of southern Mexico (by far the country’s poorer half) into the national economy, and public-private partnership where possible. In a country with a history of crowded politics (especially on the left), it’s important that Amlo dodges partisan classification.
This is one area where Amlo-style leadership could bolster the rebounding (but volatile) American left. In an increasingly diverse and ideologically wide political landscape, the Democratic brand has itself come into question. (Do the Clintons still own the party? How radical is too radical?) Amlo refuses these questions with his newest political project. The National Regeneration Movement is intentionally big-tent, channeling the fervor of ex-Zapatistas and ex-PRI members to the same ends.
Economically, Amlo is hardly as maverick as either Trump or 2016 Democratic contender Bernie Sanders, both of whom spoke of trade partnerships in the fast-and-loose way of ideologues.
On NAFTA, he’s pragmatic to the core (and far from the radical socialist some have painted him to be). In a letter to Trump regarding a NAFTA agreement, he spelled out in clear terms his top priority of ending “uncertainty [that] could slow investments.” On domestic issues, he’s promised to balance the budget, protect central bank autonomy, and wean public officials from private air travel. These concerns are about as sensible as they come.
The key takeaway is problem-solving. For the Democrats, that might mean funding a full recovery effort in Puerto Rico, revamping campaign finance scrutinies, and stabilizing (while still revising) NAFTA — positions consistent with both the Sanders and Clinton wings and broadly supported by the public.
I don’t claim that López Obrador is totally satisfying. Socially, he is much closer to the Mexican mainstream (and even right) than I would like, often sidestepping questions on women’s and LGBT rights. This is a clear problem in a country where 70 percent of women have reported sexual assault or domestic violence.
But López Obrador is no worse in this regard than Enrique Peña Nieto, Mexico’s current president, who will leave office in December having ignored a “pandemic” of misogynistic violence. And the Democrats need not draw lessons from this aspect of Amlo. Instead, we might observe his pragmatic craft — how he channels the legacy of Mexico’s New Deal to modern ends — for lessons.
American leaders, after all, have been known to look across the pond for lessons in turbulent moments. What say we look south this time?
Henry N. Brooks ’19 is a Social Studies concentrator living in Currier House. His column appears on alternate Thursdays. 
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
“The Dangerous Book for Boys” was bound in red cloth, larger than a spiral-bound notebook and much thicker. It was a 10th birthday gift for my friend, which I immediately began poring over with him. The tome was chock-full of incredibly useful information — building treehouses, decoding ciphers, tying knots, talking to girls — and I was enthralled. We spent a long August weekend weaving together lofty plans for running away from home or building a small settlement in the woods: some activity that would allow us to flex our newly learned and assuredly practical skills.

For my birthday, I asked for the tome’s feminine counterpart — “The Daring Book for Girls.” I was interested enough to ask for the book, but not countercultural enough to request a book specifically “For Boys.” To my chagrin, this book replaced tying knots with braiding friendship bracelets and building treehouses with turning cartwheels. It included a section describing how to throw a punch and some helpful hints on writing secret codes, but this felt insufficient — where was the Danger? Daring was a personality trait with undeniably positive implications, but Dangerous was Daring without the seatbelt and measured sensibility.

My ensuing desire to become a Dangerous Girl was not grounded in any sort of practicality or vengeance. I had no wrath; I was 10. I had spent the past several years absorbing YA-novel narratives featuring teenage girls who fought evil wizards and undertook espionage missions. Dangerous described my fictional companions, so why shouldn’t it describe me? To fulfill this desire, I decided to pursue fencing, a sport that delightfully necessitated the wielding of sharp objects, and karate, the closest substitute for learning how to beat someone up. 

In an unsurprising turn of events, fencing was not the most accessible sport. My sword-fighting dreams were derailed by logistics, so I was left with karate, which was easily attainable via the local recreation department. 

Seven-year-olds have nothing but free time and rampant energy, so they densely populated the beginner karate class at my local YMCA. Few students were above age 10 — students quickly learned that it took longer than six weeks to become a ninja and lost interest.

I had anticipated being one of the older students in the class, but I had not anticipated the age gap being so physically evident. I was tall for a 10-year-old, but had seven-year-olds always been this small? My uniform was somehow already too short, leaving my ankles scandalously exposed. I felt like a tourist in Lilliput. 

Not only did I know less karate than my second-grade compatriots, and not only did I stick out like a gangly sore thumb, but, at age 10, I was on the precipice of puberty. This stage in adolescence is the embodiment of the sentiment “Please do not look at me or else I will be forced to fly into the sun.” This trifecta caused so much discomfort that I considered leaving the class and never returning.
Still, quitting karate after one class was the antithesis of the Danger I’d sought out. I gritted my newly orthodontia-clad teeth,and soldiered on.

Because karate is foundationally much less violent than my danger-seeking self had anticipated, my first few months of class were devoid of hand-to-hand combat, which was replaced with sparring done several feet apart — shadowboxing in front of a human mirror. I wasn’t disappointed at this lack of violence. I wanted to know how to engage in combat, not necessarily do so.

I had begun karate in pursuit of knowledge and Danger, but by age twelve, I simply enjoyed the sport. The sensei was a gruff, mustachioed man whose favorite activity was push-ups. He granted each student the same discipline and encouragement, and was kind but never overly warm. 

I wasn’t knocking people’s heads from their bodies during class, but I was yelling loudly and ritually during movement sequences and throwing my entire weight behind my kicks. My mom encouraged this practice — “get your black belt before college,” she’d say. “I want you to feel like you can hold your own.” I had started to feel strong each time I went to class, and the idea of becoming a Dangerous Girl had since fallen to the wayside, but the idea of self-defense was naturally latent in the sport.

I steadily moved up the ranks into the “advanced” class, home to higher-ranked belt colors and slightly taller kids. I was breaking wooden boards with my body, learning how to do a halfway-decent push-up, and had a killer flying roundhouse kick (thanks to my longer-than-most legs). I was no longer concerned with the gaping inch of ankle skin left unguarded by my gi. 

After several years of growing into my uniform, I was bumped up to the adult class. Perhaps I had finally gotten too tall, my kicks too lethal for the twelve year olds around me. Alternatively, I had started high school and the YMCA had regulations about who was considered an adult.

“Adult,” as a term, was a somewhat apt descriptor for the class, but it didn’t capture the off-kilter dynamic. There were several adult men in the group, ranging from older teens (mostly pale young men with acne-ridden complexions and sweaty palms) to dad-aged karate enthusiasts. I remember one other teenage girl in the group, maybe two on a lucky day. They got their black belts soon after I joined the class and moved on to other teenage pursuits (dance? academics? knife throwing?).

There was no formal difference between this class and all the classes prior: we all stood in the same line in order of rank, and all responded to commands in the same way. The men and women in the room were treated exactly the same, just as the boys and girls had been treated exactly the same in each prior class. But my hard-won confidence in karate faltered. The playing field was hypothetically level, but now I was set to spar against a 19-year-old man and uncomfortably aware of the physical difference between him and my 14-year-old self. I had signed up for a class where men would throw punches at me, but I hadn’t anticipated feeling so uneasy. And if I were to refuse to fight and buck the constructed social order of the dojo, it would only give credence to my insecurity in the space. We were left to face off, and I was once again uncomfortably aware of my body as it related to a man’s. 

I wasn’t craving some cinematic “I can’t fight a girl!” moment, after which I would knock the offender’s stubble-ridden head clean from his slouching shoulders. I wanted to own real estate again — I had been relegated to a rental tenant, in the dojo and in my body. No longer could I gain ownership of the space through tenacity and adherence to the sport’s formal qualities. I was a teenage girl in a class full of adult men and, even with every possible meritocratic measure in place, no one had told me that a dangerous girl was only just on a level playing field with an adult man. 

My mom had continually encouraged me to pursue my black belt over the years of my time in karate, and her enthusiasm increased as I entered high school. Fifteen was only a stone’s throw from college-age. Once I found myself physically uncomfortable and surrounded by somewhat-looming men, karate lost its shine as a means of protecting myself from actually looming, predatory men. I pulled away from the sport, and my mom dropped the rhetoric. If physical security couldn’t be found in a strong punch and far-reaching roundhouse kick, it was unlikely to be found in a black belt.
—Magazine writer Norah M. Murphy can be reached at norah.murphy@thecrimson.com Follow her on Twitter @norah_murph.
Sections
As a sound system blares “Mind your funky business, leave me alone,” Elton — a tall ,middle-aged man, dark skin well-moisturized and proudly dressed in red from his cap to his trousers — proceeded to set me straight on my possible impressions of Cambridge Carnival 2018:
“Any time you hear people say that they came to Carnival and they saw women dressing half-naked, and stuff like that, that is just a form of them expressing themselves,” he said. “You don’t have to agree with how they dress, but it’s them having their day and expressing themselves.”
In the 26 years since Cambridge Carnival’s inception, it has outgrown a Central Square location and become the largest festival in the city. The festival is both competitive for the performers and convivial for the attendees. The organizers aim to ensure Central Square’s historical connection with the Caribbean remains strong in a fast-gentrifying community.
As Nicola A. Williams, president of the Carnival, told me: “If you ask someone whose family that has been here for a couple of generations that’s black in Cambridge, most likely they are Bajan,” because, “around River Street and Western Avenue, Bajans came here in the early 1900s and settled.”
On River Street, people bring out their chairs to watch the beginning of the parade. Williams emphasized that, although gentrification remains a concern of hers in terms of “how our community is shifting,” Carnival remains a culturally significant “homecoming” for many black people — including those who continue to live in Cambridge and those who have since moved out of the city.
Elton’s description of the festivities was apt. Many scantily clad black men and women braved unexpectedly sharp winds on a 70-degree day, whining to soca, reggae, and dancehall on the grey Cambridge streets. One group competing in beige shiny bikinis and feathered swan wings danced in circle formation. They called themselves “Dhalpuri” after the flavorful flat bread concocted in the 19th century by Indians and Africans in the Caribbean. A confection, by themselves and for themselves.
I only approached Elton because I was born in Trinidad and Tobago — the name his hat declared in silver-plated letters. Carnival too was born in T&T, with its characteristic calypsonian sound, when the cultures of African, Indian, and Caribbean immigrants collided in the 17th century. Many of its references remain familiar to me since I previously attended similar festivities, both in the island nation and in my adopted home of London. I cannot lie — knowing that a cultural artifact has spread across the world from my country, 1.3 million people strong, ensures that I feel pride in claiming it as a national heritage. When I arrived at Cambridge Carnival, I saw Haitians, Dominicans, Jamaicans, Barbadians, Grenadians and more with their flags on show. Fittingly, I quickly bought a T&T flag from a street vendor and tucked it into my back pocket.
Performative as my flag-bearing may be, Carnival welcomed people who did the most. Judges at Cambridge Carnival adjudicated bands based on five criteria: craftsmanship, creativity, visual impact, presentation, and exuberance. Judy A. Walter, who has judged Carnival for over 10 years, illustrated the pressure to impress: “This is a very expensive event to participate in… It is not something that people go into lightly.”
Boston Socaholics, a band that has won awards at Boston Carnival three years in a row, and at Cambridge last year, plan their themes for each event a year in advance. This year, they paraded under the banner “Journey of the Warriors.” Members wore multicolored headdresses some four or five feet high and wide, unafraid to twist and turn unencumbered along Main Street. Children joined in, pushing costumes when their parents were too tired to do so alone. Andrea Mercury, a band leader for Socaholics, noted that, even though more people have joined over the past few years, “we usually have the same people returning every year; it is a community, it is like a family.”
Diners brunching in cafés looked on bemused, unknowingly missing out on the Caribbean food that was being sold further down in the parade. Pholourie, doubles, rum cake, aloo pie, and the aforementioned dhalpuri roti — the soothing smell of dishes that make me feel both instantly hungry and instantly at home. The only Harvard students I saw at the event, freshmen Mason T. Forbes ’22 and Asa P. Coleman ’22, had come for the music and jerk chicken after Forbes’ brother’s friend from Dorchester told them about the event.
Cambridge Carnival uses the Trinidadian model of parading and open dance but retains elements specific to the city. “There is a huge participation with the Haitian community, for example the Rara group that come with their percussion,” said Williams. But to say that the Carnival’s unofficial slogan of “beauty in diversity” was fulfilled would ignore the dearth of white Cantabridgians at the event. While Walter notes that her credentials as a scholar of African Dance meant no one “has ever questioned” her place as a judge, most of the few white people at the event belonged to three noticeable constituencies: families, photographers, and the police.
Kyle Mangione-Smith, a film student at Emerson, remarked on how the Carnival stood out of the ordinary run of events in the city. “Cambridge isn’t a colorful place,” he said, in reference to both its fashion and people.
“I live in the same apartment as my boyfriend, and he has lived there for like 10 years now and it is interesting because he talks about when he moved in, it was just entirely different, because it has been so gentrified in such a short period of time… you mostly only see white people.” However, he said he appreciated the event. “It is definitely nice seeing something other than generic tech bros that pay $10 for a sandwich.”
In reference to the high number of police officers present, Williams said that there were “more than you would probably want to see,” but emphasized that “public safety is a number one priority for us.” From 2004 to 2007, Williams worked as a creative consultant for Notting Hill Carnival in London. Upon her return, she helped the Cambridge Police Department develop a public safety plan for the following years of the event. On Carnival day, members of the organizing committee were stationed with police in their command center. “They are constantly in communication with us, because we are in charge of the event and they are there to support us,” she says.
London’s Notting Hill Carnival has an equally resonant cultural significance but occurs on a very different scale, being the largest street festival in Europe. It was founded by Claudia Jones, a black Trinidadian Communist and journalist, in 1939 as a response to race riots that sought to push black Caribbeans out of the area in which they had settled. Carnival, with its vibrancy and openness, sought to retain hope for an infant Black British community under the slogan: “A people’s art is the genesis of their freedom.”
Working in London made Williams realize how important it was to preserve the diasporic character and cultural freedom within Cambridge. “I have had to advocate, and sometimes challenge the city in certain ways, only because I know how important it is to share your voice through art and culture and music and dance,” she says. “To share your culture without being censored… this is activism, and this is much bigger than us.”

—Magazine writer Che R. Applewhaite can be reached at che.applewhaite@thecrimson.com.
Sections
When I first heard that Lululemon, the luxurious athletic wear company, was opening on Brattle Street, I was surprised to realize there wasn’t one in the Square already. It felt logical that a company with sweat-resistant leggings and performance-enhancing, extra-support sports bras would find a home in Harvard Square, but I couldn’t articulate why. At Harvard, mental discipline has cultural capital. So it seems like a natural hub for the athleisure trend, a style that is discipline incarnate, as if the wearer has metabolized and sweated out the essence of discipline. So, with the first installment of my health and wellness column looming, I went to the month-old Lululemon on Brattle Street to trace my hunch to the source.
When I arrived at the store Thursday morning, I was greeted by four svelte mannequins in the window display. One wore grey leggings, another a dusty blue bicep-hugging long-sleeved shirt. All their arms hung casually by their sides, as if they were at total ease in their plastic bodies. They seemed to be staring at me, bodies angled entirely towards the street. But they had no heads.
Beneath the mannequins, window decals warned me that “the most important answers will never be found in the search bar.” An oversized search bar was drawn below. Through the empty URL, I could glimpse into the store and see Lululemon’s answers — rows of black leggings. Whatever vaguely conjured questions these leggings might answer (perhaps something as innocuous as, “How do I tone my glutes?” or maybe, “How do I create an individual sense of purpose instead of metabolizing my family’s values?”), the graphic suggested I must search actively, not virtually (code for passively). The ambiguity of “answers” proposed that 1. stretching my legs in a pair of their $98 black leggings and 2. actively working through an “important” philosophical question by reading were one and the same, as if to imply the way I flex my body must necessarily reveal the way I flex my most important muscle, my brain. Mental and physical collapsed into one.
Bearing this omen in mind, I entered the store. It felt surprisingly austere — the floors were deep grey, the walls plain white and exposed brick. No one greeted me as I walked towards the front display, which included a Cambridge tote bag, baseball hats in dusty rose, and a mauve yoga matt. The legging mannequins — which weren’t really mannequins, just identical pairs of legs with right knees popped to round their hollow butt cheeks, all severed at the belly button — sported different legging styles, including the ‘align crop’ and the “fast and free crop”. But almost all the leggings on display were plain black or grey. The only patterned offering was a modest navy-and-white swirl. In fact, all the clothes were in muted tones: black rain jackets and various grey-toned sweat-resistant long-sleeves perfect for the winter hung from the walls. The brightest items in the store, the colored tank tops, were diluted. The yellows looked like whipped butter, the blues like the flesh of a humpback whale.
Before visiting Lululemon, I had imagined that the clothes would be neon — like the hot pink and traffic cone orange leotards of ’80s athleisure, the forebear of the current athleisure trend. But the clothes, rather than calling attention to themselves, called attention to the plastic curves they caressed. The current athleisure trend seems less about the actual clothes than the bodies within them. 
Take some of the most notable proponents of the athleisure craze — the Kardashians, women whose names and careers are synonymous with their voluptuous physiques. In the past three years, Kim has sported a gray-scaled rainbow of different biker shorts that cradle her illustrious ass and hips and show off the contours of her body. Instead of leaving viewers to wonder how toned her legs might be under that gauzy skirt, she presents her body in stark relief. Given that Kim’s body is the basis of her business empire (see her perfume bottle from this past April, a miniature mold of her torso), her bodily discipline is equated with her business discipline. Her mastery over her body is equivalent to her mastery over the market. Her legs are the ultimate accessory to, and emblem of, her business savvy.
So, naturally, this Lululemon was entirely organized by body part. As I went deeper into the store, the mannequins became increasingly disfigured. In the front window, they were almost fully intact, just headless. Deeper into the store, in the tank top section, the mannequins were merely flat stomachs with arms. In the very back, the shorts section, they were reduced to mere pelvises. This layout equates a product with a body part, so leggings make you focus on the legs. Shorts, like the “hotty hot” mini spandex shorts, make you focus on the butt. The store’s organization distills the body into different segments, as if each individual part can be perfected if you lavish enough attention upon it.
In the sports bra section of Lululemon, half torsos — shoulders with perfectly formed plastic boobs — modeled bras with straps of varying thickness. I looked at the little chalkboards that named the bras in each row: the “energy bra,” the “forget the rest bra,” the “time to sweat bra” and the “mind over miles bra.” The names endow the clothes with a sense of performance, associating athleisure not just with doing, but achieving.
Unlike most stores in the Square, this Lululemon is a double-decker. The top level, which occupies only half a floor, is an in-store workout area. Lululemon is collaborating with local workout studios, many of which have recently popped up around the Square, to offer free in-store exercise classes.
And yet wearing Lululemon leggings does not always go hand-in-hand with working out in Lululemon leggings. Someone wearing a pair of leggings to class likely didn’t arrive fresh from the gym, beads of sweat plopping onto their desk; nor does it mean the person will work out after class. But athleisure isn’t about actually wearing the clothes to work out, it’s more about performing health. The clothes don’t cover the body but present it: the racerback tanks show off shoulders, the t-shirts cling to stomachs. Wearing Lululemon suggests the person could perpetually be about to work out, as if that person is always on the verge of toning their body with cardio or calisthenics. At the very least passersby know that the wearer is sufficiently conscious of their fitness to own a pair of leggings.
Freshman year, when I would take a break from reading or paper writing to message a friend on Facebook, I often signed off that conversation with the same Facebook sticker. I would type “working” into the sticker search bar and send a graphic of a girl with a millenial pink bob, glasses resting on the crown of her head, squinting at a computer while she rubs her chin in a gesture of thought so intense it becomes physical. The girl has two beads of sweat dripping from her hair, her intellectual quest so absolute it forces her to start sweating. I gravitated towards this sticker because it aligns thinking with physical gestures. Deep thought is a sweat-inducing process, blurring the boundary between mental and physical discipline. Athleisure and sartorial control are attempts to prove intellectual control.
As I left the store, going from the pelvises to the torsos to the legs, and then out the door, I looked back at the front window. Seen through the glass, the isolated parts on show around the store re-configured an almost-entire body. But even the most complete mannequins were still missing heads. Not a single mannequin in the store, I realized, had a head. There weren’t even severed mannequin heads sporting hats. It was left to window shoppers to transpose their own heads atop the severed mannequins, offering a disciplined, plastic and literally sculpted body to the presumably disciplined brains roaming the square. That’s the promise of Lululemon: that a sculpted, controlled physique is not in opposition to a sculpted brain but, instead, is merely waiting to be chosen by a sculpted mind. It will only cost you a couple hundred dollars.
— Magazine writer Jensen E. Davis can be reached at jensen.davis@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @jensendavis12. This is the first installment of her column, What Are You Lifting?, which will explore different ideas and approaches to health in and around campus.
Sections
There are two striking similarities between the Big Bang and campus musical group 21 Colorful Crimson: 1) both are very large and 2) both have unusual names. There are 21 members of 21 Colorful Crimson, all members of the class of 2021. This makes the group significantly larger than the famously large Arcade Fire.
The name 21 Colorful Crimson (officially shortened to 21CC) recalls Noam Chomsky’s famous nonsense sentence: “Colorless green ideas sleep furiously.” After all, crimson is a color, something that can’t be counted or possess the attribute “colorful.” Even the abbreviation defies naming conventions — 21cc (or cm3) can also describe the size of a glass of water small enough for a cute little frog.
But let’s not bury the lede—21CC is very, very good. You may be skeptical of a musical group wholeheartedly embraced by Harvard’s institutional personality, The Gazette (where they were given a video/article feature). If so, please listen to 21CC’s debut single “How You Gonna Hate” before continuing.
Doesn’t that sound like it could be the song of the summer? On a campus where most things are triangulated within four dimensions of irony, 21CC’s earnestness combines with genuine musicality to create what serious music critics call a “bop.” And this talent hasn’t gone unnoticed — the group opened for Wale and Lil Yachty at Yardfest last May.
That was a big audience for such a young group. Just four months earlier, 21CC was but a twinkle in the eye of president and co-founder James A. Mathew ’21. Mathew exudes the relaxed-yet-ethical confidence of a startup CEO whose organization isn’t actively making the world worse. Within the taxonomy of boy band archetypes, he’s the “your-best-friend’s-older-brother” type.
Inspired by the jam sessions he had with his classmates, Mathew wanted a more structured way to make music with people whose tastes and backgrounds were different from his own. Mathew, an Indian-American who grew up in a predominantly white neighborhood, was excited to be in a place where new sounds and partnerships were possible. He shared his idea of a diverse music collective with his friend Olivia M. Owens ’21, who made it a reality through a fury of logistics and Google Docs.
The name was originally Mathew’s idea — he wanted to emphasize the diversity of the group while keeping the Harvard element present. Owens came up with the abbreviation. They invited two other friends to join the executive board, then asked the class of 2021 for their portfolios and audition tapes. And so, 21CC was born.
Owens is not a musician. In fact, several members of the 21 contribute non-musical skills like filmmaking. Instead, she’s the self-described “mom” of the group. “I’m a little naggy,” she says, because as director of operations it’s her job to make sure that this massive conglomerate of artsy types slouches towards some semblance of a finished product. In fact, there are so many artists in the group that they rarely rehearse all together.
But Owens is also “always the one checking in emotionally, and hugging, and asking if everybody’s okay.” It is this dual role that places her in a Hegelian dialectic between “the sensitive one” and “the meet-your-parents” type. This aspect of Owen’s personality comes out in her formulation of 21CC’s mission: “We’re just out here spreading diversity, love, and inclusion.”
This vision is what makes Elijah “EJayy” C. De’Vaughn ’21 so excited about 21CC. “What we do is create music of all different styles, all different types,” De’Vaughn says. “We like to showcase all our different artists in the group, whether that’s R&B, hip-hop, country, acoustic.”
In a group with such size and breadth of taste, one would think there would be fierce arguments. One would be correct. But these disagreements aren’t a bug of 21CC. “It was never the intention or the expectation for everyone to agree,” Mathew says. “Ultimately, how we manage with that many voices around the table is by being respectful of one another.” The music comes out stronger in the end. Another bonus of a group so large: the danger of a solo-career spin-off ending 21CC is quite low.
De’Vaughn is one of the many singer/songwriters in 21CC. When asked, he (accurately) classified himself as the “cool, sensitive one.” One gets the feeling that 21CC is made up of about 40 percent “sensitive ones,” a percentage somewhat higher than in the classical boy band archetype-balancing formula. But then again, this group is trying to do something bigger.
“I vehemently believe that art is a way to connect, and to speak to people, and to connect across color lines and socioeconomic lines,” De’Vaughn says. “We want to make music that’s politically conscious, and speaks to bigger ideals of grace, of love, of acceptance and inclusion.”
Sections
I arrive at Cambridge Common on the afternoon of Sept. 8, lured by the promise of “celastic tigers,” “celestial grasshoppers,” and a celebration of “6,000 years of human revolution against human management.”
The band is rehearsing when I arrive; I’m greeted by the cacophony of a saxophone, a sousaphone, two trombones, two percussionists, and a woman wearing a corrugated washboard on her chest. Everyone in the troupe wears all-white clothing, though there are variations in head and footwear. The saxophone player is wearing a straw boater hat, while the woman with the washboard wears a bandana and a snazzy pair of sunglasses.
The troupe is making their second stop on a cross country tour that will last until December. They travel in a caravan of vans, RVs, and a retrofitted, paint-covered school bus stuffed to the brim with puppets. The bus serves as a vehicle for the circus backdrop, five sheets of cloth painted in dizzying white and blue patterns. If you look closely, you can make out the show’s title — Grasshopper Rebellion Circus.
Bread and Puppet Theater was founded in 1963 by Peter Schumann, a sculptor, dancer, and baker who emigrated from Germany to New York’s Lower East Side. While teaching a class on puppetry at the Putney School in Vermont, Schumann decided to take a puppet show on the road in a trailer pulled by a station wagon. After each show, he served the playgoers bread from his bakery. So the name Bread and Puppet stuck.
The theater is famous for its radical countercultural stance. According to Bread and Puppet’s website, it was a part of “some of the earliest demonstrations against U.S. Involvement in Southeast Asia” and was a “familiar presence in the protest movement against the Vietnam War.” The Grasshopper Rebellion Circus is no different: it is anti-capitalist, anti-globalist, and pro-antagonization-of-the-mind. It draws attention to the Chilean feminist movement, the plight of women workers in India, prison strikers, and countless other focal points in today’s political climate.
Bread and Puppet also maintains a museum in a 150-year-old barn in Vermont’s Northeast Kingdom. Opened in 1974, the museum houses puppets arranged to recreate scenes from shows past. Unlike most museums, none of the puppets are preserved in any way; they will decay with the passage of time, and since they’re made of string, papier-mâché, staples, and secondhand clothing, that time might be sooner than later.
Bread and Puppet prides itself on being one of the oldest self-supporting theaters in the country — primarily by surviving on their thrift. They scour rummage sales for costumes, reuse when they can, and rely on community efforts to create most of their puppets. Their guiding philosophy is Cheap Art — a rebellion against the art that only takes place in galleries and is inaccessible to people who can’t pay the entrance fee. The actors are volunteers — the troupe generates income from donations and profits from the Cheap Art Store (a folding table set up at each performance), which sells postcards, posters, pamphlets on the philosophy of Cheap Art, and so forth. 
In addition to giving performances, the theater also runs apprenticeship programs in rural Vermont, via which people stay for a number of weeks to learn and perform. Participants live in tents, use outhouses, and compost food leftovers. The theater’s website calls for “truck drivers, farmers, musicians, students, grandmothers, activists, lovers of papier-mâché tigers.”
Troupe members range from people like Ron Kelley, who has been playing the saxophone for the Bread and Puppet Band for 42 years, to children who look to be as young as four or five. One of the first acts in today’s Grasshopper Rebellion Circus is a schoolteacher deciding on the word of the day, followed by a gaggle of children. A girl in a white dress waves enthusiastically to someone in the front row. The teacher pulls out her Oxford English Dictionary and decides that today, the word of the day will be RIOT. The kids take this to heart and the stage descends into rapid chaos, pages of the Oxford English Dictionary raining down.
Portions of the show are defined by sardonic comedy about the current political climate. Nine Supreme Court Justices swagger onto the stage before ripping off their robes to reveal tutus and Superman-esque letters on their chests, spelling F-A-S-C-I-S-T. They launch themselves into an exuberant cheerleading routine, shouting, “We went from Supreme to Supremacist!” After the justices retire, two inventors appear with a machine called the Not-So-Evil-A-Tron, declaring it a “washing machine for language” that turns “pure evil” into “palatable banality.” They begin to feed words into one side, and on the other side, a different one appears.
“Torture” becomes “enhanced interrogation.” “Old fashioned racism” becomes “zero tolerance immigration policy.” “Hippies with dolls” becomes “Bread and Puppet Theater.”
Later, ICE officials forcibly stop two puppets from hugging. A massive puppet that represents Yemen holds a papier-mâché baby in its arms, and falls to the ground while the U.S. government, Saudi Arabia, the media, and the U.S. public ignore its cries for help. There is a moment of recognition for the soldiers “who ruined their lives by following orders to kill 107 and maim 11,000 inmates of the Gaza prison and therefore will never be able to look into a human eye again.”
At times like these, the crowd falls silent. I hear parents tell their children they will explain things to them later. I hear people murmur about the government, about the climate, about the way things have to change.
As I stand in line for a piece of bread (sourdough rye, as per tradition), I think about how the ground I’m standing on was muddied by the thousands of people who attended the Women’s March last January. Cambridge Common has seen its share of protests, and it saw another today. A protest against uncaring politics, against turning a blind eye, against poverty and war and corruption. A protest against inaccessible art and the constraints of capitalism, against corruption and greed. This protest is bound up in sheet paper and staples, in community efforts and the hands of puppeteers who would rather be here than anywhere else.
After the show, I ask Kelley why he’s stuck around for 42 years. “I feel like, if anything’s making a difference in the world, maybe this is something that might,” he says. “It’s something that I feel like my skills complement. I can make a difference here.”
— Magazine writer Anna Kate E. Cannon can be reached at anna.cannon@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @ae_cannon.
Sections
“I just want people to know that if they participate in the Primal Scream they might end up a singing drag queen,” Benjamin H. Schatz ’81 declares.
For the uninitiated: Primal Scream is the semesterly tradition in which undergraduates sprint through Harvard Yard, totally nude, the night before finals period. Schatz claims to have initiated an early version of the tradition when he and his friends would gather in Pennypacker for a cathartic, stress-relieving scream (with their clothes on). But for Schatz and his pals, Primal Scream was not exclusively held during finals period. It took place every night at 11 p.m.
Schatz, now a professional, full-time, singing drag queen, started his career in activism in 1977 at Harvard, when the famously homophobic “The Anita Bryant Story” catapulted gay rights into the national conversation.
“I couldn’t lie to myself anymore,” he says, having thought, “This is who I am, so I’m going to do something about it.”
So Schatz “burst the closet door open” for other students on campus. He presided over and dramatically expanded the Harvard-Radcliffe Gay Students Association and started Gay and Lesbian Awareness Day. Under his leadership, the HRGSA went from being small and unnoticed — Schatz was one of three freshmen in the group — to one of the largest groups on campus, Schatz says.
Some students were hostile toward the group.
According to classmate, CNN commentator, and New Yorker writer Jeffrey R. Toobin ‘82, Schatz faced unkind reactions when he handed out HRGSA fliers at class registration each January, usually alone. Students would, at times, throw the leaflets on the ground or hurl them back at Schatz.
“It’s hard to remember how courageous that was,” Toobin says.
More than once, when Schatz and members of the HRGSA were publicizing Lesbian Gay Awareness Day around campus dining halls, Schatz says onlookers threw food at them.
Nonetheless, Schatz is upbeat about his college experience.
“I was just on my own and I was not going to be stopped,” he remembers. “It was scary but most people were” — he pauses, choosing his words carefully — “polite.”
Schatz went on to Harvard Law School, followed by  a career stint in civil rights litigation. He served as an attorney for the National Gay Rights Advocates for a few years, and then spent time working as a Santa Claus in a department store in San Francisco before he was offered the opportunity to start a program for HIV-positive healthcare workers. The organization became the Gay and Lesbian Medical Association, which he headed as its executive director from 1990 to 1999. Schatz also served as a member of President Clinton’s Advisory Council on HIV/AIDS.
At the peak of the AIDS crisis, the work was crushing. “I had all of my friends dying,” he says. “It makes you think about what is important in your life. When you don’t know if you’re going to be alive, if the people you love are going to be alive.”
That’s also when Schatz discovered he could combine his twin loves for theater and activism. One night, Schatz and a few friends went to a Bette Midler concert dressed in drag and discovered that they sang well together. From there, the men decided to start a “dragapella” group called the Kinsey Sicks. The group’s name is a reference to the Kinsey Scale, a scale measuring sexuality first popularized in 1948 that has since largely been refuted; A six on the Kinsey Scale signaled same-sex attraction. The Kinsey Sicks write and sing satirical songs, make music videos, and travel worldwide to perform.
From 1993 to 1999, Schatz straddled two roles: executive director of the GLMA and Rachel, his alter ego when performing for the Kinsey Sicks. Eventually the bureaucratic elements of Schatz’s office job became too much. The direness of AIDS work had taken its toll. Schatz made the Kinsey Sicks his full-time job.
For Schatz, the change was liberating. He says he felt pressured to be “respectable” as the AIDS panic struck. Now, Schatz says, “I don’t want to have to be respectable.”
“It’s very tempting when you’re at Harvard to assume that there are really only four careers: business, law, medicine, or academia,” he says. Drag queen wasn’t on the list.
Why drag? “There was a defiance,” Schatz says. “That was lifesaving. And it gave me so much more joy.”
Schatz has been the lyricist for the Kinsey Sicks for 25 years. Their songs are mostly politically charged; a mix of originals and parodies (“What Does Fox News Say” is a recent example). He is on the last tour of his career as a dragapella performer, the schedule of which is still being finalized.
“Should someone be foolish enough to bring the Kinsey Sicks to Harvard, I wouldn’t object,” he adds.
From proctors to bureaucrats to classmates, Schatz has always chosen the unorthodox. As he steps off the stage for good, citing fatigue with the intense tour schedule, he plans to keep writing — and making people uncomfortable.
Perhaps he’ll return to the stage, Schatz says. “I have no doors closed, except joining the Trump administration. Actually, I would probably accept that.” He laughs. “I don’t think I’d last for long there. It would be an interesting day.”
Correction: Sept. 28, 2018
A previous version of this article incorrectly stated that Benjamin H. Schatz ’81 and his friends used to gather in Pennypacker when they were Harvard undergraduates in the 1980s and collectively scream while nude. In fact, Schatz and his friends kept their clothes on for this ritual.
Sections
Cambridge Violin is on the second floor of 50 JFK St., across from Staples and Shake Shack and above Amorino. A display case at street level bears a sign with peeling letters that says “VIOLINS VIOLAS CELLOS BOWS REPAIRS SALES” and an arrow that points 45 degrees up toward a door that leads to a staircase with 16 steps. At the top is another door, coated in hand- written notes, magazine cut-outs, and duct-taped aphorisms like a scrapbook accumulating memories and snippets of knowledge: a Dolly Parton quote scribbled on printer paper that says “If you want to see a rainbow you got to put up with the rain”; a hand carved wooden sign that says “Violins”; a placard that reads “Entrée Des Artistes.”
“Someone called it ‘Dickensian,’” Germaine M. Carbury-Breau says of the violin repair shop that she opened in 1981. The repair room is small: 10 feet by 20 feet. A workbench in the middle is surrounded by brushes in jars and small blades on hooks. There are also piles of books on subjects ranging from Homer to cooking to art history. Stringless violin bodies hang along the walls.
“Those will be mostly for parts,” Carbury-Breau says; a side or a rib. The body of a standard violin is 14 inches long. But the sizes and the colors of the violins Carbury-Breau repairs can vary, especially with older violins. So a stock of proverbial organ donors is helpful for any violin repair person.
“I always loved music,” Carbury-Breau says, “from the time I was born.” Raised in Canada with French ancestry, she learned guitar and taught herself violin. She grew up listening to country music years before she became interested in classical music.
“Where I come from, because of the mountain range — it goes through Maine — you couldn’t get a Boston station on the radio to save your life. But you could get southern stations for some reason,” she says. “We knew about Nashville way before Bostonians ever did.”
Carbury-Breau grew up speaking French, but for her “À propos des violins, c’est plus facile pour moi de parler en anglais” — it’s easier to discuss violins in English.
She immigrated to America over 50 years ago. Several years after that, she was working in a biology lab and running an antique shop. A man approached her about breaking in the lease for a property he owned in Harvard Square. She jumped at the opportunity.
“I thought, ‘Holy cow,’” Carbury-Breau recalls. “To me, Harvard Square was heaven.” She laughs. “He said, ‘Do you think you can look at it?’ I said ‘Is tomorrow morning too late?’”
Eight to 10 million people pass through Harvard Square each year, according to Denise A. Jillson, the Executive Director of the Harvard Square Business Association. Jillson says local business owners  owners know their markets and their consumers, and they “can be very nimble and very flexible” when it comes to reacting to what customers want.
Running a business in Harvard Square is no different than running a business anywhere else, Jillson says. “You need to offer something that people need, and it needs to be good quality, and it needs to be priced well.” Cambridge Violin is no exception to the rule, and Carbury-Breau offers a service that demands experience.
Violins require precise repair. Tools that measure to within a millimeter hang above the workshop area in Cambridge Violin. To produce sound, energy from the vibration of the violin strings travels through a carefully calibrated network of woodwork and air pockets. Play the A string and hear 440 vibrations per second, the result of details that boil down to the movement of molecules. So each broken violin demands a slightly different fix.
“I have probably repaired a thousand violins,” Carbury-Breau says. “I’m not sure that I’ve ever done the same on two violins.” 
Each violin is personal. “The instrument is very intimate,” Federico Cortese says. Cortese is the music director of the Harvard Radcliffe Orchestra, which Carbury-Breau has serviced in the past. “There is something — it’s hard to explain,” Cortese says. “The feeling that an instrument has a problem is a little bit like ‘my ankle hurts.’ It’s something that — you know — you’re playing soccer, and you feel that there’s a problem with a muscle. It’s yours.”
Cortese likens selecting a violin repair expert to selecting a dentist. “The dentist is something that you really choose,” he says. “The barber is somebody you choose.” According to Cortese, musicians don’t give their instruments to a repair person who isn’t “highly recommended.”
Given her choice of metaphor, it’s apt that some of the devices Carbury-Breau uses to repair violins are re-purposed dental tools that she’s picked up at flea markets. “You need something a little pointed or a little mirror to look in,” she says. “You see that, and you go, ‘Oh, I could use that to look inside a violin,’ or ‘I could use this to do a little something.’” Violin anatomy is as delicate as dentistry.
After decades of violin repair, Carbury-Breau is full of stories. “There’s a thousand things we could talk about,” she says, cradling a mug of water. She remembers the days in the 1960s when she saw Bob Dylan on Mt. Auburn Street; the violins from China and England and France and Australia sent to her for repair; the doctor from Cleveland who played Ave Maria on his Stradivarius violin one night in her shop. She recounts a period when she was having a tough time and bought a CD of La Mer by Debussy to fall asleep to and listened to it for weeks and weeks. It is a seemingly mundane moment that has stayed with her. Carbury-Breau struggles to describe her experience.
“You see, I don’t know which word to use: when you hear [the music] or when you listen. Which word would you use?” She pauses. “Once you get to a point where it’s speaking to you.” She takes a sip from the mug.
Business is slower now. The repetitive motions of twisting and gripping and slicing have taken their toll on Carbury-Breau’s hands. Her thumbs are often in pain, but she’s treating them, applying heat and soaking them often. She says they are getting better. Still, she has to tell customers it will take a little longer to fix their instruments. She isn’t playing the guitar or the violin for the time being.
Hanging over a door in Carbury-Breau’s shop is a gold placard that says “Symparanekromenoi.” It’s from Kierkegaard, she says, her “favorite existentialist.” She translates the phrase as “Separation from God.” It literally refers to a fellowship of the dead; yet, descending the 16-step staircase back to the street below Cambridge Violin, “separation” feels like the right word to meditate on.

--Magazine writer Matt B. Hoisch can be reached at matt.hoisch@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @Hoischy.
Sections
“Sometimes I have the urge to give everything away.” 

Anh H. Tran’s room in Mather House is bright, clean, and austere, conveying a warm receptivity in contrast to the dark, Brutalist concrete of the building. Despite her lack of belongings, she apologizes for the non-existent mess. Perhaps this detachment from worldly goods comes from her 15-year stint as a Buddhist nun.

At age 11, Tran asked her parents for permission to leave Southern California and pursue the monastic life. “I was so adamant. I needed to become a nun. The monastic life was captivating to me.” Her parents were supportive but asked that she wait two years before leaving for good — the monastery, needless to say, is a significant long-term commitment. “They wanted me to learn how to live, how to engage with this life in a way that I wanted to engage in this life,” says Tran.


 The child of Vietnamese refugees, Tran grew up Buddhist. She spent weekends visiting the local monastery with her family. The religious sanctuary was not only a place of peace and serenity for her, but also of exploration and play. 

Her youthful curiosity is what drew her to spirituality. “I’m someone who’s always dealt with existential crises,” Tran recalls. Her first bout of self-questioning was prompted by the Saturday cartoons. She remembers seeing a close-up of a cartoon character zoom out from a tiny neighborhood into the expanse of the world. “I freaked out,” Tran says, “I realized I am just a speck of dust in this giant universe.” 

And because of these questions, or perhaps in spite of them, Tran journeyed to Plum Village, a monastic community near Bordeaux, France, at 13 years old. Four other kids around her age arrived at about the same time. Though still a child, she yearned for the stillness and joy she saw in the nuns and in her teacher, Zen Master Thich Nhat Hanh. 

But life in the monastery didn’t reflect idealistic bliss. Tran’s first task was to sand an entire wood cabin and paint it by hand. “I didn’t know they have power tools that get the job done in a minute,” says Tran. Instead, she spent two weeks at the barn, laboring daily, to get it done.

This hard work did not deter Tran from monastic life. Instead, she found comfort in the physical toil. Once at the monastery, she felt like her life had clicked into place. Tran knew: “I’m in it forever. Lifetime after lifetime.” 

Other aspects of monastic life were less in line with Tran’s penchant for questioning. “I think my energy, my rambunctiousness was annoying to the nuns. But my teacher fanned the flames of my curiosity. He told me to ask more questions, to find those answers.”
Eventually, Tran’s questions led her to leave the monastery and head to the University of Southern California for college and acupuncture school. There was a monastery nearby that she could visit.

In her first years of college, Tran remained an ordained nun. She started college with the intention of going into the natural sciences, but felt continuously drawn back into religion. “I remember my chemistry professor saying that we are not really solid objects, that we are mostly just empty space. That was so shocking to me, what do you mean we aren’t solid? What are we?” Tran says. She quickly realized these answers couldn’t be found in exclusively in the sciences.

Tran’s curiosity extended to all aspects of human existence. “How does one exist in this life knowing that it’s so hard to come into this life. What does it mean to be a human and what am I? How does one become as human as humanly possible?” Tran wanted to know.  
In part, the pursuit of these questions led Tran to Harvard. After graduating from USC, she initially returned to Plum Village for a year and a half. But she kept receiving calls from her past academic mentors urging her towards the pursuit of higher education.

Tran describes her life path by referencing a cosmic plan. “If I look back at the whole scheme of my life, anytime there was a shift, it happened perfectly. There’s a bigger picture to it all,” Tran says. 

In 2015, she arrived at Harvard Divinity School, ready to delve into questions about the nature of compassion, stillness, and joy in Buddhism. What she didn’t expect was that she would move on from her life as a nun. 

A year after arriving in Cambridge, Tran stopped actively practicing the monastic tradition. In part, this change was driven by the necessity of working for payment — a practice not allowed for nuns. Her choice also reflected the progression of her life. “My teacher always said in true love there is freedom,” Tran says. “Do I love myself if I keep forcing myself to exist in this way? Do the people in this relationship with me feel a sense of freedom?” 

Indeed, a sense of freedom accompanied her decision to let go of her past. “My passion for beauty and the human experience is still alive and well,” Tran says, “It was my ego getting in the way. I had to transition from who am I to what can I be. I’m still transitioning into not-nun life.”

This transition has been aided by her position as a tutor in Mather House. Apart from serving as a source of support and advice for Mather students, Tran also runs the House’s tranquility room, allowing students to find space for mindfulness in their daily lives. 
In leaving behind one community, Tran found herself welcomed into another. “It’s the cosmic plan,” Tran laughs. 

And yet, Tran is still connected to her 15 years of monastic life. In her apartment, all her belongings are hand-me-downs, gifts from friends. “Even though I’m not in it, it’s still something that is very much a part of me. I cannot be without the monastery. Who I am today is in large part because of the monastery.”

Tran still finds herself questioning the nature of human existence, but in a different way. “How we can get to a place of being more human or living well with and for others? I’m no longer bound by the institution of my monastery,” she said. “I can continue to cultivate that passion and curiosity in different ways. It goes back to how in true love there is freedom.”

--Magazine writer Margaux R.E. Winter can be reached at margaux.winter@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @MrewGnu.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard just beat Harvard's own fundraising record — in a major way.
The University closed out its capital campaign at $9.6 billion, officials announced Thursday morning, meaning the school surpassed its original goal — already representing the highest amount ever raised by a single institute of higher education — by more than $3 billion.
The sum is more than one and a half times the amount Stanford University — the previous record-holder — raised in its last capital campaign.
Harvard’s campaign, which ended in June, raised $1.3 billion for financial aid alone across the University, according to Tamara E. Rogers ’74, vice president for alumni affairs and development. Fundraising totals for financial aid at individual schools and for other campaign priorities are not yet available.
Harvard launched its capital campaign in 2013 with a goal of $6.5 billion. The campaign was one of the hallmarks of the more than decade-long tenure of former University President Drew G. Faust. The University president functions as Harvard’s fundraiser-in-chief, and Faust courted donors around the world to bring in big-ticket gifts that sometimes totaled more than $400 million in one go.
The campaign concluded just as Faust stepped down from her post in June, but the University surpassed its $6.5 billion goal in April 2016. At that point, Harvard secured its status as the new record-holder for higher education fundraising. Stanford's previous record stood at $6.2 billion, which the California school raised as part of a capital campaign it wrapped up in 2012.
Rogers, who announced in January she will step down at the end of the calendar year, said in an interview Tuesday that she felt Harvard's campaign ended “very successfully."
University President Lawrence S. Bacow — who took over Harvard's top job from Faust in July — wrote in an official announcement that, as a result of the campaign, Harvard is “well-positioned” to “respond and adapt” to new challenges in higher education.
“It is equally important that we lead by example as we seek to make the world a better place through our teaching and scholarship,” Bacow said. “We are enormously grateful to those who have supported us in this effort.”
As of June 2017, the capital campaign had raised $8 billion. In April 2018, a dean of the University and multiple alumni confirmed to The Crimson that the total had increased to $9.1 billion.
The Faculty of Arts and Sciences — which houses the College and the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences — raised $3.2 billion of the total sum, far surpassing its own $2.5 billion goal, Rogers said. Rogers said she did not yet have totals on hand for the rest of Harvard’s schools.
The campaign saw more than 633,000 gifts from more than 153,000 households in 173 countries since its launch in 2013. Through those gifts, donors funded 142 endowed professorships University-wide and contributed to research initiatives across Harvard’s campuses, including research focused on climate change and cancer.
Financial aid, current use giving, and House renewal constituted some of the school’s top priorities for fundraising in the campaign, Rogers said.
Harvard’s development officers also sought "current use" gifts — money that can be spent as soon as it comes in, as opposed to funds that are tied up in Harvard’s endowment and earmarked for specific purposes — in order to fund a variety of projects across the University, according to Rogers.
Harvard is in the process of building a new campus in Allston. Rogers noted that unforeseen needs arise all the time for which funding is not allocated in advance.
House renewal, a years-long project to rebuild a number of the College’s undergraduate Houses, also formed a focus of the fundraising, as FAS had been forced to take on debt and extend the construction timeline in order to complete the renovations.
The University’s capital campaign comes to a close as Harvard enters the first year endowment returns will be taxed under a sweeping tax overhaul Republicans passed in Dec. 2017.
In a February interview, Faust said the legislation would circumscribe the growth of the University's endowment, puting “constraints” on Harvard’s ability to fund financial aid, research, public programs, and other endeavors around campus.
“The growth in the endowment is what funds the programs,” Faust said.
Rogers said the endowment tax has sparked alarm among some donors, but that those concerns did not significantly slow the progress of the capital campaign.
“I haven’t heard categorically from donors that knowing the endowment is going to be taxed is deterring from endowment gifts, but one hears that episodically,” she said. “It’s very individual, but it has not — the campaign did so very well — it seems not to have impeded people, but I did hear of it from time to time.”
Rogers said it is impossible to immediately determine where funds raised during the campaign will go. She said Harvard’s “very decentralized” structure means that money can flow in a number of different directions.
“The schools all had goals and priorities, and so money was in most cases — many cases indeed — given to the schools and the deans have their priorities in consultation with their faculty about what was particularly important, what were the key needs,” Rogers said. “There’s not a single sort of person on a throne who makes the decisions.”
Correction: Sept. 20, 2018
A previous version of this story overstated the emphasis which Harvard placed on "current use" gifts during its capital campaign. It has been updated.
—Staff writer Kristine E. Guillaume can be reached at kristine.guillaume@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @krisguillaume.
—Staff writer Jamie D. Halper can be reached at jamie.halper@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @jamiedhalper.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
After over a year of vacant storefronts, community debate, and eager anticipation, &pizza and Milk Bar are finally expected to open sometime this fall in their corner spot at 8 Brattle St., according to Denise A. Jillson, executive director of the Harvard Square Business Association.
&pizza, a D.C.-based customizable pizza restaurant, and Milk Bar, a bakery and dessert store gained initial approval from the Cambridge Planning Board in July 2017, and zoning approval from the Cambridge Zoning Board in September. A year later, the storefront is still a boarded up construction site.
Spokespersons for &pizza and Milk Bar both declined to provide an expected opening date.
Construction, however, began in June of this year, when the project was granted a construction permit and a permit to obstruct the sidewalk. The sidewalk obstruction permit will expire this November.
The construction has proceeded smoothly, with minimal interruption to Square life, according to Jillson.
“It has been seamless,” Jillson said. “The sidewalk has not been obstructed in any way and they’ve maintained it very nicely with that sort of wooden structure. The construction company has been — I can’t say enough about them — really phenomenal.”
While the construction may now be moving along, the project has been complicated from the start.
The initial proposal for the pizza restaurant caused some residents to worry that a modern storefront would mar the historic character of the centrally-located Harvard Square building, formerly home to longtime newsstand Crimson Corner. Other Cantabrigians cited concerns about yet another fast-food chain — and specifically another pizza restaurant — opening in the Square.
Other residents — a group called “OurHarvardSQ” — were upset about the company itself, calling into question their supposed practices of encouraging employees to get logo-based ampersand tattoos and referring to them as “tribe members.”
&pizza’s first bid for zoning approval in May 2017 was denied by the city, which cited the high number of other pizza restaurants within close proximity to the proposed store.
Though some at the time worried the project was doomed by the rejection, &pizza bounced back.
The company submitted a new proposal, this time proposing a shop that co-housed New York-based dessert restaurant Milk Bar. At the time, Karen D. Simao, an attorney for &pizza, wrote to the planning board that the new plan both incorporated community feedback and would increase the likelihood that eaters would choose to dine in at the restaurant, given its wider array of options.
This time, the planning board gave them the nod, recognizing the new proposal as being different enough from the last one.
In late February 2018, the Cambridge licensing commission approved a common victualer license for the restaurant. The application included an outdoor patio seating for 16 and indoor seating space for 42 with operating hours of 7 a.m. until 2 a.m.
—Staff writer Henry W. Burnes can be reached at henry.burnes@thecrimson.com.
—Staff writer Franklin R. Civantos can be reached at frank.civantos@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
After Harvard teaching and research assistants voted to unionize last semester — and after the University agreed to honor the results of that vote — labor experts predicted the series of historic events would spur other American schools to follow in Harvard's footsteps.
Four months later, that forecast has proved partially correct at best. The fledgling graduate student unionization moment in the United States has seen mixed results around the country in recent weeks and is today moving forward in fits and starts.
Campus graduate students voted to unionize — allowing Harvard Graduate Students Union-United Automobile Workers to collectively bagain with the University on their behalf — over the course of a two-day election held in mid-April. Eleven days later, Harvard administrators declared they planned to formally recognize and negotiate with its brand-new union. In making the announcement, the University became the first private institution of higher education to agree to bargain in good faith with its students in years.
Following a 2016 National Labor Relations Board ruling that recognized teaching and research assistants at private universities as workers, graduate students around the country began a spate of unionization efforts. Harvard’s decision to bargain marked a departure from the precedent set by peer institutions in earlier cases.
Things weren't looking so good for union advocates in the months preceding this spring’s election. Unionization efforts at Yale, the University of Chicago, and the University of Pennsylvania had stalled. Just weeks before the Harvard vote, Columbia administrators refused to bargain in good faith with the New York school's newly authorized union.
While some graduate unions have scored victories in the months since, most universities have not adhered to Harvard’s example.
At Columbia, administrators still refuse to recognize the legitimacy of a 2016 NLRB election that authorized the Graduate Workers of Columbia-UAW to negotiate with the university over wages and benefits. In response, teaching and research assistants went on strike last spring.
In addition to striking and putting public pressure on their university, GWC-UAW organizers could file an unfair labor practices charge with the Board. But — unwilling to offer the NLRB an opportunity to strike down its seminal 2016 pro-union ruling — they have declined to do so, joining a growing list of union organizers that are carefully avoiding bringing legal skirmishes with administrators before the NLRB.
Former NLRB chairman William B. Gould IV said this strategy, though effective in preventing the Board from reversing its precedent, has left the Columbia case “completely static.”
“Because the union did not file an unfair labor practices complaint, the Board has nothing to stand on to enforce the certification,” Gould said. “The university can simply refuse to bargain.”
“How far this will go is difficult to say — universities may, in some respects, mirror private employers in that they won’t bargain unless the government compels them to do it,” he added.
GWC-UAW organizer Olga Brudastova wrote in an email that Columbia graduate workers are preparing to continue the strike they started before classes ended last spring. She said she expects the union will be able to count on widespread support if teaching and research assistants decide to walk out this fall.
“We are confident that large numbers of faculty, students, alumni, and elected and community leaders will continue to stand with us,” Brudastova wrote. “We urge Columbia to live up to its core principles, follow the lead of nine private universities – including Harvard – and agree to respect our voice and start bargaining.”
Other unions have seen greater success — some by breaking from NLRB procedures entirely.
At Georgetown and Brown, students and administrators agreed to pursue authorization elections for their unions via a neutral third party, the American Arbitration Association. Both unions have reached election agreements with administrators and are preparing to vote on the issue, though neither has set an election date.
Gould said the variety of responses across these universities represent a newly broad array of strategies.
“Columbia is at one end of the spectrum, universities like Georgetown and Brandeis at the other,” Gould said. “Harvard is sort of a hybrid situation because you have a full-fledged NLRB campaign; their approach to this in some ways resembles Georgetown but diverges in others.”
Georgetown union organizer Chad Frazier said organizers’ efforts at Georgetown and Brown show that there may be paths to successful unionization that do not involve the Board.
“We’ve got a little bit of a security blanket,” Frazier said. “There’s a lot of uncertainty, but also I think it was huge for grad workers across the country when Harvard agreed to bargain, especially after all the stuff that came out of the first election and the prestige of the institution.”
“Everyone is in a state of cautious optimism,” he added.
—Staff writer Shera S. Avi-Yonah can be reached at shera.avi-yonah@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter at @saviyonah.
—Staff writer Molly C. McCafferty can be reached at molly.mccafferty@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter at @mollmccaff.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Though Harvard and its brand-new union have yet to hammer out initial bargaining terms, both University and union representatives say their upcoming negotiations will likely take place behind shut doors, remaining closed to union membership at large.
Organizers for Harvard Graduate Students Union-United Automobile Workers say they will keep students in the loop by offering periodic updates on how things are going. HGSU-UAW bargaining committee member Jennifer K. Austiff wrote in an email that the union will find ways to include all members of the bargaining unit.
“We intend to maximize student worker participation in our campaign for the strongest possible contract,” she wrote. “We will provide regular updates through town halls, department level meetings, and other regular forms of communication."
Negotiations — especially between groups reaching a first-time contract — may stretch for months. In an email, University of Oregon labor law professor Gordon Lafer wrote that Harvard and the union will likely set ground rules at the outset of bargaining that will determine definitively whether discussions continue to take place in private.
“If there's no groundrule [sic] agreement, each side is able to bring whoever they want, but negotiations are not open to the public uninvited,” Lafer wrote.
University spokesperson Melodie L. Jackson wrote in an emailed statement Wednesday night that Harvard has yet to meet with union representatives to formally settle on the details of bargaining, including who can be present during negotiations.
“While we haven't yet met at the bargaining table, we have been in regular communication with union representatives, and we expect to begin collective bargaining in the very near future,” she wrote. “Following our initial meeting, we will have a better sense of how our negotiations will move forward, but it would be unusual for any negotiation to be open to the public.”
Former National Labor Relations Board chairman William B. Gould IV said the negotiators are not legally mandated to consult with other union members even after an agreement is reached. In the past, HGSU-UAW organizers have said they are committed to conducting a union-wide vote to ratify a draft contract with Harvard before they sign a final copy.
“Usually in collective bargaining, the union designates a bargaining team and that bargaining team are the only members that sit down with an employer,” he said. “The union typically presents a tentative agreement and ask[s] for ratification, but they aren’t required to.”
Eligible teaching and research assistants voted to unionize in April 2018, marking a first in Harvard history.
—Staff writer Shera S. Avi-Yonah can be reached at shera.avi-yonah@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter at @saviyonah.
—Staff writer Molly C. McCafferty can be reached at molly.mccafferty@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter at @mollmccaff.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Jay Gonzalez, the Democratic candidate for Massachusetts governor, said he is proposing an endowment tax that would cost Harvard over $500 million per year at a press conference held in the Harvard T stop Wednesday.
Gonzalez’s plan would levy a 1.6 percent tax on private, non-profit colleges and universities in the state whose endowments total over $1 billion. Harvard would qualify, as would four of its fellow research institutions — MIT, Tufts, Boston University, and Boston College. The four other affected schools are small liberal arts colleges Wellesley, Amherst, Williams, and Smith.
Gonzalez said at the press conference that the tax would ensure these universities finally pay their “fair share.”
“While the wealthiest among us have become even wealthier over the last several years, middle class and lower income families continue to struggle to get ahead,” he said. “I believe this is a fair proposal. These non-profit institutions have accumulated enormous wealth, in part thanks to the fact that they are not subject to taxation.”
Harvard and other peer institutions’ endowments, however, will be taxed at the federal level following Congress’ recent tax reform bill which Republicans pushed through in Dec. 2017. That bill, opposed by the entire Massachusetts Congressional delegation, levied an unprecedented endowment tax on some of the nation’s wealthiest private universities, including Harvard. Administrators estimate that, if the law had taken effect during fiscal year 2017, it would have cost the University $43 million.
Comparatively, Gonzalez’s plan would have cost Harvard over $500 million had it taken effect in fiscal year 2017.
“This isn’t about partisanship to me,” he said Wednesday. “It’s not about what’s happening at the federal level.”
Gonzalez said he would use the money generated from this tax — which he estimates will generate $1 billion per year — to fund public education and impove transportation. He said he does not yet know how the money “would be allocated” among various initiatives.
The 1.6 percent tax would still allow “the schools’ endowments and wealth to grow over time to support their own purposes," Gonzalez said. He noted that no other states currently tax the endowments of private universities.
Asked about Gonzalez's proposal, Harvard spokesperson Melodie L. Jackson pointed to a statement released Wednesday by the Association of Independent Colleges and Universities in Massachusetts. Members of the association wrote in the statement that Gonzalez's plan is "bad for students, bad for our economy, and bad for Massachusetts."
"Through their educational and research missions, these non-profit institutions are drivers of our knowledge-based economy and provide the public good of a higher education, along with thousands of jobs and billions of dollars in spending, all at a tremendous savings to the Massachusetts taxpayer," the statement reads.
Mayor of Cambridge Marc C. McGovern, who has endorsed Gonzalez, praised the endowment tax at Wednesday’s press conference.
“I understand better than most how important the economies of these universities are to our city and our state,” he said. “I still support this plan because maybe it made sense hundreds of years ago to exempt these institutions from paying taxes but no one envisioned endowments in the billions of dollars.”
State rules set forth hundreds of years ago, though, could pose an obstacle to Gonzalez’s plan. Harvard’s tax-exempt status is written into the Massachusetts state constitution. That means taxing the University on the state level might require a constitutional amendment.
When asked about this possibility, Gonzalez said he believes that “we don’t need to amend the Constitution to do it.”
“While they’re written into the constitution, I believe the proposal would be legal if we changed state law,” he said.
Gonzalez's tax drew bipartisan backlash from some Massachusetts incumbents. His opponent, Governor Charlie D. Baker ’79, attacked the proposal for its similarity to the 2017 Republican tax reform bill.
"I start with the proposition that when President Trump proposed this idea, I thought it was a bad idea then, and I still think it's a bad idea," Baker said, according to the Boston Globe.
Democratic critics argued the proposed tax could cripple Harvard’s financial aid system. Senator Elizabeth Warren called the plan “completely backwards,” arguing that endowments are designed to support teaching and research, the Globe reported.
United States Representative Michael E. Capuano, who recently lost his seat in an unexpected upset to Boston City Councillor Ayanna Pressley, warned an endowment tax could harm the construction industry, given universities employ workers to build their labs and academic centers.
Joining Gonzalez on the gubernatorial ticket is lieutenant governor hopeful Quentin A. Palfrey ’96, himself the holder of two Harvard degrees and son to University mainstays and long-time Adams House faculty deans John G. “Sean” Palfrey ’67 and Judith “Judy” S. Palfrey ’67.
Quentin Palfrey attended Wednesday’s announcement, though he did not speak.
—Staff writer Caroline S. Engelmayer can be reached at caroline.engelmayer@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @cengelmayer13.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
When Ashley M. LaLonde ’20 heard that she was cast in the Hasty Pudding Theatricals’ 171st production, she was ecstatic.
"I’m absolutely thrilled to be part of the Hasty Pudding Theatricals for this historic moment in time,” she wrote in an email. “I can’t wait to challenge myself in new ways through this hilariously entertaining, gender-bending show.”
LaLonde is one of six women who found out Sunday that they had been selected to join the elite theater group’s first-ever mixed-gender cast. As news of the historic shift spread across campus over the next few days, students applauded the Pudding’s move and said they are excited to see the female cast members perform.
“I think it’s a move in the right direction for gender equality on campus, and on all campuses,” Pierse M. Gray Coen ’22 said.
Of more than a dozen students interviewed by The Crimson, eleven said they approve of the Pudding’s choice. Some, however, said they wish the move to admit women had come sooner.
“It’s the 21st century, so it’s pretty late,” Yejin Kim ’22 said. “I don’t know why they didn’t do it sooner.”
The Pudding announced in Jan. 2018 that, for the first time in its nearly 200-year history, it planned to admit women as cast members, drawing national media coverage and prompting female students to vow to audition. The Pudding has kept an all-male cast of performers since its founding in 1844, though women hold positions on the group’s business, tech, and design boards, as well as the HPT band.
Controversy over the Pudding’s all-male cast has mounted in the past few years. Harvard women have tried to join the cast at least three times in the last five years — and each time have not received callbacks. Roughly three years ago, more than 86 alumni signed a petition calling on the group to admit women to its cast.
The Pudding’s announcement that it planned to admit women to the cast came mid-way through a celebration of actress Mila Kunis as the group’s 2018 Woman of the Year. The group bestows this honor on a different celebrity each year.
Kunis called at least one member of the Hasty Pudding Institute’s graduate board to discuss admitting women to the cast hours before the Pudding made its announcement. During a press conference held after the announcement, she said she would not have attended the Woman of the Year celebration if the Pudding had not decided to admit women to the cast.
“I would not be here otherwise,” she said at the time.
Former Pudding President Andrew L. Farkas ’82 wrote in a letter around the same time that the group had decided to go co-ed “some time ago” and had kept the decision mum until the Woman of the Year celebrations.
Women who tried out for the theatrical troupe this fall and failed to earn spots on the cast said they are thrilled by the precedent-breaking switch, too, even if their personal dreams of performing on the Pudding's stage did not pan out.
“Decisions are very hard to make, and overall I'm personally so excited that females have this opportunity,” said Chloe A. Saracco ’21, who auditioned and did not get cast. “Ultimately what I kept thinking was how fortunate I was to get to be part of this historical moment.”
—Staff writer Caroline S. Engelmayer can be reached at caroline.engelmayer@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @cengelmayer13.
—Staff writer Cassandra Luca can be reached at cassandra.luca@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @cassandraluca_.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
With Supreme Court nominee Brett Kavanaugh set to face a high-stakes Senate Judiciary Committee hearing Monday, Harvard Law School students are organizing to stand in solidarity with Christine Blasey Ford, the California professor who has accused the judge of sexually assaulting her three decades ago.
The accusations transformed what previously seemed an all-but-certain confirmation into a dramatic showdown that has evoked comparisons to the Anita Hill hearings in the 1990s. Hill testified that Supreme Court Justice Clarence Thomas, then a nominee, had sexually harassed her in widely publicized hearings before members of Congress.
Two decades later, history seems to be repeating itself in eerie fashion. Ford, who originally sent a confidential letter to U.S. Senator Dianne Feinstein detailing the allegations over the summer, went public with her story Sunday after details of the letter leaked. Ford told the Washington Post that Kavanaugh — "stumbling drunk" at the time, Ford alleges — pinned her to a bed and groped her a party in the 1980s, when both were high school students in the suburbs of Washington, D.C. Ford says Kavanaugh pushed his body against hers and attempted to pull off her clothing and that, when she sought to scream for help, he put his hand over her mouth.
Ford, now a 51-year-old research psychologist at Palo Alto University who is widely published in her field, says she was able to escape after a friend of Kavanaugh's jumped on the bed and dislodged all three.
The Senate Judiciary Committee had originally planned to vote on Kavanaugh’s nomination this week, but moved the vote back four days after Ford put her name to the allegations. Ford has said through her lawyers that she believes the FBI should investigate Kavanaugh before she testifies. Kavanaugh has categorically denied her allegations, and he has committed to testifying at the upcoming Senate hearing Monday.
Ford’s allegations, and Kavanaugh’s denial, pit her words against his — a common occurrence in situations of alleged sexual assault. Women and activists around the country have lined up behind Ford, calling on the Senate and the public to consider her account.
At Harvard, student activists are doing likewise. They plan to distribute buttons reading "I Believe Christine Blasey Ford" this weekend and they have set up a public viewing of the hearing on campus Monday.
Members of the Pipeline Parity Project, a student group whose mission is “to end harassment and discrimination in the legal profession,” will hand out the buttons to passersby in Cambridge. The message — "I Believe Christine Blasey Ford” — references the “I Believe Anita Hill” buttons that Hill's supporters wore during the 1991 hearings. Pipeline Parity said they have ordered 300 buttons total.
Members of the Harvard Law Students for Reproductive Justice is co-sponsoring the viewing of the Kavanaugh hearing on Monday along with the American Constitution Society and Pipeline Parity. The trio plans to televise the hearing at the Lewis Building on the Law School campus.
Sejal Singh, a second-year Law student and member of the Pipeline Parity Project, said in an interview Wednesday that the group decided to stand with Ford — and against Kavanaugh’s confirmation — on Monday because of the nominee's record and the impact he could have on multiple areas of the law, should he be confirmed to the Supreme Court.
“We are concerned about the impact Kavanaugh, based on his record and based on these credible allegations from Dr. Ford, would have on the law, around civil rights, sexual harassment, women’s place in public life, and a whole host of other things,” Singh said.
Third-year Law student and member of the Pipeline Parity Project Yaacov “Jake” Meiseles urged American citizens not to underestimate the impact of Kavanaugh's successful nomination to the Court.
“If Brett Kavanaugh is confirmed to the Supreme Court, there are extremely credible sexual allegations against a current sitting Justice on the Court,” Meiseles said. “This is a lifetime appointment — this is something that will have an impact for probably our entire lives.”
—Staff writer Aidan F. Ryan can be reached at aidan.ryan@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @AidanRyanNH.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
This article has been updated.
Despite increased administrative scrutiny of single-gender campus groups in recent years, some musical groups say that the makeup of their membership — and possible shifts toward co-ed status — are driven by auditionees’ abilities, not their gender.
The traditionally all-male theater troupe Hasty Pudding Theatricals recently cast six women in its upcoming show, marking a first in the group's almost 200 years of existence. In the same week, historically all-male a capella group The Din and Tonics admitted their first female member, Karalyn E. Joseph ’21.
In announcing the move to cast women, Pudding President Grace C. Ramsey '19 specifically pointed to the expansion of the available talent pool that going co-ed engineers.
"We as an organization continue to be in awe of the level of talent of the students on Harvard's campus, and we are so excited that for the first time in 175 productions, Harvard students of all genders will have the opportunity to showcase that talent on the Hasty Pudding stage," Ramsey wrote in an email early Monday.
The president of the Dins wrote in an email that the group selected Joseph for her skillful singing.
“The Dins have always sought out the most talented Harvard singers to achieve our signature sound,” Dins president Luis B. Valencia ’20 wrote in an email. “ This year the Dins' accepted a talented woman who we felt furthered our goal of being the premier collegiate jazz a cappella group in the world.”
Groups that are staying single-gender in practice also say their actions are driven by the quest for relevant Harvard talent.
The Radcliffe Pitches, the Radcliffe Choral Society, and the all-male Harvard Glee Club all recently adopted gender-neutral membership practices. Some say they've remaining single-gender in practice so far because it best fits the musical ranges in which their companies have historically sung.
Professor Kaoruko Yoshida-Pilkington, a Voice Instructor at Berklee College of Music, said it's understandable that some performing groups would want to remain all-female or all-male for purely musical reasons.
“In a chorus, the most important thing is to blend — and similar voice styles blend very well,” she said.
Leyla J. K. Brittan ’19, a Crimson staff writer and former president of The Pitches, explained that, even though the group has long accepted only members who identify as female, the group’s constitution does not explicitly mandate all-female status.
“For my entire time in the Pitches, we technically have been gender-neutral; our constitution labels the Pitches as a female-voiced group,” she said. “But there is a clause that says we ban discrimination, that no one can be denied admission on the basis of sex, gender, or sexuality.”
According to Pitches music director Hannah N. Johnston ’19,  all of this year’s auditionees were female-identifying. Still, she remains optimistic for change going forward.
“We did not have anyone audition who did not identify as a female member, so I hope it’ll happen within the next couple years,” she said.
Johnson added that the group’s aspiration towards a gender-neutral ensemble is not a spur-of-the-moment whim.
“It was a bunch of little conversations that added up on and off over the last couple of years,” she said.
The Pitches perform pieces arranged for singers in the soprano and alto ranges, which can slim the audition pool.
Brittan said that, if an individual who does not identify as female auditions — and if that individual sings “in the soprano to alto range and was a better candidate" — then "we would accept him.” The issue, Brittan said, is that this policy is not widely known to students who might consider auditioning.
The same is true for the Radcliffe Choral Society, which also sings soprano-alto music. The RCS updated its bylaws in April to specifically open its membership to individuals of all genders — a few months after administrators warned the group it would become “inactive” if it failed to update their guidelines in this manner (Harvard later clarified that it had sent this warning in error and that RCS would not face any consequences for refusing to alter its constitution).
Still, RCS president Elise C. Alexander ’19 said the chorus’s push for gender-neutrality had been happening for “as long as she can remember,” and that it began independent of campus-wide conversations around single-gender groups — conversations spurred and sharpened by Harvard's controversial May 2016 sanctions on  members of unrecognized single-gender Greek organizations and final clubs.
“The RCS was founded in 1899 at Radcliffe [College], and so had this tradition of pushing things forward. It was a place for women to sing when there wasn’t any place on campus for women to sing,” she said. “Because that breaking barriers is part of our history, we’re always conscious of where we can be more inclusive and push forward.”
The Glee Club announced it would also go gender-neutral last spring, despite some disagreement among its membership. The group's president at the time, Connor A. Horton ’18, said some members were concerned that admitting women would lead to a change in the type of music the group typically performs.
In an emailed statement, Glee Club president Andrew B. Jing ’19 wrote that discussions regarding the gender makeup of the group had been ongoing for “several years.”
“Every year for the past several years (at the very least four), the Glee Club had had discussions about amending its policy and by-laws so as not to have gendered language in its eligibility requirement (and instead base it only on voice part, as well as vocal fit and musicianship as advised by our faculty conductors),” Jing said.
Similar to the Pitches, Alexander wrote in an emailed statement that RCS’s auditionees are assessed solely by their musical range — not their gender.
“Our auditions process (which occurs as part of the Harvard Choruses alongside Collegium and Harvard Glee Club) categorizes singers by voice part, not by gender,” she wrote. “This means students were evaluated as sopranos, altos, tenors, and basses — not as males, females, or something else.”
Her statement mirrored Jing’s.
“We continue to be a tenor-bass (lower voice) choir,” he wrote. “The amendment to our by-laws directs us now to consider only the qualities of musicianship as well as vocal range, tone, and blend in our auditions process, which is integrated among all three of the Harvard Choruses.”
—Staff writer Cassandra Luca can be reached at cassandra.luca@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @cassandraluca_.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
In the spirit of sports gambling nearing complete legalization in the United States, we here at The Crimson have adapted. We’re giving you, the readers, a pick and a point spread on each of these games as opposed to an exact score prediction (which, let’s face it, was a complete shot in the dark anyway).
I was in New Jersey for part of this summer, which was a hotbed of sports betting activity as it, and nearby Delaware, legalized the activity in one form or another. I considered writing this column with a bunch of New Jersey references sprinkled in, but realistically it would all end up being about Wawa and Bruce Springsteen, so I’ll spare everyone from that.
Speaking of Springsteen, I am taking my first music class since middle school this year so I figured it was an appropriate time for that world to collide with that of Ivy League football instead. When we go Around the Ivies, we hope to keep the focus on the gridiron, but we realize that’s not always as easy as it sounds.
Instead of Springsteen, I figured we could dip into some Led Zeppelin. Let’s Rock and Roll.
YALE AT CORNELL
Somehow, Harvard is looking up at Yale after last season’s defeat in The Game — truly both What Is and What Should Never Be. Looking to defend its Ivy League title, Yale stumbled out of the gate and lost its season opener to Holy Cross on the road. The Bulldogs doubled up the Crusaders in the first half, 28-14, but Holy Cross clawed back to win with a field goal to walk it off in overtime.
Fortunately for Yale, it has a relatively easier matchup to open its Ivy League slate. Cornell lost last weekend to Delaware, 27-10, and has not had a quality season in anyone’s recent memory.
When the Bulldogs travel Over the Hills and Far Away to Ithaca, N.Y., they will grab a win in their first truly meaningful game of the season.
Prediction: Yale by 14.5
HARVARD AT BROWN
I was miffed that Harvard was not Going to California last weekend to face the University of San Diego Toreros, but I guess I will have to settle for a quick road trip to the illustrious Providence, R.I.
Last Saturday, the Bears did get to travel out West, and they were left Dazed and Confused following a visit to Cal Poly. The Mustangs scored in each quarter and shut out Brown in three of the four. Good Times Bad Times, but mostly bad for the Bears.
Prediction: Harvard by 17.5
DARTMOUTH AT HOLY CROSS
When one sees Fitton Field, nestled in the hills surrounding the Holy Cross Crusaders’ campus, the Stairway to Heaven reference is almost too easy to make. Dartmouth will not be ascending those steps this weekend, though. If Holy Cross managed to fend off Yale, it should be able to replicate the feat against the Big Green in its House(s) of the Holy.
And hey, the Crusaders put up 14 against No. 23 Boston College. Yes, they did lose by almost 50, but at least it wasn’t a shutout. Here’s a question for our readers: is BC officially back?
Prediction: Holy Cross by 10
LEHIGH AT PENN
With Penn, there’s only one place to begin: Justin Watson.
The current Tampa Bay Buccaneers receiver electrified the Ivy League throughout his storied career at Penn. He is the Quakers’ all-time leader in receptions, receiving yards, receiving touchdowns, and all-purpose yards. When comparing him to wideouts in Ancient Eight history, he doesn’t stack up quite as well — Watson falls all the way down to number two in receiving yards, number three in receptions, and number three in receiving touchdowns.
I shouldn’t Ramble On too much about the past, though. Penn will feel Watson’s absence, but it handled business in its week one game against Bucknell, prevailing 34-17. It’s hard to know what to make of these recurring non-conference opponents who play against Ivy League schools, but let’s just assume that the Quakers will transitively receive some FitzMagic because of all the Ivy League connections the Bucs have.
Prediction: Penn by 3
MONMOUTH AT PRINCETON
Monmouth will be lucky not to end up Trampled Under Foot when it visits Powers Field at Princeton Stadium (what a name). If one were to bet on any of these games, this would be the one to go with as it’s taking place in New Jersey. Not sure anyone would take bets on Ivy League football, however. Nonetheless, DraftKings: I Can’t Quit You Baby.
Somewhat surprisingly, the Tigers were picked to catapult up the Ivy League standings this season, and their season opener was nothing short of dominant, as they rolled over Butler, 50-7. Butler isn’t necessarily known as a football school, but any 50-point performance is notable. Like Harvard, Princeton also had a 27-point quarter in its first game. Running back Charles Volker and wide receiver Jesper Horsted combined for 302 all-purpose yards.
Prediction: Princeton by 3.5
COLUMBIA AT GEORGETOWN
As my co-beat writer would say, “Georgetown is really bad at football.” How Many More Times does an Ivy League opponent have to pound this team into the dust to force the Hoyas to disband their program? I’m not sure if there’s an answer to that question, but Columbia will endeavor to prove my point this Saturday.
At least these two teams will not have to face off in the doomed RFK Stadium, where Harvard won, 41-2, last season. Structural integrity issues like you read about.
As I combed through the Lions’ box score to throw in a fact about their offense or their play against Central Connecticut State last weekend, one name stood out above the rest: Drew Schmid. Sure enough, the freshman punter is the younger brother of Zach Schmid, Harvard’s punter in 2017. The younger Schmid saw a lot of game action in his debut, punting nine times for 345 yards.
Prediction: Columbia by 21
—Staff writer Jack Stockless can be reached at jack.stockless@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
This past weekend, the Harvard men’s and women’s cross country teams put forth encouraging performances as they competed against Ancient Eight rivals, Yale and Princeton. On the men’s side, with an average time of 18:45 for the 6k, the Crimson defeated its rivals from New Haven by a score of 21-36 in a dual meet. For the women, Harvard finished in third place behind the Bulldogs and the Tigers, scoring 59 points with an average time of 18:16 for the 5k.
The men’s decisive victory over the Bulldogs could be attributed to strong races by sophomore Hugo Milner and junior Will Battershill, who earned first and second in the race respectively. Both Milner (18:32) and Battershill (18:37) averaged under five minute mile pace for the entirety of their 6ks and outpaced everyone else in the race by over nine seconds. The team’s leaders are both looking to improve upon their times from last season, and this race appears to be a good indicator of their capacity to do so.
The Crimson’s success in this dual meet was also predicated on the stellar races run by star freshmen David Melville and Luke Laverdiere. The freshmen arrived in Cambridge after decorated high school running careers, both with sub 4:20 miles, personal bests in the two mile of 9:11, and sub 15:20 in the 5k for cross country. Melville (18:47) and Laverdiere (18:58) were fourth and ninth respectively in this race and both had sub-19 minute times. As Harvard’s third and fifth scorers, both freshmen played a critical role in leading the Crimson to victory and will continue to be an integral part of their rotation for the remainder of the season.
The rest of the men’s team had solid races, but has room for improvement if the team is to compete at its best during the back end of the season. There were seven different Yale runners in between the Crimson’s sixth man Kaeo Kruse and their seventh man John Fish, who finished 9th and 17th respectively in the race. In order to perform well at bigger meets with more teams, Harvard will need stronger races from their sixth and seventh man, whose ability to displace other runners will be vital to the team’s success. If the back end of the team is able to keep pace with the Crimson’s front runners, Friday’s victory will be a harbinger of good things to come for the men’s cross country team.
Despite finishing behind the Bulldogs and Tigers in the women’s meet, the top three Crimson runners had formidable races that demonstrated their capacity to compete against the Ivy League’s best runners. Sophomore Abbe Goldstein lead the way with a fourth-place finish and a 17:46 in the 5k. Junior Gillian Meeks (18:00) and freshman Maya Rayle (18:25) also ran well, finishing ninth and thirteenth respectively. In order for Harvard to have better results as the season progresses, the rest of the runners in the top seven must keep pace with Goldstein, Meeks, and Rayle.. The aforementioned trio have shown the potential to be an anchor upfront to help the Crimson reach its utmost potential this season, and compete with the best of the Ancient Eight.
Next week, both the men’s and women’s teams will compete at the Battle in Beantown in Franklin Park, where they look to build off the stellar races they had at HYP this past weekend.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections


Last Thursday night on Sept. 13, the lights at the Harvard Art Museums stayed on a little longer as hundreds of students attended Harvard Student Late Night. From 8 to 10 p.m., students were given free reign to listen to the live DJ, enjoy quality food and drinks, enter raffles to rent museum art prints, and, of course, look at art, including a recently opened special exhibit  “Animal-Shaped Vessels from the Ancient World: Feasting with Gods, Heroes, and Kings.” Since its inception in 2015, the event has proven massively popular with Harvard students from every field whether it was their first or their tenth time in the museum.
Ahmed O. Abukar ’22, student
Roving Reporter: How do you feel about the special exhibit Animal Shaped Vessels?
AOA: I think it’s really interesting. They show a variety of forms, and I always liked the appearance of things people would consider more common like eating and drinking vessels. When you see something like this rather than a statue, you think, “Somebody used this,” which brings you back to that time.
RR: What do you appreciate about Harvard Student Late Night?
AOA: Having the Harvard Late Night gives people the opportunity to experience something they’ve never experienced before.
Or C. Eisenberg ’20 and Rosan Bishwakarma ’20, students
RR: Is this your first time at Harvard Student Late Nights?
OCE: First time.
RB: For me it’s my second time. I’ve been almost every year. I really like the events, but I think the museum in general is an underutilized resource. A lot of people still don’t know about it. It’s a really nice study space because of the cafe and lighting. I’m not very knowledgeable about art, but it helps me slow down to spend 10 minutes between classes wandering around looking at beautiful art.
RR: What brought you to the event?
RB: The print rental. The lottery for that. I’ve been wanting to rent a piece of art since I came here, but I always forgot about it. Now is the time to do it.
RR: What do you appreciate about Harvard Student Late Night?
RB: Generally, I really like having events like these where you can catch up with friends you haven’t seen in a long time. You see quite a few familiar faces, even though that may not be the primary reason you came here, but then you stay and catch up.
Cemicoke Giwa, Zamzam A. Mohammed, and Narissa Nairu, Harvard Law LL.M students
RR: What brought you to this event?
CG: Facebook.
NN: I just followed my friends.
ZAM: And also [advertisements] on the shuttle! On the bus!
CG: I also found out on WhatsApp.
RR: Is this your first time at the Harvard Art Museums?
NN: Yes, but invite us to other events. We’ll come to all of them.
ZAM: I was telling all of them. I didn’t know any of this existed.
NN: From the outside, it doesn’t look like much.
CG: I found it perchance, one day I was lost, and there it was.
Erin L. Northington, Manager of Student Engagement Programs
RR: How does Harvard Student Late Night relate to the mission of the Harvard Art Museums?
ELN: Students are at the heart of what we do at the museum. We constantly think about how we incorporate students into all aspects of the museum. Having events like this to open our doors to the broader Harvard student community is completely key to what we do. We bring in new audiences, people who have never visited the gallery before. It helps them kick off the semester and see the museum in a new way.
RR: Do you view the rising popularity and attendance of Harvard Late Nights as a success?
ELN: This is something we are very excited by. The more the merrier. We learn so much from students. The broader and bigger and more diverse our community is, the more that our work is growing and changing and moving forward. We would not be where we are at all without a more engaged student community.
—Staff writer Mason P. Sands can be reached at mason.sands@thecrimson.com.
Sections
As if going back to the routine of school weren’t hard enough, this year we also had to get used to a completely new schedule. The administration was already notorious for being out of touch with students, but this time they’ve really outdone themselves by rearranging everyone’s lives. Adding to the chorus of the Crimson's Staff Editorial, and every student ever, here’s why we need to bring back Harvard Time:
75-minute classes? Really?
Sitting in lecture or dealing with section kid for barely 53 minutes was already torture. Now, we’re expected to be on time and not fall asleep while listening to the prof drone on for over an hour.
You get to class way too early
If you have two classes near each other, you’ll probably be super early to class. Not only is this a huge waste of time; it also puts you in a predicament. Do you stand outside the door, or go in and make awkward small talk for ten minutes? Choose wisely: The last time I arrived to class on the hour, a freshman in a Hollis t-shirt with a lanyard hanging out of his pocket tried to shake my hand.
You can’t show off your cute outfits anymore
Trust me, this is a real concern. Now that passing time is twice as long, you run into way fewer people on the way to class. Once the Allston campus starts functioning and the student population becomes more spread out, the situation will worsen and looking nice for class will be pointless.
Section times don’t match up to the new schedule
While everyone seems to have adjusted to the new times, it looks like TFs didn’t get the memo. Section from 10 to 11? Impossible; class starts at 10:30. Since there are fewer blocks in the day, most sections end up being scheduled for early in the morning or weird times in the afternoon when everyone would rather nap.
Above all, we’ve been robbed of the opportunity to be douchey and refer to “Harvard Time” as an excuse for tardiness when not at Harvard. Maybe we should just start being 15 minutes early to everything.
