News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Saturday’s win against Princeton wasn’t just to make a statement. It wasn’t just to prove the doubters wrong. It wasn’t just to move the team a step closer to the Ivy League Championship. The win was about a devoted and determined family who played their hearts out and fought back multiple times, like all championship winning teams.
This past Saturday, field hockey dispatched of No. 3 Princeton (11-4, 4-1 Ivy) with a final score of 3-1. With the victory, the team is in prime position to capture the Ivy League crown.
“I am so incredibly proud of this team, this family,” senior captain Kathleen Young said. “We have all worked so hard for this moment and these are the moments we play for.”
Harvard (13-1, 5-0) started the game off with a hot start, as juniors Bente van Vlijmen and Casey Allen scored goals at 5:46 and 19:37, respectively.
“It was an unbelievable feeling,” said van Vlijmen of the first goal. “It felt unreal but we had to keep our heads in the game. We brought incredible energy going into the game and therefore we were able to score goals early in the first half. This allowed us to shock Princeton and put them on their heels.”
Van Vlijmen has now scored a total of 11 goals in the season and leads the Ivy League in scoring with 27 points (11 goals, five assists).
“A lot of girls are scoring and it’s awesome to see that our team has depth and we don’t just rely on individuals,” van Vlijmen said.
The Crimson extended its comfortable two-score lead at 44:45 with a goal courtesy of sophomore Tessel Huibregtsen. The midfielder was not just a goal scorer, but also a key facilitator as she contributed an assist. For the second straight game, Huibregtsen scored multiple points, and she now possesses a career high of 14 points (5 goals, four assists).
However, it was not just the offense that helped the team. The defense also made a significant impact. The team only conceded one goal during the contest at 66:03 and first-year goalkeeper Ellie Shahbo had four saves.
“I feel very honored to be a part of such a hard working team,” Shahbo said. “I mean, people were throwing their bodies on the line to make sure the ball stayed out of our goal and rolled into theirs — today’s game was a huge testament to the character of the girls on the team.”
When asked what kept her momentum going throughout the game, Shahbo attributed her tenacity to the team’s determination.
“At the end of the game there was literally blood, sweat and tears left on the field,” the goalie said. “Playing big games, like Princeton, is one of the reasons you play sports — to have a challenge to overcome, and the next best thing is getting to do it with people you love.”
Shahbo has now won seven straight starts, four of which were against Ivy foes, and has conceded just three goals during that period.
This marks the team’s first win against a top-five opponent during the Tjerk van Herwaarden era.
“It is fantastic to see this program take massive steps forward,” coach van Herwaarden said. “We know we can play with the best teams in this country.”
The team is now on a 10-game winning streak, the second longest in the nation, and has won 20 of its last 21 Ivy League meetings. Although the team displayed some weaknesses during the game, it played extremely well for the most part.
“Our game plan was executed very well,” van Herwaarden said. “Our attack and defensive unit stepped up and took care of business. There were moments where we could have kept more control — it was overall a high intensity game and we lost some control at some moments.”
Van Herwaarden attributes much of the Crimson’s success to the team’s focus on reaching its potential.
“That has been the focus from day one,” said the seven-year veteran head coach. “The records and streaks are an outcome of that process. The combination of a very strong defense, a forward line that can score goals, and a midfield that is able to go with speed is truly the reason for our current success.”
The team is set to face off against No. 11 Boston College next Thursday at Berylson Field.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
This weekend at Harvard was packed with tourists, rowers, and other college students at the Head of the Charles Regatta. From the endless stream of boats to the variety of concession stands along the river, there was a lot to take in during this event. Here is Flyby’s takeaway of the top five spots at the Regatta.
1. Hot Buttered Lobster Roll Truck
Sure, it was $21, but that roll was a shining light among the sea of greasy fast foods. With chunks of delectable crustacea in a hotdog-like bun, the treat tasted even more delectable consumed along the breezy shores of the Charles River.
2. The Bridge
The bridge is just an everyday structure we use to get to the Athletic Complex, but during the Regatta, it is a prime viewing spot for the boats that zip through the river. Watching the teams coordinate their paddles and get verbally roused by the cockswain up close, we felt like a part of the action. From the bridge, we really started to get an appreciation for the beauty of this hyped-up Harvard sport.
3. The Dogs
It was perfect weather this weekend for a long dog-walk across the river, and we felt lucky to see so many adorable pups dot the banks of the Charles. We spotted two big boy Saint Bernards, a sweater-wearing chihuahua, and a blue-eyed huskie.
4. La Croix Sponsored Games
Watching boats go by all day long can get tiring, so these backyard games offered a refreshing break from the main event. Not only did La Croix set up an aesthetically-pleasing stand to promote their drinks, but the representatives also set up a gigantic Connect 4 and cornhole arena.
5. $5 Fried Dough Stand
Forget the hotdog, the stuffed baked potato, and the hot cider. The fried dough was to die for, and at $5 a serving, this was a must-have at the otherwise-overpriced Regatta.
The Head of the Charles is a time-honored tradition, and even if you aren’t a big fan of rowing, there is always something for everyone at this event. We’re glad we went.
Sections
88rising, a multimedia platform and record label founded by Sean Miyashiro, stopped through Boston to perform at the Orpheum on Oct. 7. The show marked one of several stops on the band's North America tour, dubbed "88 Degrees and Rising."
Miyashiro has described 88rising as "Vice for Asian culture." In an interview with The Crimson, he explained, "When I started, I knew that there was so much cool Asian shit and I wanted to build a home for that. Over the last 18 months we’ve gotten Higher Brothers, Rich, Joji, and we’re signing more people. Everyone is like-minded and an individual and a star in their own right."
Fans wait in anticipation on the balcony of the Orpheum. The lineup for the night included AUGUST 08, KOHH, NIKI, Higher Brothers, Joji, and Rich Brian.
Indonesian R&B/pop singer, songwriter, and producer NIKI released her debut album, Zephyr, on 88rising in May 2018.
Higher Brothers, a four-piece hip hop group originally from Chengdu, China, takes the stage as they sing their song "Flo Rida." The group is one of the first Chinese rap groups to achieve international success; their debut album, Black Cab, features the likes of "Made in China," "711," and "WeChat."
Joji waves the audience. The Japanese-born singer and producer launched his music career after gaining a cult following on his Youtube channel, Filthy Frank.
Rich Brian, who rose to internet stardom with "Dat $tick," closed out the show.
The group returns to the stage to perform their chart-topping anthem, "Midsummer Madness."
In July 2018, 88rising released a compilation album featuring members of the label, Playboi Carti, BlocBoy JB, Goldlink, and more, titled Head in the Clouds.
