News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
NEW HAVEN, CT—Despite not making a field goal over the final 4:56 of game action, the Harvard men's basketball team topped Yale, 54-52, on Friday night at John J. Lee Amphitheater.
With just over five minutes to play in the second half, sophomore wing Miye Oni finished a layup to give the Bulldogs their first advantage of the evening. The lead would last a mere 15 seconds and neither team would make another field goal until Alex Copeland made a meaningless buzzer beater to get the hosts within two for the final box score.
Five free throws down the stretch proved to be all that the Crimson would need to hold on for the victory. As it has for most of the season, the defense for Harvard was suffocating and allowed the guests (8-10, 3-0 Ivy League) to get the best of their archrival (8-11, 1-2).
"We've been a tremendous defensive team and we've struggled offensively to find a great rhythm and we've found that we've gone into droughts at times," Harvard coach Tommy Amaker said. "We have to get better at that where we are not going into those kinds of droughts. Hopefully things will turn around for us so that we play on a better consistent offensive type of game but we haven’t been able to put that together this year much at all.”
Sophomore wing Justin Bassey was tasked with guarding Oni, Yale's leading scorer, on Friday. The Denver, Colo., native kept Oni at bay for most of the evening, with the highlight coming with five seconds to play. With the Bulldogs trailing by three as the final seconds began to tick away, the hosts got the ball into the hands of their leading scorer. Oni ran off of a screen, caught the ball behind the three-point line a few steps to the right of the top of the key. The sophomore elevated in an attempt to tie the game but his jumper was met by the fingertips of Bassey, leaving the shot attempt short as it fell into the hands of Harvard sophomore forward Seth Towns.
Towns would ice the contest at the line with 2.7 seconds to play. For the game, the Crimson was able to completely stymy Oni, who entered the contest averaging 16.4 points per game. Harvard held the Porter Ranch, Calif., native to seven points on 3-of-13 shooting on a night when Yale as a team shot just 30.4 percent from the field.
Bassey was also the Crimson player who gave his team the lead that remained at three far longer than anyone could have imagined. After neither team scored for nearly three minutes, Bassey was fouled shooting a three-pointer with 2:11 to play. The sophomore nailed all three at the line, his only points of the evening on a night in which easy baskets were at a premium, to put his team up for good.
The lack of scoring that characterized the final five minutes stood in stark contrast to the bursts of offense that took place for both teams in the first half. Harvard got off to a fast start, playing some of its best basketball of the season in the game's opening minutes. The Crimson jumped out to a 7-0 lead over the first 1:52. Harvard forced Yale to take a timeout after junior guard Corey Johnson hit a three-pointer and made it burn another after Yale was unable to inbound the ball coming out of the huddle. Johnson had eight points out of the gate as the offense clicked on all cylinders.
"A quick start was critical for us and we talked about those first four minutes," Amaker said. "I thought our kids were dialed in and ready and we were able to get out of the blocks early and fed off that momentum."
On the other end, the Crimson forced the Bulldogs into bad shots possession after possession. Yale settled for jump shots as its undersized frontline struggled to create spacing in the Harvard defense. The Crimson was able to maintain the strategy, leading to frustration for the Bulldogs for most of the evening. Yale made just six of its 24 three-point attempts and did not convert a single two-point basket outside of the paint.
While Harvard forward Chris Lewis disrupted Bulldog shot attempts on defense, the sophomore was also having his way on the other end. Lewis used his size advantage over junior forward Blake Reynolds and capitalized on his strength and experience when Yale coach James Jones tasked freshman Paul Atkinson with covering him. Lewis was largely the difference in a game marked by physicality and half-court offense. The Alpharetta, Ga., native led all players with 16 points, 11 rebounds, and four offensive boards. The Crimson outpaced Yale on the defensive glass, 30-25, and conceded just seven second chance points.
“We were going to dig down on the post with him a little bit, trying to get him on the block,” Yale coach James Jones said. “Didn’t do a great job on that but you’ve got to pick your poison a little bit and try to help out a little bit.”
The ice cold start for the Bulldogs carried on well into the first half. Ten minutes into the frame, Johnson was outscoring Yale on his own, 11-8. Harvard would grow its lead to 16, but, as it often has this season, the Crimson went cold shooting the basketball, allowing the Bulldogs to claw their way back before the break. After having converted 11 of its first 18 field goal attempts, Harvard began coming back down to earth.
Its slide on the offensive end translated into better looks for Yale as well. The Crimson missed seven of its final nine shots to close out the half and turned the ball over five times in the 7:52 leading up to the intermission. While Yale found twine on just four of its first 15 shot attempts, the Bulldogs closed the half on a 16-4 run and entered the locker room trailing by just four.
Runs—albeit slow ones—by both teams would characterize much of the second half. Harvard extended the lead out of the break, Yale made it interesting, Harvard did enough to keep the hosts at arm's length before the Bulldogs finally took their first lead with 5:11 to play and set the stage for the home stretch.
“I think when we play defense as a team, we are really hard to stop when everybody’s locked in, when everybody is doing their role on each individual player we are matched up with, we are a very hard team to score on, honestly, and now we are very confident off of that when we play together,” Johnson said.
After not scoring in the final 4:44 of the first half, the Crimson regained its footing to start the second. The guests went on a 10-3 run to begin the frame, capped off by a Towns triple to get the lead back to double digits. As desperation set in for the hosts, Oni began taking things into his own hands in an attempt to get Yale back in the contest.
A 6-0 run for the Bulldogs made it a game once again. Although free throws would ultimately win the game for Harvard, the Crimson did not take its first attempts from the charity stripe until 10:38 remained in the contest. The pair from Lewis ended the run for Yale but did little to stop the onslaught from the Bulldogs or stimulate offense from Harvard. Yale would go on a 13-4 run over the next 5:27 to take the two-point lead that was Yale's only advantage of the contest.
Midway through that run, Towns, Johnson, sophomore forward Henry Welsh, and sophomore guard Bryce Aiken checked back in for the Crimson in an attempt to stop the bleeding. A major question entering the game was Aiken's health. The sophomore had last seen game action against Dartmouth on Jan. 6 and had only played four minutes against the Big Green. Aiken, who had some of his best games of his freshman campaign against the Bulldogs, went just 1-of-5 from the field in 13 minutes and was replaced by fellow sophomore Christian Juzang down the stretch. While Harvard lacked its closer in the game’s final minutes, Lewis' strong all-around performance and the team's defensive masterpiece proved to be enough to keep Harvard unbeaten in league play.
"When we have good balance, we really have a good basketball team," Amaker said. "I thought our defense was outstanding. They come at you in waves and have some offensive players. [Our defense] certainly allowed us to play a little bit better than we have played recently."
—Staff writer Stephen J. Gleason can be reached at stephen.gleason@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
In its flashiest offensive game of the season, Harvard women’s basketball exploded for a 97-73 win over rival Yale to improve to 7-0 at home this season. The 97 points in its dismantling win over the Bulldogs are the most scored by the Crimson on the year.
Harvard (10-6, 2-1 Ivy) shot lights out against its rivals, making 61.3 percent of its attempts from the field and 63.6 percent from three. Yale (8-8, 1-2) was unable to stop the Crimson offense, especially senior guard Taylor Rooks, who shot 9-for-11 for 22 points while grabbing nine rebounds.
“We shot well, so then we play well,” coach Kathy Delaney-Smith said.
Harvard took control of the game in the middle of the second quarter. Its commanding lead was thanks to an impressive run. The Crimson’s 11-0 run was started by a Rooks jump shot. After hitting one of two free-throws, junior guard Madeline Raster stole the ball back and moved it up the court to junior guard Sydney Skinner for a fastbreak layup. Skinner then hit a three-pointer on the next possession. Junior guard Nani Redford followed up with a step-back three-pointer of her own to give Harvard a 14 point lead, 45-31.
“The start of the game for us was super important,” Raster said. “When we start well we end up playing a full game.”
In the early going of the game, defense reigned supreme. The first score came 1:38 into the game when Rooks finished on a reverse layup. Following a Bulldog fastbreak layup, sophomore forward Jeannie Boehm hit a reverse of her own to out Harvard ahead again, 4-2.
The offenses came alive, with Yale’s three-pointer followed up by a three from Rooks. With 5:58 left in the quarter, Boehm hit another layup inside. Rooks got a quick steal off of the Bulldog inbounds pass and dished to senior co-captain Kirby Porter for a quick jump shot. The four points were scored in a quick 10 seconds, forcing a Yale timeout.
“Good ball movement, finding the extra pass, and people being super unselfish are qualities we strive for as a team, and we showed that tonight,” junior co-captain Madeline Raster said.
With 4:27 left in the first period, Skinner came into the game as a substitution. She made quick use of her time, knocking down three-pointers on back-to-back possessions for the Crimson.
Bulldog senior forward Jen Berkowitz, the Ivy League leader in shooting percentage last season and this season, converted on a pivotal and-one opportunity to pull Yale within three with only two minutes to go. Boehm answered on Berkowitz down low by hitting her own layup on the other end for Harvard.
With only 14 seconds until the end of the first, Bulldog sophomore guard Roxy Barahman banked in a three-pointer to pull within two. However, Raster worked her buzzer-beater magic, hitting a jump shot as the clock sounded at the end of the first quarter for the second straight game, making it 23-19.
The Crimson ran into early foul trouble, as two of its top three scorers, Boehm and sophomore guard Katie Benzan, each had two fouls at the beginning of the contest and were forced to watch much of the second quarter from the bench. With 5:34 left in the half, Porter committed her second personal foul of the game, sending the co-captain to the bench to join Boehm and Benzan in avoiding fouling out.
“For us to not even blink over foul trouble, that makes me happy,” Delaney-Smith said.
Harvard kept up the momentum each trip down the court before the end of the half. Following a Redford missed three-pointer, Yale seemed to collect the rebound. As the two teams transitioned towards the other end of the court, freshman forward Rachel Levy poked the ball away and sent it bouncing out of bounds. Levy hustled past the Bulldogs’ defenders and dove with her arm outstretched, saving the ball and causing the Lavietes home crowd to erupt with cheers. The Crimson’s possession, however, would come up short.
With 49 seconds until the half, Yale cut the Harvard lead back to single digits at 44-36. The Crimson was able to regain its double-digit lead before the half on two free-throws from Rooks. Rooks set the pace for Harvard in the opening half, shooting 8-for-9 and accounting for 19 points and six rebounds. Rooks was not the Crimson’s only accurate shooter, as Harvard shot 57.6 percent from the field in the first half.
The second half saw the return of Benzan, Porter, and Boehm. Benzan made up for her missed time by connecting from beyond the arc on Harvard’s first possession of the half. Raster followed it up with a three-pointer of her own.
The Crimson’s lead would be soured as foul trouble reared its ugly head again. Porter and Boehm both recorded their third fouls of the contest early in the third quarter, causing both of them to sit out momentarily. With 2:28 left in the period, Skinner also recorded her third foul, leading her to join Porter and Boehm.
“We’re deep enough to handle it,” Delaney-Smith said.
Harvard’s offense continued its success from behind the arc quickly, as Skinner and Raster hit three-pointers on back-to-back possessions to continue to pad the Crimson’s lead. Rooks then hit a three of her own to put Harvard up 18 points with 3:37 left until the start of the fourth quarter.
Yale came alive before the start of the final frame, going on a 6-0 run of its own. The Crimson would answer after a cross-court pass led to a contested Benzan knocking down a three-pointer from the right wing. As the Bulldogs attempted to answer before the buzzer, Redford stole the ball at the top of the key and finished the fastbreak layup by herself to put Harvard up 70-53 to start the fourth.
Despite the large lead, the Crimson refused to slow the pace. Raster started the quarter with an and-one layup, followed up by yet another three-pointer from the hands of Redford. Benzan continued her hot hand from behind the arc, knocking down a three-pointer of her own. Following a made free throw from freshman forward Jadyn Bush, Boehm grabbed the offensive rebound on the second rebound. Raster then connected from three again, extending Harvard’s lead to 83-57.
Harvard continued its impressive shooting to the end of the game. When the final buzzer sounded, the Crimson had secured the solid victory over its oldest rival, 97-73.
“Anytime you beat Yale it feels awesome because there’s always that rivalry there,” Raster said. “We’re looking forward to beating them again in a couple weeks.”
—Staff writer Joseph W. Minatel can be reached at joseph.minatel@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Sections
I was grateful to be headed back to New Hampshire at the end of a long semester. It was wonderful to be with my family again, but after a few too many days of getting snowed in, I was going a bit stir-crazy. After digging ourselves out of mountains of snow, we braved the bitter cold to travel around the state. Winter weather may be inconvenient, but at least I got some nice photos out of it!
From Route 302 we can see the historic Mount Washington Hotel.
Icicles hang underneath a rock over a brook in rural Shelburne.
A winter storm leaves the twigs of a bush in my driveway coated in ice.
Children drag their sleds to the top of the hill at Nashua’s Roby Park in preparation for the ride down.
We arrive at the Ice Castle in Lincoln just in time to catch the last few rays of sunlight.
The Ice Castle is most beautiful when illuminated in the dark.
Sections
UPDATED: February 20, 2018, at 5:41 p.m.
The de facto national color of Ireland is green—it’s known colloquially as the “Emerald Isle.” Green is in our national flag, we tote it on sporting grounds around the globe, and it tints the pages of our passports. Walk around Dublin or Boston or Chicago on St. Patrick’s Day and it’s the only color you’ll see. Our longstanding tradition of agriculture (and persistent rain) means much of the island is covered in well-watered, fresh grass all year round. The association between my home country and this rich, eye-catching hue is inescapable.
But I am not a child of those vast, rolling fields that make up Ireland’s patchwork quilt of verdant farmlands. I was born and raised in Dún Laoghaire, a suburb about twenty minutes south of Dublin city, where the coastline and urbanization instead produce a palette of blues and greys. I don’t believe Dún Laoghaire is quite what my friends abroad imagine when I talk about home, but this is what Ireland looks like to me.

There is a great tradition of walking for walking’s sake in Dún Laoghaire.  At any time of the day, especially on the weekend, there is always someone out for a stroll on the East Pier (the better-maintained of the two piers that enclose the harbor).  When I meet my friends from school to catch up after another year away, we take it for granted that we’ll hit the pier at some point.  In my final term of secondary school, I’d take a walk here with my dad as the sun set over the town, allowing the fresh air to clear my head.

Venturing out to the exterior side, I’m greeted by the large rocks that protect the pier from the often wild waves of the Irish Sea, as well as a view of the coastline extending up to the villages of Sandycove, Glasthule, and Dalkey.  As a child I was a little too fearful to climb on the rocks, tempting as they seemed.  My younger brother never had such qualms.

At the end of the 1 kilometer stretch is a lighthouse, which was only opened to the public in recent years.  Inside is an ice cream shop, an offshoot of Teddy’s Famous Ice Cream shop in the main town.  


Even on New Year’s Eve, pier-walkers can be found buying ice cream cones.  Teddy’s specialty is the “99”—soft-serve vanilla with a Cadbury’s Flake chocolate bar stuck inside.  






The next time I’m down at the pier, the wind is stronger and the sea is no longer at rest. Waves crash and recede into foam along the sea wall. I’m glad I have a friend with me so I can venture a little closer to the tide. My grandfather—my dad’s dad, the one I never met—worked as a deep sea diver on the maintenance of this pier. These conditions reveal the sea as a force of nature, elegant but ready to sweep you away at a moment’s notice. 

The town I live in is one of several “on the DART line.” The DART (Dublin Area Rapid Transit) runs along the coast, between the seaside towns of Bray and Howth at either end, slicing through the city center somewhere in the middle. At the stations, like every other piece of official signage in the country, the warning messages to keep clear of the tracks alternate between English and Irish. Fan taobh thiar den líne seo. Keep behind this line. 


On Christmas Eve, I took a trip into Dublin city center with my dad to wander around and take photos. The place was—as it always is—bustling with last-minute shoppers. Over the main shopping thoroughfare, the pedestrianized Grafton Street, hangs a greeting I’m unlikely to see anywhere in the world: “Nollaig Shona Duit,” or “Merry Christmas.” 


Dublin—both city and county—is divided into North and South by the River Liffey, a body of water far less beautiful than the sea that laps at the shores of Dún Laoghaire. Plenty of stereotypes abound about the North and South sides, but when you’re standing right between them it’s hard to see much of a difference. 


My Dad and I wait for the 46A bus home on Kildare St.  I was immensely lucky growing up to live a two-minute walk from this bus route, one of the city’s most frequent and popular.  I relied on it in secondary school to meet up with friends from other parts of Dublin on weekends, back in the good old days of one euro fares for under 16s (I begrudgingly pay about thrice that now, a sorry result of both aging and inflation).  The 46A hits both major universities in the city in a little under an hour with traffic, so even with my handful of transatlantic flights a year taken into account, I cut my commute times significantly by leaving home.
When I left Dublin for Cambridge, there were many things I expected to miss: Cadbury’s chocolate Easter eggs, Irish beef, good Irish butter, the warmth of a cup of Lyon’s tea after getting caught in the rain.  I didn’t realize how little I’d care about those things after a couple of years away (except the butter, but that’s one thing I can buy over here), and how much I’d miss the simple act of walking down a stretch of pier or sitting on a double-decker bus.
These days, my trips home have become increasingly brief and infrequent, and I don’t get to visit as often as I’d like. I relish more in the little details of this place now, knowing that unlike a bar of chocolate or a cup of tea, I can’t take them with me in my suitcase or buy them in a store halfway around the world.



