News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Remember when Lorde won two Grammys at the age of 17 for her debut album “Pure Heroine”? Or when her sophomore album “Melodrama” debuted at number one in the Billboard 200 in 2017? If not, don’t worry. Neither does the Recording Academy.
The 60th Annual Grammy Awards featured performances from upwards of thirty different artists, but Lorde was not one of them. The reason?  The telecast’s producers didn’t offer her a solo spot. To help you cope with this tragic snub, here are five Grammy moments from Sunday that easily could have been cut in favor of a performance by Lorde.
5. James CordenWhether he was cracking bad “Empire State of Mind” puns at Jay-Z, yelling at his parents for skipping the Grammys to see “Hamilton,” or releasing puppies into the audience, James Corden wasn’t particularly memorable as a host. Any one, if not all, of these offbeat filler segments could have been a Lorde solo.
Actually, on second thought, let’s keep the puppies. Nothing could top Lorde performing her single “Perfect Places” while surrounded by a ring of adorable pug puppies.
4. Sting and Shaggy’s PerformanceIn what felt like a social experiment orchestrated by someone with no understanding of popular music, Sting and Shaggy performed a mash-up of the former’s “Englishman in New York” and “Don’t Make Me Wait,” a single from the pair’s forthcoming album. Yes, you read that correctly—Sting and Shaggy are releasing an album. If you’re the singular person who’s been dreaming of a collaboration between the ‘80s rocker and the “It Wasn’t Me” singer, this was a very special night. For the rest of us, any song off of Lorde’s “Melodrama” would’ve done the job.

3. Subway KaraokeDid anybody ask for “Carpool Karaoke: Awkward Subway Edition,” featuring James Corden, Sting, and Shaggy? No? Well, we got it anyway. The world’s most unlikely musical duo made not one, but two appearances during the telecast—that’s two more than Lorde. In a two minute sketch that went on two minutes too long, the singers and Corden clashed with “real people” on the subway who, like all of us watching, just wanted them to be quiet. If anyone is going to put on a show in a subway car, it should be Lorde, who has already proven she can sing while hanging out of a car window.  It also doesn’t hurt that her song “Liability (Reprise)” clocks in at a neat two minutes and sixteen seconds.

2. “Fire and Fury” Audiobook AuditionsSick of seeing outrage about “the Grammys getting political” fill up your Twitter feed? All of this could’ve been avoided if the telecast just scrapped the dig at Trump in favor of a “fire” performance of Lorde’s “Homemade Dynamite.” Still want your political fix? How about Lorde dancing to the nostalgic, post-breakup tune “Supercut” with a slideshow of Barack Obama pictures projected in the background? Just something to think about.

1. The President of the Recording AcademyIn arguably the most lackluster segment of the entire night, Recording Academy President Neil Portnow reflected on the Academy’s philanthropy and efforts to boost the lives of music creators. When asked after the show about the lack of female representation in both the nominees and winners at this year’s telecast, he said women in music need to “step up, because I think they would be welcome.” Well, the best possible welcome would have been giving the only female nominee for the coveted Album of the Year award an opportunity to perform on what so many refer to as “music’s biggest night.” If his own speech must be cut a minute or two to make time for a star as eclectic and talented as Lorde, so be it.
—Staff writer Allison J. Scharmann can be reached at allison.scharmann@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
They’ve been saying 2017 was the year of women. I think it was the year of pink.
--
Growing up, I was always a “girly girl.” My mother and grandmother would weave my hair into braids it always fell out of, vainly trying to secure the strands with big, bright clips—some shaped like butterflies, some with flowers dangling, some covered in pink glitter. I was obsessed with nail polish. I had a treasure trove of half-completed necklace making kits and shoeboxes full of elaborate bracelets.
My favorite color was pink, until fifth grade. Then, I moved to a new school, and the first thing I learned from the girls in my class was that pink was not an acceptable favorite color. (Okay, actually the first thing I learned was that Nick was the best Jonas brother. But after that it was the pink thing.) Blue was my new friends’ color of choice. Pink, it seemed, was too girly, too childish, too obvious.
It sounds so dumb to admit it, and I never have before, but I was nine years old, trying to fit in any way I could. A favorite color seemed a small compromise to make for new friendships. I traded in my pink bookbag for a blue one, and that was that.
--
Lately, I’ve been thinking about one of the stickers on my laptop. It’s small, in the bottom corner, and by all accounts should be relatively innocuous. But it gets a lot of attention. In bubbly pink letters, it says “Feminist.”
The letters are in Beyoncé font, in “Flawless” font, a reference to Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie's famous monologue in the song, which beautifully ends with “Feminist: a person who believes in the social, political, and economic equality of the sexes.”
(For the record—I just quoted that by heart.)
--
I don’t remember when I first heard the word “feminist,” or when I first started identifying as one. I do know it’s been a long journey. In the beginning, I was the “crazy feminist” of the family. My feminism wasn’t something to be celebrated. It was marked by hours and days and months-long debates, by volumes of reading, by constant reworking of my ideals and my arguments. And it marked me too—as someone who was too loud, too bold, too insistent.
It’s not easy, my feminism. Feminism isn’t easy at all.
And in the beginning, I was adamant that there was nothing controversial about the word “feminist.” But now I see white feminism, where women like me are in desperate need of liberation. Performative feminism, where Wonder Woman empowers little girls everywhere (except for the ones born in Palestine). Social media feminism, where the movement begins and ends with a tweet.
It’s worn me down. Sometimes, the word begins to feel empty, loaded with weight that has no substance, as blank as the color it’s written in on my laptop.
--
Let’s look back.
Last year started with the Women’s March—a sea of pink hats, pink signs, pink frozen faces, a sea that swept from coast to coast, that hit D.C., L.A., Boston and swept millions of women along with it.
This mass celebration of feminism didn’t come out of nowhere. It was preceded by Sheryl Sandberg’s sold out cries to "lean in" in 2013, by calls to #bringbackourgirls in 2014, by the viral HeForShe campaign in 2015, by a woman just missing the presidency in 2016. The day of the march, it seemed the journey had finally come to fruition. Pink wasn’t uncool anymore, feminism wasn’t insanity. We had reached the promised land, one in which every woman wore a pink hat and a shirt proclaiming: “A woman’s place is in the House and the Senate.”
After the voices of women were unleashed, the year was explosive. In the fall, Harvey Weinstein was accused of sexual assault. Then it was a wave, a flood, almost like something had been seriously wrong this whole time. A movement was born (#metoo), and suddenly senators, journalists, and celebrities were challenged and removed, naturally, as if this had always been meant to be.
In December, Merriam-Webster named “feminism” the word of the year, and the transition was complete. Pink was back in.
--
I wear a pink coat now. Bubblegum pink, lovely, pale pink. It’s my favorite article of clothing—I wear it everyday, and it’s how friends recognize me. But, the thing is, my coat is just a coat. A pink hat is just a pink hat. Neither are a feminist statement.
Because feminism isn’t about pink, really. Yes, it can start with marches or hashtags. But it is about so much more. Feminism is about action—action that goes beyond wearing a specific-colored dress to a red-carpet event. Feminism is about showing up for one another. It is about challenging rape culture. It is about respecting the autonomous decisions of all women. It is about upholding marginalized voices. It is about taking a step back to understand and amend your own flaws. It is about constantly trying to do better.
--
We need the sea of pink hats to sweep through our everyday lives. We need pink to color our conversations, our interactions every single day. We need to ensure that our feminism is more than an annual post on Instagram.
Because now that pink is back in, it’s time to get to the hard stuff.
Shireen Younus ’20, a Crimson Editorial Comp Director, is a Government concentrator in Pforzheimer House. Her column appears on alternate Thursdays.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
I have a confession: I journal, a lot. I’m not sure why I feel like this needs to be a confession, and yet I think I just revealed something that some people might find strange, or even shameful, about my life.
But I shouldn’t be ashamed to be reflective. I should be past that middle school instinct to hide my diary under my bed. So why—at a school obsessed with self-improvement and personal transformation—do so few of us take the time to write about our thoughts and record our progress towards our best selves? And why do those of us who do journal guard that habit like a secret?
We might worry that it’s self-obsessed to think so deeply about ourselves when the world has far bigger problems than our emotions. There’s a certain level of guilty responsibility that comes with being a Harvard student—that crippling feeling of needing to pay the world back for this opportunity we have. But if we can’t deal with our own internal battles, how can we expect ourselves to save the world?
The tools we develop internally to cope with our relatively small problems are those same tools that we need to fight external battles: namely, empathetic thinking and emotional awareness.
It can be hard to be empathetic with ourselves. We rush to shower our friends with love and seek to understand them, but we rarely treat ourselves with the same amount of compassion. We write off our caring for others better than we care for ourselves as humility. We say that we don’t look into our emotions because we don’t deserve that level of attention.
Maybe we don’t want to give ourselves attention because we are afraid of what we will find when we do. In middle school, we hid our journals because we didn’t want our friends to read them. Our greatest fear was that someone else would truly see us and gain access to our rawest thoughts.
Now, however, I think a scarier idea by far is that we see ourselves. We want to let other people know us, we want to forge those deep connections, but we resist connecting with what is inside of us. I know that, for me, this resistance comes from the fear that I will find out that I’m not good enough.
Not good enough for what? This is the type of question that I confront in my journal. When I force myself to identify what scares me, I gain some level of confidence by knowing that I am able to face to my own self-doubt.
I value my daily efforts to look within myself (especially to the parts that I would rather not see) because I know that I am doing something that is really hard. As Harvard students, we look for challenge and see it as a platform for personal development. If we lean into the discomfort of this challenge—journaling with honesty—we might be surprised by the ways it pushes us to grow.
It’s difficult to be vulnerable with ourselves, but that difficulty makes it essential. Veritas, truth, must be an internal as well as an external maxim. We can never see ourselves objectively, and there probably isn’t a single objective truth about who we are. But there is a truthful account of how we perceive ourselves and our experiences. By articulating this truth, we can get closer to feeling okay with who we are, to feeling like we are good enough.
To journal is to make a bold declaration that we are proud of who we are at this moment. When we write about ourselves, we say that our thoughts are worth having; that our present self is worth being and worth knowing. Maybe this is where we see shame in journaling: the shame of wanting to feel worthy, or worse, the shame of achieving this self-worth.
At the end of my senior year of high school, I started “confessing” to keeping a journal. I got a lot of weird looks. A few people thought it was cool (or said so to avoid being awkward). At Harvard, every time I feel myself hiding this part of my life from my peers, I tell myself there’s nothing to be embarrassed about.
I should be proud that I take time to get to know myself, that I am doing the hard work of being okay with the truth I find internally. I shouldn’t be ashamed to be seeking self-worth.
So, go buy a journal. Buy your friend a journal. And keep it out in the open.  (No one will read it, this isn’t middle school.) Keep it out as a reminder to yourself and to others that you are worth knowing, in all of the difficult truth that you access within.
Sophie G. Garrett ’20, a Crimson editorial editor, is a Mathematics concentrator in Quincy House.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
On Jan. 24, the Cambridge Ordinance Committee met to discuss a proposal that would limit the size of businesses permitted in Harvard Square.  The petition would amend zoning regulations such that all floor area above 60 feet in height would be mandated residential space. Additionally, the petition would require buildings of 60 linear feet or more to devote half of their frontage to “small store space,” defined as space that is under 1,250 rentable feet.
At the meeting, petitioners led by Cambridge resident Peter B. Kroon expressed concern over the treatment of small businesses in the Square. In the past, residents have criticized the Cambridge Historical Commission for not being adequately concerned with gentrification and rising property values, which have forced some businesses to close or move.
However, executive director of the Harvard Square Business Association Denise A. Jillson argued strongly against the petition. We agree with Jillson’s statement that “this petition does nothing to increase foot traffic and that it hinders sustainable leasing opportunities, diminishes flexibility, restricts growth, and hyperregulates marketing efforts.” Furthermore, we find the specific limits on square feet to be void of real significance beyond simply limiting business size.
We agree that this proposal will prevent business from adequately adjusting to increasing demand from tourists, students, and residents in Harvard Square.  While zoning regulations vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, and while studies have pointed out flaws in recent academic research on the matter, much of the evidence suggests that overburdensome zoning regulations raise property prices, exacerbating gentrification.
Given the fact that Harvard Square is already showing signs of gentrification—property values have nearly doubled in the last five years and new landowners have bought significant portions of the area—the Kroon petition risks further exposing the Square to its negative effects.  As a result, we urge the Cambridge Ordinance Committee to exercise caution in choosing whether to adopt this measure.
Furthermore, these regulations will make Harvard Square even more inhospitable for one type of business that students and residents alike acknowledge is desperately needed: a grocery store. While the Square is replete with restaurants, students seeking to purchase raw ingredients or fresh produce in lieu of journeying to their dining halls come up short. By limiting the square footage of businesses in the Square, this ordinance might reinforce the status of the Square as a food desert.
Of course, zoning regulations can be beneficial, particularly in maintaining historical areas such as Harvard Square.  Nevertheless, we worry this particular ordinance would do little to encourage, as the Harvard Square Business Association said, “good value and good quality,” and instead harm those living in the area.
This staff editorial solely represents the majority view of The Crimson Editorial Board. It is the product of discussions at regular Editorial Board meetings. In order to ensure the impartiality of our journalism, Crimson editors who choose to opine and vote at these meetings are not involved in the reporting of articles on similar topics.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
We at FM are well-versed in the art of the eulogy. When one of our writers showed up to pitch meeting and said, “Uh, I think the McDonald’s in Central Square is going to be open for 24 hours a day,” we thought there was no better way to celebrate than a birth announcement.      
The gods of fast food have smiled upon us and foretold the coming of a 24-hour McDonald’s, whose presence will grace the grimy and sin-stained bricks of Central Square with the heavenly, fluorescent glow of its life-sustaining presence. Soon, 463 Mass. Ave. will surmount the dark obstacle of a city permit and serve the residents, club-goers and other weary souls who have toiled away without the glory of buttermilk crispy tenders to comfort them through the long night.
Hark! the herald angels sing
“Glory to the fast food king!”
Drunken revelers beguiled
With self-loathing supersized
Joyful all ye hungry rise
Join the triumph of the fries
With a hangry host proclaim
Mickey D’s is here to stay
Hark! The herald angels sing
“Glory to the fast food king!”
Never again must club-goers resort to begging at the UberEats window. Never again will they go hungry when their bodies most crave nourishment. Never again will their souls cry, “My McMuffin, my McMuffin, why hast thou forsaken me?”
O holy night the clubs are nearly empty
And still the light of the deep fat fryer burns
Long was the night of shots and bad decisions
But here you are, put to rest your concerns
Fall on your knees
O hear the cashiers’ voices
O night of apple pie
O night when Ronald was born
Behold, McDonald’s is on the horizon. Come as you are, weary and burdened after a night of regret. Cast your cares upon the steady presence of the Golden Arches and all that they stand for: freedom, capitalism, and the sweet taste of artery-clogging grease.
O come all ye drunkards
Craving quarter pounders
O come ye, o come ye who have no self-restraint
Come and be satisfied
Now forever open
O come let us eat nuggets
O come let us eat nuggets
O come let us eat nuggets
Mickey D’s our love!

Magazine writer Anna Kate E. Cannon can be reached at anna.cannon@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @ae_cannon.

Sections
I see my first onesies as I exit the T: a half-herd of barn animals hooting as they cross the street. The cow makes a face at me, the udders on his fleece-lined chest lashing around. Down a block, and there they are, running down Union Street and curling around the corner: A line of onesie-clad adults crowding the sidewalk, yelling at passersby and themselves. A Pikachu takes a drag on her cigarette. Someone has stepped on a glitter-dusted dragon’s tail, and a shouting match ensues. Four Powerpuff Girls (there’s an extra blue one) chant, “Jello shots! Jello shots!” It doesn’t catch on. It’s about 3:30 in the afternoon.
On Saturday, Boston’s first Onesie Bar Crawl was held from 2 to 10 p.m., drawing more than 2,500 attendees in what the organizers, Party America and We Love Onesies, termed “the most comfortable outing of the year!” Attendees flocked to the Bell in Hand Tavern—the self-declared oldest tavern in America—along with six other venues along a stretch of the historic Freedom Trail in downtown Boston.
Just past the end of the line, the Haymarket produce market is bustling. A confused hybrid penguin-unicorn stares as produce sellers hawk their cabbages and squash. Around the corner, down Union Street, doormen chant, “Four dollar beers, seven dollar cocktails,” to the passing masses. A panda mutters, “I don’t drink beer,” and harried-looking tour guides try to make themselves heard over the din. A stormtrooper (Jackie J. Ludovina) and a Darth Vader (Cameron J. Dennis) are less interested in the historic buildings than in the line assembling outside of a nearby bar called Paddy O’s.
They’re here, after all, “to drink,” as Dennis says.
“It was a last minute thing,” Ludovina explains. “This was the last onesie they had.”
Did they wear onesies when they were kids? “Actually, when I was a kid, I would dress up as a bear. A lot. So I grew a reputation of being a bear. But I’ve moved on from that, and now I just do onesies,” Cameron says.
***
Adult onesies have exploded in popularity in recent years, as Norway-based OnePiece and Japanese Kigurumi suits have gained celebrity endorsements and occupy a niche in popular perception between irony and apathy. They fall somewhere in between the comfortable-yet-stylish—think Birkenstocks, Uggs, flannels—and the function-over-form crowd—think Crocs or Skechers. It’s normcore taken to its least logical end, the irony turned so far past 11 that it’s hard to tell who’s serious and who’s not, all mixed with this weird kidult craze that’s developed around adult coloring books, adult summer camps, and adult preschools. The New Yorker calls it the “Peter Pan market.”
But no one’s wearing $80 OnePieces or Kigurumis on Union Street. “It was a really cheap costume at Walmart,” Brendan M. Ennis explains, pointing at his Deadpool suit. Is he a diehard fan? A shrug. “Sure, I like him, yeah.”
The infantilizing doesn’t go more than skin deep, however. A Woody from “Toy Story” and a kangaroo make out in front of Paddy O’s. Woody’s hands are wrist-deep in her fluffy synthetic pouch. A gang of Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles encircle a futuristic-looking vape in an nearby alleyway. “Where’s Maria? Where is Maria,” yowls a black cat.
Anthropomorphized animals are a popular costume choice, as are cartoon characters: Pikachus are ubiquitous, as are Minions. Outside the Bell in Hand Tavern, one Minion weeps softly in her baggy blue overalls and cradles her ID as Lil Yachty booms inside. The Patriots are also popular, as is the American flag. Each garment carries a kind of inexplicable softness—people are eager for me to touch their onesies and see—and everyone seems cozy enough in the balmy 50 degree weather. In fact, already some of the onesies are coming off: People emerge from bars sweaty and exultant, the top halves of their raccoon or shark or Winnie the Pooh selves dismembered, useless cotton entrails hanging off their waists.
Further down the street, a Superman and Batman sprint past Faneuil Hall, fleecy arms outstretched, soaring past shopfronts. A disgruntled Spiderman trots behind them, asking them to wait up. More original costume choices start trickling out of the bars: a Twisted Tea bottle saunters by, and then Chuckie from Rugrats, glasses too small for his face. It’s five by now, and Ubers keep pulling up, letting out streams of revelers, clown car style. Inside Hennessy’s, a live band plays to a onesied crowd. Most of them have their backs turned to the music and are more interested in their phones, but there is a lone pair of flying squirrels dancing wildly in front, vestigial wings flapping to the beat.
***
No one seems to know whether the whole onesie thing is anything more than a cozy novelty, but everyone knows why they’re there. Pat Murphy of Somerville says, “I needed to get out of the house,” while Heather J. Gaccione and Krystin A. Parker travelled from Connecticut and Rhode Island, respectively, for a “Girl’s night! Squad! Squad night!” Onesie choice seems more defined by whatever was left at Walmart, or cheapest on Amazon than any aesthetic compulsion. That’s not the point here. It’s more so a kind of masquerade ball, where you can zip up your Puff the Magic Dragon costume and get drunk on four dollar onesie-punch (a real thing!) and a false sense of nostalgia. It’s a good time.
One of many Totoros stops in the lamplight—it’s nearly seven by now, and the sun has set. He gives his name only as Totoro, and he has come “to get drunk in costume.”
Did he ever wear onesies as a kid? “Just as an adult,” he says, and another Totoro behind him nods in solemn agreement.
— Magazine writer Alan R. Dai can be reached at alan.dai@thecrimson.com. This is the first installment of his fashion column, Live Fresh or Dai, which will have him traveling around the city to various events that are, however obliquely, fashion-related. Next week: a sneaker expo. Follow him on Twitter @dai_alan_dai.
Sections
For Randi H. Griffin ’10, the dream of representing her country at the Olympics is now becoming reality. Eight years ago, Griffin was a forward on the Harvard women’s ice hockey team. Now, Griffin, a 29-year-old American whose mother is South Korean, will be playing on the Unified Korean Olympic women’s hockey team. Comprising 12  North Koreans and 23 South Koreans, this team is historic—the first combined Korean team to compete in one sport at the Olympics. After her stint in the Olympics, Griffin will be finishing up her Ph.D. in Evolutionary Anthropology at Duke University, which she began pursuing in 2013. Fifteen Minutes caught up with Griffin, an Apex, N.C. native, in the midst of her preparation for the upcoming Olympic games in PyeongChang.
Editor’s Note: This interview has been lightly edited for length and clarity. 
FM: What role, if any, did Harvard hockey play in your progression to becoming an Olympic athlete?
RG: When I joined the team as a freshman, I was used to being a top offensive player on my past teams. But Katey Stone [Harvard Women’s Ice Hockey Head Coach] sat me on the bench because I was lazy and sloppy in the D-zone [Defensive Zone] and we already had plenty of high impact offensive players. Basically, I had to learn to take pride in the less glamorous aspects of the game and become a well-rounded two-way player. I think that serves me well now, because, frankly, we spend most of our time in the D-zone on Team Korea.
Progressing from sitting on the bench to being a top two line player over my four years at Harvard really gave me a different perspective on the game. I think players who never have that experience of sitting on the bench sometimes have trouble empathizing with players at the bottom of the lineup. But because I’ve been there and I know how it feels, even though I’m on the top two lines with Team Korea, I try to give a lot of attention to the players who are struggling for ice time, just constantly letting them know that they are valued and helping them psychologically to play their best even when they are under the pressure of knowing they may only get a few shifts in a game.
FM: When and how did you find out about making the Olympic team? How did you react when you were asked to represent?
RG: The Korean Ice Hockey Association first contacted me via e-mail in 2014. They said they were searching for Korean heritage hockey players to join their team for the 2018 Olympics and invited me to skate with the team for some exhibition games against Kazakhstan in the summer of 2015. I honestly wasn’t sure whether it was real or some kind of joke, or if they realized how long it had been since I played hockey competitively. There were several emails back and forth, and eventually I agreed to go for one summer just to check it out—I was thinking, if nothing else, this was a free trip to Korea. I ended up having a lot of fun and realizing that I could help the team if I got back into shape. I could see how passionate this group of girls was. I saw that KIHA was putting in the time and the money to use the Olympics to spark the long-term growth of ice hockey in South Korea. I realized it was an opportunity I couldn’t pass up.
FM: What were your hockey goals and dreams growing up? Did you ever dream of playing in the Olympics?
RG: Of course I dreamed of playing in the Olympics. I was part of the generation that was inspired by watching Team USA and Team Canada battle for gold at the 1998 Nagano games. And I wanted to be just like them when I grew up. But at Harvard, I got to actually play with Olympians from Team USA and Team Canada—that included Julie Chu, Caitlin Cahow, and Sarah Vaillancourt. And I think any Olympic dreams I had were dashed when I realized just how incredible they were. I did my best to keep up with them, but I’m just not that talented. Playing for Team Korea is an entirely different story, because we aren’t some group of superhuman athletes. We are a ragtag group of hockey players that represent nearly all Korean hockey players in existence, and I came out of retirement after 5 years to skate with them. So this is not the fulfillment of the Olympic dreams from my childhood. It's a completely different dream that I never could have dreamed up on my own.
FM: What does it mean for you to play for the Korean team, as opposed to an American team? Who is going to be at the Olympics to watch you play?
RG: Since I am representing Korea as the daughter and granddaughter of Korean immigrants, the focus is all on my family. My grandparents live in Chicago now, and they immigrated to America when Korea was still very poor and recovering from the Korean War—my grandfather actually worked in the South Korean government. He was worried about his family’s safety, so they decided to make this transition to life in the US. It wasn’t easy for them. They don't speak English. They're educated people, but once they got here it was like none of that mattered anymore. They were back to square one, working multiple jobs, trying to make ends meet. Everything they that gave up sacrificed was for their family so that their children could have a chance at a better life. I know that they miss Korea and it's hard for them to sort of be separated from their home country. Seeing me living there now in and wearing the Korean jersey is very emotional for them. So I try to honor them however I can. I am wearing my Korean name on my jersey, Hee Soo, and I wear number 37 to represent the year my grandmother was born. They will be coming to PyeongChang along with my mother and father, and given their age, they think it will probably be their last trip to Korea. So I'm really grateful that I'll able to share this experience with them.

—Magazine writer Devin B. Srivastava can be reached at devin.srivastava@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @thebigsriv.
Sections
This year marks the 100-year anniversary of one of the deadliest health disasters in the history of the world: the Spanish Influenza. The immensely virulent disease infected 500 million people and killed 50 million worldwide.
Though college campuses were high-risk areas for infection, Harvard remained open.
While some other schools— including Radcliffe College— chose to send students back home until the epidemic had passed, President Abbott Lawrence Lowell made the controversial decision to keep classes in session in 1918.
In the words of one contemporary article in The Harvard Illustrated magazine, “The authorities here and elsewhere have deemed the effects of the epidemic to be of so alarming a nature as to warrant the closing of theatres, moving-picture houses, and the like, and the prohibition of public meeting of every kind… It is under these circumstances that Harvard University keeps open its doors.”
President Lowell knew he had a hard decision to make—one that would set a precedent for other institutions of higher education. He could either heed the warnings of doctors across the country or risk the health of his students.
On Sept. 18, 1918, Lowell wrote to his friend and colleague Joseph Lee, class of 1883, about his predicament. In his letter, Lowell said, “I have been talking over the question of opening with some of our medical experts. Doctor Christian felt as you do, that we had better postpone the opening. On the other hand, Doctor Rosenau... thinks it would be a mistake for us not to open on time; that as the epidemic has spread all over the country, there would be no increased exposure from bringing the students here.” Though Lowell clearly favored a prompt opening of the college, he was also open to opposition.
While Lowell deliberated, students grew aggravated. Under the letterhead of The Harvard Illustrated, Charles F. Zukoski Jr., class of 1919, declared his deep disappointment in Lowell’s inaction. Dissatisfied, on September 30th, Zukoski wrote to President Lowell, concerned that Harvard’s only preemptive action was to cancel larger lectures. Zukoski was unsatisfied with anything less than a complete closure of the institution.
In his reply, Lowell wrote, “On the question of postponing the opening of the University, Dr. Rosenau, our professor of public health, Dr. Balley, the college physician, and Dr. Kelley, the superintendent of public health in the state of Massachusetts, all thought it better not to postpone it… I write you all this because if you have not faith that the college authorities would of course act under the best advice I want you to know that they have done do.” Lowell did not mention the several detractors who advised that Harvard College be closed. His letter suggests the decision to open the school was unanimously recommended by medical experts.
Displeased with the public dissent, President Lowell considered prohibiting the Student Army Training Corps men from participating in college papers, a blow that would severely diminish staff numbers on various publications. In good humor, Zukoski replied, “We have not lost faith in the College authorities nor do we doubt in the least that they are acting as best they can. At Harvard we have learned, however, to temper faith with reason.” Lowell never responded.
In October 1918, the health of the student body took a turn for the worse: there were 60 cases of Influenza at the College’s Stillman Infirmary. By January, five students were reported dead. In a last-ditch effort to liberate his school from the grip of the flu, a desperate President Lowell demanded that anyone who sneezed or coughed during lectures be quarantined; 50 of the gravest offenders were detained and watched until further notice.
One campus over, Radcliffe College learned from Lowell’s unyielding stance.
On Oct. 7, 1918, the Radcliffe News reported, “the successful results of the week of suspension are the best proof of the wisdom of the decision of the Academic Board.” After a brief, yet much needed recess, the 27 ill students at Radcliffe college were all reportedly recovered and back to full health.
Even after classes resumed, Radcliffe continued to take precautionary measures, like preventing large gatherings of students and providing extra time for students to rest. The student body appeared to respond well to the administration’s more cautious policies. One student noted, “With the prevalence of gripp and influenza… there is something strangely disturbing and unconvincing in the aesthetic cavartings of a modern maid in the chilling night air.”
A century later, the reasons for President Lowell’s choice to keep Harvard’s activities in full swing remain a bit of a mystery. Though Lowell’s staunch refusal to consider a closure of the school was a point of immense controversy among Harvard and Radcliffe students alike, optimism still found its way to the surface of student outcry. In October of 1918,  one Radcliffe student wrote, “the proverbial ounce of prevention is still worth its weight, and with perhaps a little more than ordinary care, we who have just returned from a long vacation, should have no fear.”
—Magazine writer Margaux R.E. Winter can be reached at margaux.winter@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @MrewGnU.
Sections
You’re slumped by the Widener Gate on a viciously cold night. There is nothing to look at but the sharp lights left on by Tatte and that glasses store you can never seem to remember the name of. In the distance: blinding headlights reflected on the rain-smeared street recording your deepest anxieties. Who are you, really? What is next? What was before?
If only there were some way to know, some way to be anywhere but here; or some vehicle of the soul to deliver you from imminent existential annihilation.
Some Harvard Shuttle.
And at last, that stunning shuttle comes slouching down Mass. Ave, craving to be born again with you. It is the solution to your woes—travel or otherwise—and as it pulls to a slow stop, you feel yourself identify with the shuttle, nay, identify as a shuttle. This is the verge of absolution: You become the shuttle; It is you. But wait! Which shuttle is it? Which shuttle are you? Which shuttle will you be?
Can’t figure it out on your own? Fifteen Minutes is here to help you. Take this quiz to know thyself and thy shuttle.
1. Everyone who has ridden a shuttle has done a shuttle thing. Shuttle things are true things. They speak to the heart and the little parts of the soul that drift broken in the afterglow of post 2 a.m. motion. Which of these shuttle things have you done?
A. Speed-stumbled to catch the first shuttle on a blurry Sunday morning.
B. Been late and blamed it vaguely on “the shuttle.”
C. Waited for Godot.
D. Became licensed as a Commonwealth Minister by Oliver Cromwell to the joint charge of St. Tida's Church at Ballyscullion, and St. Swithan's Church in Magherafelt.

2. What do you want out of life?
A. I don’t know. Just wait on tables and try to get along.
B. To meet my river friends again.
C. Make the most of it, before it is too late!
D. To lodge at the retreat of Mineral Spring Pond to recover from illness and drink from the famous healing waters of the springs from Spring Pond.

3. What will your last words be?
A. What happened last night?
B. Wait, wait! Hold on! The next one’s in five minutes and my phone’s about to die! Please don’t leave, I need to go home! No! No!
C. Nobody comes, nobody goes. It’s awful.
D. Three of my brothers (Samuel, Nathaniel and Eleazar) also became ministers.

4. What went down last Thursday night?
A. An Unrecognized Single Gender Social Organization named after a Nocturnal Bird.
B. My friends were having fun without me, a mile away. I hate polar bears.
C. Sleeping, while the others suffered.
D. I was appointed the Rector of Harvard College.

5. Have you ever consumed a truly great pastry? And when you consume this pastry, you satisfy a true and beautiful hunger. And for at least that moment you lose your fear of death. Of course you have. Where do you buy your great pastries?
A. Starbucks. Do not make me apologize!
B. Tatte. It’s the closest cafe to the shuttle stop, and if I can afford 30 minutes of walking every day I can afford a $7 pastry. And, really? You’re using a fake Hemingway quote? Come on FM.
C. The tears of the world.
D. I don’t know anything about pastries, but a portrait of me hangs in the Middle Common Room of Mansfield College, Oxford.

If you answered mostly:
A’s: Overnight. The most “well-traveled” shuttle, you make a stop at every part of Harvard, but you never stay long. Party on!
B’s: Quad Yard Express. A true utilitarian at heart, you jump between Quad and Yard with ruthless efficiency. Your schedule is meticulously organized, and you break down whenever anything puts a wrench in your plans.
C’s: Crimson Cruiser. You wait. You are bored. No, you don't protest, but you are bored to death, there's no denying it. Good. A diversion comes along and what do you do? You let it go to waste.
D’s: Mather Express. You are literally Increase Mather.
You didn’t answer and just scrolled to the end: 1636’er. The peak of commitment issues. No one ever knows where you are. You show up when you want to, and you disappear when you don’t. But really, we’re all like you.
—Magazine writer Luke W. Xu can be reached at luke.xu@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @duke_of_luke_.
Sections
Piper W. Winkler ’21 suddenly turns to Valerie M. Zhang ’21 and Romil A. Sirohi ’21 in the middle of our interview. “We just got another box of thermals,” she says eagerly to them. Their eyes widen in excitement. Later in the day, the trio will set out on the streets of Cambridge, distributing the warm clothes to Cambridge’s homeless population.
Winkler, Zhang, and Sirohi have only recently begun their expedition to distribute clothing. Their fundraiser began on Jan. 5th, the day after a “bomb cyclone” unleashed 14 inches of snow over Cambridge. To date, it has brought in almost $2,800.
“Five dollars for me might not necessarily be a lot,” Zhang says. “But to other people it can actually be the difference between a few hours inside or outside.”
So far, the project has largely focused on purchasing Subway and Dunkin’ Donuts gift cards for the homeless, thereby providing them with both food and a warm place to sit during the day.
Getting the homeless indoors is a major priority during Cambridge winters. As shelters continue to fill up, their fire codes aggravate the increasingly urgent need for alternative resources.
According to Corey A. Gold ’19, the Administrative Director of the Harvard Square Homeless Shelter (HSHS), HSHS has 24 beds available and five emergency cots, which means that, depending on the day, anywhere between two and 25 lottery numbers may be turned away.
“I’ve had to call people and tell them the news that they haven’t gotten a bed for the night and they’ll have to stay out, and that’s really hard,” says Winkler, who works at HSHS. “[HSHS’s] main concern is space, and that’s not necessarily something we’re poised to help with at this moment. But we can fill the gap [by providing] a warm place to be for a couple hours.”
The efforts of the three freshmen fit into a larger, evolving network of resources that, together, try to keep the homeless population out of the cold.
The Cambridge Warming Center, for example, opened its doors for the first time on January 16th, 2018. Located by Central Square in the basement of the Citywide Senior Center, the city-funded resource serves as an alternative to traditional shelters, which may not be suitable for people with certain mental health conditions.
“Most folks who have spent any time being homeless have some sense of trauma, so it can feel really scary for them to be in a [shelter],” Shelly Chevalier, Planning and Development Manager for the Department of Human Services, says. The Warming Center is designed to be “low-barrier,” Chevalier explains, welcoming those who may be disinclined to seek out shelters for personal reasons.
For instance, Zhang recalls speaking with a homeless person who stated that they did not feel comfortable at shelters after an experience in which their belongings were stolen.
Through the Warming Center, Cambridge hopes to provide an alternative space where people can simply stay warm. Yoga mats are available to rest on, meals are provided, and spaces are not separated by gender, which allows couples to stay together throughout the night, which is not always the case at traditional shelters.
The numbers seem to indicate that the Warming Center has so far been successful in bringing people out of the cold: in the first week of its operation, it served more than 100 unique individuals, with as many as 46 arriving in one night.
According to Bay Cove Human Services, the non-profit organization that operates the center, an initial survey of the visitors indicates that most guests are people who would otherwise not be inclined to go to a shelter. But the center may also wind up serving those who wanted to stay at a shelter, but didn’t lottery in.
“Shelters are really on the cusp of maxing out relative to their capacity, so there’s no question that the secondary purpose for the Warming Center is to serve as some level of overflow when all of the shelters reach capacity,” Chevalier says.
At HSHS, any additional resource is much appreciated. “I do like to think of HSHS as a part of some greater network, some greater jigsaw puzzle,” Ana K. Chaves ‘17, an Administrative Director at the shelter, says. “We are bound by our fire code capacity and we barely meet a fraction of the greater need, but we are fortunate to have all these other providers along with us, that though not connected to us, are contributing to this unified effort to help people stay out of the cold when the weather hits.”
—Magazine writer Sonia F. Epstein can be reached at sonia.epstein@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @sonia_epstein.
Sections
From Twitter comments and missile tests, to this year’s Winter Olympics, the world’s eyes are on Korea. Professor of Korean History Carter J. Eckert has taught hundreds of Harvard students about the nuanced relationship between North and South Korea in his popular course Societies of the World 27: “The Two Koreas.” In light of North and South Korea’s upcoming display of unity, FM asked Eckert what to watch for at this year’s Olympic Games.
Editor’s note: This interview has been lightly edited for clarity and length.
FM: North Korean athletes are allowed to attend the Winter Olympics and compete on the South Korean women’s hockey team. What’s the significance of these events and South Korea billing this Olympics as one of peace and cooperation?
CE: Engagement is the best way to achieve some kind of opening and ultimately peace—and possibly even reunification—sometime in the future. [South Korea’s President Moon Jae-in] campaigned on that, and I think he was hoping to implement that kind of engagement policy right from the beginning, but North Korea [was] very active developing and shooting missiles at the very beginning of his presidency. I think he was very frustrated initially, and President Trump’s rhetoric and the rhetoric of Kim Jong-un has really ratcheted up everything. To have this shared Olympics, at least on some levels, I think is very much in tune with his initial policy goals.

FM: What will you be watching for as you watch the upcoming Winter Games?
CE: The hope is that rather than rhetorically condemning one another, the two Koreas will be able to begin a new kind of dialogue that will be enhanced by these sports events where people are actually seeing North Koreans and South Koreans working together, competing together as a single team—in the case of the women’s hockey team—and as a joint Korean team that enters the Olympics.
FM: Over the years, North and South Korea have attempted to use athletic events as opportunities for détente. What makes these latest efforts to promote greater unification so noteworthy? What could go wrong?
CE: I think the chances of something going wrong are much less with the two Koreas competing together than it would have been if they had not come to some sort of agreement on the Olympics. I don’t think we should be naive about North Korea in this regard. This was a proposal that came from the North Koreans at a time when the rhetoric was escalating to a point that was scaring everyone—perhaps even the North Koreans to some extent. By reaching out to South Korea in this way, they are doing a couple of things for themselves. One is to push back on the rhetoric coming from the United States and, in a sense, provide a kind of shield against threats coming from President Trump.
At the same time, consistently the North Koreans have tried to drive a wedge between the United States and South Korea because the South Korea-U.S. alliance has been a strong one since the Korean War, and the North Koreans have seen that as part of the threat posed against them.
FM: What makes you most concerned about the current state of Korea?
CE: I really feel that American policy towards North Korea has been at a kind of standstill. As I mentioned, engagement is the most promising way to resolve the problem, but the United States has consistently insisted upon North Korea giving up its nuclear program. It makes no sense to me, if I were in the position of the North Korean leader, to give up the one thing that allows me to have some leverage and defense. The North Koreans have had cause in the course of their history to be concerned about nuclear attacks, during the Korean War and after that from the United States. It’s not irrational, in any sense, to try to develop a nuclear program.
FM: What makes you most hopeful?
We’ve reached a point now that we just need to deal with the facts. The fact is that North Korea is a nuclear state. To continue to insist before any dialogue or engagement can begin that the North Koreans have to give up their nuclear program makes absolutely no sense to me. It’s just a non-starter. More and more seasoned diplomats who’ve been working on the North Korean problem are coming to that conclusion that we are just at a dead end in the the American policy here. It’s very important that the two Koreas are taking the initiative themselves to resolve the problem. That, to me, is a very hopeful thing.
—Magazine writer Hillary A. McLauchlin can be reached at hillary.mclauchlin@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @mclauhil.
Sections
She takes the stage in a bright red jumpsuit, stars dangling from her ears, and fills the room with electric energy. She decides which poem to read on the spot, choosing a personal favorite of hers, titled “Nine at the Golden Shovel,” which can be read up, down, and side-to-side. (Another poem, “What the Child Built,” is composed entirely of monosyllables but for one word: “Negro.”)
On a Sunday afternoon in downtown Los Angeles, Amanda S.C. (“Southern California,” she jokes) Gorman ’20 smiles from a podium at the Central Library. She’s there with Robin Coste Lewis, L.A. Poet Laureate, in a joint poetry reading and conversation open to their L.A. neighborhood.
“Amanda’s bio goes out of date every two weeks,” Michael Cirelli, executive director of Urban Word NYC, jokes to the small but eager crowd as he introduces her. He runs out of breath before getting through half of Gorman's resumé. “She’s a powerhouse.”
As Gorman speaks, faces in the crowd edge between tears and laughter. She’s five-foot-one, afro included, but her presence on stage is larger than life. She finishes with a piece she performed at the Library of Congress last September: “In This Place: An American Lyric.” It opens:
There’s a poem in this place—
in the footfalls in the halls
in the quiet beat of the seats.
It is here, at the curtain of day,
where America writes a lyric
you must whisper to say.
Gorman is the first Youth Poet Laureate of the United States, the founder of One Pen One Page—a nonprofit organization that works to promote youth literacy and leadership through writing and social justice education—and a self-described future candidate for the United States presidency.
There’s a poem in this person, a poem nineteen years in the making, kindled in a small Los Angeles home where a girl found a voice in a city and in her words.
***
Gorman’s treasure lies underneath hanging floral arrangements, a pink plastic birdcage full of odds and ends, school accolades, and a bottle of her signature Sunflowers perfume. She digs through multicolored boxes piled up next to her desk, letting papers and notebooks fall to the floor in a harlequin mess beside a three-foot stack of books and fairytales.

“A-HA! We found the jackpot!” she exclaims, triumphantly pulling out her very first journal, a purple-paged number she named Sarah and started in 2007. But there are countless other journals in her possession. One of them, aptly named Diva, features entries written in rhyme and third‑person self reflection.
In yet another journal, Gorman started her own synonym finder before realizing that thesauruses were already in mass production. “I was such a little stuck-up writer when I was little,” she laughs. Her journals are filled with poetry—lines crossed out and rewritten in green, purple, and red; verses scribbled in bleeding blue between word maps in the margins; thematic moments noted in bright yellow highlighter with explosion marks.
“When I write and read, I feel like I’m hearing myself for the first time,” she says, explaining that poetry became the medium for her voice at a young age.
Gorman, her twin sister Gabrielle, and their mother live in an apartment complex in L.A. Shrouded by birds of paradise and palm trees, the apartment has been home to the Gorman family for the past 17 years. A huge sparkling Christmas tree—which Gorman says will stay up until her birthday in March—stands in the living room. Lulu, a happy, energized gray miniature poodle, offers her belly for scratching at every opportunity.
Standing next to her bed in the room she shares with her sister, Gorman flips through the pages of Sarah until she finds a drawing of a crying face, the margins littered with negative remarks like “Nobody likes you!” and “Give up!” countered with “No! You’re a winner!” The words are written in the forceful, clumsy handwriting of a nine-year-old determined to be her best self in the face of bullying.
Gorman has an auditory processing disorder and a speech impediment which makes certain letters difficult to pronounce. The letter “r,” she says, is “the bane of my human existence.”
“Obviously I’m not an immigrant, but growing up and being born in America but feeling like I had to learn English almost like an outsider gave me a new appreciation for people who come from outside of the country,” Gorman says.
When Gorman was a kid going through speech therapy, strangers would often mistake her for a British or Nigerian immigrant. She remembers encouraging their assumptions.
“It kind of became my mini experiment,” she says. “If they thought I was from Europe, they would treat me very well, like I was a sophisticated intellectual; if I let them believe that I was from Nigeria, they’d make comments like, ‘Oh, this is how credit cards work,’ or ‘You might not know this in the village you come from.’”

Gorman doesn’t view her speech impediment as a crutch—rather, she sees it as a gift and a strength. “Every now and then there will be a little girl at an event and she goes, ‘I have an auditory processing disorder too and I sound exactly like you,’” she says.
***
Gorman’s high school, New Roads School, is an independent, non-traditional institution where teachers conduct class in bungalows and waive grades entirely. The school values creativity and social justice, Gorman’s 10th grade English teacher Alexandra Padilla explains.
“I feel like she came into me 10th grade and she was already a writer,” Padilla says with pride. “She was the kind of student that makes you a better teacher because you’re thinking, ‘OK, what’s Amanda gonna think of next?’”
“There’s nothing I could throw at her that she couldn’t tackle,” Padilla adds. “She’s like a firecracker—a once-in-a-career kind of situation.”
Gorman says she is grateful for having attended the school, which she says shaped her critical thinking skills. But her experience wasn’t always entirely positive. During her senior year at New Roads, the Gorman girls, as Amanda and Gabrielle were often called, staged a revolt.
Their English class’s syllabus, they felt, sorely lacked the diverse narratives represented by the students in the classroom, so the twins wrote parodies of Disney songs about the lack of representation in their curriculum and presented them one day in class.
“I just stood up and said, ‘How many people feel represented in the books that we’re reading?’ and like two people raised their hands,” Gabrielle says.
“Whenever I speak about diversity it’s like the girl who cried race. It’s bigger than just, these two black girls are—” (here, Gorman uses air quotes) “‘upset,’” she says. “At one point [my sister and I] were some of the only black people in the school. My family accounted for the demographic.”
The sisters’ favorite movie, to this day, is “How the Grinch Stole Christmas,” and not just because of their mutual love of Jim Carrey. They say they relate to the title character’s feelings of isolation.
Gabrielle cites these feelings—of loneliness, estrangement—as the source of her advocacy for black power, allyship, and inclusivity. At New Roads, Gorman says she and her sister started the dialogue about the English syllabus because they felt frustrated with attempts to use blackness as a stand-in for including the narratives of her queer, Latinx, and Jewish classmates.
The Gormans trace their creativity and activism to their mother, who only let them watch 1940s sitcoms like the Munsters and the Honeymooners, one of which includes a character that Gorman cites as the first feminist TV icon.
“If I wanted to watch regular TV, I’d have to make a social justice argument as to why,” Gorman explains, recounting the methods by which she successfully convinced her mother to let her watch “The Cheetah Girls.”
The Gormans share their apartment with a small army of elephants. The figurines are everywhere: in wood, porcelain, and plastic; adorning counters, hanging in paint on the walls, crammed on shelves between books and baby portraits.
“Elephants represent empathy, and they never forget,” Gorman says. “And they’re matriarchs, so we love that.”
***
Gorman’s life is steeped in symbolism. She says she feels deeply connected to bodies of water, which remind her of home.
I first meet Gorman at the 3rd Street Promenade on an unusually cloudy Santa Monica afternoon. Gorman hugs me hello and immediately compliments my bright yellow shirt—it’s her favorite color. We walk down the iconic pier, where a sea-salt popcorn-and-sardine breeze picks up to chill us in our sun-ready California clothes.
Despite the cold, Gorman’s energy is endless. “I’m simultaneously five and 97 years old, like an old lady in Dora the Explorer’s body,” she laughs.
The fog over the water is so thick it masks the ocean from view. Gorman tells me that she loves to write close to water. Before every poetry performance, she  pays homage to one of her favorite movies, Disney Pixar’s “Moana,” whose titular heroine is similarly drawn to water.
Gorman says she loves the song “I Am Moana (Song of the Ancestors),” when Moana sings about her connection to those who have come before her. Describing how the animated character touches her necklace, Gorman pauses to touch her own neck, where a diamond dewdrop hangs.
“This necklace was given to me by my grandmother, and so before I go onstage, I amend the ‘Moana’ lyric so that it fits my story," she says. "It goes, ‘I am a girl who loves my family, I am a girl who loves writing, and it calls me. I am the daughter of black writers, we are descended from freedom fighters, who broke chains to change the world.’”
***
In Cambridge, Gorman sits on the bank of the Charles and pretends to hear the familiar lapping of the Pacific as she writes. But for the most part, when she’s at Harvard, Amanda the Poet takes a break.
“There’s the Amanda Gorman on campus, then there’s the Amanda Gorman who’s off,” she explains, telling me she isn’t too involved in the Harvard poetry scene largely because she doesn’t have the time. The Leverett sophomore is constantly on the move, traveling across the nation to attend conferences and poetry readings. (This past week, while other students shopped classes, Gorman traveled to New York City to speak at Revlon’s Live Boldly campaign launch.)
When school is in session, Gorman separates her title as National Youth Poet Laureate from her work and life as a Sociology concentrator.
“A lot of people are like, ‘Why aren’t you doing English?’ Because I want to learn something new!” Gorman exclaims. “I spent the last few years as National Youth Poet Laureate, writing and reading, and I have a lot to learn with English, but I also feel like I want to take a risk and jump out there with something that isn’t poetry-related.”
But like New Roads, Harvard classrooms have also brought a share of adversity. In one poetry class, Gorman says she faced criticism from white male classmates for being unable to understand Latin. In a panel discussion after her L.A. poetry reading, Gorman spoke of another troubling experience in that same seminar. A white male classmate accused her of being “too strong and too self-assured,” she says.
“What frustrates me to no end is that when a woman of color dares to speak up, she’s framed as emotional or too domineering, and I’ve been called that,” she explains. “Basically what he was voicing was that he felt threatened by me and by me being a self-assured black woman. And I told him that, and he was like, ‘Well, when you put it that way’— but I said, ‘You put it that way.’”
Gabrielle, thinking back to her sister's high school years, notes that it wasn’t rare for men to be intimidated by Amanda.
“She was that girl who everyone knew and respected, and she never tried to change herself to earn that respect—everyone supported her for being herself,” Gabrielle says.
“I proudly call myself a bitch,” Gorman tells me. “It’s a survival mechanism.”
In the greater world of poetry, Amanda works against its traditional conception as a realm that keeps its gates closed to all except the “non-political.” She struggles with the idea that poetry is mostly focused on nature and romance.
“I am very honest in saying that that type of conception of poetry is actually rooted in white supremacy,” Gorman says. “The personal is political. The fact that you have the luxury as a white male to write all your poems about being lost in the woods, that you don’t have to interrogate race and gender, is a political statement in and of itself."
"Saying that the type of writing that interrogates the very real issues of gender, of race, of the economy, isn’t real or is not poetry is actually a way to safeguard the European and Western clutch over poetry,” she adds.
***
Gorman wrote “In This Place: An American Lyric” for her performance at the Library of Congress last September. The performance commemorated the inauguration of Tracy K. Smith as Poet Laureate of the United States. Gorman stood proudly next to Carla Hayden, the first African-American woman to be named Librarian of Congress.
“A trio of literary black women on stage—it doesn’t get much better than that,” Gorman recalls  with a rueful laugh.
I ask her if she’d been nervous.
“Oh my goodness, my knees were shaking,” she says. “I was so stressed and done by the end of it, I just went to the back and took my shoes off—and I didn’t know that they would call me back out onstage, but they did, and so I walked onstage barefoot!”
Dinah Berland, an L.A.-based poet who has mentored Gorman for three years, attended the event as her guest. When Berland talks about the experience on the phone, her voice betrays a smile.
“Oh my goodness. They were spellbound,” she says. “She takes so many risks, one after another—going to places she’s never been, applying for things that seem far-fetched, taking a leap of faith in herself. She really has the capacity to inspire in such a joyful way.”
When I ask her if many poets have the same capacities as Amanda, Berland laughs. “Great poets do,” she says. “Her work is adventurous, thoughtful, and big.”
I ask Gorman what it means to be National Youth Poet Laureate over a chai tea latte at the Starbucks on 3rd Street.
“Everybody asks me this and I never have a good answer,” she admits, smiling before slipping into silence. After a moment, she answers.
“We don’t always recognize we’re living history because it’s the present. What reminds me is that, being the first Youth Poet Laureate, I’m living and making history at the same time, and I want to do something that I’m proud exists in the tapestry of history when I’m a grandmother, when I’m a great grandmother, when I’m dead and gone,” she says.
Before meeting Michelle Obama at the White House, Gorman waited by the window of a green room overlooking the White House lawn. She recalled the former first lady’s speech at the Democratic National Convention last year about waking up, looking at that very same lawn, and seeing her black daughters play outside of a house built by slaves.
“It was a really emotional moment for me, as I’m a descendant of slaves, and my great great great grandmother was a slave named Amanda who could neither read nor write,” Gorman says.
Ultimately, Gorman sees her role as National Youth Poet Laureate as being “a deliverer of the torch.”
“I am standing on the shoulders of people who broke their backs to get me here so that I could see farther—God forbid I throw this shot away,” she says. “I want to climb the next hilltop, I want to go to the next valley, so that someone else doesn’t have to.”
The last stanza of “In This Place (An American Lyric)” beams with Gorman’s hope: in her own words, she’s only just getting started.
There’s a place where this poem dwells—

it is here, it is now, in the yellow song of dawn’s bell
where we write an American lyric

we are just beginning to tell.
—Magazine writer Elida Kocharian can be reached at elida.kocharian@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @ElidaKocharian.
Sections
Ms. G, Massachusetts’s Official State Groundhog, started her life as an ordinary groundhog. She was born without her now-iconic name, and seemingly not destined for the spotlight.
In fact, she was injured as a young woodchuck, and, though she was nursed back to health by a wildlife rehabilitator, she became too accustomed to human care to survive on her own. In 2008, she moved to Massachusetts Audubon Society’s Drumlin Farm Wildlife Sanctuary in Lincoln, Mass., where she led a quiet, nameless life as a wildlife ambassador, teaching local students about New England’s environment.
But bigger things were on her horizon.
In 2008, fame and fortune found their way to the then-unnamed female woodchuck who would later be known as Ms. G when former broadcast meteorologist Mish A. Michaels visited the Mass Audubon sanctuary as part of her work as an environmental reporter.

Michaels worked in broadcast meteorology in the Boston area for almost 20 years. In February 2017, she briefly returned to broadcasting, but then lost her job due to concerns over previous statements she gave linking vaccines to autism. Her views about the impact of human activity on climate change were also scrutinized.
Michaels declined to comment on her views on vaccinations, and emphasized in an emailed statement that “our evolving climate is an intricate puzzle that great scientific minds continue to tease out. In our quest to understand climate variability, animals like Ms. G help to piece together the story of how our climate impacts life on our planet.”
While she is now a self-proclaimed groundhog supporter, Michaels wasn’t always a fan of Groundhog Day.
Groundhog Day is an annual ritual for the meteorology community. Every Feb. 2, weather reports nationwide describe old Pennsylvania Dutch folklore, dash hopes for a mild winter, and show familiar footage of Punxsutawney Phil, the iconic weather-predicting groundhog.
“I always thought [Groundhog Day] was annoying and silly, because Punxsutawney doesn’t even live in New England,” Michaels says.
Once she met Drumlin Farm’s young groundhog, though, she changed her tune.
“I came to know a groundhog that lives at Mass Audubon,” Michaels says.
Ms. G had participated in Drumlin Farm’s Groundhog Day celebration since her move there in 2008. However, her forecast was not officially recognized by the state of Massachusetts. Michaels decided to change that.
Aside from Punxsutawney, Pa., other locations have their own official groundhogs: New York City has Staten Island Chuck (whose predecessor tragically died in 2014, a week after being accidentally dropped by Mayor Bill de Blasio), and Lilburn, Georgia has their own marmot named General Beauregard Lee.
The first step of Michaels’ initiative—and the first step on Ms. G’s road to fame—was convincing Drumlin Farms to name the groundhog. Michaels suggested the name Ms. G, as all other official state groundhogs are male.
Michaels waited to begin her campaign in earnest until her youngest daughter entered kindergarten, so that she could fully commit herself to getting Ms. G the official forecaster status that she deserved. A campaign team, comprised of Hunnewell Elementary School students and led by Michaels, worked with Mass Audubon’s advocacy department and Wellesley Representative Alice H. Peisch to propose House Bill 2864, the “Ms. G” Bill.
The Ms. G Bill designates the female woodchuck who was recently named Ms. G as the “official groundhog of the commonwealth.” In July of 2014, Governor Deval Patrick officially signed the Ms. G Bill into law, making official her duty to educate elementary school children on the importance of meteorology.
“I definitely want to make sure that the Hunnewell students get credit for making this bill into a law, because without them this would not have happened,” Michaels says.
Sanctuary Director of Mass Audubon’s Drumlin Farm Renata A. Pomponi says that Ms. G is a great educational tool, helpful in teaching adults and children alike about the local impact of climate change.
“It was great to see those students so engaged in understanding the legislative process and supporting our local wildlife celebrity as a way to draw some attention to Massachusetts and our own local climate,” she says.
This year, Ms. G’s official forecast will take place at 10 a.m. on Friday, Feb. 2, and will be live-streamed from Mass Audubon’s Instagram. It will be her fourth official forecast, and even the more groundhog-resistant members of the weather community will be in attendance.
“We have all brought Ms. G into our good graces,” Michaels says. “Even hardcore, seasoned, stalwart professionals who come from cloth cut in the 1970s… go there with me. The whole weather community has opened their hearts to the idea of having their own state groundhog.”
—Magazine writer Norah M. Murphy can be reached at norah.murphy@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @norah_murph.
Sections
1/17/18, 11:50 a.m.:
i would love to chat so long that my name isn’t used
i worry since i’m applying for phds soon
I’m messaging a female graduate student at Harvard. I told her I’m writing about #MeToo in higher education. She is interested in commenting on my article.
I tell her I can’t grant anonymity.
It’s not an article detailing stories of harassment per se, I type nervously. Would she be able to just talk generally? About power and gender and cultural norms in academia? Surely, if she’s not naming names, not pointing fingers, she’d feel comfortable venting.
1/17/18, 7:10 p.m.:
unfortunately i won’t be able to, just out of fear of it impacting my applications. i truly am sorry.
We seem to be living in a historical moment. Hashtags and testimonials and spreadsheets have shattered the traditional silence around sexual assault. We have stories; we are talking. The fear of condemning harassment has been replaced with a fierce, fervent rage. We are mad as hell, and we’re not gonna take it anymore! We are allowed to shout and stamp our feet! No one can stop us!
Right?
***
If you’ve turned on a television or opened up Twitter in the past few months, you know that something colossal is stirring in Hollywood and elsewhere. Women are reclaiming the conversation. They are uniting, banding together to demand change, felling a mostly male cohort of harassers. They bring activists to awards shows. They link arms and hug each other on national television. They cheer fanatically for their female peers (all this as the camera zooms in).
The #MeToo movement fits naturally into the narrative we’ve constructed about the dramatic lives of our favorite stars. We are captivated by these women: their monochromatic dresses, majestic pins, sad eyes; their sober interviews and rousing speeches. It is a movement that feels cinematic in the scope of the depravity it unearths and the progress it promises. It is grittily dynamic, vehemently forward-moving.
But Harvard is not Hollywood. Proclaiming “Me, too” means something different on a campus than it does on a screen.
I’ve received perhaps a dozen apologetic responses now like the one above, although most are not so frank about their reticence.
They say things like I am swamped with work, I am busy, I am unable to do an interview at this time, I just don’t think I’d have much to say, I don’t think I’d be the most helpful person to interview on this subject, I can’t help with this, sorry. But maybe talk to so-and-so, and here’s an article you should read.
Most simply never responded. Of the 71 female professors, grad students, and lecturers from the Harvard community that I reached out to, nine agreed to be quoted.
When we talked, our conversations felt charged with the same emotional urgency I am confronted with every time I scroll through my newsfeed. But I also perceived an underlying sense of resignation. It became clear that the discussion of sexual assault at Harvard and in higher education lacks the same forward motion that the #MeToo movement has heralded elsewhere.
Certainly, revelations of harassment at Harvard and in the academy are emerging. Higher education has its own spreadsheet of sexual harassment testimonies, created by Karen L. Kelsky, a cultural anthropology scholar who has taught at the University of Oregon and the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. The spreadsheet has gathered more than 2,300 entries in about two months. Though most respondents don’t name their harassers or universities, the word “Harvard” appears 24 times.
“I know there have been a few examples of how the #MeToo movement has begun to impact academia,” says Sophia Roosth, an associate professor in History of Science. “But it seems to be happening much more slowly [here] than, for example, Hollywood, or even Washington, right? So it seems that the entertainment industry and the government are ahead of us in this respect.”
Sejal Singh, a Harvard Law student and Policy Coordinator at Know Your IX, a national campaign against sexual harassment and violence in schools, says she thinks “we have yet to even scratch the surface” on the problem of sexual misconduct in academia.
“It’s sort of odd to me that we were supposedly having this national moment where we start to reckon with not just these individual harassers, but I think much more importantly, the way that these intuitions have enabled them,” Singh says. “There doesn’t seem to be any interest in really taking it on.”
***
Long before the recent discourse in other industries, academia began internal reviews of its own potential culture of harassment. The early start date makes higher education's reckoning with sexual misconduct unique, some Harvard professors say.
“I think that, in a lot of ways, the college movement presaged a lot of #MeToo and presaged a lot of the backlash to #MeToo as well,” Singh says, referencing a wave of undergraduate activism that erupted five years ago.
Harvard faculty started talking about harassment in their ranks as early as 1978. In 2001, the conversation heightened as Title IX expanded to cover gender-based harassment and discrimination.
Jeannie Suk Gersen, a professor at the Law School who has campaigned against Obama-era Title IX changes, says she thinks this protracted focus on the issue means that higher education is in a position to “appreciate the complexity of the problem.”
“All of those issues that we dealt with and are continuing to deal with on campuses are now on a broader scale at workplaces and other kinds of institutions,” Suk Gersen says. “So I think it's kind of like a campus situation that we confronted starting from several years ago and now is going to be kind of repeated on a larger scale.”
But others worry that academia’s focus on Title IX shifts the focus to semantics, stymying the potential for more nuanced discussions about broader cultures of harassment.
“We’re still fighting about the legal definition,” says Paavani Garg, a Harvard Law student and president of the Women’s Law Association. “We’ve been talking about Title IX for so long... It seems to be something that isn’t always the most effective way of dealing with victims of sexual assault and their needs.”
Just as academia’s history with sexual misconduct puts the conversation in an unusual place, so, too, does its structural makeup, according to Garg and several other female professors.
“The way that power and the hierarchies that are so deeply embedded in university structures play out makes the case of academia different than other settings,” says Leena M. Akhtar, a lecturer in History of Science and Women, Gender, and Sexuality, who has studied rape trauma and Second Wave feminist activism. “I think in a way, harassers can hide better here, because the power structures are so deeply embedded.”
For graduate students, she says, the concept of workplace sexual harassment is further complicated by the fact that “the student is both at work and at school. [A victim can’t] pick up and get another job."
Akhtar notes that fields—and departments—are small. Spots in top programs are limited, and fields are extraordinarily competitive.
“A graduate student who feels coerced or pressured into having sex or who says no doesn't know for sure how, if, she/he is being punished,” says Deidre S. Lynch, an English professor.
And often, harassment is a product of relational dynamics more complex than abuse of power, Lynch says. Because of the way universities are predicated on a culture of mentorship, sexual harassment can manifest as an exploitation of respect, she adds.
“There’s something about the structure of intellectual mentoring,” Lynch says. “It can easily be compromised and distorted in ways that are very hard on students.”
Tenured professors–especially at Harvard–accrue extraordinary acclaim. There is an inclination, Kelsky says, to think of academia as “higher than the normal.” It’s higher education, after all; a space for elevated ideas from lofty thinkers.
We laud these people because they push the boundaries of possibility for thought in their fields. This celebration comes in the form of tenure, of awards and prizes, of prestige, of esteem that borders on reverence: renown that translates into a power that is difficult to check.
Roosth describes this phenomenon as a “cult of genius.” And she says it can easily sour.
“Geniuses are imagined to be able to operate outside of social norms. I don’t believe there is such a thing as a genius, and I don’t think there’s any room on campus for people to operate outside of social norms, especially when it comes to protecting the bodies and the rights of their fellow colleagues,” she says. “The idea that just because people are supposed to be thoughtful and creative, they should be allowed to behave however they choose and to make the workplace a hostile environment for their colleagues or their students is absurd.”
Even beyond the insular mentor-mentee relationship, prominent professors can sometimes attract a cohort of acolytes. Roosth says this means that, when those at the top disappoint, there are material victims—those who are physically violated—but also secondary casualties: everyone else who adored, respected, emulated these people.
Lynch says she is dealing with this kind of disillusionment herself. In 2017, Jay Fliegelman, a mentor of hers when she was a grad student at Stanford, was accused of harassment and rape. It is difficult, she says, to reconcile his actions with her image of him as a role model.
“He was a totally inspiring teacher, and I have all his books and learned so much from him and can recognize moments in my own writing over the years where­­–‘Oh, that's a thought I was able to think because Jay encouraged me,’” Lynch says. “So I hate that this is all tangled up with this sense that he was violent and actively harmed people.”
She says she has had to “re-categorize” Fliegelman in her mind. “He violated his students' trust. And that’s just, there’s no way around that.”
In correspondence with old friends from graduate school about “things we had forgotten that now seem newly menacing,” Lynch wrote that “We were swimming with sharks, and we didn’t realize it."
***
Kelsky, the professor who created the “Sexual Harassment in the Academy” spreadsheet, says she is skeptical of broad administrative attempts at change, especially in the current political climate.
“Do I trust institutions to do the right thing regardless of what DeVos and her ilk advocate? No, I do not," she says. "They will always take the low road. They will always take the low road.”
Within Harvard, the female professors I interviewed seem tentatively more optimistic.
“I think that it's going to make a big difference that there are more women professors than there used to be,” says Lynch. “I think it's already starting to.”
Roosth, too, says she is optimistic that simply changing the demographics of the university can go a long way.
“There are twenty-seven tenured minority underrepresented women at Harvard. If that number goes up, I would be thrilled,” she says.
But numbers are only part of the solution, Singh says. She calls for a fundamental shift in the approach toward harassment for students and professors alike. “Why aren’t we being taught how to build an environment that didn’t look like this?”
Helen Haste, a visiting professor at the Graduate School of Education, articulates a similar philosophy. She advocates a reeducation, “to think differently about the relationships that we have.”
Academia must “give our young people the skills to do this, to give people who are the adults the skills. And I think we haven't been very good at providing those skills.”
Akhtar charges everyone not actively making change to take action. We need to think about “how silence and lack of action can basically very easily turn into complicity,” she says.
“Abusive behavior can thrive in an atmosphere where the default is to do nothing,” she says. Change has to come “from the top down, but also laterally, and honestly, from the bottom as well, meaning that graduate students need more of a voice than they have.”
Ruth Goldstein, a lecturer in the Folklore and Mythology department, thinks the movement has the potential to grow within academia. But she says she has reservations about #MeToo as a whole.
“I think there are times when social movements start with different people–often with people of color–and then unfortunately get whitewashed. If the idea is to have solidarity and inclusivity, then marginalizing people's voices once again who have often been marginalized is an incredibly good way to kill social change,” she says.
“In many ways the movement became ‘Hollywoodized,’ if you will.”
But academia’s #MeToo movement doesn’t entirely look like Hollywood’s–at least, not yet.
Despite revelations of abuse and a history of efforts toward change, there lingers a certain underlying stagnancy, according to the female professors I interviewed. There is an entrenched power structure that, Kelsky says, she doesn’t think “any survey of this moment will be able to correct immediately.”
When I asked Kelsky why her spreadsheet is mostly anonymous, she talked about allowing for a “mid-level point,” where “being able to tell your story publicly, even without naming names, would be cathartic.”
“I really want to see predators exposed by name and punished,” she said. “I do. I want to see them lose their jobs. But I also know that it’s a gradual process for victims. The most debilitating issue for victims of this situation, of these situations, is shame. It’s believing that you failed, that it was your fault, that you are at fault.”
Perhaps a more aggressive academic #MeToo movement is brewing.
But for now, Kelsky says, progress may be stalled.
“Until you can overcome that shame, you cannot act; you cannot act effectively,” she says.
–Magazine writer Eliya O. Smith can be reached at eliya.smith@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @eliyasmith.
Sections
“I like to describe it to people as the better and more badass version of bowling.”
Greg DiLullo co-founded Revolution Axe, one of the two axe-throwing bars set to open in the Boston area, and he has no problem justifying the combination of alcohol and sharp objects.
Axe-throwing venues are the latest craze for barhoppers who are fearless or tired of the conventional drinking scene. The pastime has been popular in Canada for almost a decade, but only made it to the United States in 2016, with the opening of Stumpy’s in New Jersey. Agawam Axe House became the first Massachusetts axe-throwing institution this last month, and will be joined later in 2018 by Revolution Axe and Urban Axes.
According to Revolution Axe’s co-founder, Tom C. Vieth, he and DiLullo threw their first axes in December of 2016, and they’ve wanted to open Revolution Axe ever since.
“You rent out one or two lanes for your group and you’ll be standing there next to your friend, both of you throwing an axe at a target at the same time,” says DiLullo. “You get to egg each other on a little bit—all in good fun, of course.”
How does DiLullo rationalize mixing the seemingly-dangerous activity with drinking? “The focus of the venue is going to be axe throwing, but when people think about that, they think: Grab some friends, get a beer, throw some axes, that’d be a great time. We don’t wanna quash that dream.”
If axe throwing is your dream, you have options. Urban Axes, another axe-throwing bar chain with existing locations in Philadelphia and Austin, is also coming to Massachusetts this year. While Revolution Axe is aiming for an April opening in Everett, Urban Axes plans to open their doors this summer in Somerville.
Urban Axes representative Courtney K. Osgood says the founders developed a taste for axe throwing after attending a party in such a venue in Canada. It seemed like “something that Americans would love,” Osgood says. They chose Boston more specifically because two of their co-founders had lived there and “fell in love with the city,” according to Osgood. “The culture in Boston is so vibrant and exciting and full of life, and the experience of Urban Axes is very similar: It’s something different, it’s something unique.”
The appeal of axe throwing, says Osgood, is this uniqueness. “There’s really something satisfying about being able to do an activity that is sort of taboo. Can I throw this axe and it’s going to be okay? Yes, it’s going to be okay.”
And although it may sound like a pastime drenched in toxic masculinity, modern-day axe throwing is egalitarian. “I think there’s a misconception that you have to be super strong, fit and burly to be able to throw an axe really well. It’s not necessarily about the strength: It’s about the angle that you are throwing,” says Osgood.
The founders of Revolution Axe also emphasize the activity’s accessibility. “The handle is 12 inches and the axe sits on top of that. The whole thing is under two pounds. It takes a little bit of finesse to throw them the right way and get them to stick, and that’s why we have coaches there to help the people,” says DiLullo.
Alongside a few other safety measures, the venues provide coaches who turn what one might imagine to be a drunken “free-for-all,” as Vieth puts it, into a safe and fun group activity. At Urban Axes, the proper term for these coaches is “axperts.”
How does one become an axpert? “We’re really open. You don’t necessarily need to have prior experience throwing axes—we’ll train everybody who’s interested,” says Osgood.
“I wouldn’t say it’s dangerous. It’s not that different from bowling, and people have always had a couple of drinks when they bowl,” says Anneliese Townsend, the owner of Agawam Axe House—which, however, does not currently allow alcohol on its premises. That hasn’t stopped them from hosting Super Bowl pregame games, and Townsend says that they’re looking forward to “a Valentine's Day event and an anti-Valentine’s Day for singles.”
Some axe throwers are serious about the sport. Although axe throwing might not have made it to the big league yet, all of the Massachusetts venues have a competitive element, offering contests and even a chance to compete on an international level. This month, for example, Urban Axes will be sending 20 local league winners to Toronto for the National Axe Throwing Championship.
Would the spirit of competition ever affect the two new axe-throwing venues in Boston?
“We definitely have to have a Revolution Axe vs. Urban Axe league showdown for sure. That’d be fun,” laughs Vieth.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
UPDATED: January 31, 2017 at 11:37 p.m.
Harvard workers with Temporary Protected Status delivered a letter to University President Drew G. Faust Wednesday afternoon calling on her to take more decisive action to protect them from possible deportation.
A total of about 50 workers, students, faculty, staff, and supporters from campus unions gathered outside of Faust's Massachusetts Hall office to deliver the letter.
Temporary Protected Status is a designation granted by the Department of Homeland Security to certain foreign nationals who are unable to return to their country of citizenship due to unsafe circumstances like an armed conflict or natural disaster. TPS recipients can legally live and work in the U.S. and are immune from deportation.
Over the last several months, The Trump administration has terminated the program for citizens of El Salvador, Haiti, Nicaragua, and Sudan, collectively ending protections for over 250,000 people.
In the letter, the Harvard TPS Coalition—a group of workers who form part of some of Harvard’s campus unions—asked Faust to support the dozens of University affiliates with TPS by holding a press conference on the issue before Feb. 8. That day marks the deadline for Congress to revisit legislation touching on the fate of undocumented immigrants who have been granted the right stay in the United States through another temporary immigration status program, Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals.
The protesters also asked Faust to write a letter to Congress and President Donald Trump advocating for a path from TPS status to permanent residency for workers and their families. They also requested that Faust encourage other college presidents to take similar steps.
In asking for Faust’s advocacy, the workers’ letter emphasized the potential consequences of Trump’s recent TPS changes, which will likely affect dozens at Harvard.
“We will be targeted for violence and could even be killed if we return to what, for many of us, are unfamiliar countries. We are Americans who deserve permanent residency here in the United States,” the letter reads.
Members of the coalition posted the letter online to allow students and faculty to sign it. The letter had received nearly 200 signatures as of 11:45 a.m. on Wednesday, when demonstrators delivered to Faust.
Harvard University Dining Services employee Martha Bonilla, who attended the letter delivery, said she appreciates that the University has made resources like the Harvard Immigration and Refugee Clinical Program more accessible. But Bonilla said she believes the most effective change will occur when Faust provides a public statement about the TPS issue.
“We [workers] always thank [Faust] because we know in the past she made a statement about DACA, but she has not said anything about TPS,” Bonilla said. “And that’s why we’re asking President Faust to help us with the TPS problem by publicly saying she supports us.”
In response to a request for comment, University spokesperson Melodie L. Jackson pointed to an earlier statement she wrote on Harvard's behalf.
"We are deeply concerned about the administration's recent withdrawal of TPS for those from El Salvador, Haiti, Nicaragua, and Sudan and the impact it could have on members of the community," Jackson wrote in the statement. "Our colleagues play a vital role at Harvard and they add to our community in significant ways."
The letter also details the experiences of four Harvard workers from El Salvador, the country of origin for the largest group of TPS holders currently living in the United States. All four stories share common elements of uncertainty and fear.
“I’ve lived in the U.S. for 23 years and I always thought I had a chance at the ‘American Dream,’ but now I’m not sure,” Bonilla said. “I feel unsafe now because after Trump said there will be no more TPS, I worry about my family and other people with TPS.”
Salvadorans have until Sept. 2019 to find a way to legally remain in the U.S. or face deportation.
At the letter delivery Wednesday, Doris Landaverde, a Harvard staff member with TPS, said she fears the possibility of being deported back to her home country of El Salvador.
“I feel scared because if I have to go back, I won’t have a job, I don’t know how to support my kids, and I just don’t know how I’ll survive,” Landaverde said.
Harvard's Student Labor Action Movement—a group of undergraduates that advocates for workers’ rights—cosigned the letter and has been an active participant in the immigrant rights activism on campus.  Two faculty members also spoke at the letter delivery event to show support for TPS workers.
“We should not let this cruel and inhumane policy tear families and communities apart,” Mary C. Waters, a Sociology professor who studies immigration issues, told the crowd gathered outside Massachusetts Hall.
Kirsten A. Weld, a History professor, also spoke at the event.
“Workers are as much of a part of this community as professors and students; an attack on you is an attack on our community,” she said.
The Trump administration announced Wednesday it would allow the nearly 7,000 Syrians with TPS to retain their protections for another 18 months, though this group makes up a small fraction of the total TPS-holding population in the United States.
—Staff writer Sonia Kim can be reached at sonia.kim@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @soniakim211.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Harvard School of Public Health has joined 16 other schools in rejecting funds from the Foundation for a Smoke-Free World, an organization they say is too closely linked to the tobacco industry.
The Foundation for a Smoke-Free World, founded last September, is expected to receive almost $1 billion in funding over the next twelve years from Philip Morris International—the producer of Marlboro and other cigarette brands.
In a joint statement released last week, the deans of the 17 public health schools stated they would not accept funds from the foundation because of its “close association with an industry and a company whose products have killed millions of people around the world.” Dean of  the School of Public Health Michelle A. Williams, along with her counterparts at Johns Hopkins, Tulane, and other universities, signed the public statement.
Derek Yach, president of the Foundation for a Smoke-Free World, rebutted the deans’ statement, writing in an emailed statement that Philip Morris “has absolutely no involvement, influence or control over the Foundation."
Further defending the foundation’s autonomy, Yach wrote, “The Foundation’s bylaws, certificate of incorporation and funding agreement are unprecedentedly rigid and establish the Foundation as a completely independent organization.”
He also wrote that Philip Morris is “legally bound” to continue to fund the foundation over the course of the next decade, regardless of its research activities.
Karen Emmons, the dean for academic affairs at the School of Public Health, said the choice to avoid affiliation with the foundation is part of a Harvard policy—in place since 2002—of not accepting funds from the tobacco industry.
“It is completely antithetical to public health to support the industry,” Emmons said Tuesday.
Yach maintains, however, that the Foundation’s goals are in alignment with those of the schools of public health.
“It is disappointing, and a loss for smokers, that deans of some institutions have opted not to work with the Foundation in its efforts to end smoking,” he wrote. “We share the same goals: to improve public health and urgently advocate for more funding and better science to help millions of smokers reduce their risk of death and disease."
The schools of public health are not alone in distancing themselves from the organization. The World Health Organization also announced last year that it will not work with the foundation in its research efforts, citing Philip Morris’s efforts to prevent Uruguay from requiring graphic labels on tobacco products.
The Foundation for a Smoke-Free World responded to the World Health Organization in a letter disputing their claims. The foundation asked the WHO to remove relevant press releases from its website until "you have been able to complete proper due diligence on the Foundation.”
The American Cancer Society—like the WHO—took a dim view of Philip Morris's recent activities. The society said Philip Morris is “suing governments around the world” and “fighting every meaningful, evidence-based tobacco control effort” in its statement announcing it would not support the organization.
Emmons said she has similar concerns about Philip Morris.
“Although the foundation is set up saying it wants a smoke-free world, there are many other things that Philip Morris International in particular is doing that really go in the face of that,” she said.
The Foundation for a Smoke-Free World has not yet allocated funds to research institutions. After a public comment period last year, it plans to announce funding decisions in late February.
—Staff writer Luke W. Vrotsos can be reached at luke.vrotsos@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter at luke_vrotsos.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard’s Advanced Standing program, which allows students to graduate in three years or with a bachelor’s and master’s after four, is not particularly popular among students. But on the other side of the country at Stanford, nearly one in five students participate in a similar joint degree program.
Advanced Standing allows some Harvard College students who enter freshman year with high-level coursework to either graduate early or with multiple degrees. Stanford’s analogous program—known as coterminal degrees—permits students to earn both a bachelor’s and master’s in whatever time they deem necessary, so long as they earn 240 total credits. For some ambitious students, that means earning both degrees in as short a span as four years.
In order to petition for Advanced Standing at Harvard, students must enter the College with one full year of study under their belts, “documented by AP exams, an IB diploma, or other international credentials,” according to the Office of Undergraduate Education’s website. If approved, such students are granted 32 credits—the equivalent of one year of College coursework—on their transcripts, allowing them to move through the College in a shorter amount of time.
While Harvard does not publish the number of students pursuing Advanced Standing, Noël Bisson, associate dean of undergraduate education, previously said only a “tiny” amount of students choose to do so. According to Harvard’s online alumni directory, at least 40 students—a small fraction of the approximately 1600 total seniors—graduated from the College in 2017 with both a bachelor’s degree and a master’s degree.
At Stanford, though, around 20 percent of undergraduates pursue the coterminal program, according to James T. Campbell, a history professor and co-chair of a Stanford committee tasked with studying the undergraduate program.
Campbell said that, of the roughly one-fifth of undergraduates pursuing their bachelor’s and master’s concurrently, the majority are students who want to use a master’s degree to advance quickly in their field of study.
“I think it’s not by any means limited to—but most dramatic in—students who are doing engineering degrees or who are in other fields in which a master’s degree is a terminal degree or a practitioners degree,” Campbell said.
Stanford coterminal students said they appreciate the flexibility the degree program affords them, permitting participants to pursue all their interests over the course of many semesters.
“It’s this perfect buffer between graduating from undergrad and actually going into the real world,” Devangi Vivrekar, a Stanford student pursuing her coterminal degree, said. “It’s like buying some time to go a little deeper and address that feeling of ‘I wish I could take five more classes.'"
While Stanford students said they value the chance to deepen their coursework, some at Harvard say they worry Advanced Standing might cut short their time at the College, preventing them from exploring the full range of possible activities on campus.
Nike S. Izmaylov ’19, one student pursuing Advanced Standing at the College, said advisors encouraged her to think carefully about rushing her undergraduate degree.
“I receive a lot of cautionary things that some students take Advanced Standing because they think that ‘advanced’ is something that is inherently beneficial, that’s like proving themselves to be smart or something like that,” Izmaylov said.
Harvard is exploring a policy change that would make it more difficult for students to pursue Advanced Standing.
The Faculty of Arts and Sciences is debating a motion that would stop AP scores from counting for credit. While this would make eligibility for Advanced Standing universal, the changes would also make it impossible for students to pursue a bachelor’s degree in three years. Instead, undergraduates would only be able to earn a master’s degree in four.
Campbell said he finds the stated goal of some Stanford students—to complete their bachelor’s and master’s degrees as quickly as possible—“a little disturbing.”
“A lot of our students are now trying to pick up a coterm degree in the four years or maybe one extra quarter or two extra quarters,” he said. That would require cramming many credits into few semesters.
“Call me old fashioned, but I adhere to the belief that the purpose of college education is not simply a degree that you want to get as soon as possible, but is also an experience,” he said. “It’s living in a particular town or community—a formative period in one’s life.”
Campbell added that, though many coterminal students have valid reasons for pursuing concurrent degrees, he worries others may be doing so out of misplaced ambition.
“I often look at the mill that we put you through to get into schools like this and I think you deserve an apology from my generation,” he said. “What you have done is become these kinds of phenomenal multi-taskers, and I’d think a lot of people have a really hard time turning it off.”
—Staff writer Idil Tuysuzoglu can be reached at idil.tuysuzoglu@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter at @IdilTuysuzoglu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Cambridge City Council adopted a policy order to explore funding options for a Business Improvement District in Central Square at a meeting Monday.
The council voted unanimously for the feasibility study on a Central Square improvement district with the exception of Councillor Craig Kelley, who was absent from the meeting.
To fund an improvement district, businesses in the area typically pay an increased tax, which goes towards projects that promote a cleaner and safer environment.
“The menu of services provided by BIDs vary, but generally include some combination of sanitation, security, capital improvements, neighborhood promotion, and business attraction,” said Michael Monestime, the executive director of the Central Square Business Association.
Monestime also said improvement districts can enrich a neighborhood through initiatives for “cultural placemaking” and “support for the arts.” But, according to Monestime, the process to create an improvement district can take many months and even years.
The City of Cambridge has studied the possibility of an improvement district in Central Square before.
In Dec. 2011, the Mayor’s Red Ribbon Commission, which focuses on Central Square’s social and economic development, recommended a Central Square improvement district. More recently, in Aug. 2017, a city-commissioned retail strategic plan also cited the benefits of such a district.
Councillor Alanna M. Mallon urged the city of Cambridge to begin the process of establishing an improvement district at the meeting. She proposed starting with the state's recommendation of a feasibility report.
“It’s definitely a thing that can unlock the potential in Central Square for the businesses there, but it’s become really clear that there’s this critical step between a recommendation and it actually happening, and that is the city really stepping forward to help fund a feasibility study,” Mallon said.
Submitted by Councillors Mallon and E. Denise Simmons, and Mayor Marc C. McGovern, the policy order would explore whether or not the conditions of Central Square are right for a business improvement district.
“It’s great to see that the city of Cambridge as a partner to its business districts is supportive,” Monestime said. “Again they just voted on a feasibility study, so there’s nothing set in stone.”
The formation of an improvement district in Central Square is still in its early stages, but the next steps would include focusing on a campaign and communication strategy, Monestime said. He said he hopes to hear from the residents, property owners, and businesses as the proposal for a business improvement district moves forward.
Mallon emphasized the importance of finding the right solutions for Cambridge. She said a study for Central Square would have to fit the neighborhood’s specific needs.
“This is the seat of our government. This is the entryway to Cambridge for a lot of people that are coming here. It’s a really important square and I think it deserves the care and attention of the entire city council,” Mallon said.
—Staff writer Patricia J. Liu can be reached at patricia.liu@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard Management Company’s real estate team officially became part of Boston-based private equity firm Bain Capital Thursday, finalizing a move months in the making.
Harvard’s 22-person real estate team, led by Daniel W. Cummings, will continue managing the University’s more than $3.4 billion portfolio—but as Bain employees. The group may incorporate portfolios for other investors, the Boston Globe reported in December.
HMC CEO N.P. “Narv” Narvekar first announced that he expected the real estate group would spin out to an external manager in a Jan. 2017 letter sent to Harvard affiliates. The merger with Bain was anticipated for weeks before Bain Capital officially announced the move in December.
Harvard’s real estate team has performed well in the past. In his September letter, Narvekar cited real estate returns as a source of endowment growth. In fiscal year 2016, real estate saw 13.8 percent returns on investment, while the overall endowment shrunk. At the time, real estate comprised 14.5 percent of the endowment.
The NACUBO-Commonfund Report on U.S. college and university endowments, released last week, found average private equity real estate returns for 2017 of 7.3 percent compared to average endowment returns of 12.2 percent for the 809 institutions surveyed. Harvard trailed the national average with 8.1 percent returns overall.
Since Narvekar took over as CEO of HMC in Dec. 2016, outsourcing funds to external managers has become a mainstay of his strategy to restructure the endowment—last January, Narvekar announced he planned to lay off nearly half of HMC’s staff. Several hedge funds have spun off this fiscal year.
Experts told The Crimson when the Bain spin-off debuted in December that the move was emblematic of Narvekar’s strategy. Analysts also suggested the spin-off would benefit all parties.
Charles A. Skorina, the leader of a financial executive search firm, said the move could allow Harvard’s team to work better and help Bain invest in real estate.
“I think it is an excellent move, just brilliant,” Skorina said. “I think this is a win-win—this is good for the school, for Harvard Management Company, and for Bain.”
—Staff writer Eli W. Burnes can be reached at eli.burnes@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Cambridge Planning Board asked a real estate development firm to modify plans to build a pedestrian shopping center in Harvard Square between JFK Street and Brattle Street at a public hearing Wednesday.  The Board asked the firm, Regency Centers Corporation, to submit a new proposal that addresses concerns over the commercial development’s design and use.
The decision is the latest development in Jacksonville, Fla.-based Regency Centers’ ongoing bid to gain approval for the proposed mall that would encompass three historic buildings at 1-7, 9-11 JFK Street, and 18 Brattle Street.  Regency’s current plans call for demolishing the Corcoran building—currently home to Urban Outfitters and Tealuxe—and building a four-story replacement.
Board members said they are concerned Regency’s plans for construction mitigation may not sufficiently integrate the mall with the rest of Harvard Square.
“I think there are some design elements that need to be worked on here but, overall, I am supportive of the types of relief that are being requested,” Catherine P. Connolly, the Board’s vice chair said.  “I think that the project as a whole looks like it is going to ultimately make this block look really well together.”
Preliminary plans earned the approval of the Cambridge Historical Commission in Aug. 2017.  Once they receive clearance from the Planning Board, the authors of the proposal will return to the Historical Commission for further discussions on building materials and design.
Sam Stiebel, the vice president of investments at Regency Centers, said he believed his firm’s final plans would contribute to the surrounding neighborhood.
“We support a vital and vibrant Harvard Square,” Stiebel said at the hearing.
The proposed mall will have a height of 65.5 feet, over the city limit of 60 feet that requires a special permits for exemptions, according to James J. Rafferty, an attorney for Regency Centers. Rafferty said he believes additional height will have a limited impact on the Square in terms of aesthetics and shadow.
“We think we’ve come up with a profile and footprint that really mitigates the impact of the building,” he said.
Some city residents, though, said they were unconvinced by Regency’s assurances.
Cambridge resident James Williamson said he disagreed with idea that there is a need for a large commercial space in Harvard Square.
“I don’t see where there’s been a demonstrated need for more density in Harvard square that would justify a penthouse space on top of this, well, adjacent to the rooftop of this historic building,” Williamson said.
Resident Peter B. Kroon submitted a zoning petition to the city council in Sept. 2017 that aimed to restrict the size and type of stores in Harvard Square. Iram Farooq, Cambridge’s assistant city manager for community development, said he thinks the Kroon petition, which would affect the Regency proposal, will “most likely” expire before it comes to a vote and will need to be resubmitted.
Denise A. Jillson, the executive director of the Harvard Square Business Association, said she believed Regency would address many of the design concerns raised by residents in their modified proposal.
“I think the architect could come back with something that the planning board says, ‘we could come back in fifty years and say this is worth protecting,’” Jillson said.
—Staff writer Henry W. Burnes can be reached at henry.burnes@thecrimson.com.
—Staff writer Franklin R. Civantos can be reached at frank.civantos@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Armed with call sheets and cell phones, students convened in the Phillips Brooks House to call Massachusetts residents to garner support for the Safe Communities Act Wednesday afternoon.
The Safe Communities Act is a piece of Massachusetts legislation that aims to offer more legal protections for immigrants in the commonwealth.
One protection granted by the Safe Communities Act would include a requirement that U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement present a warrant in order to arrest a person. Another protection would decree that immigrant detainees must be informed of their rights in a language they understand.
Campus activist groups Act on a Dream, Harvard College Democrats, Harvard College Progressive Jewish Alliance, Harvard Student Labor Action Movement, Harvard Graduate Students Union-United Auto Workers, and the Phillips Brooks House Association sponsored Wednesday's phone bank.
The phone banking event formed part of a larger organized effort that took place across Massachusetts, led by the American Civil Liberties Union.
Sponsors of the Safe Community Act include Massachusetts State Senator James B. Eldridge and Massachusetts State Representative Juana Matías. More than 100 organizations have endorsed the legislation to date.
While some students at the event said they were first-time phone bankers, others said they had participated in previous efforts to support the bill. Hank R. Sparks ’21 joined the Harvard College Democrats in advocating for the Safe Communities Act as part of their Lobby Day in December.
“It’s been really disheartening for me to see the number of deportations in New England skyrocket, to see Trump tear families apart,” Sparks said. “I think the Safe Communities Act ensures that Massachusetts isn’t a part of that, and that’s really important to me.”
Noah R. Wagner ’18, one of the organizers of the phone bank, said that many students became involved in the effort to support the Safe Communities Act out of concern for how ICE has treated immigrants in recent months.
“We’re very concerned that ICE has been creating an atmosphere of fear, forcing people into the shadows, and participating in all sorts of activities that are really, really damaging to communities all around the country,” Wagner said.
According to the ACLU, the Safe Communities Act faces a deadline of Feb. 7 to move through the Massachusetts State Joint Committee on Public Safety and Homeland Security.
“Immigrants in our community can’t wait any longer,” Wagner said.
—Staff writer Molly C. McCafferty can be reached at molly.mccafferty@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter at @mollmccaff.
—Staff writer Simone C. Chu can be reached at simone.chu@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter at @simonechu_.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Harvard men’s basketball team will again embark on an extended bus ride this weekend, trekking to the Empire State to take on Columbia Friday night and Cornell Saturday night. Although Princeton-Penn weekend looms ahead in two weeks, the Crimson (9-10, 4-0 Ivy) must place its sole attention on returning back to Cambridge with its conference unbeaten streak untouched.
Although the Lions (4-13, 1-3) and Big Red (7-10, 1-3) have done little to stir the Ancient Eight pot beside split its own series, a quick glimpse of recent Ivy League results indicates the unpredictability of the conference season to date. Two teams who finished with losing conference records last season—Penn and Brown—have respectively earned victories against conference stalwarts Princeton and Yale this season.
With that said, both Columbia and Cornell encountered massive difficulties in each of their prior contests against Princeton, a likely Harvard challenger for the Ivy title. The Lions were blown out by 16 on January 12 against the Tigers, while the Big Red crumbled to a disastrous 37-point loss a day later in New Jersey.
The Crimson, nevertheless, will be fully prepared for a wide spectrum of possibilities. Coach Tommy Amaker has worked extensively in practice on finishing tight late-game situations, something several players have attributed to their own maturation process.
“We do five-minute overtime [drills] pretty often in practice,” sophomore forward Seth Towns said. “Throwing us into a game or any really close game...I think we are ready.”
Unlike Harvard’s lead group of sophomores, Columbia’s core rotation this season consists of a more diverse age pool. Three of its four leading team scorers are upperclassmen, while first year classmates Jaron Faulds, Myles Hanson, and Gabe Stefanini have combined for 233 total points this season.
This balanced distribution in scoring was critical in the two prior games against Cornell this year. Sophomore guard Mike Smith, who leads the team in scoring with 17.3 points per game, struggled from the field in both games and was held to single-digit scoring. The three aforementioned upperclassmen—juniors Quinton Adlesh and Lukas Meisner as well as senior guard Nate Hickman—were instrumental in both contests, combining for 47 points in the Lions victory and 29 points in its one-point defeat.
Smith’s recent cold streak should not discredit his ability to place the team on his shoulders, particularly against higher-ranked opponents. Smith scored 25 points on December 12th  against Boston College and a month later matched a season-high 27 against the Quakers.
The quick and well-built 5’11” point guard will be a radically different matchup for the Harvard backcourt compared to the long and lanky Brown guards last weekend. Regardless, Amaker expressed increased confidence in the defensive performance from his guards and lauded in particular the recent play of sophomore point guard Christian Juzang.
“I think he’s led us in ways that won’t necessarily show up in the stat sheet, but he’s been a catalyst for us defensively,” Amaker said of Juzang. “You’ve seen us extend our defense a little bit more in each one of these games where we’ve been able to pick up the floor and Christian being that guy your defense is energized by.”
The Harvard backcourt will need to maintain its defensive energy the following night against the Big Red, who are similarly led by a workhorse point guard. Junior Matt Morgan currently leads the Ivies in scoring with 23.6 points per game off .502 shooting from the field. Remarkably, both Smith and Morgan have attempted 261 field goals so far this season. The Cornell point guard, however, is more accurate and reliant upon his three-point shot, attempting a three about every other time he shoots and converting 40.3 percent of the time.
Morgan also scored over 20 points in both Columbia games and will evidently be coming into the Crimson matchup with enormous confidence. Again, proper defensive switching and attention to detail is an area that will determine how much the Big Red scorer can be kept at bay.
“Be willing to help our teammates,” sophomore wing Corey Johnson said. “Be willing to hold yourself in line and take a charge, be willing to make rotations, close out. Basically it takes a whole team effort, not just one individual on the court.”
Another key narrative this weekend will be the re-integration of sophomore point guard Bryce Aiken, who saw consecutive games of double-digit minutes last weekend. Despite a scare late against the Bears last Saturday when it appeared as if Aiken re-injured his left knee, the team’s leading scorer said postgame that the knee was “alright”.
For Amaker, easing Bryce back in will be more imperative than rushing him back into the starting lineup.
“I haven’t really gotten to the point of Bryce starting again, we’re just trying to increase his time on the court,” Amaker said. “We’ve done it the past two games and hopefully it can continue to trend in that direction where he’s playing more minutes and being more comfortable and confident in doing so.”
This weekend will likely be one decided by guard play on both sides. For Harvard, continued aggressiveness from Aiken on offense and the tone-setting of Juzang’s defense will be critical to halter the Smith-Morgan combo.
—Staff writer Henry Zhu can be reached at henry.zhu@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @zhuhen88
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
