News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
An eternal masquerade, a romantic escape, and a nightmare. A musical of shadows and fear, but also intrigue. This is the world of “The Phantom of the Opera.”
2018 marks the 30th anniversary of the Broadway (as opposed to 1986 West End premiere) debut of Andrew Lloyd Webber’s gothic romance, “The Phantom of the Opera,” based on the eponymous novel by Gaston Leroux. It follows orphan Christine Daaé, who rises as a star singer of the Opera Populaire under the tutelage of a mysterious “Angel of Music.” This Angel, also known as the Phantom, is an incredibly gifted musician equally cursed with deformity. In the gothic tradition of “The Hunchback of Notre Dame,” the Phantom seeks redemption through Christine, who becomes torn between her shadowy benefactor and her handsome lover Raoul.
Before Webber even conceived of the story as a musical, others retold the “The Phantom of the Opera” numerous times through film, theater production, and television. Yet of all the images of the ghostly mentor presented throughout the past century, the incarnation we remember most vividly is the half-masked, sensuous, embittered Michael Crawford, the original West End and Broadway actor. But what sets Crawford and Webber’s creation apart from any other antihero?
Despite its melodramatic tropes—the subterranean chambers, the masquerade ball, and the infamous chandelier—“Phantom” engenders a bevy of emotions that captivates and intrigues the audience. The songs may suffer from trite expressions, like “Say the word and I will follow you,” yet the music uses these superfluities to emotionally affect the listener. Though the title character is a monster of depravity, we love him and sympathize with his struggles for acceptance. When he sings, “Close your eyes, and let music set you free,” we can feel his longing to escape the cruelty and bigotry of those who look down on him. Likewise, when Christine sings “Wishing You Were Somehow Here Again,” she evokes mourning not only for her father, but also for innocence and naiveté.
To the casual viewer, Christine Daaé appears like the stock damsel in distress. She does not fight and does not challenge the stereotypes of her gender or her station, nor is her rise to fame accomplished through any initiative of her own. Her relationships with men define her. Having said this, it is within this frame of apparent weakness that Christine’s greatest strengths shine through. She reaches out to others, because she knows the pain of isolation.
The Phantom seeks redemption through power and secrecy, but his desire for acknowledgement causes the loss of his humanity. His thirst for revenge and his own artistic genius conflict and converge onto Christine, desiring both her love and her voice. During the climax, the Phantom holds Raoul hostage in exchange for Christine’s eternal servitude. She does not refuse nor does she scorn the hideous man. She sees through the Phantom’s games and gives him the compassion that he has sought all along. Confronted with his own vulnerability, the Angel suddenly releases the couple and withdraws. Music does not conquer and the Phantom remains a shadow, while Christine and Raoul return to their happy lives above. Realism trumps fantasy.
In 2006, Webber decided that this ending was unsatisfactory, and so he penned a sequel, “Love Never Dies,” a version in which Christine realizes that the real world is unfulfilling and reconciles once again with the Phantom. While certainly deserving of merit, “Love Never Dies” overturns a fundamental truth of Webber’s original gothic vision: The most beautiful dreams are transient by necessity. The man most deserving of praise must also be the most despicable, and the woman who has so much to give must have so much of her own taken away.
The truth may not be what we want to hear, but the “Music of the Night” is strictly forbidden.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Charcoal smoke billowed into the kitchen, making my grandmother nervous. She fussed about the room, alternating between shooting a disdainful glare to the bombeiros, the firefighters she’ll never meet, and dousing holy water on the numerous and (presumably) already holy figurines and rosaries of Nossa Senhora de Fátima decorating the room. She looked out the window, probably thinking of the farm nestled near the heart of the fires. Her fingers quaked with worry. She needed a distraction, needed something to do with her hands.
Outside of my grandmother’s home, the world was licked in flames—or so it seemed. A recent drought had turned her teensy Portuguese town of 700 into a hotbed of kindling. Nearby cities had already been consumed by forest fires earlier in the summer, and many had lost their personal possessions and homes. Looking outside the window, it seemed as though her town and her home were next.
To distract her, I asked her to do something menial instead—to sit down at the kitchen table and write out her name in the book I was reading. With a practiced hand, she pulled out a scribbled card from her wallet and traced the inked roadmap of loops and curves that someone else’s hand had already traveled, copying her name into the latest book I was reading. She squinted, adjusting her glasses so that the freckles bridging her nose danced a bit larger behind the glass. When she finished, she inspected it, moving it both closer and farther away from her face. There, she says to me in Portuguese, satisfied, handing me the pen. Here you go.
“Obrigada Avó”—Portuguese for “Thank you, Grandma.” I thanked her and took her hand, squeezing it tight.
I knew she didn’t know how to read or write. I knew that she was pulled out of school young to help tend to the family lands. I even knew that this was the same fate that befell her husband and my Puerto Rican grandparents as well, capping their collective traditional educational experiences at the eighth grade level. I knew all of this before she picked up the pen.
So when my grandmother spelled her own name wrong, I was surprised by how much I was surprised.
Through the window we could see her neighbors lining up in the alleys between their homes, looking over miles of orange-tiled roofs and slopes of green towards a sooty blob morphing in the horizon. A yellow helicopter whirred around the fire, trying to squelch the flames; nevertheless, the smoke persisted. Ash collected on the sill. The air felt heavy. So did the book in my hands, inscribed by one Maria Madalera Marqres Perlira—someone whom I’d never met before.
My grandmother, who was both this stranger and not, got up from the table. She began to pace around her kitchen. A frame of the first picture her family took when they immigrated to America in 1975 hung over the door. To the right were her cabinets, filled with coffee cups and china we inexplicably never touched. The stairs leading out of the room were wainscot in faces, family members stretching from Portugal to the U.S. and back weaving their way around the walls of the house. Upstairs, the couches sat pretty and untouched, hanging under an old-timey chandelier. Nearby, a LusoAmericano article about my acceptance to Harvard was tacked to the wall. She’s never read it, but velhinhas I’ve never met recognize me out on the street all the same.
She was surrounded in her home by 70 years of things she bought and worked for without ever learning how to read. Without ever needing to know how to read.
Maybe I was was caught off guard because my life is nothing without words. I’ve spent my life trying to string together what I thought it meant to be successful, try and hold it in my hands, feel its weight and how it reflects in the light. To me, success was bottled inside a pen: I saw myself smoldered onto the page, sculpted in shades of blue and black ink that attempted to trace the silhouette of who I was. Trying to picture myself without words was foggy, almost impossible. But to her, words were ornamental. She held life with both hands, felt its vibrancy through her rosaries, the grape vines in her farm, the photos of her family in her home that reflected in her glasses wherever she went. She didn’t need to read or write down her legacy to feel it rooted within her.
As I watched her fret around her kitchen, holding a book too atheistic and too pretentious for a room veiled in holy water, the thought dawned on me: I could never share this with her. I couldn’t show her how a lilt in a sentence made my heart swoon, or explain why a piece of paper could make me giddy or grimace. I couldn’t articulate how putting pen to paper made life all the more tangible. To her, these pages meant nothing.
The view past them, however, was everything. She drifted back to the window, waiting for the forest fire to drop itself at her doorstep and swallow her legacy whole.
After a while, the whirring of helicopter blades outside subsided. The bombeiros must have put  out the fire. Soot clung to the tiles on the facade of her house. Her neighbors went back into their own homes, closed their doors but left their curtains drawn so they’d see when the sky opened up again. My grandmother, restless with worry, wandered back over to me.
She needed to find something to do with her hands. Absentmindedly, she picked up my book, flipped through the pages, and just as quickly decided to put it down. She settled instead on cutting some chouriço and queijo, creating a dish sans recipe; her family was coming home for dinner soon.
Putting away my book, I began to help her. I turned on the stove and a fire sparked to life, the flames dancing under a pot as I watched her put together a meal from memory, never needing to read how much was just right.
—Associate Editorial Editor Jessenia Class can be reached at jessenia.class@thecrimson.com.
Sections
UPDATED: March 8, 2018 at 5:55 a.m.
It all started on a public bus in Miami last October. Natalie B. Ornell, a Braintree resident, spotted a black-and-white oval sticker decal inscribed with the words, “Seat dedicated in honor of Rosa Parks, 1913-2005” in English, Spanish, and Haitian Creole.
Ornell was moved by the tribute. She never expected to see a dedication to Rosa Parks on a public bus. After returning home from vacation, Ornell got straight to work contacting local officials to bring the idea to Boston. Her hard work paid off—State Senator Walter F. Timilty called her and told her he would propose a bill.
To Ornell, honoring Rosa Parks isn’t just about celebrating Parks’ brave actions that ignited the Montgomery Bus Boycott. She says it’s about what Rosa Parks, as an American civil rights leader, represents to Boston and to continuing struggles for justice. Ornell has resided in the Boston area since first grade and attended Braintree Public Schools and a private Cambridge high school. But looking back, she feels as though she missed a core part of her historical education.
In the 1970s, Boston attempted to desegregate schools through busing. This effort resulted in widespread violence and conflict. Louise Day Hicks, an infamous Boston politician, was ardently opposed to the desegregation effort.  But Ornell never heard about any of this history in her classrooms.
“We never talked about the fact that white kids were throwing rocks at black kids as they were getting off the bus,” she says. “Why wasn’t I ever taught that?”
According to Ornell, “history was being erased.” But she believes that Boston is still a very segregated place, and that it needs to reconcile its past with its present. “I think it’s healthy to bring all that [history] into the open for people to confront it.”
And that’s exactly what she hopes the sticker decal will do.
“The Boston Globe just did a whole series about how Boston has been talked about as one of the most racist cities in the United States. It’s not a welcoming, comfortable environment for people of color,” Ornell says of The Globe’s seven-part Spotlight Team series titled “Boston. Racism. Image. Reality.”
The series highlights the city’s history of racism and its effects on present-day segregation, health disparities, and representation. Ornell says it seemed that while the series’ conclusions were shocking to white residents, they weren’t new revelations for people of color in Boston. Ornell sees this as evidence of how far the city must go in terms of racial process. She says there must be “a reconciliation… where we start addressing these issues more.”
Ultimately, she hopes that amplifying Rosa Parks’ history in Boston will also be a part of an awareness-raising movement for other, lesser-known civil rights activists like Claudette Colvin—who, at 15, was arrested for similarly refusing to give up her seat.
She also believes that prominent women are often less celebrated than their male counterparts, especially African-American women. She hopes that these decals will help bring much-deserved recognition to Parks. “How many people are willing to be arrested for what they believe in, to risk their lives like she did?” she asks.
Ornell’s interest and passion for social justice is reflected in her work outside of this initiative as well. She is currently a grant writer at the Asian American Civic Association, a 51-year-old nonprofit in Chinatown that provides immigration, job training, and social services. “The clients that we serve have definitely faced a lot of discrimination in the workplace,” she says. “That’s an important part of our role—at the AACA—to acknowledge that.”
Ornell studied East Asian Studies at Wellesley before continuing her studies at UC Berkeley for a Master’s degree. She went on to work as a journalist: first at The Patriot Ledger in Quincy, then at Sampan, the only bilingual Chinese-English newspaper in New England. Through these experiences, Ornell realized the significance of diverse representation in media. She noticed how diversity can be instrumental in dictating coverage, and how marginalized communities can be inadvertently ignored.
Before her Rosa Parks advocacy efforts, Ornell participated in a program at the Massachusetts Statehouse called the Commonwealth Seminar, which gave legislative and political training to community leaders of color and immigrant groups. Inspired from this training, she says that the opportunity to implement change with the decal initiative—her first legislative advocacy project—created the perfect storm: “It just all came together—‘I should do something.’”
Notably, the new bill, SD.2460, currently only provides for the decal’s display in February. However, State Senator Timilty has told Ornell that the bill will be amended to be a permanent measure as she intended. Ornell believes this is crucial: “We can’t erase people from the rest of the year.”
On February 5th, 2018, the Cambridge City Council voted unanimously to adopt a policy order in support of the state legislation. Ornell wants to keep up the momentum—she currently has received 12 letters of support from Boston city councillors and other Massachusetts public officials including Braintree Mayor Joseph C. Sullivan, Quincy Mayor Thomas P. Koch, and U.S. Congressman Michael E. Capuano. She has also received approval from the NAACP Boston Branch, the Rosa and Raymond Parks Institute for Self Development, and State Representative Russell Holmes. Her petition has almost 200 signatures.
While a date is still pending, there will likely be a public hearing for the initiative at the Statehouse within the next few weeks. Until the hearing, Ornell hopes to continue collecting letters of support and finding people who will testify favorably at the hearing. She also plans on holding a public school art contest to collect potential decal designs.
When asked what she would say to those who want to take on grassroots efforts like her own, Ornell says, “If you find something you really believe in, then I believe you can make it happen… you just have to be really persistent… be patient and keep trying.”
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction:
CORRECTION: March 8, 2018
A previous version of this article incorrectly indicated the name of the Mass. State Senator mentioned in this article as James E. Timilty. In fact, his name is Walter F. Timilty.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
UPDATED: March 3, 10:38 p.m.
Government concentrators—some in tears—said they were frustrated and upset by alleged sexual harassment perpetrated by Government professor Jorge I. Dominguez at a department-wide meeting held Friday.
The meeting followed a Feb. 27 article published in The Chronicle of Higher Education that reported at  least 10 women are accusing Dominguez of various acts of sexual harassment perpetrated over the past 30 years. Government department chair Jennifer L. Hochschild sent an email to concentrators Thursday inviting them to the Friday meeting talk about the allegations and the “general climate” of the Government department regarding gender and harassment issues.
Junior faculty member Terry Karl alleged that Dominguez, chair of the Harvard Academy for International and Area Studies, made sexual advances to her over the course of two years starting in 1981, according to the Chronicle. Karl told the Chronicle she had repeatedly asked him to stop and had informed multiple Harvard administrators about his behavior. Other women told the Chronicle Dominguez had sexually harassed them around the same time and in years since.
Elena D. Sokoloski ’18, a Government concentrator who attended the meeting, said she started the social media campaign “#DominguezMustGo” in response to reading about allegations against Dominguez. Sokoloski said she believes Dominguez should be fired.
 
“Ideally, he would be removed,” Sokloski said.
Another attendee, Carla E. Troconis ’19, said that she felt like she had no choice but to study under Dominguez because he’s one of only three professors specializing in Latin American studies within the Government department.
“It can’t be a reality that someone like this would be allowed around students, somebody to be admired,” she said.
Dominguez declined to comment via a spokesperson.
The University placed sanctions on Dominguez in 1983, barring him from administrative duties.  But Dominguez has since remained active as a professor in the Government department and has held numerous leadership roles since the 1980s, such as vice provost for international affairs.
Senior faculty members and administrators, including Hochschild, Dean of Social Sciences Claudine Gay, Dean for Faculty Affairs and Planning Nina Zipser, and Dean of Undergraduate Education Jay M. Harris came to the Friday meeting to update students and answer questions.
In an interview before the event, Hochschild said the department was hosting the event in order to answer questions that students may have and give them a chance to talk to faculty and administrators.
“I think most of the meeting ought to be letting students ask questions, tell us things, express outrage, express support if they want to, say whatever they want,” Hochschild said.
Associate Dean for Faculty Affairs Kwok W. Yu and College Title IX Coordinator Emily J. Miller also attended the meeting to inform students of the University’s Title IX policies.
The first student to speak, Emily E. Bergquist ’18, said she and other Government concentrators chose to organize a protest after hearing about the meeting. Bergquist and several other attendees wore black during the event in honor of the “Time’s Up” movement, started Jan. 2018 by Hollywood celebrities in response to a wave of sexual assault and harassment allegations sweeping the entertainment industry.
Multiple students asked faculty members present at the meeting why the University has not taken any public disciplinary action against Dominguez since the 1983 sanctions.
Though administrators have not commented on whether they will take official action in the wake of the Chronicle article, Leverett House Faculty Dean Howard M. Georgi ’68 wrote in an email to Leverett residents that he and Faculty Dean Ann B. Georgi had revoked Dominguez’s membership to the Leverett Senior Common Room. The Georgis also wrote they were previously unaware of allegations against Dominguez.
“Whatever the legal definition, sexual harassment is a crime, an unconscionable theft of dignity that poisons our relationships and our institutions,” Howard Georgi wrote.
University spokesperson Anna Cowenhoven wrote in an emailed statement Friday that Harvard is committed to creating an “environment that values the dignity and well-being” of all school affiliates.
“We take seriously the concerns about Prof. Dominguez’s conduct that were recently brought forward by former students,” Cowenhoven wrote. “Upon learning of them prior to the Chronicle’s story, the Faculty of Arts and Sciences (FAS) immediately began reaching out to students and post-docs who have worked closely with Prof. Dominguez to ask about their experiences.”
At the meeting Friday, students recounted the personal toll allegations against Dominguez had taken on their studies. Troconis spoke about a class she took last fall taught by the professor.
Troconis said her mother called her last semester when she found out about the previously reported 1983 allegations against Dominguez—not the new allegations reported by the Chronicle—in the middle of class.
“I mean, my mother knew. And in the middle of the class, she expressed concern, but I couldn’t drop the class,” Troconis said, because she needed the class for her program of study.
Sara S. Fellman ’18 said that while the event Friday answered some of her questions, she wants to see the University take more definite action.
“I think we were hoping to get a commitment to action on the power dynamics, to prevent this from happening again in the Government department, and at Harvard,” Fellman said.
Because Dominguez is a tenured professor, the Government department does not have the power to remove him. A copy of Harvard statutes revised in 2004 states that only the Harvard Corporation, the University’s highest governing body, can dismiss a permanently appointed faculty member for “grave misconduct or neglect of duty.”
—Staff writer Angela N. Fu can be reached at angela.fu@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @angelanfu.
—Staff writer Lucy Wang can be reached at lucy.wang@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @lucyyloo22.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard is asking undergraduate and graduate students who have experienced “inappropriate behavior” to come forward following new sexual misconduct allegations against Government Professor Jorge I. Dominguez, whom administrators disciplined for similar actions in the 1980s.
The University’s request comes three days after the Chronicle of Higher Education reported that at least 10 women are accusing Dominguez of various acts of sexual harassment over the past 30 years. Many of the allegations had not been previously reported.
In an email to University affiliates Friday afternoon, University Provost Alan M. Garber ’77 directly referenced the Chronicle of Higher Education article and wrote that this is “a difficult moment for our community.”
“It was heartbreaking to read the accounts of former students and faculty who report having suffered inappropriate and unwelcome behavior,” Garber wrote. “Harvard takes seriously the concerns recently brought to our attention by former students.”
Faculty of Arts and Sciences spokesperson Anna Cowenhoven wrote in an emailed statement to The Crimson Friday that the University is actively seeking the stories of Harvard affiliates who have interacted with Dominguez.
“Upon learning of [the allegations] prior to the Chronicle’s story, the Faculty of Arts and Sciences (FAS) immediately began reaching out to students and post-docs who have worked closely with Prof. Dominguez to ask about their experiences,” Cowenhoven wrote.
“We encourage any member of our community who has experienced inappropriate behavior to come forward,” she added.
Harvard’s central administration also called on affiliates with concerns to contact administrators who work on Title IX issues across the University.
“We encourage any member of the Harvard community who has been directly impacted by conduct that may be in violation of Harvard’s Sexual and Gender-Based Harassment Policy to reach out to their local Title IX Coordinator, the University Title IX Office, and/or the Office for Dispute Resolution,” spokesperson Melodie L. Jackson wrote in a statement Friday.
She also wrote Harvard reviews all concerns to determine cases where administrators find that alleged actions have contributed to a “hostile environment.”
In his email, Garber acknowledged that students and faculty can sometimes be afraid to speak out because they fear negative ramifications for their academic career. He wrote the University is working to create an atmosphere in which people who have experienced sexual harassment feel comfortable coming forward.
“The only way to create and sustain a safe and healthy educational and work environment is to work constantly to improve, refine, and strengthen how we respond to—and prevent—sexual or gender-based harassment, including sexual assault,” he wrote.
Garber also affirmed the University’s commitment to investigating allegations of sexual harassment when Harvard affiliates do speak up.
“I want to say unequivocally that Harvard is committed to creating and sustaining a safe, healthy and non-discriminatory educational and work environment for our community, and we can and will promptly and fairly pursue any claim of sexual harassment or assault brought forward to the full extent of our policies,” he wrote. “We are grateful to the members of our community who make the courageous decision to come forward.”
Garber pointed to the University’s sexual and gender-based harassment policy and procedures that allow any Harvard affiliate—current or former—to file formal complaints, request resolutions, and access resources meant to help them continue their academic program at the University after experiencing harassment. Garber noted that resources available to Harvard affiliates include counseling and mental health services as well as chaplains.
One of Dominguez’s accusers, Nienke C. Grossman ’99, told The Chronicle of Higher Education she contacted the University Title IX Office in Nov. 2017. Jackson confirmed Friday that Grossman had reached out to Harvard’s Title IX administrators.
Dominguez, a Latin American specialist who has taught at Harvard for decades, held posts as the vice provost for International Affairs from 2006 to 2015 and the director of the Weatherhead Center for International Affairs from 1995 to 2006. He has also overseen graduate dissertations and taught undergraduate courses throughout his decades-long tenure at Harvard.
Most recently, Dominguez—who is on sabbatical this semester—taught a freshman seminar in fall 2017 entitled “Mexico: Revolution, Authoritarianism, and Democracy: 100 Years.”
Administrators formally disciplined Dominguez for sexual misconduct toward Karl in the 1980s, when he stepped down from his post as chairman of an interdisciplinary Latin American studies committee.
The Chronicle of Higher Ed article detailed Karl’s allegations, in addition to making public the allegations of nine other women. These include several graduate students at Harvard from the mid-2000s, during the time Dominguez was serving as Vice Provost for International Affairs.
The Government department held a meeting for undergraduate concentrators Friday afternoon to address the article and discuss concerns about gender and sexual harassment issues in the department. At the event, some students called for Dominguez’s removal.
Leon H. Kesten, a lawyer representing Dominguez, declined to comment on the allegations against his client in an emailed statement Friday.
The allegations against Dominguez come as women in professions across the country have begun to air allegations of sexual harassment against men in positions of power, beginning with film producer Harvey Weinstein. University President Drew G. Faust wrote in a community message in Dec. 2017 that Harvard is working to ensure people feel comfortable seeking assistance in cases of sexual harassment.
“At Harvard, we are committed to ensuring that every member of our community can thrive, and we are endeavoring to create the kind of environment in which incidents are prevented entirely or surfaced and addressed appropriately and effectively,” Faust wrote.
—Staff writer Jamie D. Halper can be reached at jamie.halper@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @jamiedhalper.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Sometimes the third time really is the charm. It took double overtime, but the Harvard men’s basketball team was able to top Cornell, 98-88, on Friday night at Lavietes Pavilion. With the Crimson’s win and Penn’s loss at Yale, Harvard (16-12, 11-2 Ivy League) will have the opportunity to secure the Ivy League’s regular season title and the top seed in next weekend’s conference tournament with a win over Columbia on Saturday night. The Big Red (11-15, 5-8) will need to beat Dartmouth tomorrow and have Columbia and Princeton both lose to live to see another weekend. It was the Crimson’s first double-overtime game since December of 2014 and the first at Lavietes since February of 2013.
“We both had chances I though to win the game at various points, whether it’s regulation, whether it’s the first overtime, free throws, or what have you,” Harvard coach Tommy Amaker said. “Just a gusty win by our team to be able to hold the home serve.”
With the clock counting off the final 12.3 seconds of regulation, Cornell junior guard Matt Morgan, who already had 28 points on the evening, drove into the teeth of the Crimson defense, laid the basketball off of the right backboard through contact from Harvard sophomore forward Chris Lewis. The layup attempt wiggled its way through the bottom of the net, Morgan drained the ensuing free throw, and the margin between the teams was the same as it had been at tip-off.
“What we don’t want is an and-one,” Amaker said. “If you’re going to be there to challenge it or whatever then it can’t be whether the shot is going to go in and they get a chance to tie it at the foul line. You’ve got to get your money’s worth there, as they say, or you need to completely back off. It’s just a really poor decision on his part.”
Lightning struck a second time toward the end of the first overtime session. Harvard sophomore forward Seth Towns, a 79.8 percent free throw shooter entering Friday’s game, missed the front end of a pair of free throws with 5.7 seconds to play. After 45 minutes of game action, the contest was still without a victor.
The Crimson made sure to put its foot on Cornell’s throat in the second extra session, outscoring the guests, 11-1 despite Towns’ premature exit due to a fifth personal foul. Harvard would score the final nine points of the game and hold the Big Red to 0-of-6 shooting in the contest’s final five minutes. After Cornell junior forward Stone Gettings fouled out with 2:45 to play, the Crimson switched to a zone defense that helped the hosts secure stops on three consecutive possessions and pull ahead for good.
Although Lewis was the culprit for the foul that sent the game into overtime, the sophomore was a force to be reckoned with all night on the offensive end. The Alpharetta, Ga., native finished the contest with career-highs in both points (29) and minutes (41). Lewis missed just two field goal attempts all night and was a matchup nightmare for the Big Red’s undersized frontcourt.
“It was just that my team was trusting in me to carry through with my task,” Lewis said. “They said they were going to feed me the entire game and I just needed to execute the call at the end of regular period.”
One of the keys for Lewis’ career night was his ability to stay out of foul trouble, something that many of his teammates were unable to do. In the first half, Harvard committed 12 personal fouls—with Towns limited to just eight minutes before the break. Cornell was largely able to stay in the game because of the Crimson’s foul troubles. In a frame marred by stoppages, the Big Red got to the line 16 times with 13 of its 33 first half points coming from the charity stripe. Morgan, Gettings, and junior guard Jack Gordon scored all but five of Cornell’s points before the break. Harvard was buoyed by hot shooting, with five different players making a three-pointer in the first 20 minutes.
In addition to the foul troubles, the Crimson was plagued by turnovers through the game’s first three quarters. Despite shooting a scalding 58.8 percent from the field over the first 29 minutes of game action and hitting on nine of its first 15 three-point attempts, Harvard turned the ball over 16 times.
“That was something that we talked to Coach about,” Bassey said. “Just making sure we are really tight with everything, making sure we are in control getting unnecessary travels, unnecessary offensive fouls, and just being more cognizant of the times and situations. Really not trying to force things.”
Whereas the first half was characterized by its stoppages, the beginning of the second was all about pace. The guests came out red hot out of the intermission, making six of its first eight field goal attempts, including four straight threes. Cornell scored 16 points in less than four minutes to go up by four at the second half’s first media timeout. Morgan was the catalyst, accounting for 14 of the Big Red’s first 19 second half points.
“Matt’s a really good player,” Bassey said. “I think what he doesn’t get enough credit for is he does a really good job of moving without the ball to, once he’s giving it up, he’s coming through, cutting, setting screens for other guys, causing a lot of confusion off the ball which makes it really difficult on the defense.”
With Morgan as the ringleader for Cornell, a well-rested Towns provided the answers for the Crimson. The sophomore had 10 of his club’s first 17 points out of the break as neither team held a lead of more than four for the first 10 minutes of the second half.
“It’s huge,” Amaker said. “He was carrying us for a while there when he got back in in the second half. He was the offensive punch we needed.”
Bassey—who was tasked with covering Morgan for much of the contest—also lit it up on the offensive end on a night when Harvard’s starters accounted for 92 of its 98 points. Bassey did not miss a field goal until his shot attempt at the end of regulation fell short. All told, the Denver native made four three-pointers and all six of his free throw attempts to tie a career-high with 18 points in 48 minutes of action. Bassey’s fourth triple of the game came with 6:52 remaining and gave the Crimson its largest lead of the contest at 10. Despite Harvard not committing a turnover in the final 11:03 of regulation, Morgan led the Big Red on a wild 18-8 run to send the game into overtime.
At 9:07 p.m., the Crimson clung to a one-point lead in the first overtime. While Amaker drew up a play during the timeout, the 1,636 fans in attendance erupted as the Lavietes Pavilion scoreboard flashed the final score of the Penn-Yale game. It would take another session of overtime for Harvard to be able to control its own destiny on Saturday night. But it was only fitting on another crazy night in the Ivy League.
“We’ve seen it before and I’ve mentioned that to our kids all week, how challenging, wacky, crazy, whatever you want to call it, our league can be,” Amaker said. “We’ve seen it, it’s happened to us, we’ve been on this side of how things work out.”
—Staff writer Stephen J. Gleason can be reached at stephen.gleason@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections

Your 2017-2018 Crimson. After graduating the nation's highest-scoring senior class (193 points) back in May, Harvard faced the formidable task of retooling its roster in order to remain in the NCAA's top five, where it began the season.


In mid-October, the Crimson prepared for its upcoming campaign with a scrimmage against the U.S. National Team Development Program (U-18). Coach Ted Donato '91 readied his lines for opening night after he saw the talent he had at his disposal.



Harvard finally kicked its season off on Oct. 29 in a rare Sunday matchup vs. Dartmouth. The Crimson nabbed a 5-0 shutout victory.



The winning did not last long, however. Storied rival Yale came to Cambridge and stunned a then-No. 3 Harvard squad. After the Crimson went unbeaten in four matchups with the Bulldogs last year, the early-season defeat served as a wake-up call.


Harvard soon hit the road for a program-record nine-game away stretch. The first stop on this road trip was Colgate, where net-minder Colton Point (1 GA, 30 SV, .968 SV%) carried the Raiders to victory. The frustrated Crimson continued on to Cornell the next night, where Alec McCrea potted the game-winner with just 2.3 seconds remaining.

The team's Minnesota natives, including tri-captain Jake Horton (pictured here), had their homecoming weekend spoiled by a pair of losses at the hands of the Golden Gophers. The defeats marked Harvard's first four-game skid since Feb. 7, 2015.



The Crimson soon  dropped out of the USCHO top-20 rankings for the first time in over 70 weeks. Backup net-minder Michael  Lackey logged wins over Quinnipiac and Princeton in early December, initiating a battle for the starting role between Lackey (right) and tri-captain Merrick Madsen (left).

Regardless of the growing uncertainty between the pipes, the triumphs that weekend helped steer the Crimson back toward its winning ways.



Harvard continued its promising start (3-0-2) to 2018 when it skated to a thrilling 6-6 tie against then-No. 2 Clarkson. The performance, while worth just a point, showcased the Crimson's ability to beat any team on any given night.

In late-January, then-No. 2 Cornell and Colgate came to the Bright-Landry Hockey Center, with the Crimson looking to avenge the November weekend that derailed the team's season early on. Harvard, though, did not find the back of the net all weekend, and the frustration mounted.



Early February rolled around, and that means one thing: the Beanpot. In a rematch of last year's tournament finale—one that saw the Crimson take home its first title since 1993—Boston University got the best of Harvard in double overtime after a seemingly innocuous wrist shot squeaked by Madsen's pads. The bad goal on such a big stage certainly fanned the fire of the Lackey-Madsen drama.

In the midst of a slump (1-4-0 in last five), the Crimson lost its offensive centerpiece, junior Ryan Donato, to Olympic competition in Pyeongchang. While sporting the red, white, and blue, the Boston Bruins prospect joined forces with Beanpot foe Jordan Greenway (on  left).



Donato made the most of his opportunity for the stars and stripes. His performance (5 GP, 5–1—6) put him atop the Americans in scoring and tied for first tournament-wide in goals.



It's never a game teams want to play. Nevertheless, Harvard skated in it this year. The squad faced off against Boston College in the Beanpot consolation game in a mostly empty and lifeless TD Garden. At least the Crimson walked away with the two points after a 5-4 overtime win.



In mid-February, Harvard returned home for its final regular season weekend at the Bright. The "North Country" teams were in town, and the Crimson earned decisive wins over both opponents. Skaters like sophomore Ty Pelton-Byce (pictured here) played an instrumental role in filling the void left by Ryan Donato.




That Saturday, the program honored its seven seniors, including the team's first-ever trio of captains, after a compelling thrashing of then-No. 7 Clarkson. The class of 2018 has amassed 81 wins to this point and has a chance to become the winningest class in the last two decades at Harvard.



The Clarkson victory proved to be Harvard's last of the regular season. The squad regained Donato's talents and, confusingly, still managed to fall to Brown and Yale. A first-round bye in the ECAC playoffs was locked in by that point, so the games did not carry any postseason implications for the Crimson. Nonetheless, freshman Kevin O'Neil's late-game winner (aftermath pictured here) stung for a Harvard team that suffered its first sweep at the hands of the Elis since the 2014-2015 season.
And that brings us to today. Coach Donato's group waits patiently for an opponent in next weekend's ECAC quarterfinal round. If the Crimson wants a shot at the NCAA Tournament this year, it will likely need to run the  table in the conference tournament.
Sections
After countless hours of deliberating, arguing, and contemplating, Flyby has determined the Harvard Class of 2021’s best blocking group names. Take a look to see whose group made the cut.
2 Girls, 1 Fop
A spicy twist, indeed. That’s one lucky “fop.”
I Only Love My Block and My Mom
A wholesome message, and a Drake reference all in one.
The Minority Report
Good movie, good people (hopefully). Simple, but clever.
Lesbians in Ecstasy 
Matter of fact. Seems like a fun group.
Reverend Parris and the Aluminum Panty Droppers from Mars
Truly original.
Slim Richard and the Infidels
Doesn't make much sense, but has a nice ring to it.
Six and a Half Men
A sitcom reference and a roast all mixed into one!
Congrats to these clever groups, and good luck to everyone on Housing Day!
