News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Having a depressed friend is equal parts terrifying and annoying. I know, because I’ve been both depressed and the terrified friend.
I know what it’s like to be the sad drunk who ruins a party, but also the caretaker charged with the task of shoving a finger down someone’s throat — trying to force them to throw up the medley of alcohol and other substances they thought would be the Nirvana for their depression. I know what it’s like to apologize the morning after a three-hour crying session, the icy guilt causing my hands to tremble, but I also have rescheduled many days whenever my friend needed an unpaid counselor.
Most importantly, I know what it’s like to numbly wonder if I’d ever see the sun again, but also the one to worry that enough wasn’t done to help my friend — that I had misjudged, miscalculated, perhaps even misspoken when trying to comfort them. That, at the end of it all, I hadn’t done enough, and I would never see my friend again.
From all this, I’ve learned just one thing about what it means to be a real friend to someone going through a mental illness: Listening is great, listening is necessary, but don’t just listen — act.
Although I am certainly beyond thankful for the friends who sat by my side and listened to what I had to say, often times, trying to explain myself was a tiring and awful task. I was already being kept up endless nights by the negative thoughts I couldn’t fight. What I really needed was not a listener, but distraction, company, a chance to feel normal.
While I can’t speak for everyone, I know that the worst part of my depression was the loneliness caused by my impulsive desire to isolate myself. I would stay in my room as much as possible, skipping meals because I couldn’t handle the prospect of seeing people in the dining hall. I was overwhelmed with either fear or guilt that this temporary version of “me” wasn’t good enough, that my depressed presence would be nothing more than a burden for my friends.
What I therefore needed was not more opportunities to brood, but rather someone to impose their company on me and a sense of normalcy in spite of all the polite protests, excuses, and apologies I would inevitably throw at them. The best friends I had during this time were the ones who included me matter-of-factly in their life — the ones who rolled their eyes at my excuses, who followed up on plans made, who pestered me to take care of myself, who accepted that my best effort at being engaged and positive might not be perfect.
Dinner plans and study sessions and even surprise visits were the best kind of support I could ask for. When it comes to depressed friends, don’t be scared to be pushy. It’s easy for someone suffering from depression to shut off socially because they have come to believe that no amount of friendship can heal them. Learned helplessness is this psychological phenomenon where a person who has repeatedly failed to escape an awful experience will simply stop trying. At their worst, depression and anxiety are inescapable, but they ultimately become mild enough until learned helplessness is the only thing holding a person back. Real friends are the ones who are drag their friends out of quicksand.
Sometimes, this means seeking professional help. If a friend has a serious or chronic mental illness or may even be in danger of self-harm, be the one who sits them down and has a serious conversation about how getting help does not mean losing control. If that fails and they continue to be in a serious condition, email a Resident Dean, or perhaps even the professor of one of their classes. Sometimes, all it takes is a single extension, especially during finals or midterms week to get everything back on track.
Mental illness and self-harm are serious issues at Harvard and other campuses. As friends, we have a responsibility to take care of ourselves, first and foremost, but we also have a duty to heal others whenever we can. Real friends don’t just listen — they act.
Elizabeth Y. Sun ’19, a former Associate Editorial Executive, is a Government concentrator in Eliot House. Her column appears on alternate Thursdays.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
When I applied to join the Class of 2021, I felt as if my application was a crapshoot. In high school, I had slaved away studying for standardized tests, spread myself thin with extracurriculars, and tested my limits with a rigorous course load — all for a sliver of a chance to be considered by a faceless committee that would determine the fate of my next four years. It turns out, however, that there’s a much more foolproof method of applying to Harvard College. Apparently, I’ve been doing it all wrong. All I had to do was be wealthy enough to buy a building.
The SFFA lawsuit has unearthed yet another controversial finding about Harvard’s mysterious admissions process, namely that Harvard assigns preference to applicants whose families gifted large donations or possess extensive connections with powerful figures within the administration. These carefully curated applicants, found on the “Dean’s Interest List,” evidently “benefit from a significantly higher acceptance rate.”
As a low-income Asian American student at Harvard, the lawsuit has forced me to critically question my identity and my place on campus. It’s a hard pill to swallow that I attend an institution currently on trial for having bias against people like me in every sense. The revelation of the Dean’s Interest List only exacerbates my pain because it speaks volumes as to what type of student Harvard prioritizes. It’s someone rich, someone white, someone not me.
The fault does not only fall on the College, however. On a broader scope, Harvard is merely a microcosm of the forces governing the outside world, a peek through the curtain of what inequities we should expect to encounter in the workforce and beyond. Harvard’s preference for applicants belonging to donor families is not an egregious revelation. If anything, it affirms the tit-for-tat dynamics that have sewn the foundation of our society and workforce. Harvard, being a pipeline directly into the corporate world, has actively contributed in maintaining this reality, enabling this cyclical nepotism of millionaires paving the path for other millionaires.
According to a survey conducted by The Crimson, of the Class of 2022, only 14.4 percent come from families with incomes below $40,000 while more than half hail from families making more than $125,000. I didn’t have to research these figures to know this to be true. I knew this by the high-end brands walking past my nameless sweater on the way to class. I knew by the clubs my friends invited me to join — only to see them shrug at the $600 fee, as if an afterthought. I knew by the cold that bites into my bones through the winter coat that is never warm enough but was the only one within my budget.
The special favor that Harvard surreptitiously gives to children of donors only contributes to the socioeconomic disparity intimately felt within Harvard. When Harvard gives certain wealthier applicants a boost in the admissions process, it further alienates low-income and underprivileged students from their peers and contradicts the message of inclusion that we all repeatedly hear in our first year. Yes, Harvard’s financial aid package is outstandingly generous, but sometimes, handing students a wad of money isn’t enough when there is still an enormous wealth gap felt among students — one that Harvard actively sustains.
It is no wonder then that students here, especially those from underprivileged backgrounds, suffer from an epidemic of imposter syndrome and anxiety about their place on campus. I myself have always felt like I’ve had to prove my existence here, and it can be exhausting when half your emotional energy is invested in the need to overachieve to justify that you belong here, even without a six-figure family income. The preference within Harvard’s admissions process is staunch evidence that I will have to work ten times harder just to have a chance at what others were granted at birth. Although sobering, Harvard has shown me that even with hard work and dedication, the world still prioritizes how much is in your wallet.
In light of the lawsuit, I don’t believe that affirmative action is the problem here. While we cannot ignore the rampant inequality pervading the admissions process, we should not attempt to dismantle the only existing system attempting to equalize the power of buying your way into Harvard.
I am a low-income, Asian-American student. Quite honestly, I am glad that this lawsuit has unearthed significant findings and opened a necessary dialogue about our place on campus. However, I am frustrated with the direction of the lawsuit and demand that we not be used as a means to propel an initiative that will only contribute to the problem. Harvard needs to wake up and implement systematic action behind its words and gestures of generosity, and until it does, I will not feel welcome on this campus.
Linda Lee ’21, a Crimson Blog editor and Crimson Editorial comper, lives in Eliot House.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Last week, Graduate School of Arts and Sciences Dean Emma Dench and Dean of the College Rakesh Khurana announced in an email that Dudley House will divide into separate communities for undergraduate and graduate students. The former, called the “Dudley Community,” will serve undergraduates who are visiting students, on campus over the summer, and living outside the 12 upperclassmen Houses or in the Dudley Co-Op. The latter will serve GSAS students, who will also enjoy a dedicated new student center. We are optimistic that these changes will benefit all Harvard students, but ask that the administration provide more clarity on how changes to the Dudley Community will affect undergraduates.
As we have previously opined, we support the changes that Harvard has made to improve graduate students’ quality of life. We hope that the new division of Dudley House will address graduate students’ dissatisfaction with many features of Harvard life and foster a more vibrant and welcoming community. The introduction of graduate student intramurals, for example, appears to be a promising initiative, and we hope that Harvard will continue its efforts to address structural issues related to graduate student life. Graduate students are an integral part of the Harvard community. The University should make sure they feel included on campus.
While we applaud the proposed changes Harvard has made to improve graduate student life, we are not fully aware of all the changes made to the new Dudley Community for undergraduates. Dench and Khurana’s email states that the Dudley Community will no longer have a Faculty Dean, but instead a “Faculty Fellow.” It also states that there will be a full-time Assistant Dean who will oversee the community.
The University has not yet provided a clear explanation for how the Assistant Dean and Faculty Fellow will assist undergraduate students. Harvard should make sure that undergraduates that do not live in the 12 upperclassmen Houses are fully considered in the transition to a new system. They should not be disadvantaged compared to their peers in their access to an extensive advising network. Most importantly, the University should address any concerns that are raised by the undergraduates who will be part of the Dudley Community to assure them that the transition will be smooth.
We hope that the new full-time Assistant Dean and Faculty Fellow will be useful additions to undergraduates, but we believe more clarity on their role is necessary. Although the changes made to Dudley House certainly represent a positive step for graduate students, undergraduates should not be adversely affected by the transition to the Dudley Community. Harvard should make sure that the proposed Dudley Community is a success, not a dud.
This staff editorial is the product of discussions at regular Editorial Board meetings. In order to ensure the impartiality of our journalism, Crimson editors who choose to opine and vote at these meetings are not involved in the reporting of articles on similar topics.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
In early August 1898, four women gathered on Sutter Street in the San Francisco home of a woman named Julia George. Radcliffe College had been officially chartered just four years prior, and the women living 3,000 miles away from their alma mater wanted a way to connect with each other.
Only later were they known as the Radcliffe Club of San Francisco, or RCSF. in 1898, these four women were simply the Radcliffe Club, since they were the only official organization of their kind.
Throughout its history, RCSF was an epicenter for Radcliffe support on the west coast. It made strides as a premier fundraising force, securing funds to launch a club scholarship program for prospective Bay Area Radcliffe students years before Radcliffe itself founded a similar, nationwide Regional Scholars program.
Over the course of the twentieth century, Radcliffe alumnae groups proliferated across the country. And when Radcliffe College slowly integrated with Harvard following WWII, the Harvard Alumni Association suggested that Radcliffe Clubs do the same. All except one did.
In 2017, RCSF chose to revise its constitution in alignment with the HAA’s specifications so that it could appear on the HAA website. The club had long reveled in its status as the first of its kind, but at this meeting with the HAA, it became clear that it was also the last.
Former president of the Radcliffe Club of Chicago Anne B. Troy ’82 remembers meeting with other past presidents to discuss their groups’ future. “Why pretend we have a separate club when all these younger graduates think they went to Harvard anyway?” she says, recalling her stance. By the 80s, Radcliffe women lived in Harvard’s Houses and received diplomas signed by the Harvard president. It had been nearly 50 years since the era when they could not attend classes with Harvard men. The Radcliffe Club merged with the Harvard Club of Chicago, which still retains a spot on its board for a Radcliffe representative today.
At the Radcliffe Club of Maryland, where many alumnae had husbands in the Harvard Club, the merge also “just made such good sense,” says former vice president Mary Ellen Thomsen ’54. The groups merged in the ’70s with the new name of the Harvard-Radcliffe Club of Maryland, and when Thomsen’s son later became president, she implored him not to erase the name “Radcliffe.”
“He said, ‘Not on my watch,’ and they’ve kept it ever since,” Thomsen says.
Preserving the Radcliffe name has been a matter of importance across the country. In San Francisco, the college’s disappearance was deeply felt.
“I’ll tell you, I was pissed,” former RCSF president and current treasurer Kathleen G. Henschel ’70 says.
As one of three women in her year who graduated from Radcliffe with a degree in applied math and computer science, going to classes at Harvard often felt like “going to work for a big corporation,” she says. “You had to stand on [your] tiptoes and look around to find your peers.”
When Radcliffe women left the Yard after a day of classes, many took comfort in returning to a single-gender space. “That kind of support, I still feel it in the Radcliffe Club of San Francisco,” Henschel says.
Members of RCSF sought out ways to keep their alma mater’s legacy alive. In 1959, the group established the Radcliffe Club of San Francisco Scholarship Fund, which the College continues to administer today. Beginning in 1979, former presidents Eleanor L. Zuckerman ’53 and Ellen M. La Follette ’54 established the Radcliffe Alumnae Professorship, a project so successful that leftover funds could be used to establish an additional Radcliffe Alumnae Fellowship.
“Why should we fade away?” La Follette says. “Not until it’s time.”
The club continues to hold meetings, put out a monthly newsletter, organize luncheons, coordinate book clubs and film clubs, and arrange museum outings. It donates to the Schlesinger Library at the Radcliffe Institute for Advanced Study, the Harvard College Women’s Center, and the RCSF Scholarship Fund.
The club, whose members once numbered in the hundreds, is down to a membership of about 70 women. Occasionally a new alumna joins, but Henschel, who will turn 70 this November, estimates that she is one of the youngest members.
“It’s just the march of time. At some point we’ll throw ourselves a hell of a party and declare victory and stop,” Henschel says. “But at this point we still have people who are willing… to do the small amount of work it takes to keep us going.”
Last August marked the club’s 120th anniversary. The history of Radcliffe itself — which began in 1879 with “The Harvard Annex” and stretched until 1999 — only 120 years.
“The enthusiasm and the energy that started the Radcliffe Club in the first place is still here,” La Follette says. “We don’t have as many young people in our club as we’d like. Nonetheless we’re pleased that we’re still here. So we’ll stay for now, as Radcliffe girls, together.”
Sections
The Edison and Newman Room, Houghton Library’s main exhibition space, usually resembles a 17th-century sitting room — the walls are robin-egg blue, gold chandeliers hang from the high ceilings, and a framed portrait of a regal-looking man sits above a fireplace. But for Rachel Howarth’s goodbye party in December 2015, the room was adorned with donkey piñatas and holiday decorations. And among the festivities were six librarians who, in their white button-down shirts and black bowties, could be easily confused for waiters. But that night, they were neither waiters nor librarians — they were The Beatles.
Emilie Hardman, a Houghton librarian, had gathered a band of colleagues to give Howarth a surprise musical send-off. Michael Austin played the guitar, Micah Hoggatt the banjo, and Emily Walhout the viola da gamba. Heather G. Cole was on drums, but because they couldn’t bring a full drum set into the library, that meant “a snare placed on a stool,” as Cole recalls in an email. James M. Capobianco ’99, a classically-trained tenor, was lead vocalist, singing a parody of “Penny Lane” with new lyrics about their departing friend. Hardman, who had written the lyrics, rocked a tambourine. Together, they formed the Yellow Sub-Basement.
The band distributed the new lyrics to attendees, hoping the audience would sing along. “I remember seeing Sarah Thomas, who is the president of the library system, singing along with us,” Hardman says, smiling.
Hardman got the idea for the performance from the Jewish Women’s Archive, where she worked before Houghton. “They had this tradition of performing some kind of song when people left, and when I left they did a rewrite of Cyndi Lauper’s ‘Time After Time’ for me and it was the most touching, lovely, bizarre thing that had ever happened to me in a work context,” she says. When it came time for Howarth’s goodbye, she suggested they adopt that tradition.
Yellow Sub-Basement, which performed only twice, was a sort of microcosm for Houghton itself: a group of librarians with distinct backgrounds and training but united by common interest. Austin, who has been a Houghton librarian for more than a decade, explained how obsessed Houghton librarians get: “There’s a hard-core knitting group there that’s very active, and they get deeply into it, they geek out over yarn, and some people like travel to Scotland and shear sheep. And there are a lot of people who are heavily into bookbinding and researching the book as art. And then there’s a contingent of musicians.”
Hardman and Cole had always wanted to start a library band. It was a natural project for the Committee for Fun and Good Wille, a lighthearted group they founded at the library to “[cook] up a lot of schemes.” According to Hardman, the extra ‘e’ gave it “a little Houghton flavor.” The only problem was that Cole didn’t play an instrument yet.
But there was a remedy: Ladies Rock Camp, a three-day intensive music camp in Boston. Cole attended it to learn the drums. She said the camp “is a great way for beginners to try something new, and go from newbie to performing in a live show in three days.”
With Cole’s newly acquired drum skills and with Howarth’s party approaching, Hardman saw an opportunity to finally start a Houghton band. “I grew up as a garage punk kid, and so we would always make a band, you’d make a band for any reason,” she said. “And I always thought the rare books library had all this great potential for bizarre band opportunities… so once she went to Ladies Rock Camp and learned drums I was like, ‘No, we really have to have a band.’”
But Yellow Sub-Basement wouldn’t play again until a year and a half later — this time to send off one of their own. Cole left Houghton to work at Brown University’s John Hay Library in May, 2017. At her goodbye party, Yellow Sub-Basement reunited to surprise Cole with a cover of “Lucy In The Sky With Diamonds.” Again, Hardman replaced the lyrics with ones about her departing friend. Because they were missing an integral member of the band, Cole, some of the other band members banged against instrument cases to recreate the sound of drums.
Since that last performance, Hardman has also left Houghton; she’s now two T stops away, running the special collections at MIT’s library. With a third of its original members no longer at Houghton, Yellow Sub-Basement hasn’t performed since Cole’s goodbye party.
“I don’t know if we’ll do something again,” Austin says. “I hope it doesn’t take somebody leaving our workplace before we do this again.”
At MIT, Hardman has discovered that Houghton isn’t the only library with a band. “MIT already has a band. It’s Dewey & the Decimals. And, legit, I have heard someone who was involved with the Velvet Underground is in it,” Hardman explains.
Brown’s library, on the other hand, doesn’t have a band — at least not yet. “Maybe someday,” Cole says wistfully.
Sections
We walk into Au Bon Pain at 11 a.m. to find the place almost completely empty. Where are the tarot readers, as presaged by the Eventbrite description? Deciding to just order our coffees, we come upon an unmanned cash register and stopped, flummoxed. There is not an employee in sight. Had the higher powers deserted us, subjecting us to the whims of self-serve technology? No — as we try to pay, attempting to operate the register ourselves, a man apparates from behind the donut shelf, glaring at us suspiciously.
Five minutes after the hour, we belatedly overcome our refrigerator blindness to notice the alert, bespectacled lady who is sure to be our host. Had she arrived before us, or had she always been there? One thing is for sure: She is certainly not the dreamy, wide-eyed lady decked in shawls that one pictures upon hearing the word “tarot.”
Founded in 2017, The Cartomancy Café is a card-reading practice group that meets twice a month in Cambridge, on every first Saturday and third Thursday. People of all skill levels are encouraged to come and experience everything tarot, from exchanging reading techniques to admiring each other’s decks. The decks are a sight: Some are collectible and hand-painted, while others are right out of the 20th century, with themes from fairy tales to cats decorating the card faces.

 
Today, the group consists only of two hosts and three readers. We wonder about the fates of the other 19 who RSVP’d but didn’t make it this rainy morning. Then, we get to reading.
Upon shuffling the 20th-century-artist-themed deck for the first tarot reading of the day, the first card in this set is none other than Andy Warhol, our magazine’s patron saint. If that’s not preternatural enough, the bottom of the card reads, “Give your fifteen minutes some time.” Perhaps Warhol is advising us from the grave to be patient, and not expect the answers to jump out at us from the tarot cards immediately. Or perhaps all of this is simply pure coincidence.
Is tarot all serendipity, or is there something more?
Following some brief introductions, we split up into groups, with at least one experienced reader in each. Our host looks critically at the table, judging whether it was a clean enough surface upon which to lay the powerful tarot cards, before pulling out ornate cloths just to be safe. To our quizzical looks, she glances up with a smile, explaining that she got them from the scrap fabric section of Michaels.
We have no idea what to expect — no way of knowing how seriously our companions would take the activity. Were we really supposed to find our future in these cards? Were the readings intended to be literal? Despite our ignorance, our group members are more than happy to teach us what it all means.
Card reading is far from a straightforward process, and not just in an unfogging-the-future sense. The club’s preference are lenormand and tarot cards, which are like different languages: While both use vibrant pictures, tarot is much more figurative than the syntactical lenormand.
The four suits of tarot correspond to the classical four elements: earth for the metallic pentacles, air for the slicing swords, water for the cups, and fire for the wands. On the other hand, the suits in lenormand signify connotation: clubs for negative, spades for positives, with hearts and diamonds serving a neutral purpose. The numbers on the cards can temper or accentuate the meanings in both, the reader explains.
Some attendees consult tarot guidebooks, or even open up encyclopedic apps, like The Fool’s Dog and Golden Thread Tarot. But they encourage us to follow our intuition, at least at first. We pore over a new layout, a complex, cruciform formation our reader calls the Celtic Cross, analyzing the symbols and trying to form links between them. The Page of Cups is a pretty chill guy, the reader supplies as we read, looking at the happy fish in the Page’s cup.
An inquiring mind is the central focus of tarot. How you ask a question or think of a dilemma is just as, if not more, important than what you want to find out. A ‘yes’ or a ‘no’ feels too binary, as the first inquiry made is answered with a generalization.
Try to think of a situation in which you could use some guidance, the reader instructs, so we turn to the cards for career advice. This time, we have fun linking the end cards, first and fifth, second and fourth; the reading process is almost like phrasing a sentence out of subjects, objects and modifiers. The third card is a ship — does that imply a broadening of the horizons or a future study abroad experience?
By the end of the reading, we have a feeling that the cards just function as a mediator for the reader and subject to discuss their personal obstacles and how to overcome them. As one reader explains, the goal of tarot is not necessarily to present an authoritative or concrete reading, but rather to be affirmational and encouraging, helping subjects reevaluate their issues from a new angle and find the strength to overcome them.
After drawing Death XIII in one of our future slots, the reader assures us that it means a wonderful (albeit challenging) change is coming, and that no one would, as one might suspect, die. For all its association with the occult, Cartomancy Café’s tarot is an optimistic art.
Sections
If you don’t want to brave jogging in the cold or suffer through the sweaty, factory-like intensity of the gym, there’s always the mall. Wandering through a mall is actually approved by the Centers for Disease Control as a method of exercise — mall walking groups across the country lure fitness enthusiasts to local shopping centers for a healthy dose of conversation, cardio, and capitalism. Even in Boston, you can find plenty of mall walkers ambling through Copley Place and the Prudential Center, getting in their daily steps.
But mall walking is conspicuously absent from Cambridge’s local mall, CambridgeSide Galleria. So, armed with my running shoes and a 56-page CDC mall walking manual, I decided to investigate the situation. Though I’m not exactly the mall walking demographic — all of the mall walkers quoted in the CDC guide were over the age of 70 — I can count the number of times I have exercised in college on one hand, so I figured that I could perhaps stand in for the typical mall walker.
Stepping inside the building for the first time, I was struck with the immediate sense that CambridgeSide could not be a more ideal location for a midday mall walk: It was suffused with natural light and had wide, clearly delineated walkways, sprinkled with clusters of sofas upon which to recover (see CDC guide tip 6f: “determine a route(s) where benches or rest areas are available at periodic intervals”). Instead of the saccharine muzak I associate with malls, pleasantly jangly, buoyant indie pop filled the space (see CDC tip 6g: “determine type and volume of background music”). The mall was temperate as could be — just cold enough that I could keep my coat on without being uncomfortable, but just warm enough that I could thaw from the unseasonably frigid rain pouring outside. It was a mall walking paradise.
But where were my fellow mall walkers? Both representatives of mall management I talked to — a man at the welcome desk and a customer service agent — could not point me to a mall walking program, and seemed baffled by the entire concept of walking through a mall purely for exercise. In my extensive pre-mall walk research, I learned that a recent $30 million makeover had transformed the mall formerly known as the Cambridgeside Galleria into a hip and eco-friendly “haven for teens,” in the words of the Boston Globe. Could I be the mall walking radical that CambridgeSide needs?
I turned to my mall walking bible for help. The CDC advises “walkers” (the technical term) to formulate a route ahead of time and to clearly demarcate it with stickers placed on mall landmarks along the way. But given that I had no experience with mall walking nor had I ever been to CambridgeSide, I had no plan, so I did a first round of meandering to scope out the most effective route.
After this first pass, I decided that I was ready for a capital-M, capital-W Mall Walk — no breaks, no excuses. CambridgeSide is roughly dog-bone shaped, with main walkways branching off into two circular nooks at either end, so I decided to walk the perimeter of each floor, being sure to loop through every alcove. I fired up my iPhone pedometer at the food court for the first and only time, and set off. I walked at such a clip that I ended up navigating the entirety of the mall in 15 minutes, clocking in at 0.5 miles, a not-insignificant chunk of my daily step count. I’m embarrassed to note that the walk did leave me slightly winded, but my consolation is that I did not take any breaks, save for briefly looking into a vacant Kay Jewellers because a disconcerting whirring sound was emanating from inside. I was on a mission, so the mystery remained unsolved.
As I traversed CambridgeSide’s three floors, I wondered if the mall was as much of a “teen haven” as the Boston Globe reported it to be. Maybe walkers would not feel out of place surrounded by hordes of teenage mallrats. Though I did see a kiosk selling plush toys of off-brand emojis, I remained hopeful: the people I saw wandering the mall seemed to be mostly professionals taking their lunch breaks. I stopped inside Hollister, an iconic purveyor of teen garb, and found it to be eerily empty. Pasted on the walls were photos from ad campaign titled “Carpe Now,” in which a bunch of “influencers” wearing indistinguishable parkas and sprawling across a picturesque snowy landscape encouraged me to seize the moment by buying coats, because “COAT” was actually an acronym for the “Carpe-ist of All Time.” This combination of memes, butchered Latin, and winter wear was so incomprehensible to me that I felt an acute sense of existential dread and had to leave the store immediately.
Perhaps CambridgeSide lacked teens because I was there at 1pm on a Tuesday, when the teens are said to be in class. But before I left I did see a young couple — mallrats? — holding hands walking inside American Eagle Outfitters, and a squad of boys — definitely mallrats! — guzzling Arizona iced teas and slurping up Panda Express chow mein in the food court, and let the warm glow of youthful delinquency wash over me.
As I wandered towards the door, invigorated by my newfound commitment to health and wellness, a flyer caught my eye. “Fit and Fabulous Outdoor Series,” it proclaimed in a bouncy cursive font, before listing a series of fitness classes hosted in CambridgeSide: a barre class, a “kicks and conditioning” class, a “Bollywood-inspired fitness dance class.” Until I find a CDC guide for each of these classes, I’ll stick with mall walking for now.
Sections
“You guys hear that?”
Trudging through Mount Auburn Cemetery, the twenty-two assembled members of the Feminist Bird Club fall silent. There is nothing to be heard besides the wind rustling through the old trees, the shuffling of restless feet on withered leaves, and the possible presence of hundreds of century-old souls.
“It’s just another robin.”
With heavy sighs, the group continues down the path. One group points ahead to a bush. “What is this shrub?” one woman asks the arborists in the group.
“A Threadleaf Japanese Maple.”
“It looks like a big pumpkin monster.”
Most of these individuals — 20 women and two men — have met for the first time this Sunday morning, yet they fall into an easy camaraderie. Bird walking is very popular in the Eastern Massachusetts area, mostly due to migration paths and diverse bird-life from the coast line.
But what makes this type of bird walking more feminist than regular bird walking?
***
Karla M. Noboa, who founded and runs the Boston branch of the Feminist Bird Club, greets each individual birder as they arrive. She takes on the task of leading the walk with a hope that no one feels intimidated.
Noboa used to feel out of place in most birding clubs. “All the people in those clubs are older men, maybe in their 60s or 70s, and they were all white… I’m a first generation American, and a woman, so I just felt really out of place,” she says. “Then I started doing some research to figure out if there was any other kind of club out there, and I found Feminist Bird Club.”

 
Experienced birders call out bird species every few minutes. “Brown Creeper!” “Sharp-shinned Hawk!” “Tufted Titmouse!” It can be overwhelming.
Pippin Shoultz happily admits this is her first time birding. “I think it’s just fun,” Shoultz says. “They say apparently most bird clubs are intimidating, but I think this is not very intimidating.”
***
“Is that a Red-eyed Vireo?”
“All I saw was his white butt.”
“Good spot!”
***
Good spot. Walkers are supportive of one another, pointing out birds they see for newcomers, and passing around binoculars. Noboa carefully records every bird they see within a birding app called E-Bird.
The Feminist Bird Club was originally founded in New York by Molly Adams of the Wildlife Conservation Society to serve this inclusive purpose. Noboa says Adams used to go birding alone in New York, until she heard about a female jogger’s murder and no longer felt safe going solo. “So she started looking for bird clubs,” Noboa says. “But didn’t feel comfortable in them, and saw a need for a more inclusive community.”
When Noboa first started searching for inclusive birding groups in Boston in 2016, Adams’ club in New York was the only one she found. Noboa reached out to Adams over Instagram to ask if there was a Boston branch of her club. There wasn’t, and Noboa decided, with Adams’ blessing, to found one herself. The club has since founded another branch in Chicago, with two more prospective groups in the planning stages.
Noboa leads all walks herself, and limits them to around one per month, choosing a new location each time.
“I make a point of only doing walks in places that are accessible by the T. I want the club to be as inclusive as possible, and I choose locations that would have high bird diversity or activity,” Noboa says. “The cemetery here is one of the best places in the city to go birding, because it’s a huge stretch of land that’s a good stop-over place for birds.”
***
“Oh, is that—”
“What is it?”
“Never mind. That’s a pigeon.”
***
Mount Auburn is a huge stretch of land, and the group walks into the heart of it. Each of the paths has their own original name, lending the cemetery an oddly cozy feel. Walking down Mistletoe Path is like entering a different world — one where colors are brighter, footsteps are crunchier, and every bird is deemed special.
A small, fat bird hops along the grave of the Scott family. This bird is the first real spotting of the day, and admiration arises for the tiny ball of fluff.
“A Golden-crowned Kinglet!”
Noboa admits it’s a “pudgy” bird, and the group laughs. Everyone stops every few steps, surrounded by a landscape of yellow and a sky of orange, searching for the slight movements of birds among the falling leaves. As cement statues of wealthy New Englanders from centuries past tower over the pathways, leaves rain down orange upon them. Their names are buried beneath the unstoppable fall foliage.
***
“The water feature is where you usually find herons.”
“It looks very heron-y.”
“When Blue Herons get caught in nets, they’ll poke your eyes out.”
***
Inés Patop, another newcomer to the group, was interested in the feminist aspect of the club. Patop is from Argentina, where she says feminist groups are popular, and she is in Boston to get a Ph.D. “I arrived a few months ago, and I was looking up everything I could find about any type of feminist activity,” Patop says. While searching online, she found the Feminist Bird Club.
As with most birding clubs, the Feminist Bird Club is about meeting up, looking for birds, and socializing with fellow birders. But it wouldn’t exist without its focus on giving back. Each year, Adams designs and sells a bird patch and donates the proceeds to a different organization. This year’s patch sports the Spotted Sandpiper, and the club will donate proceeds to Black Lives Matter.
Noboa has further ideas for outreach. “I would really like to partner more with community organizations to give back to the community,” she says. “Last year, I tried to organize a group to go to the Women’s March. Today, I’m selling these pins that my roommate made, and all the proceeds will be donated to Swing Left.”
***
“Listen!”
Noboa calls this out several times. She emphasizes the silence, listening in the quiet for any bird calls. For this group, birding is active meditation, a way to reduce anxiety. And if regular birding intends to focus energy while maintaining patience, feminist birding aims to promote this meditation by allowing women to feel safe and included in their participation.
“Keep listening!”
Sections
It is a dreary Friday afternoon in April and I am standing with my back to a banister in Weld, talking to a boy from Tufts who has just asked me what I do on campus.
I tell him I’m part of The Crimson and Native Americans at Harvard College, and I brace for what’s next.
“Oh, are you Native American?”
Usually, this question comes with the interrogative “oh” attached. I’ve found that this makes it slightly less accusatory, though the less frequent (but slightly more exasperating) “Wait, you’re Native American?” shows up, too.

“Yes,” I reply, and brace myself further. I think I know what his next question will be, and my intuition doesn’t fail.

“What percent?”

I’m trying to be nice today, I really am. So I choke back a sneer or a sigh or an eye roll and say, “Choctaw Nation of Oklahoma, why do you ask?”

“I’m just trying to make sure you’re not another Elizabeth Warren.”

When Senator Warren released the results of her DNA test on Oct. 15, it felt like the Indian world exploded a little bit. The Cherokee Nation released a statement condemning Warren, reiterating that even though she claimed Cherokee ancestry, she was not a member of the Cherokee Nation. Indian Country Today released an article calling Warren’s video “a strike against sovereignty” on the grounds that it undermined tribal governments’ right to decide tribal enrollment and reinforced the settler-colonial idea that DNA proves Native heritage. Activists and scholars expressed indignation and anger on social media. In HIST60O: American Indian History in Four Acts, Philip J. Deloria’s Native American history seminar, we talked about the ridiculousness of it all and how it factored into the “percentage” question on campus, how it falsely conflated blood quantum with heritage.

I get the percentage question all the time, and until recently I’ve just accepted it as a fact of life. I don’t look stereotypically Native — I have hazel eyes, pale skin and brown hair. If I don’t identify myself as such, maybe no one would know. I’m proud to call myself Choctaw, but I can see the doubt on people’s faces whenever the name comes up.
Blood quantum, that nasty little phrase, varies tribe to tribe. Every tribe has different qualifications for membership, and some are stricter than others. The Five Civilized Tribes (the Choctaw, Cherokee, Seminole, Muscogee (Creek) and Chickasaw Nations of Oklahoma) use the Dawes Rolls, which are physical lists of tribal citizens compiled near the turn of the 20th century. In order to receive tribal benefits and land allotments, individuals had to prove that they were Indian and were therefore entitled to these things under law; now, they must prove that their Indian ancestors are listed on these rolls. The Dawes Rolls were a part of the Dawes Commission, an agreement that Oklahoma tribes that ended the reservation system and divided up communally-held tribal land into allotments for individuals. It rested on the idea that if Natives were forced to own their own land and farm it like white people did, they would become “civilized.” It came out of a long tradition of “killing the Indian to save the man,” an aphorism frequently quoted in historical documents from the 18th and 19th centuries.
There’s such an irony in the blood quantum system: we still use tools of colonization to define ourselves.
I occasionally joke about being able to literally pull the race card, because I have two. One is a piece of white plastic that bears the Choctaw Nation of Oklahoma seal, certifying that I am “a member by blood” of the tribe. The other is a piece of white cardstock sealed up in stiff plastic laminate, issued by the Oklahoma Regional Office of the Bureau of Indian Affairs, bearing my name and blood quantum in ugly typewriter script with the seal of the Department of the Interior in the upper left-hand corner. I can see perforation on its edges, where it has been torn from other pieces of white cardstock. I sometimes wonder whose cards were printed next to mine.

Though these cards may be proof of my DNA, they’re not the full story of my heritage. They don’t show the hours I spend in the backseat of my dad’s truck, watching cotton fields and rocky scrubland pass by as we travel from our home in Texas to the heart of Choctaw country in Oklahoma for festivals. They don’t show the glow of my laptop as I sit before it into the early hours of the morning, whispering words in the Choctaw language as I attempt to get the pronunciation right, trying to learn from Powerpoints released by the Choctaw Nation. They don’t show the stories that my parents and grandparents have passed down to me, the ones that come up in casual conversation, the small but ever-present reminder of who we are as a family.
Warren alludes to the distinction between ancestry and heritage, though I don’t believe her “family story” video differentiates the two enough to be a helpful contribution to the argument. “Heritage” gets thrown around at the beginning of the video, when Warren’s colleagues at various law schools assert that her “heritage had no bearing on her hiring.” Four minutes into the video, “heritage” miraculously transforms into “ancestry” and “family history,” when Stanford professor Carlos Bustamante says that she definitely has a Native American ancestor. “Heritage” isn’t mentioned again until the video’s end, when a blue screen urges viewers to “learn the facts” at elizabethwarren.com/heritage. Here, “heritage” does not function as an intimate description of personal identity. It’s a buzzword: it sounds much worse to say that Trump and his supporters are attacking her “heritage” than it does to say that they are attacking her proof of ancestry.
Warren answers the dog-whistlers in a conversation about indigeneity without indigenous input. She makes it seem like the percentage question is something that actually deserves an answer.

Before Warren, it was possible to brush off the percentage question, to chuckle and chalk it up to a poorly-phrased remark from a well-meaning person who just doesn’t know any better. Now that blood quantum has been solidified as a political maneuver, I feel like the percentage question has lost its innocence.
A few days before the video was released, I received a text from the president of NAHC. It was a picture of Elizabeth Warren standing in the conference room of the fourth floor of 14 Story Street, the office of the Harvard University Native American Program.
I don’t know why she was there, who she talked with, or what she talked about. None of the undergraduates knew that she would be there that day. It was funny to see her standing next to the table where I have read countless papers, in front of the whiteboard where I write notes while studying for a midterm, in the room where NAHC holds all our meetings. Most of us have slept on the couch in the next room at some point or another. It just felt so close to home.
Sections
First, he was the man in the elevator: glasses, a blue two-piece, stepdad-handsome. Then he was the tall guy: slightly slack-jawed and swaying in place. Then the man with the smoothest bald head I’ve ever seen in my life, the man with facial hair that can only be described as very 2004. It was the eleventh day of the Harvard admissions trial and I was scanning everyone in the room to find Edward Blum.
In case you have made it through the last three years without ever hearing this name: Edward Blum is the conservative legal strategist best known for his fervent opposition to affirmative action. In 2016, he bankrolled the landmark lawsuit against the University of Texas at Austin when a white woman with unremarkable grades was denied admission. Since then, he has championed Asian Americans who claim they have been illegally spurned by Harvard’s race-conscious admissions system.
As I scrutinized every white man over the age of 30 I told myself I just wanted to understand Edward Blum, but that was a lie. There are things I actually don’t understand, like cryptocurrency, airplanes, and lightning.
I was ostensibly at the courthouse to see students testify in defense of Harvard; Edward Blum ostensibly wants justice for Asian Americans like me. I really just wanted to see him with my own eyes, and in some embarrassing, trivial way I hoped he would look at me, too. But admitting that would have required a kind of sincerity I could not access. It was more convenient to make a game of spotting him than to think about everything else.
***
Here’s a joke I’ve wanted to say for some time: I liked being Asian better when there was nothing to talk about. (I never imagine this joke landing well.) For a few weeks in August, it seemed like everything was Asian: novels, movies, magazines, romance, desire, guilt, pleasure. I can now recognize that this development was probably a good thing, but at the time I felt burdened by how much I wanted to think and feel all the time. Some writers declared referenda on Asian America as we knew it; others scoffed at that kind of optimism. I privately devoured the low-hanging triumphs of “media representation” and inexplicably wept during the lukewarm romantic comedies. I mentally rehearsed my reviews of these movies, entranced not by the films themselves but by the possibility that my opinions on them might matter. I chose to believe that these would be artifacts of an important moment. I read every effusive profile and scathing review like it was my homework. When the fall semester arrived, I enrolled in an Asian American history course.
I consider myself cynical in a way that is standard for most reasonable people who have completed three years at Harvard, but there is a certain earnestness elbowing its way through my senior fall. I suspect it has something to do with that class. I’ve read most (most!) of the assigned texts; I genuinely look forward to the discussions in my 10:30 a.m. section; I am routinely stunned by how much I do not know. The course head and teaching fellow are Filipino women like me; the lecture hall is filled by mostly Asian students. In their company I am consuming and studying and performing Asianness with a hunger I hardly recognize.
***
That Monday, Professor Clutario canceled lecture so we could go watch the testimonies. The class meets in the afternoon, but for the sake of studying this chapter of Asian American history with the rigor it deserves I skipped my morning class, too. When I arrived at the courthouse, slick from a vicious 8 a.m. storm, I relinquished my cellphone to the security desk and sailed through the metal detectors while a group of undergraduates in matching blue shirts faced off with a guard. All the students were Asian; most of them were affiliated with the Task Force on Asian and Pacific American Studies (TAPAS) or other acronym-named groups. The shirts said “Defend Diversity,” and that kind of “political message” was forbidden in an active courtroom, the security guard told them. I knew I had nothing to add and went up to the courtroom alone.
This is how it has been since I started college. Not shameful, just solitary. My experiences as a racialized body have never sought a home outside myself. I have friends who are Asian, but we did not find each other in capital-A Asian groups or settings. At some point, I decided it would be pointless to formally affiliate with something I’d never be able to abandon anyway; it would be like joining a club for drinking water or having skin. To affiliate with Asianness at Harvard seemed hopelessly bourgeois and vaguely embarrassing to me. So I wrote stories and moved up mastheads. At the courthouse I wore an agnostic gray turtleneck and no one gave me any trouble.
“Are you reporting?” someone in a blue shirt (the judge ultimately permitted them in the courtroom) asked me, because I was taking notes on all the Edward Blums.
“Sometimes, but not today.”
And that’s the other weird thing: During my sophomore fall I covered the “race and diversity” beat (whatever that could possibly mean) for the newspaper. I wrote about protests and petitions and affinity groups I never joined. My isolation from communities of color finally had a name: journalistic objectivity.
The first Harvard witness to take the stand was an alum I had interviewed during that time. Her testimony felt familiar to me because it was. Much of what she had said under oath — on support for marginalized students, the value of an ethnic studies program — echoed what she had told me on some unremarkable afternoon when I was on deadline. Nearly all of Harvard’s witnesses were the types of people I would have loved to interview: spokespeople of acronym-named cultural groups, fiercely caring, visible and present in a way I have not allowed myself to be. I could imagine the frantic scribble of my pen and a “Thank you for your time.”
***
Sometime after lunch, the gaps began to close. I mean this spatially — the rest of Professor Clutario’s class showed up — and interpersonally. I had eaten lunch with a handful of other Asian students — fellow spectators and one of the trial witnesses — in the dizzying, fast-casual dystopia of downtown Boston. They learned my name and when we returned to the courtroom it felt like I was sitting with them on purpose.
I knew that Thang Diep would be the only witness to get cross-examined. I clung to every bit of his testimony, wondering what the lawyers could possibly ask about his childhood in California or the first time a professor pronounced his name correctly on the first day of class.
“It’s a form of survival,” he said, referring to his tendency to allow people, including Harvard’s lawyers, to garble his name. With that, the people around me were weeping. I heard a dozen wet sniffles and leaned back into the heat of a hundred wordless bodies: I felt the strongest sense of an “us” and a “here.” So this is what it’s like, I thought. So this is where I have not been.
At 3 p.m., the thing I considered real life called me back to Cambridge. I waved to one of my new acquaintances, who said it was good to meet me. He asked if I’m in any affinity groups and I said no because that’s the true answer.
Four of us shared a ride back to campus and we talked the way you’re supposed to when you’ve just seen something significant, like a play or a car crash or a mutual friend crying at a party. I sighed several variations of the sentence, “Yeah, it’s complicated,” because I didn’t know anyone well enough to sit in silence. The driver delivered us to Widener Gate and it was like stumbling out of a movie theater. Before we scattered, I was tempted to give the three other passengers a big airport goodbye, but then I realized that I could likely see them soon.
The rest of the afternoon passed like jet lag and quicksand. My roommates weren’t home, which is normal for a Monday at 3 p.m., but I opened the door half-expecting something — a possessive ghost, a droopy-faced Bassett Hound, a long-lost twin — to crash at my feet, panting, “Where have you been?”
— Marella A. Gayla is the Magazine Chair of the 145th Guard. Follow her on Twitter @marellagayla.
Sections
Thaddeus E. Judge III (or Ted, as everyone calls him) wants to show me a magic trick.
We’re sitting in a Cabot Science Library basement study room on a balmy Saturday in October. The library has just opened for the day, so there’s only a gentle murmur of conversation.
“I need you to squeeze those pencils as hard as you can,” Ted says. He hands me two pencils. I begin to squeeze. He keeps insisting — “squeeze, squeeze, squeeze, more, more more,” — and I obey. I squeeze until my fist shakes over the table. Eventually, Ted says he is satisfied with my efforts.
Then he reveals the next step of the trick: “Don’t move, just relax,” he commands. “Don’t do nothing.” He gently removes the pencils from my hand, but my fist stays curled in on itself. “Now,” Ted continues, “very slowly open your hand.”
I attempt to unfurl my fingers. I cannot. I struggle for a moment more, striving to wiggle my cramped digits, and fail again. I concede, laughing.
“That’s the way my body works!” Ted exclaims.
Ted Judge, 61, of Everett, MA, lives with cerebral palsy. His magic trick was meant to be instructive. Cerebral palsy severely limits a person’s ability to move, maintain balance, and control their muscles. It is the most common motor disability experienced by children worldwide, and while symptoms limit mobility in a range of ways, they do not worsen over time.
Ted is confined to a motorized wheelchair, which he uses to tear down hallways and sidewalks at breakneck speed. Ted’s cerebral palsy also affects his “accent,” as he calls it. His tongue is somewhat inflexible, making his speech at times difficult to understand.
Ted has no formal connection to Harvard. But he has become a campus fixture nonetheless.
For more than 40 years, Ted has worked with a series of Harvard undergraduate volunteers for several hours each weekend. While these volunteers are primarily responsible for helping Ted send emails, many of them forge friendships with Ted that continue far beyond their undergraduate careers.
Ted’s affection for the university is evident — he almost always wears a Harvard baseball cap. He is wearing this hat the first time I meet him.

 Apoorva Rangan ’19 is the latest volunteer in the long line of Harvard students who have worked with Ted. The first time Apoorva met Ted, she had no idea what he was saying. “It kind of made me feel like shit, because I couldn't understand him at all,” she says. Her older sister, Ramya Rangan ’16, also helped Ted when she was an undergraduate. Apoorva stepped in to fill her sister’s role after Ramya graduated. In the three years since, Apoorva and Ted have grown close. She is now well-attuned to his speech patterns.
“I think about the times in my week that bring me the most joy and the most satisfaction, and it's definitely — Ted is up there,” Apoorva says. Most of her close friends have met Ted, she adds. “He has a real place in my life.”
When they meet in the Science Center almost every Saturday at noon, Ted dictates emails to Apoorva, who transcribes and sends them out. She also reads emails and other mail aloud to to Ted, whose severe dyslexia makes reading extremely difficult.
Ted’s emails are the concrete reason why he meets with Apoorva every Saturday, but she emphasizes that the weekly gatherings are more than a volunteer opportunity.
“I don't even know what to call it; ‘volunteering’ feels so cheap,” Apoorva says.
Ted originally found Harvard student helpers via Access Boston, a now-defunct Phillips Brooks House Association program that paired undergraduates with residents of the Greater Boston area who live with physical disabilities. When Access Boston collapsed, Ted was left to seek successive volunteers on his own.
The string of students form a precarious chain that already broke once — and could come undone again at any moment.
‘WE HIT IT OFF’
Though Ted has worked with Harvard students for decades, his interactions with students through Access Boston transcended the physical boundaries of Harvard Yard.
Access Boston — meant to help Bostonians with physical disabilities gain greater access to the world around them —, came partly as a response to a law known as the Federal Rehabilitation Act. Passed in 1973, the legislation prohibited organizations that receive federal funding from discriminating against individuals with disabilities.
“My understanding is that Access Boston arose in the early 1970s as a [PBHA] response [to this legislation] to support community people who were looking for access,” says Peter D. O’Driscoll ’84, who both volunteered with Ted and directed the program as an undergraduate.
Ted can’t remember exactly how he got involved with Access Boston. He says his mother was an active member of the Easter Seals (a larger group also providing support for people with disabilities), and he suspects that likely led to his connection with the Harvard program.
Ted now has several personal care assistants who help him with daily tasks — including showering, grocery shopping, cooking and cleaning — so his Harvard volunteers have historically filled a more niche role.
The Access Boston pairings largely manifested as “Big Brother” relationships, Daniel L. Golden ’78 recalls. Golden was the first student Ted worked with; the two met several times a month.
Ted jokingly refers to Golden as a “geek” in recounting their time together. “All the Harvard students were geeks,” says Ted. “I had a great time with them.”
“We hit it off,” Golden says. At the time, Ted was roughly the same age as Golden, then a sophomore in college. On Saturdays, Golden would often drive a PBHA van to Ted’s family home in Medford.
“I can still remember that drive,” he says. “I know where to take a right and a left and everything.” Golden and Ted would then head to a local pool and spend the morning swimming alongside other young adults with disabilities and their accompanying volunteers. After discovering their shared passion for chess, the pair began attending meetings of the Boylston Chess Foundation.
Over the three years they spent together, Ted and Golden became close friends. Golden grew to know Ted’s family — and was touched when they gave him a gift for Christmas or his birthday. “I believe it was aftershave,” he says. “I wasn't the most sophisticated kid and I don't think I'd ever used aftershave before.”
Golden was also on campus when Ted’s mother died of cancer. He attended the funeral. “I remember coming back and sitting in Harvard Yard by a tree just desolated because first of all, she was a really nice person, and second of all, it seemed he didn't deserve another blow.”
Around the time of his mother’s death, Ted moved to Winchester to live with his aunt, who died soon afterward from “a massive heart attack,” Ted says. “It was basically a broken heart.” His father died of a brain aneurysm when he was two years old; Ted says his only memory of his father dates to his own infancy — all the way back to when Ted lay in a crib.
Still, Ted’s “incredible zest for life” was obvious to Golden. “It was ironic; I would show up [to meet with Ted] and I would be depressed because of some relatively minor thing that had happened at school and he would be cheering me up,” Golden says. “And yet I had absolutely nothing to complain about.”

 Ted came to Golden’s Harvard graduation. He has attended the graduations of every single one of his volunteers. He rattles off this track record with pride.
Peter O’Driscoll volunteered with Ted after Golden, starting some time in 1980. O’Driscoll would go to Medford to visit Ted, or the two would meet in Boston; Ted used (and continues to use) The RIDE, the MBTA’s accessible van service. O’Driscoll notes that Ted “loved to come to Harvard,” so sometimes Ted would make the trek to Cambridge. While O’Driscoll typically assisted Ted with administrative tasks — reading mail, paying bills — he notes that “what began as volunteer placement became much more of a friendship… A brotherly relationship.”
FINDING SANCTUARY
While Access Boston lasted, Ted could always count on a new student volunteer to succeed the old. As soon as one volunteer graduated, program staffers paired Ted with another. This support network lasted from the 1970s to the late 1990s.
But, by the early 2000s, Access Boston had fizzled out of existence.
“I really don't know the true cause of the demise of the program,” Ted says. He says he thinks the fact that students ran the program posed certain challenges. Turnover was inherently high. Students’ engagement and involvement eventually petered out.
Anwar E. Omeish ’19, president of PBHA, corroborates Ted’s understanding of the situation. “A lot of it is dependent on student interest,” says Omeish. “If a program is student-led and there are no students to lead it, then that’s a problem.”
As Access Boston began to decline in the mid-1990s, PBHA launched a dramatic restructuring. While the PBHA of today is “student led, staff supported,” as Omeish says, the organization saw little professional oversight until the 1990s, when administrators began taking steps to more closely manage the group.
Uma Nadiminti O’Brien ’97 is one of the last volunteers Ted found through Access Boston. While the program technically remained the same, O’Brien’s interactions with Ted took a different shape. Under the auspices of Access Boston, Golden and O’Driscoll were able to use PBHA vans to pick up Ted and drive away from the Harvard bubble. O’Brien says she never drove a van when volunteering with Ted.
Instead, she remembers meeting Ted at the Science Center. O’Brien helped Ted with his correspondence — letters, cards, and, occasionally, emails — and continued doing so until she graduated. “This was when email was just coming around,” O’Brien remembers.
From at least the mid 1990s until the present day, the Science Center — a building accessible to those with disabilities — has been a mainstay of Ted’s weekend meetings with his volunteers. Across the years, Ted has largely spent time with his volunteers in the same way.

 “I'm there to help him, so whatever he needed help with we would always address that first,” O’Brien says. In large part, this meant serving as the intermediary between Ted and his friends by transcribing heartfelt notes and letters.
“It’s such an intimate thing to go through someone’s correspondence with them, and you learn about the people they’re talking to as much as you learn about them,” says Anne W. Solmssen ’15, another former volunteer.
Still, it is crucial for helpers to understand the intricacies of Ted’s network of friends. “The thing about working with Ted is that you answer emails, but you answer emails that are very much in a social fabric,” Apoorva says. Ted’s network of friends spans the globe: This in part stems from summers Ted spent at a camp for people with disabilities that is run by counselors from around the world.
Volunteers also help Ted with other tasks such as paying bills, and — on a recent Saturday — voting in the 2018 midterm elections. Apoorva aided Ted in filling out his absentee ballot, reading out explanations of the three Massachusetts ballot questions from a voter information guide as she did so. Ted voted Democrat.
“I think he's voted in every election for the last like, 30 years,” Apoorva says.
“I don’t know why people don’t,” says Ted. He later adds, “This is my country, and we have to be involved as much as possible.”
Ted’s weekend meetings may serve a practical purpose — but that in no way impedes his enjoyment of his time on campus. "I just really love coming over here,” he says. “It's like a form of sanctuary.”
Though the dissolution of Access Boston in the late 1990s easily could have torn down this sanctuary, Ted initially found the change navigable. The chain of Ted’s volunteers continued in almost the same manner as before.
Sans Access Boston, the continued existence of Ted’s line of helpers came to depend on the initiative of student participants. Though several volunteers I spoke with from this period could not recall the name of the person who succeeded them, they did remember reaching out over email lists or leveraging current connections to secure their replacements.
The system was fragile. Disruption was inevitable.
THE BREAKDOWN
Early on a Tuesday morning in the fall of 2011, Ted took the bus to Harvard Square from his home in Everett. He positioned himself near Straus Hall and approached a student leaving the dorm: Parinaz Motamedy ’15.
“I was actually having trouble understanding what he was saying to me,” Motamedy says. Ted had anticipated this. He had brought along a piece of paper explaining what he was seeking: a student volunteer who could help him use the computer and send emails for a few hours every weekend.
The chain of volunteers had finally faltered around 2010; Ted doesn’t remember the specific timeline. Two seniors who volunteered with Ted promised that they would find someone to take over for them after they graduated. As Ted describes it, the duo assured him they had plenty of time to find a replacement.
Then they graduated.
“I relied too much on those two seniors back then,” Ted says. (He doesn’t remember their names.) “In the back of my mind, I was hoping beyond hope that they understood, but they didn't understand the magnitude of the situation.”
Ted was left in limbo. Eventually, he took matters into his own hands:. He printed out flyers seeking volunteers and hung them around Harvard Yard. Each time he hung the posters, though, someone tore them down. Ted feared his efforts were futile.
He saw two options before him: either take out an ad in The Crimson or begin directly approaching students. He decided on option two — which brought him to Straus Hall on that Tuesday morning.
Motamedy did not know Ted and had never seen him before. Nonetheless, she “pretty much agreed immediately” to do the job, she says.
Ted was delighted. “Fireworks were going off,” he says.
“I think I was really impressed by his initiative,” Motamedy says. “It was simultaneously that he was independent in approaching me and asking for help on his own behalf, and also that he was able to ask for help when he needed it.”
Soon after, Motamedy invited a friend, Anne Solmssen, to accompany her to a Saturday meeting with Ted. The trio quickly bonded, and both women continued to volunteer with Ted for the rest of their undergraduate careers.
Ted attributes his perseverance in seeking out a new chain of volunteers to a bestselling self-help book called “The Secret,” which suggests that thinking about certain things can make them appear in one’s life. Ted lives by this philosophy.
“I knew some way, somehow, I would find that person,” Ted says.
‘WHEREVER I GO, THEY GO.’
A lot had changed — in the world and on Harvard’s campus — since Ted’s “Big Brother” relationships with Golden and O’Driscoll in the late 1970s and 1980s. One thing was no different: the indelible personal connection Ted soon forged with his volunteers.
Birthday messages form a particularly important part of Ted’s correspondence with his friends. Most Saturdays now, he asks Apoorva whether any of his friends have upcoming birthdays.
“All he really wanted was somebody to help him say happy birthday to his friends and let them know that he's thinking of them, and he doesn't let barriers — technological or otherwise — come between his friendship with these people,” Motamedy says. “People have lots of excuses not to keep in contact and fall out of touch and he really made none of those excuses. He made it work.”
Ted’s dedication to staying in touch has strengthened his friendships with volunteers. “Part of the reason I got to know him so well was through writing his correspondence to other people,” Lisa G. Lederer ’03 says.
Lederer began working with Ted halfway through her sophomore year. Earlier that year, Lederer took a medical leave: she had been in a severe car accident that led to a brain injury. Because of this experience, Lederer became interested in disability advocacy. An older friend saw her as a perfect candidate to work with Ted, and Lederer took over the reins.
When Lederer got married in Boston several years after graduation, she invited Ted. This trip marked the second time he attended the wedding of a former volunteer. The first was Uma O’Brien’s, which she describes as a “big Indian wedding” at which Ted met many of her friends and family members.
The third instance came early this October, when Ted traveled with a personal care assistant to Vermont, where Anne Solmssen, one of his former helpers, tied the knot.
Solmssen called Ted when she sent out her wedding invitations, informing him she would love to have him attend but understood if the attendant challenges were insurmountable. The location wasn’t perfectly accessible — her wedding took place in the backyard of a farmhouse, or “in Vermont in a field,” as Solmssen describes it.

 “Ted basically said, ‘Don’t be silly, I wouldn’t miss it,’ and basically did absolutely everything he needed to make sure that he could be there, and be at every venue of the wedding and celebrate with me,” Solmssen says. “It just meant so much to me.”
Ted and his volunteers share a mutual investment in each other’s’ lives. “They all have a special place in my heart,” Ted says. “Wherever I go, they go.”
Anar D. Shah ’06 began volunteering with Ted during her sophomore year; she says this feeling became clear to her almost immediately. “He just took an interest in my life,” Shah says.
The two keep in touch periodically. Ted made special note of the fact that Shah is an emergency room doctor when he described her to me. When I repeated this to Shah, she was struck by the fact he remembered the specifics of her career over a decade after her graduation.
“I don’t expect him to remember things like that, but he does,” she says.
Many of the volunteers I talked to describe receiving periodic birthday cards from Ted, always stuffed with personal details. “I try to stay in touch with as many as I can,” says Ted. His dedication to his volunteers, past and present, is clear.
“It just takes a long time [for me] to do things, so I’m very grateful,” says Ted of his volunteers.
Still — remembering his experience with the two students who graduated without finding replacements — Ted says he knows the situation is precarious.
Ensuring the chain of Harvard students continues is a “constant thought,” he says.
UP IN THE AIR
On Saturday, Oct. 20, I wait outside with Ted for his ride. We leave the Science Center around 1:30 p.m. and head to the corner of Oxford Street. Along the way, he demonstrates his technical wheelchair prowess by popping wheelies and turning in tight circles in front of the Science Center entrance before speeding down the sidewalk.
The RIDE, the MBTA’s “shared-ride paratransit system”, is slated to arrive slightly after 1:30. We continue chatting as people stream by.
Around 2 p.m., Ted gives me a phone number to call and I ask the dispatcher for the status of his ride. They say it’s only a few minutes away. Ted is skeptical. Fifteen minutes later, the van arrives. Its door unfurls, revealing a ramp-like mechanism that positions Ted’s wheelchair inside the vehicle. Ted boards the van, I wave, and we part ways — 45 minutes later than we’d planned.

 Ted has relied on The RIDE for decades. It operates like a carpool — and, like almost any shared ride system, is prone to delays and scheduling issues. Customers must schedule rides at least one day in advance, and they receive confirmation of their ride the night before.
Though Ted is fiercely independent — “He’s nothing if not a self-advocate,” O’Driscoll says — his physical condition often forces him to depend on things outside his control.
The process by which his student volunteers transfer responsibilities marks another thing outside Ted’s control.
Anne Solmssen, whom Parinaz Motamedy recruited, remembers soliciting volunteers over a small email list. She was the one who found Ramya Rangan.
“Despite how fortuitous it was that we ended up finding each other the way we did, we really did not want to make him go back to the Yard to meet more strangers,” Solmssen says.
Luckily for then-senior Ramya, her sister Apoorva — then a freshman — was clearly next in line. Apoorva had long tagged along to Ramya’s weekly meetings with Ted. “I didn’t really think about saying no,” Apoorva says.
Now Apoorva is graduating — and she is looking for a successor. She has already begun introducing friends to Ted and asking them to watch for freshmen who might be interested. Apoorva says has not yet formally asked anyone if they would be interested in volunteering.
“How do you say that in a way that doesn’t just make it look like a chore or a task? How do you convince someone to be a friend with someone? I don’t know,” she says.
She has also reached out to the PBHA chapter of Best Buddies and Best Buddies of Massachusetts in hopes of securing a long-term volunteer, she says.
Ted says he knows the future of his volunteers is up in the air. His rapport with Apoorva is lighthearted and comfortable, but neither can avoid the fact that Apoorva’s graduation date looms in the distance.
Laughing, Apoorva recounts how Ted will often tell her “Girl, you better get on this!” But making the “sell” can prove difficult, she says.
“I don't know how to find someone who'll see him in the same way that I do,” Apoorva says. “It almost feels like matchmaking, a little bit, or like [having] auditions, almost, and people have come in and worked with him for a week and I don't know if it’s good enough, because I want him to be happy, but it's also so hard to find someone on this campus who'll do something without a title attached to it.”
Volunteering with Ted is a unique undertaking that necessitates a unique commitment: “consistency in combination with informality,” as Apoorva puts it. Informality like this can seem difficult to spot in Harvard’s often pre-professional extracurricular scene.
Apoorva remains optimistic.
“Hopefully, by the end of the semester there will be someone set up,” she says.
—Magazine writer Norah M. Murphy can be reached at norah.murphy@thecrimson.com Follow her on Twitter @norah_murph.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard Management Company, the firm that oversees the University's multi-billion dollar endowment, recently invested in “at least one cryptocurrency fund,” according to a report published by The Information last month.
HMC, which declined to comment, joined several other big-name universities — including Stanford and MIT — in choosing to invest in cryptocurrency, The Information reported. CNBC previously reported that Yale University, whose endowment is led by David F. Swensen, invested in Andreessen Horowitz’s first cryptocurrency fund, as well as in Paradigm, a new cryptocurrency fund.
Matt Huang, Paradigm’s co-founder, declined to comment, as did a representative for Andreessen Horowitz.
N.P. “Narv” Narvekar, who took over as HMC’s CEO in December 2016, wrote in the 2018 iteration of his annual letter that he is “not pleased” with this year’s returns, which clocked in at 10 percent. Only Columbia University, which posted 9 percent returns, lagged behind Harvard among the school's Ivy League peers.
Investing in cryptocurrency — a newcomer to the financial world — is widely considered to be a risky move given the currency exists entirely online. While cryptocurrenty investments produced some skyrocketing gains early on, investors lost billions of dollars in a crash earlier this year.
In his annual letter to Harvard affiliates, Narvekar wrote that “asset allocation — or risk level — was the dominant factor in the overall returns.” He also wrote that he “will soon engage the HMC board of directors in conversation to determine Harvard’s risk appetite.”
A move to invest in cryptocurrency seems to signal that "risk appetite" is relatively high.
Michael Sonnenshein, a managing director at digital currency investment firm Grayscale Investments, dismissed the notion that endowments’ investments in cryptocurrency expose the groups to an inordinate amount of risk.
“Most endowments are already in the high risk assets, be it venture capital or other investments that have high risk-reward profiles,” he said.
Sonnenshein, who said several universities have chosen to invest their endowments in Grayscale products, said investors are seeking cryptocurrency opportunities because it helps to diversify holdings. He also said his firm has noticed a recent uptick in schools’ interest in cryptocurrency.
“Over the last 9 to 12 months, there's definitely been a material change in the level of engagement that my team has had with endowments, pensions, and other large institutional investors,” he said.
Robert J. Shiller, a Nobel Prize-winning Yale economist, said endowments’ willingness to invest in cryptocurrency does not equate to a full-throated endorsement of the digital asset.
“What I imagine happened at Harvard Management and Yale is that somebody came and gave a presentation from one of these funds and showed how there seems to be inefficiencies in this market and they can benefit from that,” he said. “It wasn't giving them an endorsement. It was hoping to buy and sell at a higher price later.”
Shiller, who called cryptocurrency a “high-risk investment,” cautioned against pouring large sums of money into cryptocurrency funds.
“Yale, according to David Swenson, in the early nineteenth century put its whole endowment into one bank called the Eagle Bank and it went bankrupt,” he said. “They don't do that anymore. I think crypto is much riskier than the Eagle Bank.”
—Staff writer Andrew J. Zucker can be reached at andrew.zucker@thecrimson. com. Follow him on Twitter @AndrewJZucker.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
John Hopkins University professor Martha S. Jones spoke about the history of birthright citizenship in the United States at an event held at the Harvard Law School Wednesday.
The talk, hosted by the Charles Hamilton Houston Institute for Race and Justice, garnered a crowd of about 75 attendees. Jones, who teaches history, also discussed her book “Birthright Citizens: A History of Race and Rights in Antebellum America,” which she published in May.
Dean of the Radcliffe Institute for Advanced Study Tomiko Brown-Nagin introduced Jones and said the topic of the talk is “timely” given President Donald Trump’s announcement last week that he is considering an executive order that would end birthright citizenship in the United States. Under current policies, birthright citizenship means all individuals born on American soil are granted citizen status regardless of their parentage.
“When we invited Martha as a speaker earlier this year, we had no idea that we would be in this political moment,” Brown-Nagin said.
When Jones stepped up to the podium, she said she did not expect her book to be released during what she called “a humanitarian crisis.”
“I don’t think there’s anything funny about President Trump shaking the executive order and threatening people, their lives, their homes, their communities, their families,” Jones said later in the talk.
Jones detailed how members of historically marginalized racial groups struggled to obtain citizenship rights before and after the Civil War.
“The 14th Amendment largely resolved the citizenship dilemma faced by former slaves,” Jones said. “It did less well for U.S.-born children of immigrants who, in the 19th century and today, face questions about where they are situated along our nation’s borders of belonging.”
Jones cited several key flashpoints in the history of citizenship, including the Chinese Exclusion Act of 1882 — a law that barred the immigration of Chinese laborers to the United States until 1943 — and the mid-1800s forced removal of Native American tribes from the southeastern United States known as the Trial of Tears.
Jones listed a series of legislative acts that have thus far sedimented birthright citizenship as law. She said many Americans in the 21st century “take [birthright citizenship] for granted" — but added the policy has had a long and troubled history.
“Birthright has always required careful interpretation and faced outright challenges,” Jones said.
After her speech, Jones took questions from the audience. At one point, she told a questioner she does not have a “fix” for all issues related to citizenship today’s political climate, especially given Trump’s announcement.
“Hope for the best and prepare for the worst,” she said.
She added, though, that she hopes her book “illuminates what we need to know in this political moment.”
“There’s no shame in 2018 in being someone and being of a community who is outside, in essence, looking to get in,” Jones said. “That is as American as any story, that is part of our history.”
Jeanne M. Pickering, a local resident who attended the event, said she was impressed by Jones’ knowledge of historical debates surrounding citizenship.
“It’s good to hear her talk about what the role she sees of historians in today’s controversies,” Pickering said.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Jack J. Lew ’78, Secretary of the Treasury and White House Chief of Staff under former U.S. President Barack Obama, spoke Wednesday at Harvard Law School about how his Jewish background and beliefs have informed his political pursuits.
Lew argued that public servants’ commitment to the nation’s interests should take precedence over their personal religious beliefs.
“The sole governing principle for a US public official should be how to best serve the United States and the American people,” regardless of the official’s faith background, he said. While Lew stressed prioritizing American interest over religious beliefs, he also highlighted the role religion can play in politics.
His talk formed one in a series given as part of the annual Alan and Elisabeth Doft lectures, which are co-sponsored by Harvard Law School and Harvard’s Center for Jewish Studies. Dozens of Harvard undergraduate and graduate students, University faculty, Cambridge residents, and students from Boston-area colleges attended Lew's speech.
Lew said he has often reflected on the relationship between public service and private beliefs over the course of a decades-long career in government.
“What I bring is a practical perspective based on many years of balancing responsibility at the highest levels of public service and a private life defined by tradition,” he said.
Lew said he melded his Jewish heritage with his political career. He noted that he continued to strictly observe the Jewish holiday of Shabbat while serving in both President Bill Clinton and Obama’s administrations.
“Seeking answers always occurs through the lens of the values that define who each of us is,” Lew said.
Faith has the potential to be “an enormously positive influence” on American public policy and policymakers, he said. He argued public servants who successfully integrate their faith into their work can “reflect universal principles familiar across diverse beliefs.”
After his lecture, Lew held a public conversation with Law School professor Noah R. Feldman ’92. The two discussed how Democrats and Republicans alike can draw on the same set of religious beliefs when defending their divergent political views.
Cambridge resident Mark H. Mulgay, who attended the talk, said he felt encouraged by Lew’s message.
“One has to find a certain balance between what one might consider religious obligations and one’s obligations in terms of their particular government, their community,” he said. “Jack Lew and his work really exemplify someone who strikes that balance.”
Attendee Diane T. Shrenzel, a student at Wellesley, said she agreed.
“Hearing about the experiences of someone who worked so closely with the president and who was able to articulate how he managed that not only with his observance but also with his beliefs,” she said.
Boris Davidov ’19, another attendee who said he hopes to follow Lew’s example as a Jewish public servant, said he felt inspired by the lecture. He said it was particularly meaningful to hear Lew discuss his Jewish faith with pride in the weeks after a shooting at a Pittsburgh synagogue left 11 dead.
“I’m incredibly pleased to see he is a very proud and observant Jew,” Davidov said. “Especially in the wake of what happened in Pittsburgh last week, the Jewish community needs people like Jack Lew to show that in spite of the hate that they receive they can still stand as proud Jews with power and integrity and hope for a better future.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Though some smaller details remain undecided, the School of Engineering and Applied Sciences is still set to complete its long-awaited move into Allston by September 2020, according to Dean of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences Claudine Gay.
“It's all on track and on time. Everyone's operating under the assumption that Fall 2020, it's going to be going back and forth [between the two campuses],” Gay said in an interview Wednesday.
Gay inherited the task of migrating a large portion of FAS across the river from former FAS Dean Michael D. Smith. Harvard recently put the final steel beam on the $1 billion-plus SEAS complex slated to house more than 1,800 researchers, students and faculty. Before stepping down over the summer, Smith met with the deans of SEAS and the Sciences to discuss the new campus, according to Gay.
After taking on the deanship this August, Gay began having her own conversations. She has held informal chats with SEAS faculty about how the move to Allston will affect individual SEAS departments.
She said the discussions have so far centered primarily on moving the school, which Gay has called “Phase One” of longer-term plans to develop the new Allston campus.
“I've actually been mainly having more informal conversations with SEAS faculty and thinking about what the expansion to Allston will mean, both kind of logistically about getting back and forth but also intellectually,” Gay said. “Phase One is just an extension of SEAS over to Allston as opposed to involving other parts of the University or the FAS for the time being. But who knows what Phase Two will hold.”
FAS has already begun making preparations for the opening of the new campus. Harvard rolled out a new schedule in preparation for the shift meant toallow students to move between campuses in the same class day.
Once the SEAS departments move to Allston, many current buildings will be left empty. Gay said that, as of now, she has no concrete plans for what to do with the empty space — though she called it a "once-in-a-century opportunity."
“This is not Stanford that seems to be tripping on land. Cambridge is, we are, very compressed on this side,” Gay said. “So when you get square footage open up at this scale, you want to make sure you're thinking in a really creative, frankly visionary way about how you use that space and how you make that space align with both current as well as emerging academic needs.”
Gay also noted that administrators probably won't decide the fate of the newly vacated spaces right after the move.
“It's hard to imagine kind of having a plan ready to go in 18 months because they're moving in 18 months,” Gay said. “So it seems very unlikely that we'll be up and ready to go that quickly.”
Gay said she sees the Allston campus as more than just an engineering hub for Harvard.
“I imagine that it will not be unlike this side of the river where it's mixed use... it's not just, say, sciences and SEAS. We also have humanities and social sciences so maybe we'll have something like that over there as well,” Gay said. “It's not just academic departments but it's also housing, and there are also restaurants, and there's daycare.”
—Staff writer Angela N. Fu can be reached at angela.fu@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @angelanfu.
—Staff writer Lucy Wang can be reached at lucy.wang@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @lucyyloo22
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Voters between the ages of 18 and 29 were absolutely crucial to the Democratic takeover of the House of Representatives, according to a Harvard Institute of Politics analysis of the 2018 midterm elections conducted and released Wednesday.
Thirty-one percent of voters under 30 voted in the 2018 election, according to the Center for Information and Research on Civil Learning and Engagement at Tufts University. Voters in this age bracket made up approximately 13 percent of the electorate, with exit polls showing that this younger voting bloc preferred Democratic candidates by a 31 point margin.
In the 2014 midterm elections, by comparison, young voters represented 10 percent of the national electorate. Republicans have held the House since 2010 and still maintain their control over the United States Senate after Tuesday’s elections.
"Young Americans have made a choice to become more active participants in our democracy, and that might be one of the only benefits of our increasingly divided country,” IOP Director of Polling John Della Volpe wrote in a press release announcing the study. “During the midterm season young voters were a critical force in flipping the House and engaged at levels not seen in generations.”
The results follow findings from the fall 2018 IOP young voter poll that showed 40 percent of respondents were likely to cast a ballot in the midterm elections — double the recorded turnout of 19.9 percent for 18- to 29-year-olds in the 2014 midterm elections, per census data.
Young voters also turned out in high numbers during early and absentee voting, according to the IOP analysis. The number of voters under 30 who voted early this year rose more than did the number of early voters belonging to any other age group in the electorate. The percentage of early voters under 30 spiked from 5.39 percent in 2014 to 8.67 percent in 2018 — a difference of more than 2.1 million votes.
Della Volpe also said young voters played a “crucial role” in giving Democrats an edge in the Nevada Senate race, Texas’s 23rd congressional district, and Georgia’s 6th congressional district. He said that, had young voter turnout remained at levels seen in previous midterms, these seats “would likely not have flipped from Republican to Democratic control.”
The IOP analysis also noted that young voters caused the Texas Senate race — in which incumbent Ted Cruz faced off against El Paso congressman Beto O’Rourke — to be more competitive than polls had presaged. Cruz ultimately won re-election.
Theodore “Teddy” N. Landis ’20, student chair of the Harvard Public Opinion Project, said this year's increased young voter turnout sets the bar high for future elections.
“I do think this sets a precedent that our politicians will need to listen to young people in the future,” Landis said. “We're a demographic group with distinct policy preferences, and they'd be wise to pay attention to that."
Della Volpe wrote in the press release that the youngest American voters “seem prepared to further engage in politics and policy.” He also noted that young voters are demanding “a more progressive domestic agenda” including gun control legislation.
“We fully expect that they will play a significant role in shaping our country's future through their commitment to service and renewed interest in politics,” Della Volpe wrote.
Correction: Nov. 11, 2018
A previous version of this article incorrectly stated the IOP found that 31 percent of voters under 30 voted in the 2018 election. In fact, the Center for Information and Research on Civil Learning and Engagement at Tufts University found the statistic, which an IOP memo later reported.
— Staff writer Alexandra A. Chaidez can be reached at alexandra.chaidez@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @a_achaidez.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The College’s amnesty policy — which grants intoxicated students under 21 exemption from punishment in certain cases — will “definitely” be in effect during the Harvard-Yale football game at Fenway Park on Nov. 17, Athletics Director Robert L. Scalise said in an interview last week.
The policy dictates that students who approach Harvard employees to seek help for themselves or for intoxicated friends will not be punished for underage drinking. It does not cover other inappropriate or illegal actions students commit while drunk, however, and the College cannot prevent local or state authorities from arresting students for other crimes.
The Harvard University Police Department will work the Boston Police Department to provide security at The Game. BPD will have “ultimate jurisdiction,” though, because The Game will be played at Fenway in Boston, Scalise said.
The location of The Game this year marks a break with tradition — the match-up typically takes place at Harvard Stadium when the two teams face off in Cambridge. Harvard and Yale alternate hosting The Game every year. Administrators have said they decided to hold Harvard-Yale at Fenway, the home field of the Boston Red Sox, to accommodate “restoration work” at the Stadium.
HUPD spokesperson Steven G. Catalano wrote in an email that one “HUPD command-level supervisor” will be stationed at Fenway to liaise with both BPD and Fenway security officers.
The College’s amnesty policy only applies when students seek medical assistance from Harvard employees. BPD is under no obligation to grant underaged students amnesty if they are drunk. BPD did not reply to an email Wednesday asking how officers would respond if they encounter intoxicated and underage College students at The Game.
The Athletics Department hopes officers and Harvard employees can “intervene in a situation before it escalates,” Scalise said. The Game typically marks a day of heavy drinking for many undergraduates.
Some logistical details of this year's Harvard-Yale matchup are still being ironed out, Scalise said last week. In particular, Scalise said he is still “working out the final details” of what will happen if students need to be transported to a hospital.
Dean of the College Rakesh Khurana said in an interview Monday that the Dean of Students Office and the Athletic Department will soon send an email to students detailing the College’s protocols for medical care at The Game.
Harvard will also work with Boston authorities to set up a medical tent at Fenway, Scalise said. Staff from Harvard University Health Services will work with Fenway medical personnel to treat any students who need medical attention.
“The goal of what we're doing is to create a great event for our Harvard and Yale communities, to create an event that is safe and an event that honors the contributions of all the people who are participating and is respectful for our neighbors,” Khurana said.
The Game's relocation to Fenway has proven controversial on campus. Some undergraduates have said they are frustrated that, per Fenway policy, game attendees will be required to sit in assigned seating.
Later, so many students tried to sell their College-allotted tickets that administrators sent emailed rebukes reminding undergraduates that ticket scalping violates Athletics Department policy.
—Staff writer Caroline S. Engelmayer can be reached at caroline.engelmayer@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @cengelmayer13.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
It was October 2016 and Grant S. Solomon ’18 and Alexander T. Moore ’18 were determined. They planned to vie that fall for the presidency and vice presidency of the Undergraduate Council — Harvard's student government body — and they fully intended to win.
Neither had previously served on the Council, but they nonetheless believed their message could appeal to voters. They felt the UC needed fresh new faces in order to better meet students' needs. So the duo threw their hats in the ring and assumed they would be treated just like any other candidate pair.
But, looking back two years later, Moore said that assumption quickly proved misguided. The student body at large — and in particular, student groups who dole out coveted endorsements to candidates — largely disregarded what Moore viewed as his ticket’s strengths.
“I just felt like we were written off from the beginning,” he said.
Most years, UC members are disproportionately overrepresented in the bevy of candidates competing for the Council’s presidency and vice presidency — and they've achieved disproportionate success to match. Since the Council began popularly electing its leaders in 1996, non-UC members have claimed victory only once.
Now, five years after non-UC pranksters Samuel B. Clark ’15 and Gus A. Mayopolous ’15 earned the student body’s highest elected offices for the first time in its history, more outsiders are competing for the Council's two top jobs than in any UC election in over a decade. Current and recent candidates, though, continue to wonder if the barriers for non-UC members remain too high to overcome.
Currier House resident Daniel K. Ragheb ’20, an outsider running for president in this fall’s election, said he spent the first few weeks of his campaign uncertain and anxious over what he was allowed to do per the Council's election rules. He agonized over possible penalties he might incur by unwittingly violating UC guidelines.
Ragheb contacted the UC's election commission, but — at the time drastically understaffed — it failed to respond to his questions in a timely manner. When he checked the Council's website, he found it largely devoid of content. Ragheb said his campaign felt left in the dark about election policies — especially when it came to seeking student group support.
“How do I know what I’m doing is legal or illegal?” was the question that dominated the early days of his campaign, he said.
The lack of information nearly “scared” Ragheb out of running. Ultimately, though, he received replies from the commission in time to figure things out. Ragheb says the process taught him a lesson.
“I think there’s a higher barrier of entry” for outsiders running for UC president, he said. Ragheb pointed out that Council insiders probably already know the body's campaign rules and may have more direct access to UC policies.
Several past candidates agreed that outsiders face various institutional hurdles in seeking UC leadership positions.
A second obstacle pops up well before voting starts. To appear on the ballot, prospective candidates must gather 150 signatures within about a week. That figure can be burdensome for non-UC members; outsiders typically lack a base of support from within their house given they have never before campaigned for office.
“It’s an unnecessary bar that privileges existing UC members,” said Conor Healy ’19, who ran unsuccessfully as an outsider candidate in the 2017 election. “I’m sure it was devised to limit the number of tickets, but it’s not as though there is a deluge of people running to be UC leadership.”
Current UC Vice President Nicholas D. Boucher ’19 defended the petition requirement, which is detailed in the Council’s bylaws.
“I don’t think the number of signatures gives any advantage to one group over another and it helps to ensure that candidates appearing on the ballot are serious,” Boucher wrote in a text message. “I am not currently considering amending section 74.1 of the Bylaws.”
Stephen T. Moon ’20, vice president of the Open Data Project, a faculty-student group that has analyzed past UC elections, suggested that previous experience campaigning marks another key advantage for presidential candidates. He said that, given students are randomly sorted into upperclassmen houses, a candidate who previously won a UC election in their house is more likely to appeal to a wider swath of the electorate.
“You have to have a message that appeals to a random selection of 400 undergrads,” he said. “Presumably, if you can appeal to a majority of people in [a house], you can appeal to a majority of sophomores through seniors.”
Another possible explanation for why insiders have fared so wel in the past, according to Boucher, is that those with UC experience are simply more energetic about the Council and willing to put in the necessary time and effort to win,
“I think there is a certain amount of skew in who has been on the UC before and who has not, in that I think the students that oftentimes feel very passionately about the issues they care about or about something they want to use the student government to do at Harvard College, oftentimes choose to get involved in the UC early on in their careers,” he said in an interview last week.
Student group endorsements mark a key twist in the path to the UC presidency.
Most candidates vying for the Council’s top elected offices — in addition to trying to convince individual voters of their merits — attempt to win the support of student groups.
Moon said data from past elections shows club endorsements are “often consistent” with victory. He cautioned, though, that this could be because clubs choose to endorse candidates who are already likely to win.
“I’m not totally sure that those endorsements are necessarily predictive and it might be in fact that they’re getting endorsed because organizations are seeing that so many people in their organization like them and that’s just because they’re overall very popular,” he said.
Boucher said the endorsements he and running mate Catherine L. Zhang ’19 received during the 2017 election helped to “bolster credibility” and “foster engagement” with student organizations.
For outsiders, though, these expressions of support from student groups can be difficult to obtain. Moore said he feels that groups did not give him an equal shot at winning their endorsements when he ran in 2016.
“I understand that we don’t have the experience and maybe we don’t come off as people who would make good candidates just on paper, but that’s why you do give us chances to talk, right?” he said. “And again, I really thought we put our best foot forward, we gave good responses, we cared about issues, and it felt like the groups didn't really listen.”
Moore also pointed to The Crimson Editorial Board’s UC endorsement process as one that seemed to favor insiders. The paper's Editorial Board typically endorses one ticket each year after interviewing all contenders. The Crimon's Editorial and News Boards do not coordinate coverage and maintain a strict separation in staff and management.
“It didn’t feel like we were given a chance, even from the second we walked in there,” Moore said of his interview with Editorial Board members during the 2016 election. “It felt like no matter what we said, they weren’t really going to respect what we said because we didn’t have the experience.”
While the endorsement article that year outlined the platforms of the other three tickets running for UC leadership, The Crimson’s Editorial Board did not mention Moore or Solomon.
Ryan P. O’Meara ’18, an Editorial Board Chair at the time, did not respond to a request for comment about the board’s decision-making process at the time.
Endorsements from fellow UC members can also provide significant organizing power, according to Healy.
“A ticket composed of UC members has an automatic pool of support from which they can draw to supplement their campaign efforts: the other members of the UC,” Healy wrote in an email. “We just didn’t have that same level of campaign organizing ability.”
Analysis from the Open Data Project suggests, however, that endorsements from sitting representatives may not be as decisive. The group points to the 2016 election, in which victors Yasmin Z. Sachee ’18 and Cameron K. Khansarinia ’18 received ten endorsements from fellow Council members, compared to 11 for third-place finishers Scott Ely ’18 and Evan M. Bonsall ’19.
One of the likely reasons outsiders have almost universally failed to win the student body’s highest elected offices, though, is quite simple: non-UC members have not appeared on the ballot at rates comparable to students with previous Council experience.
Between 2009 and 2011, all 12 candidates who competed for the Council’s top positions had already served on the Council, some for multiple years.
In every presidential election since 2012, at least one outsider has appeared on the ballot, but they have collectively comprised only 18 of 50 presidential and vice presidential candidates during that period.
Healy said the lack of outsiders running for Council leadership may be in part due to widespread cynicism among undergraduates about the body’s work. In last year’s presidential election, only 2,074 students — less than one-third of the student body — cast ballots, representing the lowest voter turnout since the Council began popularly electing its leaders.
“I’m not convinced that the student body puts very much stock in the UC, or thinks about it very much because of its profound structural inadequacies,” Healy wrote in an email. “As a result, there probably wasn’t a broad consensus for change.”
Boucher wrote in an emailed statement that Healy’s criticism is largely unfounded.
“While I appreciate and welcome any criticism of the UC, I challenge anyone making sweeping claims of profound structural inadequacies,” he wrote. “The UC is Harvard’s student government, and the decisions made by the UC have real effects on all students.”
As campaign season kicks off for this year’s election, it remains to be seen whether an outsider can break through and declare victory for just the second time in Council history.
Correction: Nov. 9, 2018
A previous version of this article incorrectly indicated that Undergraduate Council president and vice president candidates Scott Ely '18 and Evan M. Bonsall '19 finished in second place in the 2016 election. In fact, they finished in third place.
— Staff writer Jonah S. Berger can be reached at jonah.berger@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @jonahberger98.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard has been in the news a lot lately — even for Harvard.
The three-week-long Harvard admissions trial that wrapped up in Boston last week riveted the nation as lawyers for the University and anti-affirmative action group Students for Fair Admissions did loud and long battle in the courtroom. The trial unearthed long-kept secrets of the College’s admissions process — including revelations about the school's preferential treatment of donor-linked applicants, its favoritism of legacy students, and detailed breakdowns of its admit rates by race.
The trial dominated news cycles, earning front-page coverage from national outlets and spurring newspapers including the New York Times and the Wall Street Journal to publish articles explaining how Harvard evaluates high schoolers.
Despite all the attention and scrutiny, though, public relations predict Harvard's brand will emerge from the case unscathed and intact.
At stake in the trial is whether or not the College's race-conscious admissions policies have led the school to illegally discriminate against Asian-American applicants. SFFA first alleged this when it sued the University four years ago. Judge Allison D. Burroughs’s verdict is still many months away — though analysts have said that, no matter how she rules, the disappointed party will likely appeal.
Public relations professional Joseph A. Brennan, who writes about higher education communications, said that “to know for sure” how the trial affected perceptions of the University, Harvard would have to conduct extensive public opinion research. But Harvard — which has cultivated its brand over 400 years and across seven continents — has virtually immunized itself to public outcry, he said.
“Brands are built up over a long period of time,” Brennan said. “It takes something extraordinary or a steady drip of a lot of negativity to erode it.”
Wynne Communications founder Robert Wynne, who has advised universities including MIT and Johns Hopkins, was unequivocal. The trial will have “zero effect” on Harvard’s brand, he said.
Wynne pointed to high-profile sex abuse scandals in the past several decades at Penn State, University of Southern California, and Michigan State as the kind of story that could seriously damage public perceptions of a college or university.
Wynne and Brennan said the trial is also unlikely to change perceptions of Harvard’s admissions processes or of affirmative action more broadly — both said they think details that emerged during the lawsuit will merely reinforce the beliefs of onlookers on both sides.
“There’s some confirmation bias that comes into play here. Someone that believes Harvard discriminates looks at this as confirming it,” Brennan said. “On the other hand, if someone believes Harvard is trying to be inclusive they can find evidence to confirm their belief.”
“Not a single person will have their opinion changed,” Wynne said.
Harvard will likely also benefit from a fast-paced news cycle that ensures that nothing remains in the headlines for long, experts said.
Andrew Careaga — who works as the Executive Director of Marketing and Communications at Missouri University of Science and Technology — wrote in an email that, even in recent days, national news coverage of Harvard appears to have shifted away from the admissions trial.
“But based on a couple of Google Trends searches of the keyword ‘Harvard’ I conducted this morning – one search for mentions during the last 30 days and one for mentions during the last 7 days – queries related to the trial have fallen off the radar,” he wrote.
—Staff writer Shera S. Avi-Yonah can be reached at shera.avi-yonah@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter at @saviyonah.
— Staff writer Cindy H. Zhang can be reached at cindy.zhang@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered

 Yesterday was a good day for me. No, not because my political candidates won in the midterm elections, but mostly because I got to sit back and watch how bad the “experts” are at predicting things. Makes my 11-7 record here look pretty good, huh?
Anyway, the News staff here keeps telling me if I want people to read my columns, I need to talk about things people care about (like politics), as I’ve been told Harvard students don’t care about sports. I wasn’t so sure until a girl in my section asked me if the Texas Rangers still rode horses and shot people.
I, of course, replied in the affirmative.
But in order to draw in these marginalized readers, I’m increasing my vocabulary to include some buzz words. This week, there’s a potential blue wave in Columbia, a solid chance Princeton trumps Yale, and we’ll get to see if Cornell can protect its house.
Without further ado, to the picks:
COLUMBIA AT BROWN
In his college days at Columbia, Texas senatorial candidate Beto O’Rourke served as the captain of the men’s heavyweight crew team. This week wasn’t his best, which doesn’t bode well for Columbia’s blue wave.
With regard to Brown, Harvard made the quick trek down to Providence to challenge the Bears in the second week of the season. Of course, the Crimson trashed, 31-17, its opponent in the “rivalry” game. After the final whistle, in a press conference speech worthy of a Ridley Scott film, Brown junior tri-captain Michael Hoecht made a bold assertion.
“You take out that first quarter of the game, we beat that team, 100 percent. Even the first 10 minutes,” Hoecht said. “We all know it.”
He’s probably right. Also, if you take out the first three quarters from last week’s Bears match with Yale and divide the Bulldog’s fourth quarter score in half, Brown wins that game, 100 percent of the time.
I’m not going to lie, sitting through the Bears press conference in week two put me, and my co-writer, squarely in the Brown bandwagon. He jumped off last week and then proceeded to declare “that Columbia may be doomed for all eternity. I have learned that Brown may be in the same predicament.”
That makes this week’s game the contest of the eternally condemned. In the battle of the league’s worst, I’ll stick to my guns — I am from Texas after all.
Brown by 3
DARTMOUTH AT CORNELL
Speaking of condemnation and Hell, Dartmouth is travelling to Ithaca, N.Y., this week — a road game to make even the formidably Big Green defense tremble in fear. The last person that was documented actually wanting to travel to Ithaca was Odysseus, and that’s a myth.
Is it because the Big Red is good at home? Not particularly — just don’t talk to any Harvard players. It’s because there’s only one respectable establishment within 100 miles of Ithaca, N.Y., and it isn’t Cornell — it’s Collegetown Bagels.
So far this season, the Big Red’s biggest win has come against the Crimson. In addition to a win against Brown, Cornell doesn’t have much to show for the season.
Dartmouth, on the other hand, has one of the top five defenses in the nation. On Saturday, the Big Green held the dynamic Princeton offense — which averaged 50.7 points per game prior to the afternoon contest — to 14 points.
Regardless, Dartmouth football can’t even boast the best defense in Hanover. That title belongs to the college’s legal team, which just won an appeal to the the New Hampshire Supreme Court allowing the school to build a new indoor practice facility.
Tuesday’s courtroom win is undoubtedly prophetic.
Dartmouth by 12
HARVARD AT PENN
I know the question that’s been nagging you since week five: who is now-starting quarterback Tom Stewart?
Prior to his start in the week five Holy Cross game, Stewart had only taken first snaps in one game for Harvard — the 2016 Holy Cross loss. In 2018, the senior shepherded the Crimson to victory and, including that match, he has tossed for 1275 yards and 11 touchdowns this season with only four full games.
In the beginning of the season, our photographer was quite fond of the phrase “Free Tom Stewart.” If the contest against Columbia is any indication, he has indeed been freed.
The senior has seemingly always been around, having spelled Joe Viviano in 2016 and being lightly featured in the conversation surrounding last year’s quarterback controversy. It seems Stewart is reaching his final form. With an Ivy League crown out of the picture, a week prior to the Yale contest is the perfect time to peak.
One opponent stands between Harvard and The Game, and that’s Penn. There’s this weird thing, where Ivy League schools do crazy things between the third and fourth quarter. Yale strips, and Penn throws toast. Perhaps it’s emblematic of the team’s prospects this weekend (i.e. they’re toast).
Harvard by 7
PRINCETON AT YALE
Last time I wrote this column I predicted the Tigers’ game in the following manner:
“Too easy.
Princeton by 45”
I was wrong. The Tigers bested Cornell by 66. In the words of Kanye West, Princeton is nice at football. And now, barring a cataclysmic event along the eastern seaboard, the Tigers will be the Ivy League champs.
There is a silver lining. Yale’s going to be entering The Game on the heels of the worst trashing of its season.
Princeton by 30
—Staff writer Cade Palmer can be reached at cade.palmer@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @THC_CadePalmer.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The season for Harvard women’s basketball will have no “wading in” period. The Crimson do not have an exhibition or soft matchup to start the year with its feet firmly planted. Far from it, in fact, as Harvard will be travelling to South Bend, Ind., for its first game of the year, taking on the Notre Dame Fighting Irish — the number one team in the country.
Notre Dame is not only ranked the best team in the country, but it is ranked as such unanimously. The Fighting Irish received 31 of 31 possible first place votes in the AP Preseason Poll. The reigning national champions return a number of stars, most notably senior guard Arike Ogunbowale. The senior was the Most Outstanding Player of Notre Dame’s tournament run, hitting game winning shots just before the buzzer in the semifinal and final game to give the Fighting Irish victory.
Despite its formidable opponent, Harvard sees its opening test as preparing for the first game of the season in any year.
“It’s awesome to go out there and play in that historic court and play against that historic team from last year, it's just an incredible moment,” junior point guard Katie Benzan said. “But we can't look at them as celebrities or anything like that, we have to look at it as another game and take it one possession at a time.”
These possessions will often fall on Benzan, the Crimson’s point guard and its top scorer from last season. Not only did she set the pace for the offense with ball-handling, but Benzan also set Ivy League records last season from behind the arc.
Moving inside, Harvard will hope to capitalize on the gained experience of its inside players. Junior forward Jeannie Boehm and sophomore forward Jadyn Bush will be joined by sophomore forward Maria Guramare, returning from a missed season due to injury.
The Crimson will be led by two captains that round out the frontcourt, however, in senior guards Sydney Skinner and Madeline Raster. For Raster, the road trip to Notre Dame doubles as a homecoming. The South Bend, Ind., native attended the local Saint Joseph High School, less than two miles away from the Fighting Irish’s campus.
“From a personal standpoint, it’s something I’ve been looking forward to for awhile,” Raster said. “And I know my family is really looking forward to it.”
Suiting up for her final season and kicking off her farewell tour back home means a lot to the Northern Indiana native.
“It'll be really fun to play in that arena and be in front of my friends and family as I wrap up my basketball career going into my final season,” Raster said. “It'll be a really nice way to come full circle for me, so I’m really looking forward to it. I know the team is as well, in terms of getting the chance to play the best.”
It is no doubt that Notre Dame is the best, and it will take Harvard’s all in order to have a chance at competing against the Fighting Irish. The team has worked hard in the offseason, but preseason practice can only prepare a team so much for the real start of the schedule.
“I think you can definitely tell in practice it's getting towards the point where we need to play other people,” Raster said. “You can only play against yourselves for so long. You read your own offense and sets and stuff like that, so I think from the team’s standpoint, people are really excited to go out and compete.”
The 2018-2019 schedule starts with a bang, but the road test is just the sort of competition that the Crimson are looking for.
“This year I feel our team is super competitive, so we’re excited to go out and I feel we have a lot to prove.” Raster said. “Competing and proving ourselves are definitely our big keys going into this season.”
— Staff writer Joey Minatel can be reached at joseph.minatel@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
With the removal of Harvard Time (rip), many have been forced to accept Clover as a lunchtime staple. But, with all the readings Harvard students already have to do, the expansive menu can feel quite daunting to sift through. Not to fear — we did the heavy lifting for you! Neil, a Clover employee, gave us the inside scoop on his fall favorites, and we verified his suggestions with a taste test of our own.
The Main Course
Recommendation: Japanese Sweet Potato Sandwich. Neil immediately endorsed this sandwich the moment he was asked for his go-to menu item. So expectations were high...
Verdict: You can tell the bread is fresh out of the oven because it is the perfect mix of soft and crunchy. The sweet potatoes inside are smooth and sweet and contrast with the fresh crisp of the lettuce shreds. The sandwich is completed with a shoyu sauce which is to die for. Really, this sandwich is unlike any sandwich you’ve had before. Overall, in the best way possible, this sandwich tastes like a warm hug and is a must-eat as the weather cools down.
The Beverage of Choice
Recommendation: Paw Paw Soda. While Paw Paw may look like a tropical fruit, Neil stressed that it is actually grown right here in Massachusetts. Clover apparently has a “special secret farm” where they source their Paw Paw. Suspicious? Maybe. But we support it.
Verdict: Weird but good. The bubbles and tropical undertones are tangy. The flavor is refreshing and not too sweet. Once you start drinking, it’s hard not to finish the cup. The name is also super cute.
And What We Couldn’t Resist Trying Anyway
Chickpea Fritter Platter: Come hungry. This crispy and flavorful platter is a bit overwhelming but certainly tasty.
Rosemary Fries: Cuffing season who? Fries before guys. This snack is a Clover classic.
Apple Lemonade: Be sure to grab this drink while you can because it usually sells out (and for good reason, the combination of apple and lemon is awesomely sweet and sour).
Clover really does have something for everyone, and it’s conveniently located for science nerds on-the-go. While those among us who can remember the good ol’ days may miss Greenhouse, maybe if we eat at Clover enough, our Board Plus will finally be accepted there…just maybe.
Sections
With the semester winding up for some and down for others, we’re finally starting to see a light at the end of the tunnel. Thanksgiving break right around the corner, but before we’re hit with back-to-back busy weekends of Harvard Yale and family time, hit the streets of Boston for a dance class, a cooking class, or a good old-fashioned scary movie.
Friday:
The Thing @ Coolidge Corner Theatre
Feeling a little sad that Halloween is over? Wanting to get a little more time out of spooky season before Christmas carols follow you everywhere you go? This Friday, the Coolidge Corner Theatre in Cambridge is hosting a special midnight showing of The Thing on 35mm. Gather your film buff and horror fan friends for some spooky Friday night fun!
Saturday:
Dance Bootcamp @ Swing City
Winter formals are sneaking up on us faster than we realize, and it will be mere weeks before you have a chance to formally re-discover your dance skills (or lack thereof). If you’re looking to impress your friends with some retro moves, look no further than this Saturday’s free “Swing/Charleston Bootcamp.” Head to Swing City in Cambridge from 6:30-8 p.m. for a class designed for absolute beginners. If you’re feeling particularly spiffy by the end, they’re even hosting a real swing dance right after the workshop!
Sunday:
Cooking as a Second Language: Spanish Edition
Like cooking? Like Spanish? Intrigued by HUDS’s attempt at ceviche but think you can do better? This Sunday from noon to 4 p.m., Hostelling International will be providing a free workshop on the history, culture, and preparation of ceviche, a dish made with raw fish. The event will be conducted in Spanish and translated to English, and all are welcome regardless of language/cooking experience. While this class is free, register before going to secure your spot!
We hate to burst your bubble, but Harvard isn’t the entire world. Go forth and burst the Harvard bubble with these Boston events!
