News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard’s seniors have now defeated every team in the Ivy League.
For the 2018 team’s graduating class, Penn remained the only team in the division that the group had failed to notch a win against, with the Crimson’s last win against the program coming in 2014.
Traveling to the City of Brotherly Love to challenge Penn (6-3, 3-3 Ivy) in the team’s homecoming contest, Harvard (5-4, 3-3) dominated the windy contest, emerging victorious, 29-7.
“This is a rivalry game, coming to Franklin Field, these guys always give us a fight when we come down here and we haven’t won very many games down here,” said captain and safety Zach Miller. “So for us, as a senior class, to go out on top of these guys, it means the world.”
The wind made its presence known from the very first play. As the shadows of the whipping flags that surround the Quakers’ Franklin Field draped the players in shade, the opening kickoff was delayed twice when the breeze knocked the ball off the tee. It wasn’t until Penn sophomore Jared Nobel held the ball down that play could finally get under way.
It took five possessions for either team to complete even a single pass. Stewart nearly found sophomore Tyler Adams on a 21-yard strike but the completion was erased on an illegal formation penalty by the Crimson. It was the next snap, on a bubble screen to senior Adam Scott, that Stewart completed the first pass of the game.
Following his first completion of the contest, Stewart went to Adams again, this time successfully finding his route runner. With the help of the several lengthy runs by Shampklin, this conversion put Harvard in scoring position. The offense couldn’t get the job done, but junior Jake McIntyre booted the ball in from 20-yards out, pushing the contest into two possessions.
With the field goal, his 29th career three-point kick, McIntyre is only one behind the program record. He sits at fourth in career points.
In particular, the wind affected first quarter passing the most — after this period, both pairs of quarterbacks made adjustments. The first few drives, however, were littered with incompletions and interceptions.
With the Crimson pushing into the wind on the first drive, the environment felled the first pass from Stewart, pushing it into the turf before it reached its intended target, Scott. The wind carried Stewart’s next toss inside his target, landing in the hands of the defender, Conor O’Brien, for an interception — Stewart’s first of the season.
 Penn didn’t learn from the mistakes of its opponent. With the wind at his back, Quakers quarterback Ryan Glover sent the ball sailing over the head of his man and back into the possession of the Crimson on the very next play. It was sophomore Max Jones that grabbed the wayward pass and returned it 10 yards.
Harvard took over on the Penn 29-yard line, already knocking on its opponent’s door. One play after his interception, Stewart returned to the air on a fade route to Scott. The pass, pushed by the wind, fell short. As Scott attempt to make a play on the ball, yellow flags dirtied the field and the Crimson earned the pass interference call.
With the ball 14 yards away from six points, Shampklin pushed the offense 13 yards closer on three runs. Coach Tom Murphy called senior Charlie Booker’s number and he, with the assistance of a healthy dose of pushing from the offensive line, barreled his way into the end zone for the first touchdown of the contest and his second of the season.
Midway through the second, Stewart tried to keep a disintegrating play alive as he sprinted left away from the crashing defensive line. The senior was pummeled into the turf by the duo of Evan Carp and Nick Miller. Stewart did not get up. He was helped off the field and Smith entered the fray.
Stewart’s departure from play affected more than just the quarterback positions. For the entirety of the season, Stewart has served as the field goal holder for McIntyre. When Harvard scored next, freshman quarterback Luke Emge lined up to catch and plant the long snap. The ball flew through the first-year’s hands and landed near McIntyre’s cleats. The kicker picked up the wayward ball and safely tossed it out the back of the end zone.
The next time the Crimson scored, Murphy opted to purposely go for two instead. The Penn line crashed and Smith was dropped. When Harvard scored its final touchdown, Stewart returned to hold and McIntyre booted the attempt through. Despite returning for that hold, Stewart never reclaimed the quarterback spot.
 As quarterback, Smith led both teams in touchdowns, with two. Both of these six-point passes were hauled down by senior wideout Brian Dunlap.
“The offensive line was really carrying the offense,” Smith said. “All I had to do was step in there and play my role as a quarterback and everybody else really just took care of the job.”
The Quakers’ offense was held mute on all but two drives — one in each half. The first of the teams solid drives started with a solid kick return from Penn’s Justin Morrison, earning the team some solid field possession. Glover ran for 11 yards and then tossed a perfect 32-yard pass down the sideline to Mike Akai. The wideout dove past the Crimson defender and reeled in the ball, crashing to the ground at the Harvard one-yard line. Three rushes later, Penn faced fourth-and-goal. The Quakers went for the six through the air and fell short.
“The whole [defensive line], we live for those moments,” said senior defensive tackle Stone Hart. “Every inch, whether you get it or not, we’re going to make you fight for it.”
The second was on the team’s lone touchdown drive. Glover threw three passes for over twenty yards on this drive alone, with the third coming on a 23-yard lob over the back of the Crimson defense to Kolton Huber.
Harvard’s rush defense throughout the game was epitomized by that goal line stand. The front relinquished only 58 yards on the ground, allowing an average of 1.8 yards per play. The Crimson, in comparison, earned 215 rushing yards, averaging out 4.1 per carry.
“They have some great running backs and a great offensive line, and we know that’s how they’ve been beating teams,” Miller said. “They’re a bully in this league, they like to jam it down your throat, the [offensive coordinator] likes to run the ball a ton, establish the line of scrimmage, and just wear teams down. So for us to just stop that early, was huge for us. It changes their game plan, changes how they attack us, and it really helped a lot.”
In perhaps the most salient stat of the day, Harvard dominated the time of possession. The Crimson held onto the ball for a whopping 36:51 minutes while Penn only controlled possession for 18:14.
On third downs too, Harvard easily outpaced its competition. Despite only converting on 1-of-11 last week, the Crimson earned the first down on six of its 14 third-down attempts. Penn was only successful on three of its 11 tries.
 A noticable difference between Harvard now, and the Harvard team earlier this season is red zone conversion rate — an area where the team used to struggle. In today’s afternoon contest, the Crimson was 5-for-6 while Penn was 0-for-1.
Aside from struggling against Harvard’s defense on every drive, Penn’s two quarterbacks — Glover and Nick Robinson — failed to maintain possession throughout the contest.
In addition to the first drive interception, Glover tossed one more in the third quarter, again simply out-throwing his route runner, instead hitting the sprinting Wes Ogsbury for his sixth pick of the season.
Robinson didn’t throw interceptions but he kept coughing up the ball. Following Smith’s second touchdown pass to Dunlap, Robinson sprinted right, away from the pocket. Seeing nothing downfield, the quarterback attempted to throw the ball out of bounds but it slipped out. Crimson senior defensive tackle Richie Ryan fell on the ball at the Penn 10-yard line, setting up Darrington’s final score.
Robinson fumbled a second time in the fourth quarter and the loose ball was again recovered by Harvard, this time by junior linebacker Bobby Drysdale.
“The defense played great,” Murphy said. “We said the number one thing that was going to be critical in this game was the turnover margin and to come out plus three on that was the difference in the game.”
—Staff writer Cade Palmer can be reached at cade.palmer@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @THC_CadePalmer.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
PROVIDENCE, R.I. — After 20 minutes of play, the Harvard men’s hockey team found itself in an uncomfortably familiar position. Its opponent, Brown, had broken the ice late in the first period, on a power play goal from rookie Tristan Crozier. That left the visitors staring at a deficit for the fourth time in five games so far this season. To lose to the yearly ECAC bottom-dwellers Bears on top of a winless start would have been a new low.
By the start of the middle frame, though, Harvard (1-2-2, 1-2-2 ECAC) fired up its offensive talent, and stormed back to defeat Brown (1-4-1, 1-3-1) by a score of 5-2. With tallies coming from five different skaters, the Crimson secured its first win of the 2018-19 campaign and nabbed three of four possible points on the weekend roadie after a tie at Yale.
“We knew what we had to do,” said sophomore defenseman Reilly Walsh. “[We were] pretty much just sick and tired of losing, to be honest…. We just played with a lot more desperation.”
Harvard came out of the gate with a jump to its play after a lukewarm first frame — a consequence, perhaps, of Friday’s high-energy rivalry game as compared to the quiet environs of Meehan Auditorium. Sophomore forward Jack Donato carried into the Bears zone on a 2-on-1 with junior Justin Szeto two minutes in, but he did not need to set up his teammate. Instead, Donato notched his first of the season and tied the game with a backhand over the glove hand of Brown junior net-minder Gavin Nieto.
Though the visitors were unable to capitalize on a 5-on-3 opportunity, the Bears’ penalties allowed the Crimson to take back control of the game. Harvard snatched the lead on that momentum swing, as junior Frédéric Grégoire picked up his first point on a hard-angle shot from Nieto’s right.
“Oftentimes I choose to get pretty fired up myself [to motivate the team],” said head coach Ted Donato ’91 when asked how the team bounced back in the middle frame. “But tonight I went the opposite direction and said, ‘Hey, listen, we weren’t very good. But ultimately the standard’s got to be set by the guys in this room.’”
The Crimson was handed a chance to convert on the man advantage and extend its lead 14 minutes into the middle period. Sticking to a tried and tested system, Harvard set up its umbrella with junior defenseman Adam Fox quarterbacking, and Walsh and rookie forward Casey Dornbach manning the circles. A passing play between those three allowed Walsh to rip a one-timer right into the cage, putting the Crimson up 3-1.
Walsh currently leads the team in goals (4), all of which came on the power play. It’s difficult to overstate the effectiveness of the man advantage unit, which has converted 40.9% of its chances so far, good for the second-best rate in the country. Nine of Harvard’s 21 tallies this season have come from 5-on-4s. Fox is crucial to the efficiency of that unit — he paces the squad with 12 points (2–10—12), and his 2.4 points per game are tied for best in the NCAA.
“As great players do, [Fox] makes others around him better,” coach Donato said. “He really is a special player. As coaches, we realize that. I’ve been around the game long enough and seen enough great players to know one when I see ’em. He’s a wizard up there, really utilizing the skillset of the other guys on the power play."
Another penalty burned Brown midway through the third period, and once again, the Crimson found its target. Rookie forward Baker Shore held the puck at the goal line just long enough to feed sophomore Jack Badini in the slot; Badini snuck the biscuit past Nieto for Harvard’s fourth goal of the night. Though the Bears got one back courtesy of co-captain Tommy Marchin, an empty-netter from Fox sealed the deal. The Crimson escaped with no leads lost, and a decisive result after two straight tie games.
Of all the players that showed an improvement, perhaps the most important was senior goaltender Michael Lackey. A high-event contest at Yale may have tested Lackey more, but the result at Brown (2 GA, .920 SV%) further bolstered his numbers. Though Harvard fans can expect the coaching staff to test the waters sometimes with sophomore backstop Cam Gornet, two solid games may put Lackey between the pipes again come Friday.
The Crimson returns to Bright-Landry to host Arizona State in a break from conference play next weekend. The Sun Devils are coming off a series of triumphs, including wins against Michigan State and No. 8 Penn State. That is just one of the tests Harvard will face, as ASU happens to own the nation’s best penalty kill percentage.
“We can still tweak some things and continue to improve,” coach Donato said. “We have some guys that are looking more comfortable with the roles they have…. [Playing Arizona State] is a great opportunity for us to test ourselves and develop more of an identity as a team.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Ec10a is more than just a way to become a bonafide snake. Surprisingly enough, it can actually be used in the real world, specifically to explain certain phenomena surrounding the upcoming Harvard-Yale game. Who would have thought economics and mediocre football had so much in common?
Everyone’s a snake trying to make a profit
Many students who don’t want to make the trek out to Fenway and are looking to make a quick buck have realized that the world’s easiest money-making venture is to sell your (free!) ticket. Because everyone’s cost of obtaining a ticket is 0, sellers can make a profit at any price, which has led to extreme price undercutting. Basically, once cheap-o Joe offered his ticket for $25, it was all over for the rest of us. However, this wasn’t the end of the ticket-sellers’ woes....
“The Government” can only sometimes improve market outcomes
As it turns out, reselling tickets wasn’t cool with the administration (surprise surprise), which means people who don’t want to go watch football can’t make a profit and students looking to bring a non-Harvard friend along for the fun can’t get a discounted ticket (or even a ticket at all if they didn’t plan over six months in advance). We’re not really sure what admin was hoping to accomplish with this, but it sounds like a deadweight loss to us.
True cost is more than just how much you paid
As any good economist can tell you, the cost of something is the sum of its implicit and explicit costs (no, not rated-R explicit). In the case of The Game, the explicit cost of attendance is 0, because of the free tickets, but the implicit cost of attending is all the studying you won’t do over the weekend plus the mental (and physical?) toll the trip to Fenway will take on you. But because people aren’t just giving away their tickets, there must be a positive profit to attendance, which means the value of getting drunk in public and freezing in the stands must somehow exceed the sum of the costs.
For most people, Harvard Yale is an excuse to day drink and pretend to know something about sports. But watching the Game unfold is almost as good as a lecture from Greg Mankiw himself, so get excited for all the lessons on economics you can learn in the name of a good ol’ rivalry.
Sections
In case you didn’t know, there’s a football game this Saturday against some random school. For real, though, get hype for The Game because It’s Payback Time! Check out the Harvard-Yale spirit week events the College Events Board has planned for us — spoiler, so many chances to win free stuff.
Monday - Baby It’s Chili Outside
HUDS needs your help in choosing its new dhall chili recipe! The tasting will be located in the Science Center Plaza between 11:30 a.m. and 2 p.m. where you can vote on your favorite recipe. You can even submit your own family recipe and oversee its preparation in Annenberg if it’s selected! Don’t miss your chance to pick up your CEB spirit week punch card — which lets you rack up premium swag if you attend multiple events — and see the Dance Team perform.
Tuesday - Embrace Your Inner Scott Rogowsky
Bring that big Harvard brain of yours to Emerson 105 at 7 p.m. and join fellow students in a HQ-style game show for the ages. Top performers from the first round of competition will have a chance to compete on stage, and the grand champion will win both an individual prize and a prize for his or her House! Houses with the highest attendance and best spirit will also receive prizes, including a photo booth for formal, a PlayStation, and a Lizzy’s Ice Cream & Doc Popcorn study break.
Wednesday - Bulldogs or Thanksgiving Turkey? Roast ‘em all!
This event is titled “Bulldog Roast,” and thankfully, the roasting is just verbal. Located in the Smith Campus Center’s Harvard Commons at 7:30 p.m., comedy groups on campus such as On Harvard Time and the Harvard Stand-up Comic Society will be competing for the best verbal beating of Yale. And don’t forget about OEB Professor Andrew Berry’s iconic “Why Harvard is Better than Yale” lecture. As if these events weren’t enough to convince you to attend, there will also be free food!
Thursday - Jump on It
We don’t know about you, but The Game’s got us jumping with excitement. Sign up for a free trip to Sky Zone Trampoline Park and show off those trampoline dodgeball skills of yours. You’ll be notified if you’ve received a spot by lottery — and then you can bounce the night away. Snacks and Harvard-Yale t-shirts will also be provided! Oh, how we love freebies.
Friday - Party Like It’s 1875
Yes, The Game’s been around for that long. In an epic ending to spirit week, the official Harvard-Yale party will be hosted in Annenberg Hall from 11 p.m. to 1:30 a.m. With DJ MATIC repping Harvard and Boola Juice bringing the beats for Yale, it’s bound to be a spirit-filled time. There’s free admission with a valid Harvard or Yale ID, so head over if you like fraternizing with the enemy...
Clear your calendars and join CEB for this fun week of camaraderie, prizes, and spirit. This is your chance to make this Game the best one yet!
