News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered

Harvard Ballet Company celebrated 25 years of hard work, performance, and excellence Nov. 22 to Nov. 26 with their production of “on quarter.” Directed by Anna K. Antongiorgi ’19 and Mara G. Milner ’20, and produced by Alexandra Caffrey ’19 and Isabel Wu ’20, “on quarter” depicted a journey of identity through dance while presenting the essence of the performing arts.
HBC’s show used music by George Gershwin, phenomenally played by student pianist Forrest G. Flesher ’21, to choreograph 15 unique pieces that formed the consolidating theme of this year’s production. Choreographed predominantly by students as well as two guest choreographers, Anna Riley-Shepard ’15 and Elizabeth C. Walker ’11, the individual pieces varied from fast to slow, abrupt to calming. Each was characterized by the overarching theme of what it means to be a performer. The movements of the dancers, set to Gershwin’s piano music, brought genuine and vivid depictions of a performer’s identity to life: the angst and excitement, the surprises and frustrations, and as well as the nostalgia and glee that encompass the experience on and off the stage.
Enhanced lighting technology set the ambiance for each piece. The Loeb Drama Center allowed for colorful, opaque tinted lights and spots, which intensified the movements of the performers. The light effects were further bolstered by the precise costume choices. Outfits in the muted tones of deep purple, pale orange, and blue romanticized the atmosphere, which easily went from mysterious to carefree in an instant.
The performance began with a piece choreographed by Antongiorgi, “Two Waltzes in C,” that set the mood and setting for the rest of the show. The five performers travelled across stage through clear-cut movements that emphasized both their ability as dancers and the show’s theme.
“Prelude - Rubato, Somebody Loves Me,” choreographed by Abigail Alter ’20 was also notable. Here the pace slowed down and focused on the intrinsic movements of the performers that illustrated the exploration of devotion and lust. In order to avoid detracting from the many deep emotions in this piece, the lights were dimmed and the music softened. This was also the only piece that featured two male dancers in the otherwise solely female production.
Following the intermission, the Loeb Drama Center stage allowed for a different kind of viewing experience. A double-sided stage, one with the stage in the middle and two sets of audience chairs facing each other, was presented and came to serve as the centerpiece for a part of the production. “Rhapsody in Blue,” choreographed by Wellesley student Sarah Chou ’20, incorporated this concept into her piece: The audience now faced a mirror image of itself, with some of the dancers joining part of this new “audience.” This unique play on viewer and performer emphasized the role of the audience within the show while narrating the journey of the stage performer.
This change of perspective served as the climax of the viewing experience and deepened the audience’s connection to the theme of “on quarter,” through self-reflection on the embodiment of identity in performance and dance.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Thanksgiving break, a time to run away from the stress of looming exams (and pretend any Harvard-Yale mistakes don’t even exist). A time to retreat back into simpler comforts, like a proper shower, your own bed, and, most importantly, home cooked foods. But wait...what about all those mild acquaintances from high school who you “promised” to catch up with over break that now fill you with dread? Looking to avoid the painfully awkward and horribly predictable Harvard lawsuit and final club sanction small talk? Here’s our step by step guide to avoiding those obligatory friend meet-ups.
Pretend you aren’t back home until the latest possible moment
Turn off your find my friends, snap maps, and cleanse yourself from any other virtually trackable behavior. Now just hope you don’t run into anyone while out at your favorite restaurants, or better yet just stay hidden away in your room and Postmates (or have your mom bring you) your meals. That’s what vacations are for anyways, right?
Family first
Your parents have planned to spend the break shooting your winter holiday card while everyone’s together. Hair, makeup, wardrobe, and multiple location changes make this production fill up the whole entire day with family time. What a bummer!
When in doubt, the appointments excuse is your best friend
Dentists, doctors, therapists, dermatologists, gynecologists — you name it! The more persistent someone is about meeting up, the more graphic detail you should give about that pressing health concern of yours that just absolutely needs to be taken care of.
Fake it ‘til you make it
Whatever you do, be sure to give off an appearance of regret that the plans won’t work out. Send a sad face emoji, but not too many. You’d hate for them to press for an alternate time.
And let’s be honest, odds are whoever you are trying to avoid doesn’t really want to meet up with you either. So we’ll just all keep signing off texts with loose commitments to “catch up” over winter break only to do this all over again come December.
Sections
To many, Canada is seen as a cultural extension of the United States. Canada has one tenth the population of the United State so it’s basically the 51st state, right? Well…we’re about to see. As a Canadian and an honorary American (can I say that after three months here?), I took it upon myself to conduct a very scientific cultural comparison between the two allied nations, with all my free time over this non-Canadian Thanksgiving break.
Fahrenheit, who?!
At some point in time, the United States was plagued with what is now called the Imperial System. Why is 32 degrees freezing? Why is a foot 12 inches when the average foot is only 10? Where’s the logic? Where’s the reason?! Canada (and virtually the rest of the world) is able to function with the logical metric system, where freezing point is 0 and boiling point is 100; a kilometer is a neat 1,000 meters; and everything makes sense in the world! Living in the U.S., I have turned into a walking, talking calculator – I am quickly converting Fahrenheit into Celsius when someone tells me about the weather, and kilometers to miles when people ask how far my run was. My Ec10 problem sets have enough math already without all these additional conversions! Only three countries in the world do not use the metric system: Liberia, Myanmar, and the USA. This is getting out of hand, America, something needs to change!
Tim Hortons vs. Dunkin’ Donuts
Tim Hortons coffee shops are as commonplace in Canada as tourists are at Harvard. I knew that leaving my Tim Hortons behind would not be easy, but I had heard that Dunkin’ Donuts can stand as a somewhat tolerable substitute. Little did I know, I was in for a shock. Given my desire for inexpensive coffee, I decided to undergo my very first Dunkin’ purchase. After the first sip, I understood what a grave mistake I had made. The iced coffee that I had purchased had not been sweetened, so I asked if it could be. Anyone proficient in the art of iced coffee is aware that you need simple syrup for iced coffee since granular sugar won’t dissolve in cold liquid. Tim Hortons is well aware of this information, but Dunkin’ Donuts clearly hasn’t gotten the memo. I watched in horror, mouth agape, as three heaping tablespoons of granulated sugar were promptly poured into my beverage. I gulped down the gritty liquid with discontent and with a hole in my heart where Tim Hortons used to be.
Lastly...
Our Prime Minister is Justin Trudeau, “JT,” who wears flashy socks, is a former high school teacher, won a charity boxing event, starred in a Canadian miniseries, and has his birthday on Christmas Day! He is an icon to rival even the tastiest of snacks at Tim Horton’s.
On the other hand, you guys have… well…you know.
To be fair, Cambridge has treated me pretty well. While I may be missing my Tim Hortons and struggling with everyday calculations, I’ve been able to learn a thing or two, meet some amazing people, and try some pretty tasty Mexican food along the way! Canada doesn't have Border Cafe, so touché, USA.
