News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
What does a patriot look like? Close your eyes, envision one, what do you see? American patriotic iconography is easily identifiable — eagles, guns, beer, red, white, and blue. But patriotism needs to signify so much more.
One can see this false patriotism everywhere on college campuses, including here at Harvard. Fraternity culture has co-opted patriotism as an element of its aesthetic. Perhaps this is a reaction to social justice movements on campuses, which are often critical of the country’s history as well as its present. Whatever the motivation, a clear lack of contemplation of these symbols radiates from within this cultural sphere, and this lack of depth is not limited to colleges.
Much of the patriotism that I see in my country is devoid of substance. What is American about brandishing guns and beer with hints of Christianity and hypermasculinity? This shallow interpretation of what it means to be American is at best fun and childish, and at worst disrespectful to the moral traditions of this country. A real patriot respects the beautiful ideals stated at our foundation — life, liberty, equality, opportunity, democracy, and human rights — not a can of Bud Light.
This phenomenon is not always harmful and I admit it can be entertaining, but we must ensure that claims of patriotism are held to a much higher standard.
One cannot claim to love a country while neglecting those who live within it. Patriotism must go deeper than symbolism. Can you truly love your country if you are content with large portions of your compatriots suffering? To claim one’s patriotism must be to perform one’s duty to enhance the nation. Public service is an exhibition of patriotism. Active citizenship is a demonstration of one’s love and pride. A tank top that reads “Back to Back World War Champs” is not.
When we accept the designation of shallow behavior as patriotism, we allow the values of America to be defined by it. If patriotism is the use of symbols akin to wearing a football jersey, then it is meaningless. If we accept that patriotism is the support of militarism, hypermasculinity, and a blind insistence that red, blue, and white is always right, then we accept those to be the values of the nation, and it should be no surprise that it is so often condemned, especially by advocates of liberalism. America should mean much more.
Progressives today often define the United States by the numerous horrors of its past and present. Open any American history textbook and you will see a long list of atrocities committed by the people and government of this country. To deny the moral weight of the Trail of Tears, slavery, and a vast collection of other barbarities would be disgraceful. However, love of one’s country does not condone those actions. The United States has treated me well, but a significant portion of the population has had a much darker experience, so it is understandable that many do not feel the love that I do. I love the country itself — not everything, or even most, of what it has done.
Patriotism has long been associated with conservatism, while champions of Enlightenment liberalism have opted instead to forward a cosmopolitan worldview, in which the moral perspective is at the international level, as all people should be considered equally, independent of their proximity. National identity is often seen as a threat because it’s only a few steps away from fascism.
It is a mistake for my fellow progressives to reject patriotism as an inherent vice. First of all, community fills us with an essential feeling and makes governance more effective. We can achieve more with a sense of unity. Second, this worldview underestimates the difficulty of self-mobilization to help people you will never meet. Patriotism does not require an abandonment of responsibilities abroad, where morality still holds this onus. Like a parent watching their child stand up for justice, when the United States aids people around the world I am proud. And third, American patriotism lends itself especially well to liberal ethical philosophy. As the United States was a child of the Enlightenment, its founding ideals harmonize with liberalism.
Our history and our present are riddled with atrocities, but they do not have to characterize the nation. If we choose to view these as betrayals of our ideals instead of the core to our identity, then we may find fertile ground for a progressive patriotism.
Daniel L. Aklog ’21, a Crimson Editorial editor, is a Social Studies concentrator in Leverett House.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
It’s time to address the elephant in the room. While Houses, concentrations, and choice of extracurriculars may divide us at times, there is one common enemy that we all face on a daily basis: Harvard’s unintuitive doors.
It’s one of those things you don’t notice until you start looking for it, and when you see it, it will make you sick. Every minor inconvenience, every ephemeral bout of frustration, adds up to a cumulative suffering. Clearly, this is the true source of undergraduate dissatisfaction with campus life. Don’t believe me?
Let’s start with LISE Cafe. After pretending to do work in there for a bit, you make your way to the door. You see a handle and pull it. It doesn’t give. You look up and pull the other door’s handle — maybe one of them is locked? Nope.
You read the sign next to the handle: The glass door reads “PULL” on the other side of the door. You visualize yourself on the other side pulling the door. Therefore, you must push. You push the door.
I shouldn’t have to know English to know how to open a door. Not only that, but who pushes a door handle?
Angered at LISE’s absurdity, you head back to Leverett House to catch some sleep. It’s late — cut through Smith Campus Center. You’re greeted by two sets of French doors — four doors in total, and only one badge reader. Which door will it open?
You swipe and hear the right set of doors unlock. You go for the rightmost door. It doesn’t budge. You go for the left. It opens.
Flustered yet again, you stop by Quincy House’s Stone Hall to cry to a friend living on the fourth floor. You tap your ID at the elevator’s badge reader. It stays red. You tap again. Still red. You wait a few seconds, and it returns to green. You tap again. Red.
An impatient sophomore grunts past you, hovers their ID two inches from the reader for a one-Mississippi-two-Mississippi, and up to the fourth floor you go. Your eyes swell with tears by floor three.
“What’s wrong with me?” you ask yourself.
Nothing is wrong with you. If you also find yourself frustrated trying to figure out how to open a Harvard door, know that you are not alone, and that it is never your fault. Someone designed that door with you, the end user, in mind. But they failed to focus intently on the experience. If you don’t know what to do with these trivial devices as soon as you approach them, and you had to have outside knowledge — English comprehension, a Ph.D. in Electrical Engineering, or even the presence of a Quincy sophomore — that’s bad design.
As Don Norman writes in “The Design of Everyday Things,” good design is discoverable. That is, just by looking at the object, you should be able to form a mental model of how it works. LISE violates the mental model that handles are to be grabbed, and grabbing is a pulling motion. Smith offers no cues as to which door will unlock. Quincy requires word-of-mouth knowledge and practice just to operate an elevator.
Harvard often fails to use what engineers call a human-centered approach to problem-solving. In this discipline, people are paramount: Cost, engineering, aesthetics, and even time come secondary. While difficult doors are more whimsical indications of our school’s poor design, I invite you to question where else Harvard has failed in putting us first. Was Harvard made with people like you and me in mind, or were we the afterthought? What other doors, physical and otherwise, does Harvard shut off to people like us by design?
Roughly four percent of applicants can enter the doors of Harvard. Of the fortunate, one percent can actually manage to open the doors.
There’s little I can do alone, but collectively, we are a force to be reckoned with. We don’t have to accept these failures of design. Together, through petitions online, sit-in protests in front of the Smith Campus Center’s doors, and a sprinkle of administrative help, we can stunt the root of Harvard students’ suffering.
Mohib A. Jafri ’21 is an Electrical Engineering concentrator in Quincy House. His column appears on alternate Thursdays. 
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Harvard Management Company recently announced it has officially joined Climate Action 100+ — a financial initiative aiming to leverage investor power to steer corporate greenhouse gas emitters towards carbon footprint reduction and greater financial transparency in carbon-related ventures. The initiative hopes that through “direct engagement” it can be a strong force for combating the corporate drivers of climate change.
We stand by our precedent that Harvard should divest from the fossil fuel industry. Climate change is the most pressing problem of our time and needs to be addressed with the full force of our resources, and the kind of incrementalism this initiative represents is far from sufficient. We have called upon the University to act swiftly and decisively, and while it may be a small step in the right direction, the University’s climate policy overall remains a disappointment.
This program runs counter to the spirit of our hopes that the University divest because as an investor initiative, it specifically supports those with no intention of divestment. Even worse, the kinds of companies to which it provides capital are some of the primary drivers of pollution. While Harvard has emphasized a philosophy of engagement with these polluters, we are skeptical that companies whose fundamental business models and political strategies have relied on the degradation of the environment and consistent efforts to belie the reality of climate change can be reasoned with.
Furthermore, the steps the organization outlines to spur the cutting of corporate emissions are vague at best, and we question whether this sort of ill-defined "engagement" with companies really could have the leveraging potential Harvard suggests it will. The danger of incremental action that fails to make sufficient progress is that it gives the illusion of progress when in reality there is none, or very little. For all these reasons, we find Harvard’s action deeply inadequate.
Ironically, this investment decision from HMC is most useful in dispelling one of the myths the University has perpetuated for its own sake, namely that the endowment must remain apolitical. That statement has been at the heart of the University’s previous rejection of divestment, yet it is just such a political commitment that ostensibly drives the University’s pursuit of this program now. If the University truly believes that its investments are not to be used for political purposes, then it is contradictory for it to join an investment initiative with openly political goals. Though this initiative might be well-intentioned, it demonstrates the hypocrisy of not divesting from fossil fuels in order to remain apolitical. Either investments are political or they are not. Yet Harvard’s current understanding seems to be that investments must remain apolitical unless and until there is good press to be won from politicizing them.
In the context of divestment more broadly, we commend the hundreds of students, faculty, and Cambridge residents who protested for divestment and climate awareness last Friday. Climate change is the most significant threat that our society faces today, and its mitigation requires urgent, drastic, and decisive action. In that spirit, we fully support the efforts of those who devote their time and energy to advocating for such action. It is frustrating — though not surprising — that grassroots advocacy does not induce immediate enthusiasm for institutional change among those who hold power.
In contrast, on our other coast, the University of California system has divested about $150 million from fossil fuels. The fund managers have claimed that this was a purely financial decision, deeming the investments too risky, but we still support their decision and hope that Harvard analyzes this decision and follows suit. No matter the rationale, we strongly believe that divestment — coupled with other bold environmental action — is necessary given the current climate crisis, and that this incrementalist approach is woefully insufficient.
This staff editorial solely represents the majority view of The Crimson Editorial Board. It is the product of discussions at regular Editorial Board meetings. In order to ensure the impartiality of our journalism, Crimson editors who choose to opine and vote at these meetings are not involved in the reporting of articles on similar topics.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
At an off-Broadway theater in midtown Manhattan, performing eight nights a week with a closing date yet to be announced, runs a surprise success: Fiddler on the Roof.
Of course, Fiddler on the Roof as performed in its usual schmaltzy American English has been a reliable commercial hit in this country since its Broadway premiere in 1964. The current off-Broadway production’s bewildering success lies not in its title but in the parenthetical: that it is performed entirely in Yiddish.
The production began as part of the regular season of the National Yiddish Theatre Folksbiene, a 104-year-old troupe whose 21st century mission is to preserve a dying Yiddish language and culture: Yiddish theater’s last golden age in America ended with the twenties, and Yiddish all but disappeared from stages globally when the vast majority of the language’s speakers died in the Holocaust.
Folksbeine generally sticks to small-scale shows at its Battery Park location, but Fiddler in Yiddish sold like crazy. It extended its run, which sold out again. Then it moved off-Broadway, where it continues to sell, and is currently in the midst of an open run — this play whose set consists of little more than a large white cloth hanging down like a ragged curtain, bearing the letters that spell “Torah” in Hebrew.
The play is exactly what its pitch promises. Fiddler Afn Dakh. The Fiddler you know, but — to most who are not obscure intellectuals or devout Orthodox Jews — less intelligible. So why is everyone so obsessed with it?
***
The first time I saw a performance in a language I could not understand, I was in Krakow, traveling with my theater classmates on the annual Theater, Dance, and Media-sponsored trip. Plays capped off our overstuffed days spent whisked between museums, historical sites and acting classes, all the while trying not to inhale too much of the stale anti-Semitism that wafts through the city. I sat through the evening performances in an overstimulated stupor, not minding so much that nothing made sense.
When I think back to the plays we saw on that trip, I remember a collection of images: an old woman hanging from her wrist, twirling in space; lines of footless shoes; a gravelly disembodied voice echoing across an empty stage.
Without even a few familiar words to cling to, detachment from the action was inevitable. Like trying to interpret a puppy’s psyche based on the alignment of its ears or the stiffness of its tail, such an endeavor requires patience and intuition and mostly a making of peace with the fact that the narrative you string together in your head will likely bear little resemblance to the one crafted by the playwright.
It is clear when the play zips forward, when its rhythms become staccato, intense, when they stretch. The audience holds its breath and so do you, making holy a moment that you could not possibly explain afterward. But embodied emotions are more difficult to interpret than you would think. Yearning looks too much like regret; tears leak out at every emotional extreme.
Since Poland, I have developed an unwitting habit of consuming these performances, in which starchy voices shout in unfamiliar languages. Sometimes there are subtitles or supertitles or a friend whispering plot points in my ear, in which case I receive an actor’s delivery of a text and after a delay, assign it meaning — an oddly fractal experience of human expression. Other times the sounds are entirely unfiltered and unfamiliar.
At these plays, my analytical abilities resemble something like a twitching camera lens, either zooming in to microscopic detail or stretching out to capture a landscape. The blobbish arc of the play is refreshingly apparent, as are the minutia I would normally miss: the ceramic cat waving in a window, the slippery trails of blood oozing gently across the floor into Rorschach-esque patterns, the sultry trail of cigarette smoke threading its way toward the ceiling.
It is alienating to see plays this way, unable to situate myself at a normal vantage point to the action. But it’s also a satisfying release from my normal mode of consuming theater, in which I must fend off the self-imposed pressure to track every detail.
I see plays in other languages when I do not want to give them the satisfaction of preying on my emotions, my empathy. When I watch from a safe remove, a play cannot do that nasty trick where it makes me feel bad for a protagonist that commits evil (because, in case you did not know, morality is complicated) or twist me into a puddle of goo when actually I am in the mood to control my own emotions and stick to cold analysis, thank you very much.
***
This anti-feelings mantra is not the sort of attitude with which I usually approach musicals, least of all musicals like Fiddler, which plays on every inclination toward cheap sentimentality I possess.
To begin with, Fiddler — the traditional version, in English — offers me the standard array of nostalgia-related feelings, because for me, it is inextricable from childhood and simplicity and family. I have watched the 1971 movie starring Topol more times than I can count. I played Tzeitel, Tevye’s eldest, in high school. For over a year, my middle school alarm clock woke me up to “Tradition.”
More than nostalgia, though, Fiddler offers the bonus benefit of making me feel like a very good Jew. I do not have to confront my guilt at rarely attending synagogue or wonder whether there is a God and, if there is, why he has yet to beset locusts upon the White House. I do not have to cringe at some of the things the Torah insists upon or wish that I knew more Hebrew.
Fiddler weaves into its text simple prayers that I know, melodies my parents sped through on Friday evenings because I was running very late to whatever boring plans I had double-booked over our Shabbat dinners. It gives me squeaky violins that stir something deep inside of me. It shows me my proverbial ancestors, earnest and anguished. And I can claim their sorrow, mourn our collective exile, without knowing any of it.
At the performance of Fiddler in Yiddish I attended with my dad last summer, I found myself profiling my seatmates, curious if anyone here could genuinely lay claim to the onstage dialect. I don’t have the demographic statistics. Anecdotally, I heard only English at the act breaks, watched a lot of crisp white button-down shirts rustle next to programs that contained a long list of donors, names that perhaps once populated a shtetl like Anatevka.
Twenty-first century Jewish America filled the theater with cheers, rewarded every punch line. Critics lauded the production. In his New York Times review, Jesse Green trumpeted the show’s ability to offer “a kind of authenticity no other American Fiddler ever has.”
We all wanted to stake our claim to this production. Even the most discerning of intellectual Jews — those who usually exempt themselves from the Fiddler fandom because of the musical’s reductive take on the immigrant experience, its sugary melodies and tokenizing motifs — could buy into Yiddish Fiddler. This was the language of our ancestors; these noises their spittled-filled messy back-of-throat noises.
But I know how Fiddler lands when I see myself in the people onstage. And that isn’t what watching Fiddler in Yiddish felt like.
“It couldn’t sound more right as spoken by these characters — or as sung,” Green wrote in his review.
It sounds correct, given its setting and characters, because it doesn’t sound like anything most of us recognize at all. To the majority of the audience, the words were little more than a subliminally familiar gibberish, replicating the cadences we learned in bedtime melodies passed down to us, in the punch lines we might have heard from elderly relatives.
Unlike the alienation I have felt watching other performances in other languages, this sense of distance was not a matter of failure to understand. I have downloaded the complete text of the English language production into the inside of my brain. I barely glanced at the projected translations; no sooner did I hear the mushy Yiddish phrases than I transferred them in my head to clean English.
Fiddler in Yiddish, unlike some other foreign plays, does not actively separate the viewer from the action. Its effect is much gentler, in that it forces us to confront the gulf of understanding, the chasm of experience, that separates them from us. Centuries of assimilation and comfort. Not a distancing from story but a laying bare of distance that already existed, a berth that is too wide to traverse.
Like Green, I sobbed at the end of Fiddler, when the cast waved goodbye to Anatevka and hello to America. I cried because I could not see myself anywhere on that stage, because the way of life it depicted felt cosmically far from my own.
Perhaps this is the appeal of the show: the perverse ache wrought in feeling this identification erased.
— Magazine writer Eliya O. Smith can be reached at eliya.smith@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @eliyasmith. This is the first installment of her column, Will There Also Be Singing?, about theater.
Sections
The tunnels underneath Harvard’s campus are darker than you’d expect, with dim industrial light bulbs struggling to penetrate the shadows. They’re smaller, too. Sometimes, when the walls close in on you, you have to crouch, squeezing into the tight corridors. The boiling pipes exude waves of languid steam over your body. It’s hot. It’s as if the labyrinth rejects you, as if humans are not meant to walk the snug steam tunnels that stretch silently beneath our feet.
On a serene Friday afternoon, College Fellow in History Zachary B. Nowak led his students on a "nooks and crannies" tour of Harvard that ended in the steam tunnels of University lore, accessed via a nondescript entrance to the Science Center basement. The tunnels, which extend for around three miles beneath the ground, were built in 1927 to allow easy access to the pipes that heat campus. A visit to the tunnels is strictly off-limits for tourists and Harvard students alike, as was our peek into the tucked-away Memorial Hall attic, with its low-hanging wooden cross-beams and the musical hum of its bulky air vents.
This was no regular tour, and Nowak’s course, History 1636: “Intro to Harvard History: Beyond the Three Lies,” is no typical Harvard history class.
Previous history of Harvard courses, Nowak observes, have been “really cool,” but “very focused on the presidents of Harvard.” Nowak’s course tries to do something new. “I'm not super interested in whether my students will remember who the seventh president of Harvard was,” he says. He adds with a smile, “I don't even know who that is, to tell you the truth.”
Nowak’s course seeks to move beyond the canonical historical depiction of Harvard as solely “a white, male, elite institution,” a narrative which, to Nowak, ignores the lives of those who contributed to the development of the University from the beginning, often from the margins.
“I think the argument of this class is that way more people made Harvard ‘Harvard’ than just the guys in the starch suits in the 1886 photographs,” Nowak explains.
For instance, in History 1636, Nowak teaches about Caleb Cheeshateaumuck, class of 1665 — Harvard’s first Native American graduate. He also lectures about the group of women who, in the 19th century, revolutionized planetary science at the Harvard observatory. Though these figures often went unrecognized in their own time, Nowak tries to avoid reproducing that oversight, choosing to reincorporate those who are usually overlooked into the arc of Harvard’s history.
Though this is the first semester that Nowak is teaching the course, many students have been drawn to the course’s reconceptualization of Harvard’s history — 135 students enrolled this semester.
Nicole A. Fintel ’23 was drawn to taking History 1636 at Visitas last spring, when Nowak led another unconventional tour.
“Rather than solely looking at events and people that have been recorded and recounted in Harvard’s history… we use archival resources, as well as primary documents, to put together stories of people who have often been left out of the narrative,” Fintel says of the class.
As we explored the claustrophobic corridors beneath the ground, above us stood the monument that garners much more attention on standard tours: the John Harvard statue, which is itself a site of reinterpretation for Nowak.
The statue is the source of the “Three Lies” from which the course gets its name. The first two lies of Harvard history are that John Harvard did not actually found Harvard, and that Harvard began in 1636, not 1638, as the statue states.
However, the third lie, Nowak argues, is more sinister. The statue is not actually John Harvard, but is modeled off of a Puritan, blue blood Harvard student from the early 20th century, when the statue was built. Amidst a massive influx in immigration to the United States, constructing the John Harvard statue reasserted the image of a quintessential undergraduate on campus, and more broadly, the kind of person who belonged in power.
“You could make an argument for that statue being a symbol of white supremacy,” Nowak argues. “That statue, for me, is an expression of anxiety on the part of white elite men… realizing that ‘Oh man, this isn't just us anymore.’”
For Nowak, the narratives of Harvard that highlight privileged voices are merely surface level. In the tunnels and winding attic staircases, students find more sequestered narratives, hidden by time and protected by dust. They find initials and signatures etched into wooden shafts and engraved along steam pipes; they find the lives and stories of people who fought for their own legacies, so long as they know where to look.
—Magazine writer Alec P. Kahn can be reached at alec.kahn@thecrimson.com.
Sections
Like many graduate students in Psychology, Benjamin W. Bellet spends his time teaching sections, advising concentrators, and riding the elevator in William James Hall. He also enjoys reading and writing poetry and serves as a resident tutor in Currier. But Bellet has a special claim to fame: His psychological research on trigger warnings has been covered by outlets like the New York Times, Slate, and Vice and has sparked heated discussion online.
Trigger warnings — advance notices that precede potentially disturbing material, often for the purported benefit of those with PTSD — have been the subject of great contention in recent years. Bellet’s studies claim to show that trigger warnings have a negligible impact on anxiety levels in response to “distressing” literary passages. Some, like controversial author and University of Toronto psychology professor Jordan B. Peterson, have taken this research as proof that trigger warnings are “counterproductive,” while others have claimed that the researchers “missed the point of trigger warning[s] entirely.”
Bellet says he “didn’t expect [the research] to catch fire like it did.” Dealing with the maelstrom of attention, he says, was “pretty scary.”
It’s surprising to hear that Bellet wasn’t anticipating his research to go viral: After all, his first paper on trigger warnings was called “Trigger Warning: Empirical Evidence Ahead,” a title that Slate writer Shannon Palus has described as “trollish.” But it’s even more surprising to think that Bellet could be fazed by something as relatively harmless as 15 minutes of moderate notoriety.
With his close-cropped haircut and perfect posture, Bellet has the look of a military man. It’s easy to see him fitting in at West Point, where he majored in kinesiology, and at Fort Benning, where he completed basic training.
Now in the third year of his PhD program, Bellet originally joined the military to “see what [he] was made of” and “do something different.” Beyond the five years of active duty required of all West Point graduates, he had no long-term career aspirations. “I hadn’t really thought through it,” he says. “I just wanted to have adventures.”
During his second deployment, Bellet began to consider the possibility of studying psychology. The prospect arose, he says, in part from his “abiding interest in literature.” Reading “Notes from the Underground,” Bellet was struck by Dostoevsky’s ability to capture the quirks and nuances of human consciousness. His interest in psychology also developed from talking to his platoon about how they coped with difficult experiences.
“That led to the question, you know, how do we make meaning of suffering?” he says. “And how does that relate to how we end up adapting to it?”
Bellet took the GRE and applied to graduate programs in psychology while stationed in Kuwait City. He ultimately gained admission to the University of Memphis, where he earned his master’s degree. In 2017, he began his Ph.D. studies at Harvard.
Transitioning from the military to graduate school proved challenging. Bellet initially “felt like a fraud,” he says. “I did not make good grades in undergrad, so I never felt like the academic type.” Socially, he missed “that intimacy that you find in a combat unit” — relationships forged in close quarters under the looming “prospect of violence… [and] death.”
He was also struck by the noticeable difference in the “discourses” used by academics and members of the military. “It's kind of a corny joke,” he says, “but coming from the military, trigger warning meant something much different from what it does here.”
The “catchy” title of his paper, he says, grinning, was an “attempt to reconcile the military discourse with the academic.”
So foreign was this “trigger warning” discourse, in fact, that Bellet had never heard of the term until graduate school. In 2016, Richard J. McNally, the head of the laboratory where Bellet now does his research, wrote a New York Times op-ed opposing the use of trigger warnings in academia. The summer before Bellet came to Harvard, he found himself discussing the op-ed with Payton J. Jones, another psychology PhD student.
Before long, Bellet, Jones, and McNally decided to run a study on the effects of trigger warnings, with Bellet taking the lead as first author. They enlisted several hundred online participants, screening out those who had experienced traumatic events or been diagnosed with PTSD as well as those who failed attention checks. “In social psychology research,” Jones explains, “it’s a constant arms race between trying to get valid participants and appropriately screening out bots and things like that.”
They gave the remaining 270 participants literary passages with varying levels of “potentially disturbing content” and told to rate their anxiety and other emotions after each passage. 137 participants were not shown trigger warnings at all, while 133 participants were shown trigger warnings before reading all but the first three passages.
“Ultimately,” Bellet explains, “what the study says is when you’re talking about anxiety levels, trigger warnings are neither helping nor... harming... with the exception being people who have a strong belief that words can harm them. For those people, trigger warnings were increasing anxiety.”
Shortly after being published, the paper began to make the rounds in the news and on social media. When asked whether he feels the study was covered fairly and accurately by the media, Bellet is blunt. “No,” he says, before offering a qualification: “It depends on which media outlet.” According to Bellet, some journalists overstated the conclusions that could be drawn from their “first-time exploratory study.”
Since the publication of that study, Bellet, Jones, and McNally have completed another study, which Jones first-authored. Titled “Helping or Harming? The Effect of Trigger Warnings on Individuals with Trauma Histories,” the paper is still undergoing peer review.
As suggested by its title, the study replicated the first trigger warning experiment using online participants who had experienced trauma and in some cases had been diagnosed with PTSD. Like the first study, the replication showed that those who were primed with trigger warnings did not show lower anxiety responses than those who were not.
On July 10, Jones posted a link to the pre-print of this study in a Twitter thread, which received a wide range of responses. Several Twitter users took issue with the study for evaluating the usefulness of trigger warnings based on their effect on anxiety. Erin E. Kane, an anthropology postdoc at Boston University, tweeted, “Like many other folks commenting, I use trigger warnings... not to alleviate students’ anxiety but to give students the autonomy to choose when to be exposed.”
In addition, a few Twitter users claimed that the trigger warnings used in the study — written as “TRIGGER WARNING: The passage you are about to read contains disturbing content and may trigger an anxiety response, especially in those who have a history of trauma” — were overly general and placed a heavier emphasis on anxiety responses and trauma than most trigger warnings used in real life.
“Of course, we always welcome feedback,” Jones says, though he found the “negative personal attacks” he received to be “frustrating.” Nowadays, Bellet doesn’t worry much about how his research is portrayed in the news or on social media. “[Jones] is more savvy than I am on that stuff,” he says. “I’d rather read my poetry.”
In spite of the research done by Bellet, Jones, and McNally, trigger warnings remain standard fare in some communities, though they indeed do not always resemble the warnings used in the experiments.
The Rape, Abuse & Incest National Network, the largest anti-sexual violence organization in the country, advocates for the use of trigger warnings in the entertainment industry. However, they are generally presented as “content warnings” or notices that “viewer discretion is advised,” says Erinn A. Robinson, RAINN’s press secretary, explaining that oftentimes “people don’t use the word ‘trigger’ in a more serious context.”
Similarly, the Boston Area Rape Crisis Center uses the phrase “content note” in their writing to precede potentially “sensitive” material, such as personal accounts of sexual assault, according to Jessica L. Atcheson, BARCC’s marketing and communications manager. The phrase “trigger warning” is not used.
Atcheson says these warnings are meant to help readers, particularly survivors of sexual assault, “make an informed choice” about whether and when to engage with potentially distressing content. Likewise, some responses to Jones’s tweets have compared trigger warnings to the consent forms that need to be signed by participants before experimentation in the scientific community.
Bellet, however, draws a strong distinction between trigger warnings and consent forms. Consent forms, he says, constitute “content notification,” or an “objective statement... about what you’re about to encounter.” Trigger warnings, on the other hand, include a “suggestion about the possible... psychological consequences of engaging with that material.”
It remains to be said, then, whether Bellet’s characterization of trigger warnings matches the way they are used in practice. Perhaps, in some contexts, the warnings have evolved into something quite different from what Bellet and his colleagues studied. In any case, Bellet has decided that his research interests are “kind of moving away from trigger warnings for the time being.”
—Staff writer Angela F. Hui can be reached at angela.hui@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @angelafhui.
Sections
I was so excited when I moved into renovated Lowell a few weeks ago. A real dining hall! A single in a suite! Adjustable-speed ceiling fans! The window in my room even had a beautiful view, looking out over picturesque trees and brick buildings. I asked my blockmates about the pretty building, with the yellow terrace cover and outdoor seating with tablecloths. A nice café where we could all do our homework together, perhaps?
That’s when they broke it to me. “No,” they said. “That is not a café. That is The Fly.”
On the first Wednesday of the semester, around 6 p.m., a primeval bass began to resonate from the depths of the earth. From where was this chorus of an ambiguous 2000s pop song emanating? I looked outside of my beautiful Lowell-renovated window. The Fly’s backyard. I closed my window, put in headphones, and turned on a fan, but nothing could stop Cascada’s hit 2007 single “Everytime We Touch” from steadily seeping through my window and into the recesses of my brain.
I had so many questions. Why were these men wearing suits to play beer pong? Where did my peers find this industrial speaker? And why did they love music from the late 2000s so much? Was it because it brought back the sweet, sweet memories of the 2008 global financial crisis that their fathers created?
As Ed Sheeran’s “Shape of You” drifted through the breeze, the night wore on with no end in sight. At midnight, a cop knocked on the door, and I had hope that he would finally quiet them down. But one of the servers offered him a rare glass of 1986 Bordeaux Château Le Fly from a crystal decanter, and the cop was warmly welcomed into the party as one of The Fly’s own. By 12:15 a.m., he was also fist bumping to “Closer” by The Chainsmokers, and by 12:30 a.m., he was crowd surfing.
I thought about how, at that very moment, there was a group of freshmen sitting in Canaday trying to amplify an iPhone speaker by placing it in a red Solo cup. I thought about how, in half an hour, their proctor would pour their cucumber Rubinoff down the drain, and with it, all their hope for the future.
The only thing that could eventually quiet The Fly down was the clock striking 2 a.m., the time that God decreed shall be the end of all parties.
When I realized this was going to happen fourdays a week every week, I found my blockmates and asked them, “What is happening?” They ignored me and continued to tap away at their laptops. I then decided to walk around the halls of Lowell, wondering if anyone was experiencing the same collapse of reality that I was. I shouted, over and over, “DOESN’T ANYONE ELSE THINK THIS IS KIND OF NOT NORMAL?” But all I saw were the dead eyes of people going about their normal business. Finally, one of the Lowell House tutors saw my distress and explained to me: Silly Nina. This is what Harvard is.
Over the weeks, I witnessed many other strange occurrences. I would hear the speaker blasting music, look outside, and see not a party, but two men at the outdoor tables, adding irresponsible investments to their stock portfolios. Once, I saw a singular man doing squats with a keg on his back while using the speaker. Another time, I woke up at 9 a.m. on a Saturday to the chords of a Hozier ballad.When I looked outside there was one person skipping rope. You see, the technology for one person to listen to music without disturbing the people around them has not yet been invented.
One Friday night, I was in my room trying to integrate into my new reality like the rest of my peers. Then, I heard the irresistible opening guitar riff of “Stacy’s Mom” by Fountains of Wayne. I immediately tossed my earplugs and white noise machine in the trash. If their music taste was this impeccable, surely they were onto something. I decided to see what this “partying” was all about. I grabbed my noisemaker and donned my party hat. I apprehensively knocked on the door of the Fly, wondering if the rumors of their exclusivity were true. Would they let me mosh to Chainsmokers, too?
And you know what? I had the time of my life. Now, instead of watching a movie or tossing and turning until 2 a.m. on weekend nights, I go out and party. I realized that my life before was empty. Now, I, too, start my mornings by squatting kegs. I, too, forgo needless commodities such as headphones and free weights. In a moment of ascendance last weekend, when someone dougie-d on the Fly dance floor, I vowed to find my own way to contribute to the next impending collapse of the economy.
—Magazine writer Nina H. Pasquini can be reached at nina.pasquini@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @nhpasquini.
Sections
Search my drawers. I dare you.
In the bottom drawer, you’ll find my tie-dyed T-shirts. In the top drawer, my tie-dyed socks. The tie-dyed Converse are at the bottom of my closet, and the tie-dyed headband has a home on my shelf. Tie-dye isn’t just hidden in my drawers — it’s proudly displayed from floor to ceiling. The first thing you’ll see when you enter my room is a bedsheet posing as a tapestry, touting a rainbow bullseye that stares back at you. Before leaving for college, I spent hours in my dimly-lit basement with a dozen bottles of dye and that old sheet, breaking a sweat as I struggled to color every inch.
Tie-dye, with all of its playful enthusiasm, is a brand. It’s my brand, and it’s one that I’ve worked hard to create.
***
Middle school: a classic setting for unhappiness and misunderstanding. My memories of the time mirror many teenage movie tropes, featuring constant, needless embarrassment and the desire to blend in. Standing out was anathema, and muted blandness seemed like the best way to avoid it. The most obvious path to conformity was through the most unassuming clothing possible; my go-to outfit in the sixth grade was a plain T-shirt and jeans.
Entering high school did little to improve the situation. I often woke up from my daily bus-ride slumber with a start as we pulled into the school parking lot, panic spreading through my chest. I would look out the window at the stream of teenagers scuttling into the building like an army of ants marching to their destination, toting backpacks instead of morsels of food. I dreaded the endless socializing that awaited me. Would I say the right thing? Make the right joke? Would they like my outfit? Bowing to perceived social pressures once again, I traded in my middle school T-shirt and loosely fitting pants for an American Eagle sweater and skinny jeans.
***
The first time I tie-dyed in recent memory was the summer after 10th grade at Hippie Camp (not its actual name — it was really called “Odyssey Teen Camp,” but my campmates decided Hippie Camp was more appropriate). Hippie Camp was a wacky and magical grove of trees where I got to dance blindfolded in a wide open field, chant with a chorus of voices in a makeshift sweat lodge, glide through the pool in an iridescent pink mermaid tail I sewed myself, and wear, quite literally, whatever I wanted because there was absolutely no dress code. Hippie Camp was a place of most people’s childhood fantasies. A paradise, a wonderland, a dream — but a dream I wanted to wake up from. I hated it and went home early.
While I was immersed in Hippie Camp culture, it was all too much for me. The lack of daily structure stressed me out, and I may or may not have been close to fainting in the sweat lodge. But almost as soon as I left, my conception of camp morphed into an idealized world of freedom, acceptance, and unapologetic weirdness. I had never met teenagers like the ones who went to Hippie Camp. Infinite details about these people that left 16-year-old me in awe, but their clothing choices were something obvious and tangible that I could latch onto. Many of my Hippie Camp friends wore eclectic clothes (and sometimes nearly no clothing) that were so unlike the outfits I had seen people at school wear — and, to my surprise, I still thought they were awesome.
The one memento from Hippie Camp that remained with me was the XL Hanes T-shirt that I had tie-dyed one afternoon. At first, I didn’t wear it to school. It seemed too bright and too big to even be appropriate; it was a relic of a worldview that didn’t quite fit with the one that I was used to at school. Nonetheless, one day, I worked up the courage and slipped it on. I woke up from my bus-ride slumber as usual, swallowed by my multicolored shirt, and trudged off the bus to join the stream of teenagers scuttling into the building. Would they like my outfit?
Big surprise: wearing a tie-dyed shirt to school did not end up being that big of a deal. I received a few chuckles from my friends, and maybe even a few compliments. I had been nervous that my outfit would put me under a spotlight all day. But instead of suffering from stagefright, I felt brave. I felt fun.
Like the people I met at Hippie Camp, I was wearing what I wanted and I didn’t bother to care what people thought of it. This wasn’t something I previously knew I was capable of. It wasn’t an especially profound revelation, but a concept that most lucky people come to realize at some point in their lives. It just took an unhappy stint at Hippie Camp and a rainbow, spiraled, XL T-shirt for me to stumble upon it.
The summer after senior year was when my tie-dying obsession truly escalated. I spent hours in my backyard splattering color everywhere, even accidentally dyeing my cat. Tie-dye became the outward expression of my inward self-assurance. Tie-dye says I’m bold. It says I defy blandness and don’t tone myself down. It catches your eye and says that I am unafraid to be noticed. Tie-dye says I go outside. It says I leave the library. Tie-dye says, “I don’t care what you think.”
When I walked onto my big, daunting college campus for the first time last year, I was wearing my now well-worn Hippie Camp t-shirt. Many of my closest friends met me that day, when I was wearing that shirt. I like to think that might be the image they picture when they think of me — excited, scared, and eager, still sleepy from the early plane ride but wearing a rainbow shirt without hesitation.
— Magazine writer Maya H. McDougall can be reached at maya.mcdougall@thecrimson.com. 
Sections
When a 23-year-old single mother started working as a maid for Harvard professor Edward C. Pickering, class of 1865, he didn’t expect her to change our understanding of the stars. It was 1879 and Williamina P. S. Fleming needed work: She had immigrated to Boston a year earlier, only to be abandoned by her husband shortly thereafter. Back in Scotland, Fleming had been a schoolteacher — she was a quick learner, and she began teaching when she was just 14.
Pickering hired Fleming shortly after he became the director of the Harvard College Observatory. Pickering wanted to gather information about all the stars that are visible from Earth and organize it in a massive catalog. He started taking thousands of glass plate photographs through his telescope. But to process all the data, he needed a team of scientists to examine each photo, correct
the image for the distorting effect of Earth’s atmosphere, and then record the properties of the stars in spreadsheets. The new data overwhelmed the small group at the Observatory. Pickering was so frustrated by the slowness and sloppiness of his male staff that, according to legend, he yelled that his Scottish maid could do better. Fleming, like a real-life Will Hunting, had her chance.
The real story, however, is a bit more complex than a feel-good movie plot. Before his outburst, Pickering had some idea of Fleming’s talent. Pickering’s wife, the daughter of former Harvard president Jared Sparks, was so impressed by her new maid’s intellect that she told Pickering he should hire her. This wasn’t terribly radical: Women had worked at the Observatory since at least 1875, and others volunteered even earlier.
Pickering also had an economic incentive to hire more women: He could pay Fleming a fraction of what he would have to pay a man, between $0.25 and $0.50 an hour, allowing him to hire more people to look at his glass plates.
So, in 1881, Fleming joined the staff of the Harvard Observatory, where she analyzed thousands of photos of stars. She was one of the first of what became a group of 80 women, known as the “Harvard computers” — the word computer originally referred to people who were so good at math they “computed” for a living. Fleming worked Monday through Saturday from 9 a.m. until 6 p.m., sometimes going home and working more hours into the evening. Her arm was so sore from writing that, on doctor’s orders, she hired a masseuse to come to her home each week.
In 1886, Pickering put Fleming in charge of the Harvard computers working on star classification. Fleming and the women who worked with her had far more freedom than the label “computer” suggests. Fleming was able to hire more women, and she later edited all of the publications that the Observatory printed. She repeatedly challenged male professors when they made mistakes, and, at least in her diary, seemed satisfied with her academic freedom: “I am more than contented to have such excellent opportunities for work in so many different directions.” On at least one occasion, some of the female staff took over the daily work of the laboratory while Pickering was on a four-month-long summer vacation.
In 1888, Fleming discovered the Horsehead Nebula. Over the course of her career, and without any formal astronomy education, she discovered 10 novae, 52 nebulae, and 310 variable stars.
As astronomers go, the Harvard Observatory and its large female staff were famous. Skeptics called them “Pickering’s harem,” but the women scientists still impressed their male colleagues with their talent — in 1906, Fleming became the first American woman member of the Royal Astronomical Society. She wasn’t the only famous computer: Henrietta S. Leavitt even had Nobel Prize buzz. Newspapers around the globe covered the Harvard computers. Why, then, were these once-famous women scientists forgotten?
In the 1980s, sociologist Arlene K. Daniels coined the term “invisible work” to describe the kinds of unpaid labor traditionally done by women in the home. But this kind of invisibility shrouds women’s labor outside the home, too. Because scientific work is measured in papers and conferences, the labor behind the scenes is often undervalued.
Fleming was still mired in the domestic tasks that were expected of women. “My home life is necessarily different from that of other officers of the University,” she wrote in her diary in 1900, “since all housekeeping cares rest on me, in addition to those of providing the means to meet their expenses.” While her male colleagues were free to spend their time taking photographs and theorizing about space, Fleming was at the market, cooking for her son (who she put through M.I.T.), and caring for her staff. Even at work, Fleming spent most of her working hours toiling on calculations.
“Looking after the routine pieces of mundane work which have to be kept progressing,” she wrote, “has consumed so much of my time during the past few years that little is left for the particular investigations in which I am most interested.” Fleming’s duties as a computer and an editor, thankless work that makes research possible, limited her time writing papers and theorizing.
During her life, though she was stressed by constant and unappreciated labor, Fleming was not invisible. But after Pickering’s death, the memory of the Harvard computers began to vanish slowly from history. Perhaps it has something to do with names — Fleming and her colleagues were astronomers by any definition, but their label of “computer” defined them only by their menial work, rather than their extraordinary discoveries.
—Magazine writer Drew C. Pendergrass can be reached at drew.pendergrass@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @pendergrassdrew. This is the first installment of his column about invisible labor in science.
Sections
At the turn of the 20th century, the chasm between rich and poor Harvard students was becoming impossible to overlook, as it threatened to engulf the campus in revolt.
Some students arrived at Harvard “with allowances of fifteen thousand dollars a year pocket money, with automobiles and servants, living in gorgeous suites in palatial apartment houses”; while others in the same class “starved in attic bedrooms,” wrote journalist John S. Reed, who graduated from Harvard in 1910.
During Reed’s senior year, the tension between students with servants and those struggling to afford food erupted in a “democratic revolution,” as Reed later termed it. An election for student government became a war between the rich and poor — between “the Street,” named for their private apartments on Mount Auburn, and “the Yard,” for the less well-off students who occupied dorms in Harvard Yard.
Walter Lippmann, class of 1910, led the charge for the Yard. Lippmann had co-founded the Harvard Socialist club in 1908, which discussed socialist philosophy, agitated for change in workers’ rights on campus, and even drafted socialist bills and sent them to the state legislature. The unequal representation in student government for residents of the Yard was an issue suited for Lippmann’s attention. At a meeting on the issue of the “The Yard and The Street,” Lippmann gave an impassioned speech to the 800 students in attendance – a whopping one-third of the entire student body. Lippmann’s speech left the hall in a hush.
Reed, Lippmann’s contemporary, had oscillated between trying to win the acceptance of the Harvard elite and associating himself with the rising group of rebels. Reed came from a well-off family in Oregon, but was not part of the aristocratic scene at Harvard; he had been rejected from the exclusive “waiting clubs,” in his sophomore year, which funneled members into “final clubs” as juniors and seniors, and came to scorn the elites alongside Lippmann. But Reed still courted the appeal of aristocrats and never became a member of Lippmann’s Socialist Club. Reed’s “social conscience was still dormant,” his biographer Eric Homberger wrote. And this time, in the 1910 student election, Reed aligned himself against Lippmann — with the aristocrats.
In the battle between Yard and Street, the Yard — the poor — prevailed. The Yard, Lippmann’s biographer, Ronald Steel writes, “asserted their numerical strength,” capturing most of the student offices.
After graduating, Reed disavowed the aristocracy once and for all: He went on to report from the frontlines of the Russian Revolution and is one of three Americans buried in the Kremlin. Lippmann, on the other hand, turned away from revolution and towards incrementalism, and never wrote about his victory in the war between rich and poor at Harvard.
These forces of class conflict on campus surfaced under the longest-serving president, Charles W. Eliot, class of 1853, who led Harvard from 1869 to 1909.
In the late 19th and early 20th centuries under Eliot, Harvard’s student body became more heterogeneous than peer schools like Yale and Princeton. Due in part to shifts in admissions criteria, the University began to draw from a wider variety of socioeconomic and racial backgrounds. A 1910 book surveying the “great American universities” asserted that while Princeton strove for homogeneity, “Harvard’s ideal,” simply put, “[was] diversity.”
President Eliot opened up the gates of Harvard to more and different kinds of students. But opening up the gates led to stratification within them. With the changing composition of the student body came fragmentation along lines of class and a broader tension between cohesion and diversity that would long outlast Eliot’s tenure.
President Charles W. Eliot came to Harvard by way of the Boston elite. A descendant of early “Boston Brahmin,” Eliot attended the Boston Latin School and Harvard College. He became a member of the Harvard faculty and, disillusioned with the strict requirements for students during his time, implemented sweeping changes when he became president.
Most central to Eliot’s ideology was freedom, which for him meant flexibility for students to craft their own academic futures. Eliot instituted the elective system, under which students had leeway to choose courses from a variety of subjects. He also abolished compulsory chapel and did away with attendance requirements in classes.
Eliot’s notion of freedom and individualism applied to the realm of admissions, too, easing open the Harvard gates: “The poorest and the richest students are equally welcome here, provided that with their poverty or their wealth they bring capacity, ambition, and purity,” he proclaimed in his inaugural address in 1869.
Though imperfectly, Eliot followed through on his initial promises over his 40 years as president, adopting some policies that benefited the less-wealthy.
At the beginning of Eliot’s presidency, the admissions test was far from flexible. In the 1880s prospective students descended on Sever Hall to take three days of exams, the majority of which were fixed in topic. Day One of exams in 1884 began with sight-reading Caesar from 9-10 a.m., and continued with “Latin Translation at Sight and Composition” from 10-11 a.m., and “Xenophon at Sight” from 11:30 to 12:30 p.m. The latter included the “translation at sight of easy passages from Xenophon.” Easy, that is, for those who attended the private schools that taught Greek and Latin, such as Andover, Groton, or St. Marks, or one of a handful of public schools that did, like Eliot’s alma mater, Boston Latin. The entrance exams were held only at Harvard and a few private schools. The afternoon of Day One brought little relief for a boy ill-versed in the classics: It ended with a choice between reading Cicero, or Virgil and Ovid, or composing in Latin.
It was Eliot’s long-standing mission to remove the required Greek and Latin tests from entrance examinations: He thought students should be able to select the subjects that they were most interested in and pursue them without restraint.
But the faculty wouldn’t let Eliot eliminate the classics requirements without a fight. In 1875, the president brought “The Greek Question” to a vote among the faculty, proposing alternatives for the Greek section of the entrance exam. He was sharply defeated: The resolution received only six faculty ayes and a whopping 18 nays. One of the nays wrote that a background in Greek and Latin classics was crucial to the success of any potential Harvard student, inculcating in the mind “vigor and precision of thought and clearness and grace of expression.”
After years of protracted debate, Eliot finally prevailed. In 1886, Harvard no longer required Greek in the entrance examinations.
By changing the required subjects for the entrance exam, Eliot made Harvard more accessible to students from public schools. In the 1904-1905 academic year, toward the end of Eliot’s tenure, Harvard also joined the College Entrance Examination Board. The Board, formed in 1900, produced standardized exams for admission to the leading American colleges at the time. The test tripled the number of exam locations, allowing more public school students to apply. According to “The Chosen,” Jerome B. Karabel’s ’72 history of admissions at elite universities, 45 percent of the College was composed of students from public schools by 1908, Eliot’s last academic year in office.
Eliot’s admissions changes didn’t occur in a vacuum: They were enacted at a time of great demographic shifts in the United States and at Harvard itself.
The end of the 19th century saw the fastest growth yet of Harvard’s student body, and with it, new challenges to maintaining cohesion. For the first two centuries of Harvard’s existence, each incoming class had fewer than 100 students, but in the last two decades of the 19th century, enrollment expanded astronomically. The incoming class size reached 100 students in 1860, but by 1906, in the final years of Eliot’s presidency, there were more than 600 students in the incoming class.
President Eliot credited Harvard’s increasingly flexible admissions system with attracting more applicants. But elsewhere, he acknowledged that even with the alternatives to Greek and Latin, the exam was still quite demanding, quipping that “only a small proportion of boys and girls… take kindly to advanced mathematics.” While marginally more accessible, the barrier to entry remained high.
The more likely explanation for the rapid expansion, then, might have to do with broader demographic shifts in the United States in the late 1800s, as historian Laurence R. Veysey suggests in “The Emergence of the American University.” A college degree gained more value in the late 19th century, as established Anglo-Saxon families began to distinguish themselves from the waves of newly arrived immigrants by earning degrees. A degree, Veysey wrote, “especially one which no longer required the bother of learning Greek or Latin, could become a tempting trademark… increasingly accessible to any family affluent enough to spare the earning power of its sons in their late teens.” A college education, he suggests, functioned as “an insurance policy against downward mobility.”
But with the new changes in admissions standards, those same Anglo-Saxon families could no longer insulate themselves from the changing social landscape of the United States within Harvard’s gates. With more students came what Veysey describes as a “new and democratic’ element” at Harvard. After the mid-1880s, Catholics, Jewish students, and the occasional black student began matriculating to Harvard in greater numbers. According to Karabel, the class which entered in 1908 included 29 black students and 60 international students — a dramatic shift from just half a century prior.
Under Eliot’s presidency, philosopher William M. James suggested in an address given at the time, students hailed from “the remotest outskirts of our country, without introductions, without school affiliations.” His speech was entitled “The True Harvard.”
Yet the larger, more-diverse student body was intensely stratified.
Wealth stratification ran especially rampant. Expenses listed in late 19th century Harvard admissions catalogues included a budget for a “Servant” for the largest spenders, side-by-side with categories like “Clothing” and “Societies and subscription to sports.” An 1887 survey, which Professor G.H. Palmer presented at commencement that year, found that the richest students spent ten times as much as the poorest. The graduating class ranged from spending $400 to $4,000 a year, Palmer announced, concluding direly that “It may be believed that even after restraint and wisdom are used, Harvard remains the college of the rich.”
In the 1890s, deluxe private apartments were built on Mount Auburn Street. The wealthiest students undertook a mass exodus from Yard dorms to sleek lodgings on the “Gold Coast” or “Street,” giving rise to the geographical class divide that spurred the 1910 clash between Street and Yard.
The Gold Coast was a social hub: Some of the buildings had swimming pools and squash courts, and the apartments were close to other popular social hang-outs like billiard parlors in Harvard Square and the exclusive club houses. Often, Gold Coast residents ate in private dining clubs, while residents of the Yard ate together either in Memorial Hall or later the Harvard Union, now the Barker Center. Rooming on the Gold Coast didn’t guarantee high social status at Harvard — it was also necessary to have gone to the correct prep school and integrate well with Boston’s high society — but nonetheless, residing in one of the private apartments was a precondition for elite status.
Meanwhile, Weld Hall — where journalist and student leader Walter Lippmann lived — lacked running water and central heating. The nearest bath was at the gym two blocks away.
For the most part, those who lived on the Gold Coast led entirely separate lives from their counterparts in the Yard; the geographical distance between them paralleled social divisions. “[The aristocrats] were so exclusive that most of the real life went on outside their ranks,” Reed wrote. Those who weren’t in elite clubs, or the “places of pride and power,” still had lively intellectual connections with the other non-elites, especially through rising political radicalism on campus. In this way, the 1910 elections were an exception to the complete isolation of poor from rich, the result of pent-up animosity between two groups that rarely interacted.
William James acknowledged this division on campus but thought that poor students were reaping great rewards from the University. The poorer students “seldom or never darken the doors of the Pudding or the Porcellian; they hover in the background on days when the crimson color is most in evidence,” he wrote. But poor students were nonetheless “intoxicated and exultant with the nourishment they find here,” James continued. And in some ways, perhaps this was true: Lippmann and his radical friends forged deep intellectual connections at Harvard. Lippmann himself wandered out of the Yard each Thursday morning to go to William James’s house for tea. But he rarely brushed elbows with his elite peers.
Eliot refused to intervene in the development of Gold Coast apartments, justifying his inaction by claiming he was training students for real life. “[One might] wish that the University did not offer the same contrast between the rich man’s mode of life and the poor man’s that the outer world offers,” notes the 1901-02 annual report. “It does, and it is not certain that the presence of this contrast is unwholesome or injurious. In this respect as in many others, the University is an epitome of the modern world.” The jarring wealth inequality on campus, Eliot suggested, helped prepare students for what they would encounter after graduation.
John Reed wrote that there was “no attempt made by the authorities to weld the student body together, or to enforce any kind of uniformity.” It seems this facet of Eliot’s notion of freedom was particularly damaging to student life, creating a sense of discord between rich and poor which also fueled the fierce student election of 1910 between Yard and Street.
President Eliot’s 40-year tenure saw several sweeping changes to Harvard, many of which enabled diversity at the expense of unity of the student body. Eliot opened the gates of the Yard to new kinds of students, but as a result, the rich students fled the Yard for the Gold Coast. As president, he did nothing to ease the emerging class divides.
President Eliot was succeeded by A. Lawrence Lowell, a graduate of the class of 1877, much to Eliot’s dismay. The two had clashed on Eliot’s key principles of student freedom while Lowell was a professor at Harvard. Lowell spoke out against the unabated development of the Gold Coast: In a 1902 letter to Eliot, Lowell referenced the “separation of the students on lines of wealth,” and raised concerns that the private dorms would destroy the democratic spirit of campus. Lowell also disagreed with Eliot’s elective system, raising concerns that it gave students the liberty to learn nothing at all.
Once in power, Lowell set out to reverse many of Eliot’s policies. He sought unity in ways counter to Eliot’s laissez-faire attitude in the social realm, and in an attempt to bring coherence back to the student body, Lowell introduced the modern housing system.
Most importantly, Eliot’s liberal admissions policies created backlash in the form of Lowell’s restrictive admissions policies: In admissions, Lowell shifted requirements from purely exam-based metrics to purportedly assessing character as a factor as well. The purpose of this change was explicitly anti-Semitic: Emphasizing character allowed Lowell to limit the number of Jewish students at Harvard, which had risen because of the changing demographics of American society and the more accessible admissions exam. Lowell feared the Protestant elite would be driven out by Jewish students on campus and claimed that a large Jewish population could foment further anti-Semitism that would impair his goal of building a unified Harvard community.
Eliot and Lowell failed to produce a campus that was both cohesive and diverse; they pursued competing experiments in admissions to deleterious ends. Before Eliot, the tiny student body was relatively homogenous and cohesive. Eliot produced a heterogeneous but strictly stratified student body, doing nothing to assimilate less-wealthy students once they arrived on campus. In opening up admissions, Eliot laid the groundwork for President Lowell’s reactionary policies, which pursued unity at the cost of diversity.
Though the gulf between the Yard and Street had shrunk, the gates of Harvard were drawn ever more tightly closed for decades to come.
—Magazine writer Clara J. Bates can be reached at clara.bates@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter at @ClaraBatess.
Sections
At 4:45 p.m., I step onto a barricaded street and shoulder my way through a large crowd of marshmallow enthusiasts. I’m surrounded by parents ushering their children to the front of a stage, young couples feeding each other marshmallow pops and “fluff” empanadas, and clusters of teens giggling as the sticky treat adheres to the corners of their mouths.
The stage — my intended destination — finally comes into view, where a man with long, bushy gray hair narrates a game of musical chairs. He is dressed in a red-and-white checkered shirt, red-and-white checkered pants, and a black, yellow, and red plaid jacket. The whole ensemble is topped off with a black bowler hat.
Next to him, two boys circle a chair covered with a black trash bag. The chair’s seat is slathered in marshmallow fluff, and the boys’ clothes have already been stained white by the sticky spread –– they’ve clearly braved several rounds to make it to the final showdown.
The music stops, and one boy falls into the seat, raising his arms in victory.
The crowd cheers. As he tries to rise from the chair, the fluff on the back of his pants tugs him back down.
***
The “What the Fluff” festival, jointly organized by Union Square Main Streets and the Somerville Arts Council, celebrates the creation of marshmallow fluff, which turns 102 this year.
Archibald Query invented the treat in 1917 at his home in Somerville. After peddling his invention door-to-door for three years, Query finally sold the product to the Durkee-Mower Company in 1920 after sugar shortages in World War I hindered his personal fluff production.
Today, Query’s name and creation live on via the Fluff Festival. This is the fourteenth year the Union Square community has celebrated his innovative dessert. But to Jessica L. Eshleman, Union Square Main Streets’s executive director, it’s more broadly a celebration of the square’s spirit.
“Mayor Curtatone has been saying for many, many years: ‘Our freaks are better than your freaks,’” Eshleman says. “And I think people who choose to move here, who choose to live in the densest city in New England, who choose to live under the construction and all the things that are Union Square — we embrace that.”
Marshmallow fluff isn’t a cultural phenomenon confined to Somerville, however. It’s the defining ingredient in the fluffernutter sandwich, a Massachusetts staple composed of white bread, peanut butter, and fluff that nearly became the official state sandwich in 2009. It even has its own holiday –– October 8 is National Fluffernutter Day.
However, the sandwich has endured its fair share of controversy. In 2006, then-State Senator Jarrett T. Barrios attempted to ban fluffernutters from public schools after learning that his son had been served the treat at his elementary school. Eshleman says the decision to celebrate fluff in the face of this pushback illustrates “the Union Square brand.”
“It’s not the most healthy, nobody can contest that… [but] the spirit of Union Square [is] really exemplified by taking controversy over a peanut butter and fluff sandwich and turning it into 20,000 people having a really amazing and memorable time.”
***
Somerville Avenue is lined with local restaurant vendors, and the air is filled with the competing aromas of curry, barbequed meat, and shumai. The array of international cuisines aligns with this year’s theme of “All Roads Lead to Fluff” — an attempt, according to the festival’s website, to celebrate the “culturally rich” city of Somerville, “paying homage to the many roads traveled to Union Square from all over the world.”
Live music mingles with cries of “Fluffernutters! Get your fluffernutters here! One for three, two for five!” Trios of students weave through the throngs of people crawling down the street. Vendors lug boxes laden with the coveted fluffernutter sandwiches. I finally cave and purchase one. ‘For later,’ I tell myself.
I break through the crowd to find the second, main stage — better known to festival-goers as the Fluff’n Jam Stage. Various acts rotate throughout the afternoon, including the Julia Bomfim Brazilian Quartet, the Flufferettes, and most intriguing to me, Keytar Bear: a man dressed in a bear costume and a Red Sox jersey whose instrument of choice is the keytar.
While I’ve unfortunately missed Keytar Bear’s performance, I’m just in time for the announcement of the cooking contest winners. Participants compete for the title of either Most Innovative Recipe, Most Retro Recipe, Best Future Chef, and Best Chef Overall. Christina M. McNeil claimed the Most Innovative Recipe award with her S’more Babka, which infused fluff and graham crackers into a chocolate swirl.
“This is my third or fourth time [participating],” she explains as she shows me pictures of the prized bread on her phone. When I ask her what keeps bringing her back to the festival, her response is quick: “The contest! I have to defend my title.”
Although McNeil is a longtime resident of Somerville, the same enthusiasm extends to newer members of the community. Tess R. Ruderman, a newcomer to Union Square, enjoys the excitement the festival brings.
“It’s nice to bring a s’mores vibe to your everyday life,” she says. “You don’t have to be in the woods to eat a marshmallow.”
***
Later that night, I unpack my backpack and realize that I have forgotten about the fluffernutter I purchased earlier. As I tear open the Ziploc bag, I realize how excited I am to finally experience the treat that’s such a source of pride for the people I met in Union Square. I take my first bite, and what I encounter is salty, sweet, and honestly, a little underwhelming. After all, it’s just white bread, peanut butter, and marshmallow fluff.
Under other circumstances, I might not have been so enthused. But maybe that’s all that needs to be said about the Fluff Festival’s charm.
—Magazine writer Jane Z. Li can be reached at jane.li@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @JaneZLi.
Sections
On Friday afternoons, Dewey Square becomes home to a drove of anthropomorphized bacon strips. A bacon spelunker teeters precariously on a ridge; a bacon window cleaner is hard at work; a bacon cowboy lassoes a much smaller strip of bacon; and two bacon strips recline in a skillet, in love and perhaps unaware of their fate.
There are a half-dozen food trucks offering everything from lobster rolls to curry, but the dominant smell is that of smoky, greasy pork. The overwhelming scent wafts from the Bacon Truck, a millennial pink pigmented vehicle decorated with cartoon rashers.
The Bacon Truck has been “fighting for the rights of those who choose to enjoy bacon in all of its glorious forms” since 2013, as per their website. Co-founders Sam Williams and J.J. Frosk are on a patriotic mission: “They hold these truths to be self-evident, that all foods are not created equal, that bacon is superior.”
Their menu offers typical bacon-centric fare, such as a B.L.T. piled with thick bacon and served with bacon-infused mayonnaise. Other items are more outlandish, such as Nutella-covered bacon. FOr, if for purists, they offer a “bunch o’ bacon” for three dollars.
“Recently bacon has been vilified and shunned in favor of foods such as quinoa, kale, granola,” the website continues. Yet nestled at the bottom of the bacon-filled menu is the green contour of a salad bowl and a friendly message: “Any sandwich can be prepared as a salad, just ask!” Beneath the outward appearance of boarish, bacon-mania, lies a shrewd business plan that has made this bacon haven one of the top-rated food trucks in Boston.
I met Williams in front The Bacon Truck in the early afternoon. Asked about the site’s porcine-nationalist parody, he says, “We’re just being silly. But I think you could say bacon is as American as the Declaration of Independence.”
Williams and Frosk have been friends since high school, where they first tossed around the “pipe dream” of opening a food truck. After graduating from college with degrees in communications and political science, Williams recalls thinking, “What the hell kind of a job is this going to get us?” So, they returned to their high school aspiration.
Opening a food truck was always the primary goal — bacon wasn’t essential, but it became the basis of a strategic business model.
“I love bacon, but I wouldn’t say that I’m bacon-obsessed,” Williams says. “For me, I wanted to come up with a food truck concept that really hit on all the nodes. Kids, yuppies, tourists — everyone loves bacon. It's kind of a universal language of guilty pleasure.”
Williams and Frosk knew nothing about operating a food truck, so they embarked on two years of rigorous study — managing trucks and performing market research to learn the specificities of the Boston food truck market.
Despite extensive preparation, the operation has not always gone smoothly. To purchase their first company vehicle, the pair drove to the dealership in an old car that they had owned since high school, planning to trade it in.
“We're driving down the highway, there's a bunch of smoke coming out of this thing,” Williams says. “And some guy pulls up alongside of us and says, ‘Your car is on fire!’” They had to pull onto the side of I-93 and wait for emergency responders to extinguish the flames.
Williams looks back on the episode as a symbol of their perseverance. “For every crappy thing you power through as a business owner, as long as you can make it through it, you're usually better off in the end,” he says. They’ve learned a lot in the years since opening, overcoming early debt and tweaking their model to have enough in their piggy bank to last through the slow winter months.
The bacon-chauvinism and crusade against health food “quinoa, kale, granola” is also, to some extent, branding. “The market is a little oversaturated with healthy food trends,” Williams says. The truck’s salad option, then, is not a betrayal of this bacon-centric ethos, but instead part of their business plan, along with the vegan alternative (fried zucchini chips) offered at their cafe.
“Over the years we’ve learned that another effective way to grow your business is to appeal to a larger audience,” Williams says. “We’re certainly not opposed to vegetarians.” He, too, has been trying to limit his intake of unhealthy foods, including bacon.
This unabashed marketing of bacon and indulgence, coupled with accommodating health-conscious customers, has paid off. They now operate two trucks and a cafe in Charlestown, and have catered corporate events and a wedding, where they roasted an entire pig on a spit.
Yet even as The Bacon Truck saturates the food truck market with smoky, fatty pork, there may be such a thing — as Williams and his customers appear to admit — as too much bacon. As service winds down around 2 p.m., an employee from the nearby Vietnamese food truck, Bon Me, carries over a couple of boxes, likely filled with greens and pickled vegetables, for the Bacon Truck employees.
—Magazine writer Matteo N. Wong can be reached at matteo.wong@thecrimson.com.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Dean of the Division of Continuing Education Huntington D. Lambert announced his decision to retire in December in an email to DCE affiliates Wednesday.
DCE encompasses Harvard’s Extension School and Summer School, as well as a variety of other academic enrichment programs. Lambert has held the deanship for six years. Starting next January, Henry H. Leitner, DCE associate dean and chief innovation officer, will serve as interim dean until a permanent replacement can be found.
Lambert wrote in the Wednesday email that he is stepping down to focus on “family, philanthropy, and learning passions,” and to thank the school’s students, faculty, staff, and alumni.
“I am reaching out to thank all of you for your amazing contributions to our successes at DCE,” Lambert wrote. “Your hard work and dedication to our mission, students, FAS, and Harvard have allowed us to expand DCE into the leading CE institution in the world. It was an honor to work with such committed and driven staff, faculty, and teaching assistants.”
In recent years, DCE programs have increased both in participation and their financial contributions to Harvard. Harvard Summer School offers more than 500 courses to over 10,000 students. The Extension School offers more than 900 courses, which are available both online and on campus. In Lambert’s first year at Harvard — 2013 — the Extension School issued 645 degrees. Now, the number has risen to more than 1,200 annually.
In a message sent Tuesday, Dean of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences Claudine Gay praised Lambert’s contribution to Harvard’s educational mission and attributed DCE’s growth to his work.
“During Hunt’s time as dean, Harvard has increasingly sought to engage learners who seek to expand their knowledge and develop deeper professional skills through non-degree offerings,” she wrote. “Hunt and other leaders within DCE have been important voices in that work, both in cross-university review efforts and through DCE’s own programs.”
Prior to arriving in Cambridge, Lambert had worked on more than 25 startups in 12 different countries. As an administrator at Colorado State University, he founded an entrepreneurship center and the university system’s online program. In his email Wednesday, Lambert described leading DCE as a “finale” to his career and called the divisions’ faculty, staff, and students “outstanding.”
“Nothing prepared me for the quality of the dedicated adult part-time and summer students Harvard DCE attracts and engages,” Lambert wrote. “DCE has demonstrated to the whole world that serving students across their lifespan is what makes a great 21st century global university like Harvard complete.”
Gay wrote in her email that a search for Lambert’s successor will commence later this fall.
As Lambert completes his tenure at Harvard, Gay offered her gratitude for his work leading DCE.
“Hunt leaves a proud legacy at Harvard, and I am deeply grateful for the positive impact he has had on our community.”
—Staff writer Lucy Liu can be reached at lucy.liu@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Undergraduate Council signed on to a letter last week addressed to University President Lawerence S. Bacow and incoming Harvard University Health Services Director Giang T. Nguyen pushing for publicly accessible Naloxone on Harvard’s campus.
Two recent College graduates ⁠— Eana X. Meng ’19 and Kailash S. Sundaram ’19 ⁠— spearheaded the letter, which appealed the decision by HUHS in April to decline to make Naloxone publicly available in automatic external defibrillator boxes located around campus. Mutiple Harvard professors, Mayor Marc C. McGovern, and the Undergraduate Council have all signed onto the letter.
“I think that a large part of the reason that we wanted to sign onto this is because we try to represent not only student interest, but also the interest of the community surrounding us,” said Sanika S. Mahajan '21, chair of the UC Committee on the Health, Safety, and Willness Committee.
The letter references the efforts of Harvard for Opioid Overdose Prevention and Education, a group started by Meng and Sundaram focused on breaking the stigma surrounding opioid use. The group also works on issues relating to Harvard's relationship the City of Cambridge. After HUHS declined to provide Naloxone in AED boxes last spring, Meng and Sundaram formed the group in June.
The letter comes after a 26-year-old man fatally overdosed on the steps of Blue Bottle Cafe, located at 40 Bow St., last July. Swathi R. Srinivasan ’21, one of the group’s co-directors, said she had hoped that HOOPE wouldn’t need to push for Naloxone availability because of a specific overdose incident.
“We were hoping that it wouldn't have to be in the circumstances that something [had] already happened,” Srinivasan said.
HUHS told Meng and Sundaram that first responders carry naloxone and that they have a quick response time, according to Meng. But in Meng’s opinion, the fatal overdose proved their push for Naloxone in AED boxes was necessary.
“It was really hard to read about it, because this is exactly the thing that we were trying to prevent,” Meng said.
HUHS Spokesperson Michael Perry wrote in an email to The Crimson that HUHS “will continue to consider the possibility of Narcan in our AED boxes when we have more data.”
“HUHS is committed to ongoing conversations across the Harvard community to determine best ways to address emergent situations such as overdose and better understand opioid use on our campus through our health assessment survey that we will distribute this academic year,” he wrote.
Srinivasan said that though she recognizes that decisions take time, she believes the opioid crisis warrants immediate action.
“It’s not to be overly harsh,” Srinivasan said. “I know people have priorities, but this is one for the world.”
HOOPE has received wide-spread support from Harvard Medical School professors and Boston-based RIZE, a non-profit focused on combating the opioid epidemic.
McGovern himself has also offered support in their push to fight the epidemic. In an email to The Crimson, McGovern wrote that he will continue to work with Harvard and other universities in Cambridge on “this vital harm reduction strategy.”
“The opioid crisis crosses all demographics and boundaries. Making Naloxone more readily available will save lives. I was happy to sign this letter and to work with students on this issue,” he wrote.
Correction: Oct. 2, 2019
A previous version of this article incorrectly stated attributed the statement "It's not to be overly harsh... I know people have priorities  but this is one for the world," to Eana X. Meng '19. In fact, Swathi R. Srinivasan ’21 said the statement.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Academics and media experts warned of the limits of inclusion in technology at a forum hosted by the Institute of Politics on Wednesday evening.
The panelists at the event — dubbed “The Politics of Difference: Race, Technology, and Inclusion” — discussed a variety of topics, ranging from targeted advertising in social media to video game “culture wars.”
Joan Donovan, the director of the Technology and Social Change Research Project at the Shorenstein Center, moderated the event. Donovan opened the panel by pointing to a “culture shift” in technology and inclusion.
“There’s a lot of inclusionary rhetoric that we traffic in exclusionary politics,” she said.
Harvard Kennedy School professor and panelist Khalil Muhammad spoke about his research on state-weaponization of big data. He said crime statistics have been used as a “measure of citizenship” and justification for eugenics and immigration restrictions.
“They claim the data itself was divorced from a political agenda. It was just a simple articulation of the facts of the choices that individuals made in some way. And the data just accumulates in their behavior,” he said. “But of course, their behavior was subject to surveillance and was subject to different standards of treatment, and justice, etcetera.”
Panelist Latoya Peterson, known for her award-winning blog Racialicious.com, shared the story of the time a reader suggested she look into a piece about white supremacists using “search engine optimization” to “hijack” the legacy of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.
Peterson said she found that white supremacist groups were manipulating search rankings to reroute people looking for information about King to white supremacy pages disguised as sites focused on civil rights.
“We're now also dealing with the rise of white supremacy online,” she said. “Racial terror tactics migrate.”
Panelist Ruha Benjamin — an associate professor of African American Studies at Princeton — explained this phenomenon as the “innovation of racism.”
“We're trained to think about racism as sort of what happens in the backwoods as a byproduct of not knowing things,” she said. “But the fact that is that it’s often forward looking.”
At the end of the event, the panelists stressed the need for more diversity in newsrooms, digital platforms, and technology, as well as collective organization to push innovation in the right direction.
“The more you come to a community of people who can collaborate and share resources to get those apps — or whatever it happens to be — off the ground, the more likely we are to move the needle,” Muhammad said.
Graduate student Cierra B. Robson who attended the event said her main takeaway was that technology “moves in very interesting, often unintended ways.”
“That doesn't mean that it's necessarily bad, but it does mean that we need to be cautious,” she said.
— Staff writer Amanda Y. Su can be reached at amanda.su@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter at @amandaysu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Current Hasty Pudding Theatricals members and alumni started a petition to the organization’s graduate board last month calling for the Pudding to donate the $50,000 gift it received from a charity connected to convicted sex offender Jeffrey Epstein in 2016.
Former Hasty Pudding Theatricals cast member Jacob W. Roberts ’19 first advocated for redirecting the money to anti-sex trafficking organizations on Aug. 15, according to internal emails obtained by The Crimson. Other alumni and undergraduates voiced their support in the email chain that followed and started to circulate a petition. Some suggested that Hasty Pudding members also volunteer at local nonprofits.
“The purpose of this petition is to reallocate philanthropic output received from Epstein to combatting sexual exploitation and trafficking from predators like him in our community,” the petition reads. “The funding we received at the cost of sex trafficking should go back to helping survivors in our community get the support and care they need to carry on healthy, full lives.”
Tax filings revealed that a charity organization, Gratitude America, Ltd., donated $50,000 in 2016 to the Hasty Pudding Institute of 1770 — the umbrella group comprising the Hasty Pudding Theatricals, the Hasty Pudding Club, and the Harvard Krokodiloes. Epstein served as president of Gratitude America in 2014.
The Hasty Pudding Institute previously counted Epstein among its major donors. As recently as April 17, the organization’s website listed him among donors who gave more than $50,000 in 2018. He is not on the roster of 2019 donors.
Several undergraduates wrote in an internal email chain that they believe signing the petition — which is directed toward the graduate board — and engaging in volunteer work would be the best courses of action because the organization’s financial decisions are largely in the hands of its graduate board.
“Unfortunately when it comes to funds and allocations, this is something entirely out of undergraduate hands, and in the hands of [the Hasty Pudding Institute],” one email read.
“Exec could send an email to the grad board and include the form answers showing the fact that like 50+ undergrads want us to donate to sex-trafficking non-profits . . . potentially more if you toss the form over the full HPI email list,” another read.
Hasty Pudding Theatricals President Elias W. Russell ’20 did not respond to multiple requests for comment on the petition and the organization’s stance on the Epstein-linked donations.
Epstein, a billionaire investor, died by suicide last month in a Manhattan jail cell, where he was held on charges associated with the sex trafficking of minors. In a November 2018 report, the Miami Herald identified roughly 80 women who allege Epstein sexually abused them from 2001 to 2006 and uncovered a sex ring Epstein operated out of his Palm Beach, Fla. home.
Prosecutors first convicted Epstein in 2008 on charges related to the solicitation of a prostitute, though he served only 13 months in prison with a work release allowance. The short sentence resulted from an unusual plea deal led by former United States Secretary of Labor R. Alexander Acosta ’90. Acosta resigned in July after federal prosecutors opened a new probe into the allegations against Epstein.
Roberts said in an interview that he wanted the Hasty Pudding Institute to donate a sum equal to the full amount Epstein gave, rather than any unspent remainder the organization still has.
“I would hope that when making that commitment to direct money towards those organizations that are combating human trafficking and sex abuse, that we would not use any of the cop-out language like ‘whatever money we haven't spent already,’” he said. “Because that's just a way of giving yourself an out to not actually follow through on your commitments.”
Much like the Hasty Pudding, Harvard is currently grappling with how to address gifts linked to Epstein. University President Lawrence S. Bacow wrote in a email to Harvard affiliates earlier this month that the University would donate an unspent balance of $186,000 in gifts from Epstein to organizations that support victims of human trafficking and sexual assault. In the same email, he acknowledged the $8.9 million in donations Epstein gave to the University between 1998 and 2007.
At Bacow’s direction, the Office of the General Counsel announced last Friday it is reviewing any donations made to the University at Epstein’s “suggestion.”
The Hasty Pudding is one of several Harvard-affiliated groups that accepted money linked to Epstein well after his 2008 conviction. Gratitude America made a $110,000 donation in 2016 to Verse Video Education, a non-profit that funds English professor Elisa F. New’s television show and digital initiative “Poetry in America.” Epstein also “facilitated” major Harvard donor Leslie H. Wexner’s contribution to the construction of the Harvard Hillel building.
—Staff writer Shera S. Avi-Yonah can be reached at shera.avi-yonah@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter at @saviyonah.
—Staff writer Delano R. Franklin can be reached at delano.franklin@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter at @delanofranklin_.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Faculty Council heard preliminary plans for course scheduling at the new School of Engineering and Applied Sciences campus in Allston at its biweekly meeting Tuesday.
Former Dean of Undergraduate Education Jay M. Harris and SEAS Associate Dean for Education David Y. Hwang presented the update to the Council, the Faculty of Arts and Sciences’ highest governing body. Harris and Hwang serve on a faculty committee charged with anticipating potential scheduling issues to make the opening of the new campus in Allston next fall “as smooth as possible,” Council member Kirsten A. Weld said.
Specifically, the committee is trying to coordinate the SEAS course schedule to ensure that all students can travel between the two campuses and still have time to eat lunch, according to Weld. The committee hopes to arrange class times in such a way that most SEAS students will only need to take one round trip across the Charles River each day, rather than darting back and forth between Cambridge and Allston for classes.
Harris and Hwang provided an extensive report on a new algorithm their committee has developed to “control for conflicts between pairs of commonly sequenced courses,” Weld said. The tool aims to anticipate pairs of courses that the average SEAS student would commonly take during the same semester and ensure the course meeting times will not conflict.
“They're basically trying to do kind of predictive easing of the effects of the scheduling transition on the students who will predominantly be taking classes in Allston, which is not a majority of students by any means,” Weld said.
Earlier in the meeting, Dean for Faculty Affairs and Planning Nina Zipser and Dean for Administration and Finance Leslie A. Kirwan ’79 presented a preview of the Dean’s Annual Report to the Council. The report — which administrators will present to the full Faculty next week — discusses trends in faculty appointments and promotions and updates on FAS finances.
The Council also heard a one-year report from FAS Registrar Michael P. Burke on the rollout of the new FAS schedule, which debuted last fall. The Faculty voted in 2017 to standardize course start and end times and lengthen class periods from 60 to 75 minutes. With the new schedule came the elimination of “Harvard Time,” a College scheduling quirk that allowed students to arrive seven minutes late to class.
“It seems like overall that the new schedule has actually been implemented quite well and quite smoothly,” Weld said.
The full Faculty will convene for its first meeting of the 2019-2020 academic year next Tuesday.
—Staff writer Molly C. McCafferty can be reached at molly.mccafferty@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @mollmccaff.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Cambridge City Council candidates made it clear in a Wednesday forum that they agree climate change is an immediate threat to the city.
The forum, held at the Citywide Senior Center, gave the 16 participating candidates a chance to discuss the threat of climate change in Cambridge and outline how they would address the issue if elected. The event was sponsored by Mothers Out Front — a climate change grassroots organization comprised of mothers, grandmothers, and other caregivers, according to its website — alongside other climate advocacy groups such as 350 Massachusetts. Dozens of residents attended the forum.
Mothers Out Front organizer Kristine Jelstrup said the forum was meant to educate the public about candidates’ plans to address climate change in the city.
“We want to know the candidates’ views on preparedness for climate change,” she said. “We want to know what their plans are in regards to lowering our greenhouse gas emissions, about handling flooding and heat islands, and trees.”
Though all candidates agreed on the necessity of action, their proposed approaches and priorities differed. Popular stances among the forum participants included net zero emissions buildings, improved transportation, increases in the tree canopy, and implementing renewable forms of energy in Cambridge.
Jivan Sobrinho-Wheeler argued that his proposal to eliminate public transportation fares will help reduce emissions in the city.
“Our campaign has the ambitious goal of making subways and buses fare free by 2025,” Sobrinho-Wheeler said. This initiative is motivated “to reduce car emissions, and because working class neighborhoods, communities of color depend on buses and subways.”
When asked which city environmental initiative she would prioritize first, Adriane B. Musgrave responded that this was a “false question.”
“We need to push on all of those issues,” Musgrave said. “Climate change is not business as usual. We in Cambridge are leading the country in creating plans and doing the real research and technical feasibility and putting an equity lens on all of it, to make sure that we’re leading the way.”
The forum comes less than a week after hundreds of Harvard students, faculty, and Cambridge residents converged on Science Center Plaza to call for climate action and urge the University to divest its endowment from the fossil fuel industry. They joined scores of similar protests across the globe as millions participated in a worldwide climate strike.
On Tuesday, members of sponsor group 350 Massachusetts joined Divest Harvard members outside University Hall to criticize University President Lawrence S. Bacow and Mass. Governor Charles D. Baker ’79 for their actions on climate change issues in a protest that included satirical puppets.
Several questions Wednesday evening focused on the role of real estate development in dealing with climate change. Mayor Marc C. McGovern said that when dealing with developers, he wants to make them “scream, but not run away.”
“We all show up at the photo-ops and the ribbon cuttings for all the things that those tax revenues generate for the city,” he said. “But that doesn't mean we give them a free ride; we should require solar, we should require net zero readiness, and we should squeeze them for whatever we can.”
Nicola A. Williams, a Cambridge resident, said she believes more urgent action is necessary.
“We need to slow down our development,” Williams said, “We need to change our ‘build, build, build' mentality. It is affecting and harming our environment.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Down 3-2 with 9 seconds left in the game, all eleven Harvard players piled into the Merrimack box for one final corner kick. Given how the game had progressed up until that point, it was almost unsurprising when the Crimson’s captain, Taner Dogan, smashed the ensuing cross into the net to bring the game to overtime.
In the first ever meeting between the two programs, Harvard (0-4-1) and Merrimack (2-3-1) played out a 3-3 draw after double overtime in the Crimson’s home opener on Tuesday night.
Following a travel-intensive start to the season which pitted Harvard against some of the nation’s top teams, Tuesday’s game and the week off that preceded it, were a change of pace for the Crimson.
This extra rest may have proved vital for Harvard, as it recorded 24 shots, with 14 of those on target, both season-highs for the team. Its three goals are also more than they’ve scored all season in total.
“We had that week of training last week,” Dogan said of the break, “which let us get on the pitch and work on some stuff which was really helpful.”
It looked as if the training paid off, as the Crimson was quick to put together chances up top. Freshman forward Duncan Sutherland and sophomore forward Alfred Perez combined well from the start, coming close multiple times in the opening minutes.
Merrimack was not able to withstand Harvard’s pressure, and Sutherland was rewarded for his efforts in just the eighth minute. Sutherland pounced on a lazy pass in Merrimack’s box, slotting into an open net for his first ever collegiate goal.
Sutherland was not the only young player to come up big for the Crimson. Sophomore fullback Håvard Hjermstad was a force on both ends of the field, while freshman goalkeeper Oskar Nilsson kept Harvard in the game at times, most notably in a 1-on-1 with 20 seconds to play in double overtime. Freshman central midfield pairing Martin Vician and William Ebbinge controlled the tempo of the game for the Crimson from the midfield, showing their experience and poise with every touch.
This poise was put on full display when Harvard won a free-kick deep in Merrimack’s half in the 22nd minute. Ebbinge had the awareness to take the kick quickly, splitting two defenders to find Perez lurking in the box. Perez smoothly settled the ball on the goal-side of his marker with his first touch, firing home from close range with his second.
While the Crimson looked in control of the game following its second goal, Merrimack’s Aasmund Joedahl had other plans. In the 32nd minute, the forward was given a yard of space as he controlled a cross at the edge of the box. He fired into the top left corner to put the Warriors on the board, before spectacularly firing into the same corner from 10 yards further out just over 10 minutes later to tie the game at 2-2. The second strike came just seconds before the half, undoubtedly changing what both coaches had to say to their players during the break.
The Crimson struggled to match its first half intensity in a back-and-forth second half. Merrimack grabbed its third of the night with just minutes to play in the game, the strike from close range seeming to complete a near-impossible comeback for the Warriors in the 84th minute.
In a game with as many twists and turns as it had, it always seemed as if there was one more goal waiting to be scored. Dogan’s header with eight seconds remaining turned out to be just that, and was enough to extend the game by twenty minutes. Although neither team was able to capitalize in overtime, spectators could not complain of a lack of action.
“It’s always good to score three goals in a game,” Dogan said. “We have another extended break before we play Yale to open Ivy’s, so we’ll have a chance to get back on the training ground and get to work.”
Harvard will have another long break before its next time out. The Crimson will head to New Haven to kick off Ivy League play against Yale next Friday, October 4th. The Crimson is unbeaten against the Bulldogs since 2013, and will be looking to extend its streak to six years this time around.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Aside from the obvious geographical differences, California and Cambridge aren’t all that different. The two locales each featured a plethora of both shorts and pants this week as the temperature rose to an acceptable 75 degrees, each has contributed a Speaker to the House of Representatives (bonus points if you can name both!), and the two serve as built-in bookends to the continental United States. However, as Harvard takes on the Brown Bears this Friday at home, the Crimson is hoping that its game in Cambridge is nothing like the trial it faced in San Diego last weekend.
“The bottom line is that [San Diego] had two games under their belt with another fourteen days to prepare before us,” said Crimson coach Tim Murphy of his squad’s 31-23 loss to the Toreros. “They were a much more synchronized, battle-tested team than we were. They played really well the first half, and we just struggled in all phases.”
For Harvard, last Saturday’s game against San Diego was lost in the first seven seconds. On the first play of the game, Torero quarterback Reid Sinnett launched a 65-yard bomb down the gridiron to put seven points on the scoreboard. Another endzone-bound toss within the first ten seconds of the next quarter cemented San Diego’s lead, a difference to which the Crimson was unable to catch up.
“I’m obviously never happy when we take an L,” Harvard quarterback Jake Smith said. “I think there's a lot of things to learn off of that first half, but then second half we really stepped it up. And we're really an improved offense and defense – an improved whole team, for that matter. I'm proud of the way that my teammates came up in the second half.”
The latter half of the Crimson’s crusade against San Diego not only saw a near-comeback, but it featured a shattered record by Harvard kicker Jake McIntyre. The senior set the all-time Crimson record for field goals by completing the 31st of his career, a cause for celebration in a game that was written off as a Harvard loss. However, in talking about his record, McIntyre cites his coach and teammates as the real heroes.
“I've been really, really blessed over the last four years to have Coach Murphy's support,” said McIntyre of his record-breaking career. “You know, it's really nice if you can rely on the guys around you. And I've always been able to do that. So that's made it a hell of a lot easier.”
“Jake McIntyre not only arguably the best kicker we’ve had in my tenure, but he’s also one of the greatest kids,” Murphy said. “When you’re a specialist, it’s not easy to be a leader on the team – a lot of times, you’re isolated at practice, yet Jake is one of the most highly respected kids on our team. He’s someone all of our kids really have great feelings about. He’s made an impact beyond becoming the highest scoring kicker in school history.”
Though McIntyre’s kick was certainly the highlight of the second half, it was supplemented by a complete 180 in Crimson gameplay. A pair of touchdowns led to a near-Harvard victory; Coach Murphy hopes to keep this momentum going into Harvard’s Friday night game against the Bears.
“Playing as we did in the second half was certainly a morale boost, it was very positive,” Murphy said. “I think the reality is that we put it behind us. We got our Ivy League opener this week, under the lights on ESPN, and our energy should be great and it is.”
Although the Crimson is still recovering from a first-game loss, Brown is doing quite the opposite. Their 35-30 win against Bryant last Saturday propelled them to 1-0 for season as they claw their way to Cambridge. However, if history is any indicator, Harvard should be hopeful going into the match – the Crimson has come away with a victory in their last nine home games against the Bears.
“I think we're just super focused and ready to get going with Ivy League play,” Smith said. “It's been a while since we've had an Ivy League competition – our last game was Yale, the weekend before Thanksgiving last year. We're excited to get back into it.”
Standing in Harvard’s way of increasing its nine-game streak to ten is Brown quarterback EJ Perry. Perry, a transfer from Boston College, will be returning to his home-turf as he looks to continue his stellar first-week performance.
“The thing that’s really helped Brown is that they got the transfer quarterback from Boston College,” Murphy said. “He had an electrifying first game. He was the Ivy League Player of the Week for Brown and was a finalist for National Player of the Week. He’s given them some instant swagger on the offensive side of the ball. Like any great quarterback, he’s a gamechanger.”
“I think they have a really good team this year,” McIntyre said. “They got a quarterback who transferred from BC who put up some major stats last week against Bryant. But I'm confident.”
Adding to that confidence may be the evening-time environment of Friday’s game. Not only will Harvard’s battle against the Bears be fought at home, but it will transpire under the lights – a prospect that Murphy sees as “exciting” (or “lit,” as the cool kids say).
“So many of our kids grew up with Friday Night Lights during high school football,” Murphy said. “They love playing at night. I think the only challenge is that obviously it’s a pretty short week coming off of a West Coast trip – it’s basically two practices.”
For the Crimson, this will be a game of returns: a return home, a return to Ivy League play, and, in the eyes of McIntyre, a return to Harvard victory.
“We're ready to come play and start Ivy League play out the right way,” McIntyre said. “I think everyone's going to be pretty pumped to get back out here and finally get a game in our stadium. I think it'll be a good result, but we'll see on Friday.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Down in Franklin Park, some 30 minutes from the Harvard campus, both Crimson teams placed fourth in the Battle for Beantown, their best finishes since the tournament’s inception in 2013.
In front of a crowd facing 24 other schools, including for the men No. 3 ranked Washington, No. 13 ranked Syracuse, and No. 21 ranked Arkansas and for the women No. 25 ranked Dartmouth, No. 27 ranked Syracuse, and No. 29 ranked Georgia Tech, Harvard had a chance to prove themselves. Prove themselves they did.
For the men, senior standout Kieran Tuntivate had the best race of his Harvard career, beating out the pack by 12 seconds. The Delaware native finished in a blistering 23:58, good for a per mile pace of 4:50. This time for the 2018 HEPs champion, was his personal best in the 8k by over 20 seconds, proving that Kieran is well ahead of where he was last season.
“It’s true I won HEPs last year but our team was second and also missed out on qualifying for nationals,” said Tuntivate on his motivation this year. “I’m motivated because I want our team to win HEPs and get to nationals. I want to do my part in helping that happen.”
In second for the men’s team was junior ≈, who placed 18th, up from 56th a year ago, with a time of 24:47. Pereria was behind many of those who finished behind him at the 3k and 5k mark, but he finished strongly to gain crucial positions for the Crimson. His time was also a personal best in the 8k, and the junior will look to build on this performance as the season progresses.
The pair of junior Blake Evertsen and first year Ben Hartvigsen finished 40 and 41 for the Harvard squad, as Evertsen continued his breakout season and freshman Hartvigsen had a huge race, unafraid of the moment in his first collegiate race. Rounding out the scoring for the Crimson was sophomore David Melville, who finished in 52nd. Freshman Acer Iverson, who had a strong opener last week against Yale, followed up with a quality 59th place finished in his second race in the crimson uniform, good for sixth on the team.
“Yesterday’s performance was about making sure our team would practice good habits and get those good habits in motion for the rest of the season,” said Tuntivate about the team’s performance. “[It was about] getting back into the routine of racing and waking up the legs after so long.”
Tuntivate and the rest of the Men’s Cross Country team have their eyes set high on nationals this year. The men’s team finished in fourth with 151 points, just edging a talented ranked Washington team who put up 156 points and a ranked Arkansas team.
The women ran together much like they have so far this season. The standout performer for the Crimson was first-year Isabell Sagar who finished with a time 17:35 in the 5k with an average pace of 5:40. Sagar led the women for the first time in her young career and her 11th place finish was the best in the Battle for Beantown since 2015 for the Harvard women.
Just behind Sagar, a pack of three Crimson women, junior Brooke Starn, sophomore Maya Rayle, and senior co-captain Gillian Meeks, placed 28th, 30th, and 31st. The pack finished within three seconds of each other and the cohesion helped Havard jump many teams in the rankings. Junior Tessa Madrano was Harvard’s final scorer, placing 38th. While many other teams had more top-heavy lineups, the Crimson women were able to finish together, picking up points as the third, fourth, and fifth scorers of many competitors dropped off.
“We didn’t explicitly plan to stick as a pack,” said Meeks on the race strategy. “It just sort of happened that we finished close together. We all ran different races, some of us going out hard and others going out more conservatively, but we all ended up in similar spots.”
The strong effort allowed the Havard women to place fourth and take down two ranked opponents, fellow Ivy-league opponent Dartmouth, who finished sixth in team scoring, and Georgia Tech, who finished seventh.
In the first big race of the year both teams ran their hearts out on the way to a pair of 4th place finishes, the best for both teams since the race was first started in 2013. This contest proved how far the program has come in recent years and hinted at future program-wide success this year.
After the battle this weekend, the Crimson have two weeks off before they’re back in Franklin Park for the New England Championships on October 12th.

Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Flyby has released the official Harvard University Dining Services Meal Alignment Chart! True Neutral? Four or more blue Powerades? What alignment are you?
Sections
On Sept. 20, more than four million protesters took part in a global demonstration to call attention to climate change. Divest Harvard — an organization advocating for the University to divest its endowment from the fossil fuel industry — organized a rally in Science Center Plaza featuring guest speakers including Cambridge Mayor Marc C. McGovern and English professor Ju Yon Kim. Harvard affiliates and students from nearby schools gathered on campus before joining a larger rally at Boston City Hall Plaza.
Hundreds of students, faculty, and residents joined the rally which began in the Science Center Plaza at 11 a.m. For the first hour, speakers from the Cambridge community, including Harvard students and faculty, spoke about the detrimental effects of climate change and the need for global action.
Cambridge Mayor Marc C. McGovern was one of several local elected officials at the strike. He encouraged strikers and said that Cambridge’s government was doing all it could to fight climate change.
Many people came to the square with homemade signs. Richard E. Merino (above), a student at the Harvard Kennedy School, joined the Climate Strike in the Science Center Plaza. He came to the strike in an effort to pressure the University to divest from fossil fuels, a step that he hopes will convince other schools to do the same.
Susan A. Waddy came to the strike dressed as a lobster to help raise attention for the movement. She had made the costume for her daughter and the sign for the last climate strike she attended.
People gathered on the Science Center's third-floor balcony to watch the strike happening in the square below.
Divest organizers Carl F. Denton '19 — a Crimson Magazine editor — and Claire E. Pryor ’22 lead protestors through the yard and yelled chants along the way.
Around 11:30 a.m., Divest protestors left the Yard to join a larger protest on the City Hall Plaza.
Sign-wielding protestors occupied Boston City Hall Plaza as a part of a larger, city-wide protest. A woman joins a throng of people who showed up to Friday's demonstration to call attention to climate change.
