News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
After arriving at Harvard this past fall, I didn’t expect to be shocked by the mealtimes. Dinner here starts around 5 p.m. and ends at 7:15 p.m. in most dining halls, hours which really conflicted with my custom at home of eating dinner at 8 or 9 p.m. In writing this piece, I originally set out to prove why these hours should be changed, inspired by the fact that it’s so drastically different from what I was used to growing up. I thought about how student experiences would be so much better if mealtimes were pushed back even by half an hour. I started to feel like a champion of the people, a single voice crying out to gain support for a change that would better our lives.

But, as I did some research on why the dining situation is the way it is, I was suddenly shocked by the realization of how entitled I was starting to become.

What sparked this epiphany? I was thinking about the reasons that the dining hours might not be the most intuitive, and then I started to think about the people who make university dining run smoothly: Harvard University Dining Services workers. Harvard hires around 650 employees to work for dining services, a dedicated workforce that helps make our lives as students much easier. These people have to work around 20 to 40 hours every week to help feed us at every meal, and they do all of this work with a smile.

I originally wrote paragraphs upon paragraphs complaining about how people want to eat dinner later, how it would be so easy to just change the whole system, and how this timing is not working for the students. And these things are true. But this system isn’t just about students, though we are a major part.
It’s also about the other side: The people who make the food, wash the dishes, and operate the facility. HUDS employees already work hours upon hours serving students, and even bringing up the idea of making them work for longer hours completely denies them the respect that they deserve.

It was facing this kind of degrading thinking that inspired these workers to strike against the University a mere two years ago, bringing the entire dining system to a grinding halt. They fought for better wages and better health benefits — compensation for all of the hard work they do for the institution. They rallied for 22 days without pay to get that recognition, and yet, two years later, they still often aren’t appreciated for the work they do.

We Harvard students spend so much of our time complaining about dining hall food every day and talking about all the Felipe’s food we’re eating to compensate. We leave our trays, often with uneaten food, on a rack that just “magically” appears to wash them and rant about how tiny flecks of grime on our plates make eating so completely unappetizing. We often don’t acknowledge the fact that there are real people cleaning up after our messes, who might sometimes make mistakes, and reflect on how much they truly devote themselves to bettering our experience here.

We often get the sense that we’re working for ourselves and get caught up in the chaotic nature of it all. We think so much about “networking,” finding people who might help us down the line and doing whatever it takes to make it, that we stop thinking about the people around us as people, ignoring the help we are receiving at the moment that will propel us to those places. We start to see the world as transactional, as an eye for an eye or a whole as just a sum of its parts.
I think that every single person here has realized the problem with empathy on campus, as issues of prestige, entitlement, and judgment play into our interactions with others. But, most of the time, people are just too confined within their own worldviews to see how they themselves are contributing to those issues.
I think we all should take a step back and look at the people we interact with on a daily basis. We should reflect on how much we depend on other people and how their actions affect our wellbeing. Think about what you do and what’s done for you and thank the people, like HUDS workers, who take care of things so that you don’t have to. Once you start reflecting on how you fit into the greater Harvard community, the world suddenly opens up, allowing you to be grateful and appreciative of what you have, instead of just whining about what you don’t have.

In short, let’s all do our best not to bite the hand that feeds us.
Jonathan Yuan ’22 lives in Thayer Hall. His column appears on alternate Thursdays.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Embedded EthiCS, a collaborative initiative between the Computer Science and Philosophy Departments, now offers a dozen courses, tripling its size since when it began spring 2017. The initiative, which offers interdisciplinary courses that address the ethical issues surrounding technology and computer science, also plans to expand to other disciplines.
We strongly applaud this exciting, innovative initiative from the Computer Science and Philosophy Departments. The creation of Embedded EthiCS affirms the two departments’ understanding that examining the ethics at play in a novel field like computer science is an essential part of developing the field responsibly. We are heartened by the program’s expansion, and further encourage the integration of this interdisciplinary approach in other academic departments so that ethics becomes a valued component of every discipline.
An understanding of ethical issues arising from the rapid growth of technology in our society is not only useful, but also morally vital. Issues of data collection and privacy of information — to name just a few concerns — have posed challenges in the field of computer science, and it is of the utmost importance that students concentrating in the field think seriously about them. To that end, the Embedded EthiCS program is not only creating new ethics-based courses, but also aiming at integrating ethical questions into pre-existing courses across Computer Science. By this process, rather than learning just the most efficient coding techniques, students will also have to confront the implications of the systems they create on the world around them.
At a place like Harvard, where students in all disciplines will go on to shape their fields, this type of interdisciplinary initiative should not be restricted to the Computer Science department. In light of ethical challenges emerging in other STEM fields like genetics, we feel that this initiative should expand to other schools across the University such as the School for Engineering and Applied Sciences. Encouragingly, the program already plans to expand to the Medical School. Even within the College, we hope that the program grows, so that all students, regardless of concentration, will be able to take ethical reasoning classes designed to engage directly with issues related to their concentration.
Even beyond Harvard, we encourage this type of interdisciplinary approach to learning at colleges and universities across the U.S. in all kinds of different contexts. By making the materials for Embedded EthiCS courses available online, the program has made concrete steps to work towards just such a goal. We commend this move, and hope these academic initiatives across Harvard and academia more broadly will encourage students to think more deeply about how they can use their talents not just to succeed in their industry of choice, but to build a better world.
This staff editorial solely represents the majority view of The Crimson Editorial Board. It is the product of discussions at regular Editorial Board meetings. In order to ensure the impartiality of our journalism, Crimson editors who choose to opine and vote at these meetings are not involved in the reporting of articles on similar topics.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The students of the Harvard Prison Divestment Campaign launched their petition to divest Harvard’s endowment from prisons and companies that significantly profit from the prison-industrial complex this past month. I, along with HPDC, call upon University President Lawrence S. Bacow for more transparency in the endowment’s investments and to withdraw its investments in the prison-industrial complex. We have gathered over 3,000 signatures, with many more to come. Yet although many among the Harvard student body are excited for the prospect of Harvard to stop profiting off of prisons and its close affiliates, Bacow does not support it.
Based on the tiny bit of the endowment that is disclosed to the public under Securities and Exchange Commission requirements, we know that the endowment is invested in private prison operators CoreCivic and the GEO Group, Taser seller Axon, and insurance company Tokio Marine Holdings Inc. But we know nothing of the vast majority of the endowment that is undisclosed. That is a secret kept well-guarded by Bacow and the rest of Harvard Management Company.
Bacow claims that the endowment cannot be used to enact social change. He argued Harvard is already a leader in responsible investment, and that he receives many too divestment requests to comply with all of them. And above all, Bacow told us, the endowment is apolitical and that is the University’s policy.
But the systematic capture, caging, and oppression of black and brown people is not apolitical. CoreCivic officials made the purposeful decision to deny life-saving medical treatment to a Guatemalan toddler, for example. The decision to keep mentally-ill prisoners in solitary confinement and drive them to suicide is also a purposeful one. The decision to tase schoolchildren is a purposeful decision. These are all purposeful decisions that the endowment profits off of.
HMC’s website states that the endowment could divest from industries that are “deeply repugnant and ethically unjustifiable.” How can anyone claim that alleged mistreatment at CoreCivic detentions centers, which includes the report that the Guatemalan toddler was denied life-saving medical treatment, not meet this standard? How many more black and brown people must GEO Group and CoreCivic kill before Harvard recognizes it as repugnant and unjustifiable?
Harvard already politicized the endowment when it divested the endowment from South African apartheid, enabling genocide in Darfur, and the manufacture of tobacco products. In the 1989-1990 President’s Report, then-University President Derek C. Bok highlighted concerns about tobacco as a public health crisis as reason for tobacco divestment. The fact that Harvard has historically divested from “repugnant” and “unjustifiable” situations makes Bacow’s broken-record slogan regarding the apolitical nature of the endowment moot.
If public health is the concern for the endowment, Bacow should read up on how prisons and detention centers are a health crisis for the souls who are trapped inside. Just last month, there was an outbreak of chicken pox at a Denver detention center. Guards at this GEO Group-run prison mocked the ICE prisoners for their “fail[ed]” attempted suicides. The argument that tobacco divestment was for public health but a dismissal of the health of prisoners is telling of whose health exactly Harvard cares about.
Harvard prides itself on being the first university to sign onto United Nations-supported Principles for Responsible Investment in 2014. Harvard cannot simultaneously call itself a leader for publicly embracing responsible investing principles only then to backtrack and claim responsible investment is not a within the domain of endowment management. Such a backtrack illustrates that signing onto PRI was simply window dressing and not a genuine promise to lead the world’s endowments in justified investing.
In fact, if Harvard sincerely meant its commitment to be a leader for other universities in responsible investment, it would have divested from prisons before Columbia University did in 2015.
As a Harvard Law Student, I cringe at the thought of locked-up asylum seekers used as the reason why Harvard can fund student organization events, libraries, art museums, student life, and free food at lunch lectures. The claim that the endowment is “apolitical” is intellectually dishonest. There are lives at stake in the prisons and the companies that we invest in. We students are asking Bacow to divest from profiting off of the caging of humans, primarily poor black and brown people. Bacow must be more transparent with Harvard’s holdings and stop funding our educations with money scraped off the backs of U.S. prisoners.
Amanda Chan is a second-year student at Harvard Law School.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
We’ve all heard the horror stories about dangerous Uber rides. Woman is sexually assaulted on back road, far from her route home. New driver’s background check fails to catch history of felonies. Reckless driving, racist rants, and physical attacks crop up in CNN headlines and our mother’s imaginations.
At first, the recent announcement that Cambridge is adopting Uber’s new safety feature — a button that allows passengers to call 911 in-app — may seem like just another corporate PR stunt. But Michael J. Martin, RapidSOS CEO and Harvard Business School graduate is unfailingly earnest while describing his experience collaborating with Uber and the Cambridge City Emergency Communications Department.
“This has been in the works for years,” he says over the phone, enthusiastic and eloquent even at 10 p.m. on a Friday. Ever since December 2012, when Martin was almost mugged in New York City, he has dedicated himself to harnessing the powerful technology in our pockets to send crucial, real-time location information to first responders.
“I had my welcome-to-New-York mugging experience,” he chuckles — then stops, his tone serious. In that moment, he says, he realized just how difficult it is to dial 911 in an emergency and coherently convey your location over the phone. Uber was relatively new then, and he remembers thinking, “If I can press a button and call a car, why can’t I press a button and get an ambulance or a fire truck?”
He took the idea with him to Harvard Business School in 2013, where Harvard Innovation Labs helped him turn his inkling of inspiration into the multimillion-dollar technology company RapidSOS. RapidSOS’s mission is to develop technology to improve emergency communications and location information for 911 systems globally.
The company’s first product was a direct-to-consumer smartphone application called Haven, which was exactly what he had originally envisioned: a kind of Uber for emergency response that called first responders directly to the scene. But Martin quickly realized that few people were going to buy into a completely new system. He needed to work through the existing 911 call system and partner with existing popular interfaces like Uber if he wanted to reach more people. So, long before any incidents related to Uber’s safety had appeared in the news RapidSOS had already identified the app as a useful tool and partner for improving emergency response, according to Martin.
The recently announced safety feature is simple: If you feel unsafe or if there is an emergency during your Uber ride, a button within the Safety Toolkit of the Uber app will allow you to call 911 and send your updated location and the car’s make, model, license plate, and driver to emergency responders, all within seconds.
Christina E. Giacobbe, director of Cambridge City Emergency Communications Department stresses that even if you stay silent, emergency dispatchers will still use information from the app to check in on you as swiftly as possible unless they hear verbal affirmation that the call was a mistake.
Ironically, RapidSOS’s collaboration with Uber turns a service many think of as a public safety problem into a public safety solution meant to combat a greater issue: a decades-long need for emergency response to move faster. "Part of the struggle is the telecommunications infrastructure,” Giacobbe says. “The carriers really haven't kept up with creating the infrastructure to allow location-based information on all calls."
911 calls in Cambridge are often rerouted from regional or state centers, and, depending on the carrier, the location information that the carrier provides to emergency dispatchers can be as wide as a four-mile radius. Dispatchers waste time determining the caller’s location. Meanwhile, we can drag and drop the pickup pin in the Uber app onto almost the exact sidewalk tile we're standing on. Uber’s emergency call system allows for this level of detail in reports to dispatchers.
Martin’s calm voice belies frustration as he explains that our current 911 system has barely improved since its inception in the 1960s. Half a century ago, local communities each created their own system, and as a result, there are currently more than 5700 call centers (called Public Safety Answering Points or PSAPS) across the United States. Some might operate similarly, but all are separate, individual systems. Furthermore, the existing wired, landline infrastructure limits the data processed during a 911 call; essentially, 911 telecommunicators today manage emergencies with no other information than a voice connection.
“So here we are, over 160 years later, with an iPhone in your pocket, and in the worst moment of your life, 911 typically doesn't even know your name,” Martin says.
“Every other part of the emergency response system is optimized… except in locating the caller.” He lists tragedies as examples: domestic abuse, child rescues, the Oakland fire, Hurricane Harvey — all situations in which the inefficiency of a call-only paradigm has failed victims.
But even at a local level, before natural disasters and large-scale tragedies strike, in such a concentrated college town of frequent Uber users, the new safety feature can be useful against the threat of dangerous Ubers alone.
Ultimately, Giacobbe and Martin see their work with Uber as the beginning of a new era for emergency response. Especially in the age of Fitbits and Apple Health, data based on heart rate and activity is constantly made available and updated to the Cloud. If this information was made available to first responders, they would no longer need to arrive on the scene and assess the situation blind.
"I use precise location all the time for Uber, Google Maps, et cetera. Why is none of that information available when I call [911]? And I track my fitness with Apple Watch. Why are none of these health stats available in emergencies?” Martin said. “We live in a world where there are over 10 billion connected devices, but none of that information is available to first responders."
Martin’s and Giacobbe’s goals reach far beyond Uber — they want to revolutionize public safety on a global level. "People might only call 911 once in their lifetime,” Giacobbe said. “You want that once-in-a-lifetime to be able to get them the care that they need.”
—Magazine writer Rachel Chen can be reached at rachel.chen@thecrimson.com.
Sections
Duncan R. Williams, a professor of Religion and East Asian Languages and Cultures at the University of Southern California, calls the internment of Japanese Americans during World War II “a totallistic ethnic cleansing of the West Coast.”
“It’s a judgment without trial; it’s an imprisonment without due process,” he says.
Williams, who received his Ph.D. in religion at Harvard, returned to the university last Friday to talk to his peers and past mentors about his new book, “American Sutra: A Story of Faith and Freedom in the Second World War.”
Williams served as the Buddhist chaplain at Harvard from 1994 to 1996, and now studies the practice of Buddhism in Japanese internment camps during World War II. Two-thirds of the approximately 120,000 people forcibly relocated to these camps were practicing Buddhists.
“Buddhist priests as a category were seen by the U.S. government at that time as a threat to national security,” Williams says.
Using recently declassified government documents, Williams was able to explore how Japanese-Buddhist priests were targeted for arrest directly after the attacks on Pearl Harbor.
“How did something called American-Buddhism get created in the midst of war, behind barbed wire, in the crucible of this very difficult time?”
In “American Sutra,” Williams uses documents, diaries, and interviews to answer this question. He argues that from within these internment camps, Buddhist families who seemingly lost everything stood up for religious freedom, a fundamental American ideal.
Eighteen years ago, Williams, born in Japan to a Japanese mother and British father, didn’t imagine he would be studying American history. In his last year as a graduate student of religion at Harvard, Williams’ Ph.D. adviser and Harvard’s first professor of Buddhist studies, Masatoshi S. Nagatomi, suddenly passed away. While cleaning out his late professor’s cluttered office, Williams discovered a diary stuck between a pile of books and dissertation drafts.
The diary belonged to Nagatomi’s father, and had been written at Manzanar, one of the 10 camps where Japanese-Americans were incarcerated during the war. Williams immediately began translating the diary for the professor’s wife, Masumi M. Nagatomi. At the same time, he began learning about Nagatomi’s experience during WWII.
At 10 years old, Masumi came home to find her father being beaten by FBI agents and her mother sitting at the kitchen table with a shotgun to her head. The FBI had been keeping tabs on Masumi’s father because he was a board member of the local Japanese-American Buddhist temple.
While the FBI was patrolling the area, Masumi’s father was in his lettuce fields with a gun, defending his crops from rabbits. Unable to speak each other’s language, the FBI presumed they were under threat.
After the attack, Masumi’s family took immediate action. They burned everything in their house labeled “Made in Japan,” and all items with kanji script. Even Masumi’s traditional Girl’s Day doll kit was thrown into the fire.
But the family couldn’t bring themselves to burn two final items — a Buddhist sutra, and the minutes of their local temple, which had been kept since its founding. These items were wrapped in a kimono, put in an empty rice-cracker tin, and buried in the backyard, never to be uncovered by the family again.
“We have to show our loyalty [to the U.S.],” Williams says in describing the family’s motives. “We are willing to burn away our Japaneseness, but we are not willing to burn away our faith. We can be both American and Buddhist at the same time.”
“Once she told me that story… I thought, 'One day I need to write a book about what families like hers went through,'” he says.
While digging through archives and translating diaries, Williams found that despite the inhumane conditions of the camps, families often tried their best to uphold Buddhist traditions. One diary included a story about families celebrating the Buddha’s birthday, a tradition that usually involves the ceremonial pouring of sweet tea over a Buddha statue.
“They went to the mess hall and found the largest carrot they they could find. Someone who was good at carving carved a Buddha out of that carrot,” Williams says. “They didn’t have sweet tea, but they had rationed coffee and sugar. They made a sweet coffee drink to pour over the carrot Buddha as part of the birthday ritual.
Reading through accounts of incarcerated families, Williams was reminded of a metaphor often retold by his late professor, Masatoshi Nagatomi. In the metaphor, a lotus flower blooms above muddy waters. The lotus flower represents the Buddha’s enlightenment, while the muddy water below is the world of anger, delusion, and hatred.
“If you put a lotus flower – a real one – in sterile water, it actually won’t grow,” he says. “You need the nutrients from the mud. In that circumstance itself, people were finding freedom in the midst of incarceration.”
—Magazine writer Margaux R. E. Winter can be reached at margaux.winter@thecrimson.com. Follow them on Twitter @MrewGnu.
Sections
In November of 1997, the Fruit of the Loom logo, once relegated to tags on the underwear of dowdy freshmen boys, found itself on 400 posters throughout Harvard’s campus. Adam R. Kovacevich ’99 made and distributed these posters to call attention to what he saw as an important political issue: grapes.
The month before the Fruit of the Loom logo graced campus, Harvard University Dining Services announced that it would be bringing grapes back to Sunday brunch, ending Harvard’s five-year-long support of the United Farm Workers’ (UFW) grape boycott. The UFW, founded by César Chávez and Dolores Huerta, was the first farmworkers’ union in the United States. Since 1986, the UFW had been boycotting grapes because they said that pesticide exposure was poisonous, endangering grape workers and their families. Unlike the UFW’s earlier boycotts, the 1986 boycott didn’t gain a wide following, and sales of grapes increased in the US throughout the late ’80s and early ’90s. While the movement waned on the national stage, elite universities like Harvard and Duke joined the grape ban in the early ’90s due to pressure from student activists.
By 1997, the students who had pressured Harvard to boycott grapes in 1992 had graduated. To many students, the absence of grapes didn’t signify the presence of an ongoing boycott, but rather simply went unnoticed.
Yet, in the days following their announcement, HUDS management received twelve yellow comment cards — the analog version of texting feedback to HUDS today. Eleven of the cards opposed lifting the grape ban. Throughout November, those yellow cards would metamorphose into hundreds of posters and pamphlets and over 30 stories in The Crimson as students prepared for The Great Grape Referendum. Conducted by HUDS, the referendum allowed students to decide whether Harvard should continue its support of the UFW’s boycott or if dining room tables should be laden with grapes once again.
As was the case in 1992, there were students who supported the boycott. Members of Harvard Radcliffe Raza, a Latinx student organization, and the Progressive Student Labor Movement (PLSM), the predecessor to the Student Labor Action Movement, joined forces to support the continuation of the boycott.
“For Raza, Chávez was one of our heroes, and so we wanted to honor the ongoing boycott,” says Roel Saldivar ’01, a member of Raza. “You also had your prototypical activist dude from PLSM with the sandals and the long hair coming to Raza meetings to talk about labor issues. It was really cool.”
According to Saldivar, Raza and PLSM combined their Listservs — “email was just becoming big,” Saldivar remembers — and forwarded literature from the UFW about working conditions on grape farms to Harvard students.
On the opposing end, a group of students “would storm the dining halls and say, ‘Don’t you want grapes? Yeah, grapes taste good!’” recalls Edward Childs, a HUDS worker who supported continuing the boycott.
These students were The Grape Coalition. Founded by Kovacevich, they advocated lifting the grape ban. According to The Crimson’s coverage in 1997, The Grape Coalition represented “traditionally hushed conservatives” making themselves visible on campus, not unlike Kovacevich taking the usually hidden Fruit of the Loom logo and emblazoning it on 400 posters across campus.
These posters stated that not only was “the situation of grape workers much improved” but also that “Grapes Are Tasty.” These three words echoed across campus throughout November, becoming the group’s wry motto.
“They weren’t anti-this, anti-that, anti-labor, anti-whatever,” Saldivar says. “They were just pro-grape.”
For Kovacevich — whose father owned John J. Kovacevich & Sons, a grape farm in California — his “pro-grape” stance meant opening up discussion on campus. “One of my goals was to have a genuine, two-sided debate. I had a distinct sense that there were not always both sides presented to issues on campus,” he says.
Frank E. Pacheco ’99, another member of The Grape Coalition, looks back at his involvement similarly. “I came at it from a perspective of objecting at the attempt to politicize the dining hall. If one group chooses to make political speech with their mouth, that’s fine, but the dining hall isn’t the correct venue for that,” Pacheco says.
Although Kovacevich claims that the group’s aims were to open discourse around the grape boycott, Pacheco says that The Grape Coalition’s and other pro-grape students’ organization strategy was to “devolv[e] into parody and outright mockery.”
In the weeks leading up to the referendum, the grape issue was parodied and mocked across campus. Sham advertisements for a “Grape Forum” with Professors George Will and Cornel West appeared around campus. On Dec. 3rd, the day of the grape referendum, the pranks reached their fever pitch when unidentified male students stood on the steps of Widener Library “dressed as women screaming and supporting the continual dehumanization of grape pickers in California,” according to a letter in The Crimson.
To Childs, the jokes of pro-grape students were “playing on class differences” between those on the pro- and anti-grape sides of the debate.
To Pacheco, this humor was merely “students lampooning the excessive seriousness with which other students were taking the debate.”
Even some members of The Crimson, which had taken an anti-grape editorial stance, embraced the humor of pro-grape students. Gregory S. Krauss ’00, a staff writer for The Crimson at the time, remembers “sitting around in the writer’s room and [writers] talking about how many grape puns we could think of to put in our headlines.”
The wry humor that tinged the issue was captured not only on Harvard’s campus, but also in the Wall Street Journal’s middle column, where the newspaper’s humor pieces ran at the time. In his article “Sour Grapes? Fine Whine? Students Debate Harvard Ban,” Dana Milbank milked the debate for every possible joke, referring to “the recent ferment at Harvard” and referencing the students’ “juices flowing” during debate.
Milbank’s prose isn’t, however, able to make light of the sincerity and seriousness of students from Raza and PLSM, who were on the anti-grape side of the debate. In Milbank’s article and on campus, they were impermeable to the sardonicism that was soaking the issue everywhere else.
This is because, for RAZA and PLSM, the issue wasn’t about opening up debate on campus, but about the lives of grape workers and their children.
“It’s about the process behind the grapes. We needed to honor the workers and that the boycott was still going on,” Saldivar says. Addressing the boycott’s inefficacy on the national stage, Saldivar says “It’s not about the effectiveness. It’s about the principle.”
Similarly, for a lot of HUDS workers, “the plight of grape workers hit close to home,” Childs says. “HUDS workers had a strike in 1988. Some of our best solidarity came from the grape workers. Some of the stuff they went through and some of the stuff we went through aren’t all that different.”
Still, despite their ability to look past humor and grasp the consequences of the issue at hand, some anti-grape students have regrets that they didn’t push these points further upon the student body, says Sergio J. Campos ’00, a Raza leader.
In the end, The Grape Coalition won, PLSM and Raza lost, and students voted to lift the ban — grapes could be eaten at Sunday brunch once again.
Campos says that this was due to “something a little restrained in Raza’s effort. The big vision of 1960s student activism, taking over Massachusetts Hall: there was a feeling that we weren’t going as far as those students did.”
While Campos viewed the outcome of the referendum as a failure of anti-grape student organizers, Pacheco viewed it as indicative of an overall rising tide of conservatism in the student body.
“The big difference was that, in this instance, the group of students who fell in the middle of the spectrum who didn’t have a strong opinion on the issue or just didn’t care even, sided with conservatives,” Pacheco says. He remembers the great grape debate as a “a conservative backlash against campus discourse.”
—Magazine writer Paul G. Sullivan can be reached at paul.sullivan@thecrimson.com. 
Sections
“No more than ten steps ahead,” my father warned us as we walked into the night. In my hometown of Aurora, Ill., my sister and I never got out much. We weren’t old enough to play outside without supervision, and we spent most days cooped up inside with books from the public library. But every night we took a walk with our parents.
It was always the same route around our subdivision — first the secret path along the lake, where we’d swat gnats out of our faces, then through the Shenandoah Drive playground, past a pond overtaken by reeds, along a small path that led to the elementary school, all the way to the main street past CVS, and down Eola Road back home. It was always a source of comfort to tread those paths, racing my sister through the balmy summer air, narrating a book in intricate detail to my mother, or laughing as we slipped on ice in the winter.
In all of these memories, I am always accompanied by my family members. I had never taken a walk on my own. My mother did, sometimes, and before she left, she’d say wryly, “If anyone shoots me because I’m a suspicious-looking brown lady, you know the route I take. Don’t worry.” Living in my town’s residential area, I never left the house alone except to walk down the street to the bus stop; the idea of going solo filled me with dread.
Weekend walks were the best because we’d get to finish the raspberries we’d bought on Saturday shopping trips when we came home. One night, as I finished the last berry, I watched in fascination as Usain Bolt ran past the finish line that fateful night at the Olympics. While he sprinted, I preferred to walk ahead at a more leisurely pace.
***
A few years later my family relocated across the Atlantic Ocean. Mumbai’s crowded roads were quite different from Aurora’s deserted ones: You were more likely to die on the noisy, narrow roads by collision with the speeding motorbikes and rickshaws than by way of a lone car that didn’t brake at the stop sign.
I’m not sure whether it was the fact that I got older, or the fact that that my parents got bored of taking me everywhere, but once I knew how to read the road signs, buy tickets from bus conductors, and argue for change with shopkeepers, I was allowed to venture out on my own. My favorite time to walk was during the rainy season. Walking in the monsoon was the best feeling in the world: if I didn’t notice the mud, and all I could see was greenery as I inhaled the refreshingly clean air. My short journey down the road to the bus stop every morning, as I expertly sidestepped speeding school buses, was a chance to clear my head between home and school — to escape.
I was in love with my walks until the day I was called for a college admissions interview. I had never been to South Bombay on my own. The first part of my trip was nerve-wracking but manageable — I took a local train to Parel Station and felt distinctly overdressed.
Flagging down a taxi at the station was a bit more difficult, as I stood in about ten different places, getting in the way of a fruit seller balancing his wares on his bike and a car speeding down a highway. Once in the taxi, I sat back, lazily content to have avoided Mumbai’s traffic until I realized I had an interview and frantically began to look over my notes.
After a brief assembly line interview at Starbucks, I decided to walk back to Parel Station in order to save the cab fare. I wasn’t in any rush for this leg of the journey — after all, the only thing that awaited me at home was homework. Possibly making the worst decision of my life, I chose to put my faith in Google Maps and 2G internet connection. I was driven round and round by the feature which tells you where to go until the next turn. Cursing my Internet service provider and the municipal corporation for the timing of its infrastructure projects, I wished I had just kept it simple and tried to retrace my first taxi journey.
I had planned this trip so well, even saving an offline map and testing out the map in an area near my house. Why wasn’t this working? As I passed the same sidewalk under construction, I felt like walking off the road to sit and have a good cry, but most of the footpath was cordoned off by metro construction barriers. Also, I was wearing my favorite formal dress, and I felt wary of the men staring at me from a nearby tea shop. Embarrassed, I went to the slightly less shady establishment next door to ask for help, and was sent on my way in the opposite direction.
How was I ever going to manage at an American college, miles away from everything that wasn’t familiar to me? Getting lost in the city where I became independent made me feel powerless.
I was a stranger in my own city, the city where I learned how to put on my shoes and face the world. The sun was setting and I knew that my choice was a foolish one —I would betrapped during rush hour. In the end, I flagged down a cabbie who informed me that I had walked all the way to Lower Parel Station; the shopkeeper had directed me to a station on the more posh Western Railway Train Line, as if assuming that no one would want to take the Central line. Fuming at the bias of all of SoBo, I angrily asked the driver to take me back to my beloved Central Railway station. I paid the exact same cab fare as I did for my first leg of the trip.
***
These days, stepping out for a walk is no longer a family ordeal, or an experience I look ahead to with terror. Rather, walking has proved indispensable in familiarizing myself with Harvard’s campus. I met my first friend here on a Fall Clean-Up walking tour of Boston and deepened other friendships walking in circles around Harvard Yard.
While at first walks were explorations, they quickly became an effective way to destress. I discovered that Pennypacker was farther from Weld than Annenberg while learning to gauge exactly how drunk someone was. I spent a night staring at the divinely beautiful Andover Hall until realizing that the leafy smell wafting out of the darkness was weed.
One night, making my first-ever trek to the Quad, a lady thought that a tourist map held in my brown hands was a gun. “Don’t shoot at me!” she yelled, wagging her finger.
Once, I managed to ask a boy I remotely liked on a walk with me. When we reached the gates of Winthrop House, I knew they’d be invariably locked. And, remembering a similar situation from a beloved childhood series, I remarked that if we were to climb over, he should go first, based on our respective outfits. “There’s this scene in ‘Eragon’…” I began to clarify.
“I loved that book!” he said, and I felt luxurious, talking about silly young adult novels at this serious, classics-obsessed school.
“Do you do this often where you live?” I asked, trying not to seem like I was looking at his face.
“I never do this at home,” he said. I felt a pang of dread. Were we incompatible?
Then again, I realized, I didn’t go on walks simply for the sake of it in either of my hometowns. It was always an adventure, to walk through the markets with my father, shop with my mother and sister on weekends, or rush to school for an extra-curricular. But for the first time, I reveled in the fact that this walk — and perhaps every other walk I took here — was a chance for discovery.
—Magazine writer Maya S. Bhagat can be reached at maya.bhagat@thecrimson.com. 
Sections
Jonathan M. Bloom ’04 bounced between groups of biologists and computer scientists, leaping from conversation to conversation with an energy that could make you forget, for a moment, that he is a mathematician. He wore a pair of wire glasses with thick lenses that jutted out from his messy brown hair. His ideas seemed to come from his feet, traveling like a wave through his legs and torso before finally exploding into words.
The crowd of scientists grabbed breakfast sandwiches and sipped lattes made by the barista a few steps away. The space was large and open, framed by glass and metal walls that opened into a garden. The surrounding lobby was decorated with large abstract canvases that vaguely resembled red and orange cells in a petri dish, created by a former artist-in-residence. If you didn’t know better, you would think you were at Google or Facebook, not one of the most important genetics laboratories in the world.
Bloom is a member of the Broad Institute, a joint venture between Harvard, MIT, and the five Harvard-affiliated teaching hospitals that seeks to understand the links between genetics and disease. Like many people at the Broad (rhymes with code), Bloom has little formal training in biology — his undergraduate and graduate degrees are both in theoretical mathematics. Eric S. Lander, a legendary geneticist and the founding director of the Broad, is also a mathematician by training. In fact, Lander has not taken a biology course for a grade since his sophomore year of high school.
The Broad is often compared to tech startups, and for good reason. It took in $430.5 million in revenue in 2017 from a combination of federal grants, donations, and funds from industry. Though it is only 15 years old, the Institute’s 4,300 members have published thousands of high-impact scientific papers. The CRISPR gene editing tool, one of many projects undertaken by Institute scientists, is widely expected to win the Nobel Prize and earn millions of dollars in patent licensing fees.
The Broad uses many of its extensive resources to generate massive biological datasets, which it shares for free online. Scientists from around the world use these data to find insights in genetic diseases, often making use of scientific computing programs like the Genome Analysis Toolkit, also published for free by the Broad. Because of these advances in biological and computational techniques, scientists are asking questions today they wouldn’t have imagined even a decade ago.
Bloom directs the Models, Inference and Algorithms Initiative at the Broad, a weekly seminar that covers breakthroughs in math and computer science and applies them to biology. The scientists outside the sunny lecture hall were waiting for that week’s talk to begin. When the doors opened, the room filled to capacity immediately. The crowd was a sea of laptop screens, most showing either the black Unix terminals used for remote computing or the code debugging website StackOverflow. As they sat and chatted with lattes in hand, scientists ran code designed to find the genes associated with certain kinds of cancer.
The keys to treating many of the diseases that continue to resist modern medicine — cancer, mental illness, diabetes, obesity, cardiovascular disease — lie in understanding the unimaginably complicated interactions between genes, proteins, and cells in three-dimensional tissues. Even if you map out all the building blocks of human DNA, which was done for the first time in 2001, the body’s unimaginable complexity makes treating even well-understood diseases extremely challenging.
But biology today has entered a golden age, created in no small part by the researchers at the Broad. Innovative new biological tools like CRISPR and single-cell RNA sequencing have emerged at the same time as dramatic leaps forward in machine learning and artificial intelligence. Vast oceans of data, processed by clever algorithms, allow scientists to quickly identify promising treatments with unheard of sophistication and speed. “The floodgates have opened, and now it’s up to us to do the absolute best that we can do,” said Aviv Regev, chair of the faculty at the Broad.
All of the Broad’s research is enabled by a single technology — genome sequencing — that many of the Institute’s key members were instrumental in creating. “In the computer revolution, you had a person or a small lab that could study natural languages, encryption, biology, and computer graphics all in the same lab, all in the same week, because there was this incredibly enabling core technology,” said George M. Church, a professor of genetics at Harvard Medical School and a senior associate member of the Broad. “The same thing happened with genetics.”
But new ideas and technologies are not passive things, sitting quietly on a lab shelf like a biological reagent. Ideas are alive. They create staggering wealth through patents, shape institutions, and change the fabric of what counts as science. They create a global community of researchers more connected than ever before.
Genetics has produced so much data that scientific thinking itself has changed. When mathematicians like Bloom explore massive biological datasets without knowing in advance what they are looking for, they are practicing what is sometimes called “hypothesis-free science.” It’s different from the traditional model of a single biology professor in a lab, surrounded by graduate students and staff, exploring one question at a time using a careful method governed by a hypothesis. The relationship between hypothesis-free and hypothesis-driven research at the Broad is both the heart of its success and the source of some of its controversy.
The story of the Broad is the story of biology in the 21st century. It’s a story of innovation enabled by dramatic advances in computational and biological tools, of a thrilling new age where scientists gain new insights into diseases like cancer. It’s a story of how those new tools transform the kinds of questions scientists can ask, revealing new horizons never before imagined. It is a story with millions of dollars at stake in funding and licenses, of organizations that so radically change the scale of science that the definition of science itself is fundamentally transformed.
Modern DNA sequencing, the technology at the heart of the Broad Institute, was born shortly after George Church flunked out of graduate school. Church, who stands a looming 6’5” with an enormous white beard, has always done things a little differently. Though he built his first computer when he was 10 years old, Church’s passion was always for biology. He blazed through college in two years, earning a degree in chemistry and zoology from Duke in 1974. He stayed at Duke for graduate school and threw himself into lab work, working 100-hour weeks on X-ray crystallography. Church’s research was groundbreaking — combining early computer science with biology to create the first 3D image of folded RNA — but he neglected his classes and was asked to leave the Ph.D. program in 1976. The expulsion letter is posted proudly on his website.
Few Fs have been more important in the history of science. Church’s research record was strong enough that in 1977 he enrolled without a hitch in Harvard’s biochemistry Ph.D. program. Church dreamed of seeing not just a single strand of RNA, but the entire list of DNA base pairs that encode the instructions for making a human being. In April 1984, Church published a five page paper, simply called “Genomic Sequencing,” outlining a new technology that could make that dream a reality.
This technology took the scientific world by storm. By December 1984, a meeting in Alta, Utah. sponsored by the Department of Energy set in motion what would become the $3 billion Human Genome Project, the single largest biology research program in history. The DoE, which is responsible for the American nuclear program, was interested in understanding genetic mutations from radioactive fallout in the aftermath of the bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki. Traditional methods of studying DNA were not powerful enough to detect the anticipated mutations. But Church, then an unknown recent graduate, astounded the scientists with his ideas for genomic sequencing. From the ashes of one massive government-funded science program — the Manhattan Project — another more hopeful one was born.
Some technologies are so much better than their predecessors that they do not merely improve a field — they create entirely new ones. Over the next few years, scientists became increasingly convinced that this new technology demanded a new kind of science. Thinking bigger than the DoE’s radiation project that first gathered them together, the scientists began to imagine sequencing the entire genome. Nothing that ambitious had ever been attempted in biology. To sequence the 6,469,660,000 base pairs in the human genome, they would need billions of dollars and the combined power of genetics labs around the world. The Human Genome Project required a government.
The history of the Broad starts with the dream of the HGP. The sheer labor and interdisciplinary thinking required to sequence the genome brought together the best biologists, mathematicians, and computer scientists in the Boston area, who then collaborated with labs around the globe. The Broad would soon blossom from this already established scientific network.
If Church and the early geneticists were going to push biology to a scale radically larger than it had been before, they had to do it in a place radically different from academia. The DoE turned out to be the perfect place to do transformative genetics research. Interdisciplinary to the core, the DoE already had a number of computer scientists in the 1980s, including some working on genomics. The engineers there came from a number of fields and thought on the scale of atomic bombs and nuclear plants — a far cry from traditional academic biologists, who had never before or since attempted a project as large and expensive.
“It was a very different way of thinking about biology,” said Lander. “The idea that, complementary to the way you would work on an individual protein, or an individual problem, that it might be possible to step back and look at the whole picture, to look at the whole genome simultaneously.” The HGP formally launched in 1990, jointly led by the DoE and the National Institutes of Health. A new era of science had begun.
Such radical growth necessitated radical change. The founding document of American science policy, a 1945 report written by MIT engineering dean Vannevar Bush, argues that “scientific progress on a broad front results from the free play of free intellects, working on subjects of their own choice, in the manner dictated by their curiosity for exploration of the unknown,” not from top-down management.
The HGP, like the Manhattan Project, had the opposite philosophy. It was not driven by curiosity. It was centralized, expensive, and driven by committees with a single-minded goal. This is why big science is sometimes associated with hypothesis-free science: It is done not to answer a question, but to build a product. Big science is the only way to build an atomic bomb, or sequence a genome for the first time. The hope of big science is that by investing heavily in a centralized effort to produce a fundamental dataset or technology, a global community of future scientists will be more empowered to pursue their own research programs.
In 1974, a teenage Eric Lander found himself on the roof of a building in East Germany, armed to the teeth with water balloons. He was a member of the first American team at the International Math Olympiad, and he had made fast friends with the Soviets — they were the only other superpower present. Protected by his new friends’ political control over East Germany, Lander, his teammates, and their Soviet rivals joined together in an international effort to throw the balloons into oncoming traffic.
Soon after, Lander glided through Princeton’s math program, graduating as valedictorian. He earned his Ph.D. in math at Oxford, where he was a Rhodes Scholar, but faced a growing dissatisfaction with the relentless abstraction and solitary study of professional mathematics. “[Math] is kind of a monastic career, and I’m not a very good monk,” said Lander, bursting into laughter. “I very much wanted to do things that were more in the world, more connected to people.”
Despite not technically knowing anything about managerial economics, in 1981 Lander landed a position teaching on the faculty at Harvard Business School. Though he enjoyed the subject, Lander soon became dissatisfied with that field too. Encouraged by his younger brother, a developmental neurobiologist, Lander began to study the brain, sitting in on lectures and moonlighting in a fruit fly lab.
He started working in a genetics lab at MIT, where his mathematical prowess made him an instant star. In 1986 he was appointed a fellow of the Whitehead Institute for Biomedical Research at MIT, where he started his own lab while maintaining his faculty appointment at the Business School. In 1987 Lander won a MacArthur “Genius” Grant for his genetics work. He jumped fields in 1990 to join the biology faculty at MIT, just as the HGP was about to begin.
Eric Lander was the HGP’s breakout star. Few others in genetics had his combination of managerial, mathematical, and biological talent. His lab at MIT was one of the first to join the HGP and proved to be wildly successful.
“He realized what kind of institution needed to be built and what kind of people he needed,” said Michael B. Eisen ’89, a computational biologist at Berkeley. “In some ways he was just born to build big research institutions.”
Lander’s diverse skills proved vital to the Human Genome Project when the government-funded enterprise faced an existential challenge from a breakaway scientist named J. Craig Venter. Venter, at first a collaborator on the HGP, founded his own company to compete with his former colleagues. His strategy was to use shotgun sequencing, a method that took advantage of rapidly advancing computers to dramatically speed up DNA sequencing at the cost of quality.
“We knew that Craig was just going to claim victory just by doing stuff at random, even though we knew it would not fold together into a high-quality, continuous draft,” said Lander. “But we knew that from a public relations point of view it would sound very convincing.” Venter could not be reached for comment.
If successful, Venter’s company would lock up the sequenced genome and sell access to the data, contrary to the HGP’s commitment to freely publish its sequences. This was an existential threat to the kind of open science that the Broad would go on to embody, where sharing data with a global community of scientists becomes a way of empowering new research. But Venter’s strategy, where computational power dramatically speeds up biology, predicted the change of tides in the coming decades.
Lander pushed to publish a draft of the genome to head off Venter, intending to circle back to finish the job at a higher quality. The plan worked: in 2001, the Human Genome Project and Venter’s company published their results simultaneously in Nature and Science. A business professor only a decade earlier, Lander cemented himself as one of the most important figures in human genetics.
Eric Lander’s sixth floor office is filled with light and looks over the metal and glass buildings on Kendall Square. It is surprisingly small — no bigger than a professor’s office — and filled with orange furniture. When he speaks, he can barely sit still, and the room fills with electric energy.
“The Genome Project taught us that to do certain things — not all things, but certain things — you had to be prepared to work at a larger scale, or in an interdisciplinary way,” said Lander. “Basically we didn’t just have to do experiments in our labs, we had to experiment with our labs. We had to experiment with the structures of academia.”
After the Human Genome Project came to a formal end in 2003, Lander wanted to take the lessons of the project and enshrine them in a new kind of institution. He met with senior leadership at Harvard and MIT to begin discussing what would become the Broad Institute, which was formally announced after philanthropists Eli and Edythe L. Broad gave a $100 million gift. But he wanted to do many kinds of science, not just industrial-style sequencing.
“To me, the Broad is just not big science,” said Lander. “It was once, and the Human Genome Project was big science. But the vast majority of what goes on here is by small teams that can draw on a much larger community and infrastructure.”
Though the Broad was founded on the research style of the HGP, research there today follows a set of three approaches. Some of its scientists work to produce big datasets in the style of the Genome Project — for example, the Cell Atlas program seeks to build a detailed map of every cell in the human body. Others follow the more traditional path of the independent biologist studying individual questions at their lab bench. Still others, often trained in math or computer science, follow a genuinely new approach — working with the data produced by the Broad and other institutions to identify promising treatments or problems.
Hilary K. Finucane ’09, a Schmidt Fellow at the Broad Institute, follows the third approach, and makes big datasets bigger. Finucane and her collaborators noticed that a database called ENCODE, funded by the government as a followup to the Genome Project, is good at understanding the functions of small pieces of DNA, but not the ways those pieces work together to create diseases like cancer. Other databases, created by a method called a genome-wide association study, are good at understanding which pieces of DNA are associated with diseases like cancer, but not why they are associated. By bringing the two kinds of data together, Finucane hopes to counter the weaknesses in each.
Just a few years ago, Finucane’s groundbreaking research would have been impossible. But she does not see new tools or equipment as the most enabling recent development.
“My very strong impression is it’s been less new technology and more a culture shift towards sharing data,” she says. The math simply would not work for a lone laboratory: A handful of scientists do not have the resources to track down people with a rare disease and take tens of thousands of samples. Perhaps they could take 100. But by teaming up and pooling data with teams around the world, a global community of scientists like Finucane suddenly have the data they need to make useful conclusions. Collaboration in this case is not just a buzzword — it is a mathematical necessity.
“We need to use computational approaches to be clever about understanding the patterns there,” said Institute Scientist Bridget K. Wagner ’95. “But you still also need the deep science, the people that are going to do the hypothesis testing.” Wagner works with the Broad’s library of over 400,000 compounds, where she is trying to find a chemical that increases beta cell count in the pancreas — in other words, a treatment or cure for diabetes. But testing that many compounds is impossible. Instead, Wagner’s team identifies a smaller set of representative samples from different chemical families. She runs tests on these representative chemicals, allowing her to identify and study the most promising potential drugs.
On the surface, Finucane and Wagner could not be more different. Finucane’s “dry lab” research, done on computers and not lab benches, squeezes global data in search for a cure for complex diseases. Wagner’s “wet lab” research involves hands-on processing of thousands of chemicals, managed by robotic arms in a giant freezer. But both share a common approach, where a massive number of initial ideas are narrowed into a smart and small set of possibilities. Newly available data and technologies have made this kind of science possible.
As I waited outside the second floor lecture hall in the Broad, I struck up a conversation with a young biologist who dreamed of seeing without light. Light is a messy tool, he said, interacting with different parts of the cell before bouncing into an expensive and specialized piece of equipment. And no matter how good your microscope, it cannot read off the complex system of genes that move the cell into action. A small team of scientists at the Broad imagined cutting out the middleman: Maybe you could teach a computer how to see cells in a petri dish not with light, but with DNA.
Minutes after we met, he pulled out his laptop and excitedly described the red and green blobs floating on a black background. These were cells that once glowed red and green in real life, but the image I was looking at was no photograph. The computer that created the image had never heard of “color” or “biology.” Using sophisticated mathematics powered by a clever DNA marking system, the computer had learned what a cell is, and how to tell the red cells from the green cells. The technology was powered both by the sequencing technology invented just decades earlier and recent developments in machine learning.
While Venter’s idea of locking up genome data ultimately failed, his plan to use computers to power the shotgun method proved to be ahead of its time. Because of massive investment from the tech industry in tasks like image classification, computer scientists have rapidly turned machine learning into a state-of-the-art tool for doing biology. These new methods need an army of computational biologists, in part explaining why the Broad has been flooded by mathematicians.
Machine learning requires massive datasets to work well — this is why information giants Google and Facebook have led the field. It would never have succeeded in biology without the data produced by big science. After Church’s new sequencing technology led to a new kind of science, that new kind of science led to a new kind of math.
But for Bloom, the mathematician, the tools built by private tech companies and banks to predict ad performance and stocks may not be good enough to do biology. That’s because science is built on understanding, not clever algorithms alone. “We’re concerned with the nature of scientific truth, and we just don’t know what that truth looks like,” said Bloom.
“It’s not the case that we can just take these other methods and out-of-the-box apply them to our data and then, boom, biological insight,” said Finucane. “What’s really needed is for people who understand where the data is coming from, and then have the expertise and the creativity and the skill to develop new algorithms and statistical methods to analyze this type of data.”
Bloom’s hope is that a new generation of computer scientists will choose to join the Broad, not the Amazon or Google campuses located just a couple of blocks away. The massive data produced by a global community of scientists requires a massive labor force to understand it.
Feng Zhang ’04 was just 31 years old when he published one of the most important discoveries in a generation, earning the Broad Institute a small fortune in patent licensing fees. His research had changed paths two years earlier, shortly after he started his lab at the Broad, when he heard about little DNA fragments in bacteria cells called CRISPR.
These DNA fragments are like a library of the cell’s enemies, bits and pieces of viruses it killed and preserved like a gruesome collection of severed heads. But these aren’t just trophies from a successful battle with invaders. The cell actually uses these CRISPR fragments to guide a pair of scissors, called Cas9, to any virus foolish enough to invade twice, where the scissors slice up the virus DNA into tiny pieces.
Zhang adapted CRISPR-Cas9 for genome editing in eukaryotic cells, including humans, giving scientists control over the bacterial scissors. The technology has created a revolution in biological research and drug development, making certain kinds of experiments cheap and easy to carry out.
But a few months before Zhang published his 2013 paper, scientists Jennifer A. Doudna and Emmanuelle M. Charpentier demonstrated how CRISPR-Cas9 could be transformed into a cheap and easy way to edit DNA on the fly.
However, they stopped short of showing it worked in eukaryotic cells. Because Zhang’s work built off of Doudna and Charpentier’s more fundamental insight, biologists on important prize committees have given this pair more accolades, including the $3 million Breakthrough Prize. Zhang was snubbed, seen by the committee more as a scientist who put the finishing touches on a nearly complete product, not a revolutionary.
This question of who deserves credit for CRISPR may seem like semantics. But biology has a currency in the world, and researchers who make important discoveries stand to earn millions of dollars from patents. Forbes argues that CRISPR is one of the most valuable pieces of intellectual property ever developed in a university lab. Hundreds of millions of dollars in licensing fees are at stake. A new kind of science, one that enables rapid development of new drugs, needs a new kind of law.
Berkeley, where Doudna works, sued the Broad after Zhang filed his patent for the CRISPR technology. Berkeley claimed that Doudna and Charpentier got there first. In September 2018, a federal appeals court ruled in favor of the Broad. Patent law in America does not work the way the Breakthrough Prize committee works. Because Zhang was the first to apply CRISPR to human cells, he holds the intellectual property for applying CRISPR to human cells.
The decision created a fourtune for the scientists at the Broad. Zhang’s company Editas currently is the primary licensee of CRISPR; at the time of writing, Editas has a value of just over $1 billion. Ideas don’t just create new scientific tools — they create wealth.
Patents are a strange kind of compromise in modern science. When a researcher files a patent, they make their technology public; in return, they are guaranteed the right to the wealth created by their ideas. That openness is key to the success of modern biology research: When scientists share technology and data with an interdisciplinary community of researchers, new ideas become possible.
But money changes things. “There still is a really important need for fundamental, basic science research to go on that may not be patentable,” said Aaron S. Kesselheim ’96, a patent attorney and professor at Harvard Medical School. “But if more universities are focused on the science that could be patentable, that leaves more of a gap.” Patents allow openness, but may also change the kind of science that gets done.
In a shallow reading, Lander seems to have swapped places with his arch-rival Venter from the Human Genome Project race — jumping from the archetype of government-funded science into a mixed model funded by philanthropy, government grants, and licensing fees. The Broad's involvement with Editas and other private companies resembles Venter’s jump to the private sector.
But Venter was fundamentally different. He wanted to lock up information, selling the genome to companies who were willing to pay. It was a business model from an era before people understood the internet. The Broad’s approach is new, built on the idea that information should be shared for free. Computational biologists like Finucane have been able to make dramatic advances in understanding illness only because information is openly available to everyone. At the same time that patents have led to fights over money between institutions, they have also protected the openness that allows those institutions to do science in the first place.
Aviv Regev’s dreams make the Human Genome Project look small. She helped pioneer single-cell genomics, a technological breakthrough that performs the task of that entire project on a single human cell. While the HGP could not see differences across different kinds of cells, this tool has shown scientists for the first time the sheer genetic diversity in a single human being.
Regev co-chairs the Human Cell Atlas project, an international group that seeks to replicate the HGP for every cell in the human body, on top of her leadership role at the Broad Institute. She also runs the Cell Circuits Program at the Broad, which studies the complex interactions between genes and molecules in many different kinds of cells. With these two projects, Regev hopes to build a map of the human body that is unprecedented in its detail.
A map this big is necessary because humans are complicated. “By knowing what happens when you perturb one gene, and what happens when you perturb another gene, you can’t actually predict necessarily what will happen when you perturb both of them,” said Regev. “And in the past, we used to think that that makes it a very difficult problem.”
But new biological tools like CRISPR and powerful breakthroughs in computer science are turning the tide. With Regev’s maps, scientists may be able to understand the ways genes work together without trying the almost-infinite combinations of gene edits in their lab.
“It might be possible to sample the space of possibilities in a way that would let us predict what is happening with things that we’ve never done,” said Regev.
Regev’s dream relies on thousands of people around the world sharing their ideas and data. Not only does it need industrial-style sequencing, it requires armies of computer scientists building new kinds of algorithms and biologists transforming the newfound connections into powerful drugs. The Broad was built to bring these kinds of thinkers together.
“We have to be open and ethical and courageous with what we do, and we have to be very generous with each other,” said Regev. “Otherwise our community will not succeed.”
Correction: March 1, 2019
A previous version of this article incorrectly stated that Eric Lander is involved in Editas. In fact, he has no involvement with the company, and it is the Broad that is involved with Editas. 
— Magazine writer Drew C. Pendergrass can be reached at drew.pendergrass@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @pendergrassdrew.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
​​​​​​
Emmy-nominated actress and advocate Laverne Cox will speak at Harvard’s inaugural gender equity summit, the event’s organizers announced Wednesday.
Cox will take part in the summit's cornerstore evening panel, which will be held in Memorial Church on April 2 and feature other celebrity panelists. She is best known for her role as Sophia Burset on the Netflix series “Orange is the New Black” and is the first transgender woman of color to star on a mainstream scripted television show. Cox is also the first openly transgender person to be on the cover of Cosmopolitan and Time magazines, and the first to have a wax figure in Madame Tussauds.
In addition to her work in television and film, Cox is a prominent equal rights and BGLTQ advocate who "continues to drive positive change on a global scale," according to a press release for the summit.
The panel Cox will join is part of the University’s summit entitled “Harvard Hears You: The 2019 Summit for Gender Equity,” which was jointly planned by the University Title IX Office and Weatherhead Center for International Affairs. The full-day event, which will include panels, question-and-answer sessions, and TED-style talks, is intended to spark conversations on campus about gender equity both in education and in the world.
University Title IX Officer Nicole M. Merhill said Cox’s name was on the office’s mind even before planning for the summit officially began.
“We all agreed that Laverne Cox is such a prominent equal rights advocate that she needed to be part of the conversation,” Merhill said.
Merhill said she hopes having someone of Cox’s eminence at the event will also help bring attention to one of the summit’s central focuses — raising student awareness of how gender affects students’ daily lives.
As part of this awareness effort, the summit has been timed to coincide with the opening of the Association of American Universities’ survey on campus sexual conduct climate, which will be made available to all degree-seeking Harvard students.
Cox and the other panelists will discuss how gender affects employment, fashion, and consumerism, according to Merhill.
“Those are key topics that are often left on the sidelines, but are important in every person’s daily life,” Merhill said.
“I don’t think that there’s anyone better positioned to address fashion and the industry than this panel of speakers that we’ve pulled together to speak to our students,” she added.
Correction: March 3, 2019
A previous version of this article incorrectly referred to the University's summit as the "Harvard Hears You: The 2019 Summit for Gender Equality." In fact, the name of the summit is "Harvard Hears You: The 2019 Summit for Gender Equity."
—Staff writer Simone C. Chu can be reached at simone.chu@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @simonechu_.
—Staff writer Iris M. Lewis can be reached at iris.lewis@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
As women around the world have come forward with personal stories about sexual misconduct they’ve faced, Harvard courses have begun to integrate explorations of #MeToo movement themes and issues into their curriculum.
The phrase #MeToo has appeared in course syllabi of myriad departments including English, Music, Romance Languages and Literatures, Expository Writing, Human Evolutionary Biology, African and African American Studies, and Women, Gender, and Sexuality Studies. Despite the range of courses, some say the classes are only reaching a predominantly female student audience.
“There’s obviously a huge gender imbalance, and it’s really disappointing in some ways, because of course women are interested in these ideas that related to them, and you kind of hope that men would take a more concerted interest in these issues,” said Alexandra J. Gold, a Writing Center preceptor who teaches Expository Writing 20: “Telling Her Story: Narrative, Media, and #MeToo.”
“Gender roles don’t exclusively affect women, they also affect men, and men should be more aware of that,” she added. “I think that if we’re going to work towards intersectionality and equality, we need the participation of both men and women.”
In addition to skewing largely female, conversations about #MeToo have also leaned toward white women’s experiences, even as movement leaders have focused on issues of black women’s empowerment, according Linda D.M. Chavers, a lecturer in the African and African American Studies Department.
Chavers is teaching the seminar African and African American Studies 131Y: "19th century Black Women Slave Narratives and the 21st century #MeToo Movement” this semester with a focus on broadening the narrative.
“My class is about kind of recentering, or rather reframing, the #MeToo movement in order to be more inclusive, or even actually to be more correct and historically accurate, in order for it actually to strengthen the movement now,” Chavers said.
Gold also said she uses her course as an opportunity to help students gain a more nuanced perspective on #MeToo’s inclusiveness.
“We talk about the sort of erasures that these movements like #MeToo can sometimes effect — even though they’re obviously moves to create equality for women, they're not without their sort of lapses and their erasures,” Gold said. “One of the opportunities I have is to think about the intersectionality of each movement, because I feel like that’s a topic that hasn’t exactly gotten the kind of treatment it deserves.”
Katherine A. Condra ’22, who took Gold’s course last semester, said she appreciated the emphasis on intersectionality in class materials.
“I think it gave me a new perspective on the movement,” Condra said.
Lavinia Teodorescu ’22, a student in Ethical Reasoning 42: “Sex and Ethical Reasoning,” said she enjoys how the course professor, Mark D. Jordan, speaks candidly about these issues.
“The professor doesn’t put a mask or filter on what he’s saying,” Teodorescu said. “He says whatever is important and relevant without censoring himself.”
Teodorescu added that she thinks it is valuable to learn about these issues because they have been so ingrained in American society and history.
“It’s important because so many things in the world have been defined by our sexual ethics,” she said. “And of course it’s relevant with the #MeToo movement and issues in contemporary society and politics.”
—Staff writer Sophia S. Armenakas can be reached at sophia.armenakas@thecrimson.com.
—Staff writer Isabel L. Isselbacher can be reached at isabel.isselbacher@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Five professors from across the Northeast gathered at a forum at the Harvard Graduate School of Education Wednesday to discuss the causes of racial inequality in the United States education system. They also brainstormed solutions for bridging gaps between white children and children of color.
The forum, which was part of the school’s Askwith Forum events — a series of public lecture on challenges in modern American education — coincided with the 51st anniversary of the landmark 1968 Kerner Commission report, a document that detailed the extent of racial inequity in the United States at the time.
Alan Curtis ’65, the president of the Milton S. Eisenhower Foundation and co-editor of a 50-year update of the Kerner Commission report, delivered opening remarks, during which he described the persistent problem of racial inequality in the 21st century.
“Overall, child poverty, deep poverty, income inequality, wealth inequality, public school segregation, all have increased in the 50 years since the Kerner Commission,” Curtis said. “To begin to heal our divided society, we need to accelerate the movement to base policy on evidence, not ideology.”
Panelist E.J. Dionne ’73, a professor at Georgetown University and a visiting professor at the Divinity School, said that in many ways, the United States has moved “backward” on eliminating racism in education systems.
“The time we live in remains urgent and it’s fair to ask why, on so many issues, does our country still seem to be waiting,” Dionne said.
Government professor Danielle S. Allen, who also served as a panelist, said the driving force behind continued racial inequality was the focus on top-down solutions rather than engagement with citizens.
“At the end of the day citizens need to be direction-setters,” Allen said. “If we haven’t taken the time to ask citizens what direction they want to go in out of the field of possibilities for solving this, then we’re in danger of not securing the legitimacy that is the ground for will.”
Despite agreeing on the continued presence of inequality in education, the panelists offered differing opinions on how to best bridge the gap. In his opening remarks, Curtis suggested that increased funding and training for public education would be the best solution.
“In education, we need housing and therefore school integration combined with much more equitable financing of public schools and greatly improved training of public school teachers,” he said.
Allen, however, said the solutions were not as clear.
“I don’t agree with the premise that we know what we need to do," Allen said. "For the last 25 years, the policy universe has focused on developing technocratic solutions and then telling people that 'we the experts know' and 'why can’t you get on the train?' And I think that’s actually the problem."
Hilda M. Jordan ’19, who attended the forum, said she agreed with Allen’s centering on locally-focused solutions.
“One of things that is largely missing is the emphasis on real people and individuals and not just the efficacy or the percentages of a certain policy,” she said.
—Staff writer Joshua S. Archibald can be reached at joshua.archibald@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Exactly one year after 10 women publicly accused Government Professor Emeritus Jorge I. Dominguez of sexual misconduct, Government students reiterated their demand for an external review of the allegations in a protest and a letter to University President Lawrence S. Bacow.
More than 70 students — clad in black clothes and holding signs reading “Time’s Up” and “External Review Now” — rallied in front of Massachusetts Hall Wednesday afternoon to criticize Harvard’s response to the allegations. The Chronicle of Higher Education first published the accusations in February 2018, and subsequent reporting by the Chronicle revealed that Dominguez faced allegations of sexual misconduct from 18 women, stretching back as early as 1979 and as recent as 2015.
The University opened a Title IX investigation into Dominguez in April 2018, which is ongoing.
Before the protest, a group of graduate students in the department emailed the letter to Bacow, demanding a “public” commitment to an external review and a “feasible timeline” for the initiation of such a review — without which they say students remain at risk of experiencing instances of misconduct like those Dominguez allegedly perpetrated.
“A year after this egregious pattern of abuse was revealed, we continue to have little hope of understanding the institutional and cultural factors that made Domínguez’s actions possible, and therefore little prospect of identifying what must change for justice and accountability to prevail in the future,” they wrote.
The graduate students partnered with Our Harvard Can Do Better, an undergraduate student group dedicated to anti-sexual assault advocacy, to organize Wednesday’s rally. The same day, students wore black to Government classes to draw attention to their effort and postered the walls of the Center for Government and International Studies Knafel with printed copies of the Chronicle article.
Sarah S. Fellman ’18-’19, a Government concentrator and a member of Our Harvard Can Do Better, said at the rally that Harvard’s response to the allegations against Dominguez “makes it clear that internal procedures have failed us time and time again."
"Any further delay in a comprehensive external review is not only justice denied for those who have come before us, but also leaves current and future members of our community actively at risk,” Fellman said. “Let me repeat that: we are actively at risk in an environment where we know sexual harassment is all too common."
University spokesperson Jonathan L. Swain wrote in an emailed statement that the University remains “committed” to ensuring that Harvard is “free from harassment.”
“The University has taken significant steps over the last several years to strengthen resources, policies and procedures devoted to Title IX and to preventing harassment,” Swain wrote. “This has included empowering people to educate themselves through training, creating the conditions where people feel secure in disclosing harassment and also making it clear that inappropriate behavior has no place at Harvard.”
Government department chair Jennifer L. Hochschild wrote in an emailed statement Wednesday that she and her colleagues “applaud” the students’ efforts and will continue working to improve departmental culture. She added that though many Government faculty members support an external review, University administrators informed them that Harvard will not initiate such a review until the investigation into Dominguez concludes.
“As we understand it, the Harvard administration concurs that an external evaluation will be useful in helping us to enhance the capacity of all students, faculty, and staff at the university to do their best work,” Hochschild wrote. “What shape that evaluation takes will be determined after completion of the university’s investigation into Professor Dominguez’s alleged violations of Harvard’s Title IX policies.”
“In the meantime, Gov faculty, students, and staff are hard at work in developing policies and practices to improve the departmental climate and institutions,” she added.
In recent months, Government students have become increasingly impatient with the investigation’s perceived slow pace and secrecy. Speakers at Wednesday’s rally noted the probe into Dominguez has lasted significantly longer than the average length of investigations conducted by the Office for Dispute Resolution, which looks into formal allegations of sexual misconduct at Harvard.
The average length of an ODR investigation in 2018 was 3.5 months, and the longest investigation of the year lasted 4.4 months, according to a December report. The investigation into Dominguez has lasted nearly 11 months. Typically, the University opens one ODR investigation per Title IX complaint and either party can appeal the result.
University affiliates first called for an external review conducted by an independent body in March 2018, when 15 of the accusers urged the University to create an “independent commission” to conduct such a review. They argued the commission was vital to examining the institutional deficiencies that allowed Dominguez to maintain his position as a faculty member even after administrators first learned of harassment allegations in the early 1980s.
In an October letter to Bacow, graduate students set a deadline of February 27 — the one-year mark of the first Chronicle article — for Harvard to commence an external review.
— Staff writer Jonah S. Berger can be reached at jonah.berger@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @jonahberger98.
—Staff writer Molly C. McCafferty can be reached at molly.mccafferty@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter at @mollmccaff.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Roughly 100 Cambridge residents — including several Harvard and MIT affiliates — gathered at the Cambridge Public Library Wednesday to call on local universities to be transparent about their partnerships with financial backers in a night filled with speeches and song.
Several former and current students from Harvard, MIT, and Boston College organized the event — entitled “Whose University is This?” — following a 2018 visit from the Saudi Crown Prince Mohammad Bin Salman to both MIT and Harvard. The schools’ invitation at the time provoked intense criticism from MIT students.
Harvard’s history with the Saudi royal family includes large donations for professorships and programs across several of its schools. After the October 2018 death of Washington Post journalist Jamal Khashoggi at the hands of Saudi citizens affiliated with Prince Mohammad, Harvard and MIT have faced criticism for their relationships with Saudi Arabia and its heir apparent.
When Prince Mohammad visited Harvard in March 2018, the University remained mum, offering no public events or press releases about the event. In a release about his visit, the Saudi government boasted about “strong ties” to American universities, including Harvard.
Organizer Caitlyn Olson, a Ph.D. student in the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, said the response to the Crown Prince’s visit was “symptomatic” of how university administrators secretly set their priorities and make high-level decisions.
“One of our main concerns is that those priorities are... made behind closed doors in the name of the broader university community, in the name of faculty and students, but without any input from any of us,” Olson said in an interview before the event.
Twenty-five speakers took the stage at the event, many of whom discussed Saudi Arabia’s attacks on Yemen and their disdain for Harvard and other local schools’ continued partnership with the kingdom.
“Yemen used to seem so far away, but we’re finding out it’s very, very close,” speaker Paul Shannon, part of the Raytheon Anti-War Campaign, said at the event. Raytheon is a major U.S. defense contractor.
Another speaker, co-organizer and former Boston College graduate student Ryan Costello, suggested that Harvard and other schools should “pay reparations” and offer scholarships to Yemeni people because of the universities’ ties to the Saudi government. The proposal elicited enthusiastic applause from the audience.
The Yemen Civil War began in 2011 after an Arab Spring uprising that ousted its authoritarian president, Ali Abdullah Saleh, and thrust the nation into years of unrest and humanitarian crisis. In 2015, the Saudi government launched a military intervention into the country in support of the current pro-Saudi president of Yemen, leading a bombing campaign targeted at rebels and civilians.
The event also featured a “musical interlude” from MIT Professor Ruth Perry who sang a re-written version of “Which Side Are You On?” — a song originally penned for the United Mine Workers of Harlan County, Kentucky in 1931. Many attendees sang along with the chorus.
“Our sacred halls of learning / our research and our skills / are subsidized by corporate greed / they pay the research bills,” Perry sang.
University spokesperson Jonathan L. Swain did not offer comment for this story.
Yarden Katz, an event organizer and a fellow at Harvard Medical School, said in an interview that the event provided an “alternative” to the direction that universities are taking in relation to some of its biggest donors and corporate partnerships.
"There's a growing discontent with the ways universities operate and a growing realization that universities are working for corporations, for rich donors, for serving U.S. imperial interests, all at the expense of people and of the broader community around universities,” Katz said.
Olson noted that the organizers are ultimately calling for “fundamental” and “structural” shifts in how university administrations involve their affiliates’ perspectives in decisions about accepting gifts.
“It is just very much not about just getting another person seated at the decision-making table that already exists,” Olson said. “This is about re-thinking on a far more structural level how decisions are made and these things happen."
—Staff writer Alexandra A. Chaidez can be reached at alexandra.chaidez@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @a_achaidez.
—Staff writer Aidan F. Ryan can be reached at aidan.ryan@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @AidanRyanNH.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
When Harvard Student Agencies managers hold their weekly meetings, they usually recite the organization’s mission statement, written at the time of its founding in 1957 — “to defray the expenses of [student employees’] education,” according to former HSA President Ali Dastjerdi ’19.
“Our role as an institution is that we pride ourselves on how much we pay students,” said Dastjerdi, who served as HSA president for most of 2018. “I mean our charter quite literally says to defray the expense of education. Our existence is there to pay students more.”
But for three years, one of HSA’s branches — The Harvard Shop — did the opposite.
Last year, the Massachusetts Attorney General’s Office found that HSA violated Massachusetts labor laws and owed employees $46,276.38 in unpaid wages from June 26, 2015 through Dec. 3, 2017. The Office launched its investigation after a former employee submitted a complaint in February 2018. The complaint also alleges Harvard Shop managers retaliated against employees who asked for the wages they were owed.
The Harvard Shop, HSA General Manager James McKellar, and the Attorney General’s Office settled the complaint with the state in November.
The Attorney General’s Office required the Harvard Shop to pay $5,600 in civil penalties — $4,600 for failing to comply with a state law requiring businesses to pay employees in a timely manner, and $1,000 for failing to have an earned sick time policy. The state agency required the Harvard Shop to verify nearly three years of payroll records and pay back 274 employees. Several of them received checks for more than $1,000, many others for more than $100.
McKellar — one of the organization’s “permanent” staff members — wrote in an emailed statement that the Harvard Shop and HSA “unknowingly” failed to pay employees the correct amount.
“In this case, we unknowingly did make a mistake in how we were paying our students for Sunday and holiday pay,” McKellar wrote. “When we learned of our mistake, we voluntarily corrected the issue immediately to the satisfaction of the Massachusetts Attorney General and worked with our legal counsel to enact new employee policies to ensure that we are in compliance with the law.”
HSA, which bills itself as the largest student-run company in the world, comprises 12 businesses, including The Harvard Shop, which sells Harvard merchandise and class rings at its three Cambridge locations and its online store. Each year, an undergraduate serves as the Harvard Shop’s managing director, supervising a staff of students.
Though students oversee HSA’s day-to-day operations, alumni and University employees sit on its board of directors alongside students. Its current board includes College admissions officer and Assistant Director of Financial Aid for Student Employment Matthew J. Akre; Faculty of Arts and Sciences Associate Dean Robert G. Doyle; Computer Science Professor David J. Malan ’99; and Office of Career, Research, and International Opportunities Director Robin E. Mount.
Dastjerdi said none of the company’s upper management from 2015 to 2017 — including the president, vice president, permanent employees, and board members, many of whom are business professionals — were aware the Sunday pay or sick leave law existed until they received the complaint.
Several former Harvard Shop employees dispute Dastjerdi’s account, arguing that HSA managers knew about the relevant laws well before the Attorney General’s investigation and were aware that internal pay records were not accurate.
This account is based on internal documents from both HSA and the Attorney General’s Office, as well as interviews with 10 current and former HSA employees.
Former Harvard Shop Managing Directors Leo A. Fondriest ’19 and Anthony J. W. Kenny ’20 did not respond to a request for comment about the investigation. Former Personnel Manager Megan H. Howard ’21, who some former managers said participated in an internal payroll audit requested by the Attorney General’s Office, also did not respond to a request for comment. Current HSA President James N. Swingos IV ’20 declined to comment, referring to McKellar’s statement.
Harvard College spokesperson Aaron M. Goldman declined to comment on whether the College was aware of the investigation and whether it became involved. He referred questions on the matter to McKellar.
The Attorney General’s Office received an anonymous complaint from a former employee of the Harvard Shop “on or about” March 29, 2018, according to documents obtained by The Crimson. That employee alleged the Harvard Shop failed to pay employees wages they were owed, neglected Sunday and holiday pay laws, did not make employees’ personnel records available to them, and retaliated against employees.
“Sunday pay not provided to all hourly employees and/or they did not back pay everyone it was owed to for the 3 year statutory period,” the complainant wrote.
The Office ultimately issued the Harvard Shop two citations — one for the failure to pay wages, the other for the lack of an earned sick time policy.
The complaint sparked an eight-month investigation run by the Attorney General’s Office’s Fair Labor Division. The office obtained copies of payroll information in April 2018, which revealed the Harvard Shop’s failure to pay Sunday premiums to its employees for three years.
Massachusetts “Blue Laws” previously required certain retail businesses to pay their employees 1.5 times their hourly wages for working on Sundays and certain holidays. The law currently requires these businesses to pay slightly less — 1.4 times the normal rate — in a change that went into effect at the beginning of this year. Massachusetts’ earned sick time law entitles hourly employees to sick leave hours that accrue over time.
The Attorney General’s Office found that the Harvard Shop’s managers were made aware of the payment discrepancies in December 2017 and adjusted their Sunday pay and earned sick time policies immediately. Prior to December 2017, the Harvard Shop did not pay its employees time-and-a-half when they worked Sunday shifts and did not grant its employees earned sick leave hours.
In February 2018 — before the Attorney General’s Office initiated its investigation — the Harvard Shop paid all “active” employees restitution for unpaid Sunday premiums.
HSA appears to have made at least two rounds of back payments — one in February to “active” employees, and then one in June following an internal audit that reviewed three years of Harvard Shop payroll records — according to documents obtained by The Crimson.
The 274 employees who were owed back pay received paychecks from the Harvard Shop ranging in value from $6.18 to $1,647.82. The Harvard Shop owed 17 employees more than $500 in restitution each.
Some employees were never made aware of the investigation. Jacob P. Olson ’19, who worked at the Harvard Shop sporadically for three years, said he was unaware shifts on different days of the week had different pay rates. D. Brady Stevens ’19, who has worked at the Harvard Shop for four years and said he often works Sunday shifts, said he thought the extra Sunday pay was an internal HSA policy that began last year.
The Attorney General’s Office and the Harvard Shop came to a settlement at the end of November 2018, in which the business attested to its payment of restitution and compliance with Massachusetts labor law. McKellar and Massachusetts Assistant Attorney General Lisa C. Price signed the settlement agreement, bringing the investigation to a close.
“The AG’s Office works hard to make sure employers fully comply with state wage and hour laws,” Attorney General’s Office spokesperson Margaret Quackenbush wrote in an emailed statement. “We are pleased that hundreds of current and former employees will receive restitution through this settlement, and that the business has come into compliance.”
Detailed in the complaint were issues with the Harvard Shop’s payroll system stretching well beyond the Sunday pay and sick time violations.
The complainant alleged that Harvard Shop managers did not make pay stubs accessible to employees, altered personnel records if they believed employees were not “working hard enough,” and adjusted hours to fit the shop's weekly budgets.
Employees asking for Sunday back pay faced a “retaliatory reduction in hours,” according to the complaint. The document also notes “text proof” exists showing that employees were asked to “keep quiet” about the issue because it was “too much work” to provide all employees with Sunday back pay.
Neither the two citations issued by the Attorney General’s Office nor the settlement agreement address the workplace retaliation mentioned in the original complaint.
Dastjerdi denied the allegation that Harvard Shop managers retaliated against employees. He said some lower-level managers asked HSA’s upper management if they could reduce employees’ hours or pay, but they were always told they could not do so.
“Legally, there's no way of doing that. Performance incentives can only be positive, right?” Dastjerdi said. “Now, have some hourly employee managers ever been like, ‘Is this something I can do?’ Yes. And we always say no. Because, you know, your job as an hourly employee manager is to figure out how to make all of the people on your team all-stars.”
Alexander L. Trobough ’20, who served as the Harvard Shop’s personnel manager for most of 2017, said HSA managers knew about the Sunday pay law well before December 2017. He said he informed Dastjerdi — then HSA’s vice president — in the summer of that year about a potential issue with Sunday and overtime pay.
“It was something that I had asked about midway through my year that was like, ‘Oh, I'm responsible for paying these people. I've read these laws. It seems like we should be doing something differently,’” Trobough said. “And the response [from Dastjerdi] was kind of that in an accounting sense, it would be too difficult to account for, probably don't want to do that.”
Dastjerdi denied Trobough’s and the complainant’s allegations. He said student managers and board members were surprised to hear about the Sunday pay law.
“Our board unanimously was like, ‘What in the world is this law?’ And we were like, ‘Yeah, we didn't know either,’” he said. “It's a law passed in 2015, it’s not like it's been on the books for a decade.”
The complainant also alleged that employees went months without receiving paychecks and cited a specific incident when a payroll employee “on vacation” delayed payment to hourly workers for six weeks.
Erin T. Wong ’21, who has worked at the Harvard Shop since fall 2017, said she and at least one other employee often experienced delays in receiving paychecks.
“It was delayed for a while after I started working, and the same thing happened to my friend, who was working for a while before she actually got paid. A lot of that was actually like nagging my boss being like, ‘Hey can you check if I've been paid? Because like I don't think that's right. I don't think I've been paid like the correct amount,’” Wong said.
Wong added that she keeps a personal log of her hours in order to make sure Harvard Shop managers pay her the correct amount.
“There was definitely one instance where I was like really paid wrong, like underpaid — and that was like even this year — so I always try and keep track of my hours outside of the online scheduling platform,” she said.
Dastjerdi acknowledged that an internal HSA audit found payment delays similar to those described by Wong and the complainant. He said employees often forgot to file paperwork in a timely manner, and that the Harvard Shop allowed employees to work before they had submitted the necessary documents.
“That's illegal, and we realized that was happening way more than we felt comfortable with,” he said.
Months after HSA made its first round of back payments to “active” employees, the company informed current and former employees that an “internal review” had determined that some workers were still owed additional wage payments, according to a June 26, 2018 email obtained by The Crimson.
“We recently completed an internal review of our payroll records and determined that you were not compensated all amounts owed while you worked at The Harvard Shop, and we made a payment to you on February 9, 2018,” the email reads. “In addition to that initial payment, we went back three years, and determined that you were owed an additional amount. The Harvard Shop will process a payment to you for all outstanding amounts using your direct deposit information currently on file. You should be expecting the payment shortly.”
The email appears to refer to, but not directly reference, the second round of payments made as a result of the Attorney General’s investigation.
Dastjerdi, McKellar, and the Attorney General’s Office all said the Harvard Shop has brought its policies fully into compliance with Massachusetts labor law.
Dastjerdi added that the complaint and subsequent investigation prompted a review of employment practices throughout HSA.
“Besides just complying with the AG's report, we were like, ‘Well, this is a huge wake-up call for our company,’” he said. “‘We really need to become a little bit more rigorous about labor regulation.’”
Under Dastjerdi’s tenure as president, the organization transitioned to using a new payroll software and created new policies for recording accrued sick time. He said HSA has since standardized wages and policies across its 12 constituent businesses.
Dastjerdi also pointed to the creation of a new student position — the Chief People Officer — who works with hourly employees on issues of labor and wage policies.
He added that he thinks the complaint is a “small” deal within the broader context of HSA’s mission.
“I totally get how, you know, from your perspective, this seems like a very large deal. And it is for us too, because being not in compliance with the law is bad,” he said. “But to kind of come to terms between what I'm saying about our deep respect for paying students and this complaint is that on a kind of order of magnitude, it's quite small.”
—Staff writer Shera S. Avi-Yonah can be reached at shera.avi-yonah@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter at @saviyonah.
—Staff writer Delano R. Franklin can be reached at delano.franklin@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter at @delanofranklin_.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard College Faith and Action — the largest Christian group on campus — continues to receive resources from parent ministry Christian Union while fully complying with College policies for student organizations, co-presidents Eunice A. N. Mwabe ’19 and Cooper B. Bryan ’19 wrote in a Monday email.
After the College placed HCFA on probation in February 2018, College spokesperson Rachael Dane said HCFA would need to disaffiliate from Christian Union to regain recognition from the College at the end of its probationary period, which is slated to end next month. Mwabe and Bryan’s claims appear to contradict Dane’s statement, as well as College policies which require student groups to maintain “local autonomy.”
College administrators’ decision to place HCFA on probation last year was almost certainly tied to the group’s decision to remove an assistant bible course leader because she was in a same-sex relationship.
At the time, former HCFA presidents Scott Ely ’18 and Molly L. Richmond ’18 said HCFA’s “standards for leaders” led to the College’s decision to put the group on probation. Mwabe and Cooper did not directly answer whether HCFA has changed those standards.
“HCFA as an organization has maintained standards for leaders that best reflect the convictions of our organization,” Mwabe and Cooper wrote.
Though Dane said in February 2018 that HCFA would have to disaffiliate from Christian Union — a national organization that supports Christian groups at all eight Ivy League schools, HCFA still receives resources and funding, according to Christian Union’s website.
Mwabe and Cooper wrote in the Monday email that the “College has not required HCFA to sever ties with Christian Union.” Previously, the duo said in April 2018 they had never received communication from the College requiring them to sever those ties.
Associate Dean for Student Engagement Alexander R. Miller did not directly respond to Mwabe and Bryan’s claims.
Miller wrote in an emailed statement that the College required HCFA’s leadership to meet with him monthly. He added that their conversations have been “productive.”
"Since last spring, Harvard College Faith and Action (HCFA) has been operating under a probationary period which is scheduled to conclude next month,” Miller wrote. “These meetings have taken place consistently and have resulted in many productive conversations. I look forward to continuing to work with them to help make Harvard College the most inclusive place it can be for all of our students."
Despite the College placing HCFA on administrative probation, Mwabe and Cooper also wrote that the group is a “recognized independent student organization.”
College administrators have repeatedly declined to answer questions clarifying the terms of HCFA’s administrative probation. Though Miller attested to “productive conversations” with the group’s co-presidents, the probationary period appears to have had little impact on the organization’s activities.
The group did not lose the ability to reserve rooms or recruit students. Mwabe and Cooper wrote that HCFA “has continued its regular meetings and activities.”
Other than confirming they attend the meetings with Miller, Mwabe and Cooper did not acknowledge any changes to the organization’s policies or operations.
—Staff writer Shera S. Avi-Yonah can be reached at shera.avi-yonah@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter at @saviyonah.
—Staff writer Delano R. Franklin can be reached at delano.franklin@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter at @delanofranklin_.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The road to March Madness will end at Lavietes Pavilion next spring.
On Wednesday morning, the Ivy League announced that the 2020 Ivy League Men’s and Women’s Basketball Tournament will be hosted by Harvard on March 14 and 15 in Cambridge, Mass.,. The league also finalized the rotating host sites for the following five years, until 2025(expected):
2020 – Harvard
2021 – Princeton
2022 – Brown
2023 – Cornell
2024 – Dartmouth
2025 – Columbia
“Each Ivy League campus presents its own aura and distinctive traits," said Ivy League Executive Director Robin Harris in a press release. "With this rotation, we look forward to sharing the atmosphere and energy of our basketball tournaments with each of our campus communities and giving all of our devoted fanbases an opportunity to experience Ivy Madness in their own venue."
The 2020 Ivy League tournament will be the fourth-ever rendition of this four-game playoff, as Penn previously hosted Ivy Madness at the Palestra in 2017 and 2018. The Ancient Eight will descend on Yale’s John J. Lee Amphitheater this March to decide its league representatives to the NCAA Tournament.
“I’m thrilled about the direction we’re going now given that, we are all going to have a chance to host [the Ivy Tournament] at some point,” said Coach Tommy Amaker, who previously voted in favor of anchoring the tournament at the Palestra as a stable host site. “We’re going to do our best to have a wonderful tournament atmosphere when we have it here.”
Both Harvard teams, men’s and women’s, have not been able to escape out of the conference tournament these past two seasons. Penn(2017) and Princeton(2018) hoisted the tournament trophy on the women’s side, while the Tigers (2017) and Quakers (2018) followed suit on the men’s side.
Coach Kathy Delaney-Smith’s squads fell in the first round of the playoffs in both seasons, dropping to Princeton and Penn. Coach Tommy Amaker’s teams suffered close losses in the tournament in both seasons to Yale and Penn, respectively.
“I was very much in favor of a more equitable situation than [having the tournament] just in the Palestra,” Coach Delaney-Smith said. “There are some minuses certainly as your rotate through the league there is going to be challenges, but I don’t think there is going to be challenges here at Harvard. I think it’s a great place to have it.”
The upcoming host venues — including Lavietes Pavilion — will provide some interesting challenges, particularly in relation to seating capacity.
Lavietes Pavilion received a ~$15 million makeover in the summer of 2017, adding various new amenities including a state-of-the-art scoreboard, entrance lobby, locker rooms, and bleachers. The overall facility also expanded by 5,000-square feet, but in the process downsized its seating capacity. Previously capable of seating 2,195 spectators, the home of Harvard Basketball now lists its sell-out attendance at 1,636.
Outside of Princeton’s 6,854-seat Jadwin Gymnasium (which also received a renovation this past summer), the remaining basketball facilities in the Ivy League seats no more than 4,500 spectators. This year’s host site — inside the Payne-Whitney Gymnasium in New Haven — has as seating capacity of about 2,800 people, which would be a fraction of the attendance at last season’s Ivy League Tournament final at the Palestra. In the Harvard-Penn championship game, over 5,500 fans packed the historic basketball arena in Philadelphia.
Coach Kathy Delaney-Smith, when asked about issues with attendance, suggested that the Friday of the tournament be used as a date for semifinals which would balance out and expand attendance distribution. In addition, she commented that having a three-day tournament would allow for both men’s and women’s game times to be at more desirable times for all parties, rather than having to squeeze men’s and women’s across two days.
“They were talking about men’s semi’s on Friday, women’s semi’s on Saturday, and then something along those lines that will make a really quality tournament, I think, for everyone,” Delaney-Smith said.
Logistical issues aside, Ivy Madness next season will provide a culmination to the much-heralded Class of 2020 for both Harvard men’s and women’s basketball. The top-10 nationwide recruiting class for Coach Amaker including current juniors Bryce Aiken, Seth Towns, and Chris Lewis will play what will be their final games at Lavietes Pavilion next season, while career three-point record setter Katie Benzan and classmates Jeannie Boehm and Mackenzie Barta hope to conclude their college career with an NCAA Tournament berth.
“[The news of the announcement] was sent in our group chat, and we all are so excited, it just makes the tournament that much more exciting and special,” junior guard Katie Benzan said. “All my family can come, it’s just going to be an incredible experience.”
The league as a whole has also achieved some noteworthy accomplishments this season, including achieving a ranking within the top 11 out of 32 conference for both men’s and women’s basketball. This marks the fifth-straight season in which the women’s side have broken the top-11, while the men’s division currently paces the nation in close-game percentage, as close to half of all Ivy games have been decided by overtime or four points or fewer.
“Definitely excited to bring it back here,” junior guard Christian Juzang said. “There’s a lot of thoughts that have been going around on where it should be, based on standings, based on neutral sites, but at the end but at the end of the day, it is definitely exciting for us to come home next year...but it’s still 94 by 50. And that’s what we need to be focused on.”
No news about ticket sales has been announced for what is sure to be Lavietes Pavilion’s most in-demand event in recent memory. Harvard men’s basketball concludes its home slate this weekend with a Princeton-Penn doubleheader, while the women’s side returns home for senior weekend the following week, hosting Cornell and Columbia.
—Staff writer Henry Zhu can be reached at henry.zhu@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @Zhuhen88.
—Staff writer Henry Zhu can be reached at henry.zhu@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @Zhuhen88.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
