News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
#2016. We MADE it! We’re at Harvard, baby, and we have perfect 20/20 vision. We’ve got goals on goals on goals. This place is going to be ours. All that hard work has finally paid off, and the next four years are going to be fantastic.
Opening days has prepared us for everything. Do you think we should comp this club? Wait, really? Is that what you heard from that cultural group? Oh, we don’t know, then. Even still, we might as well give it a try. Who knows? Things could be different! We’re going to take all these big intro classes this semester: computer science, economics, life sciences, government. (It’s okay if no one we know has done this before — and it would be nice if we had help — but we’re sure it’ll be okay.) It’s all green here, you know? Ripe for the picking. Our picking. This place is going to be ours.
#2017. Things start off confusing. Somehow, half of our friends from freshman year are now in the Quad, and they’ve disappeared from our lives entirely. The distance is less than a mile, but it doesn’t seem worth the walk all the way over there for a meal we’ll never get around to scheduling. Besides, there’s more pressing issues: How are we supposed to have already decided what we want to study for the rest of our time here? We’ve just gotten here! Somehow in the span of two weeks, we’ve changed our concentrations (and our life goals) three times. Do we want to go to law school? No, consulting seems really cool… Actually, never mind. Law school it is. Harvard Law School or bust! Or is Yale better? (Can’t believe we’re actually asking this.)
We’re beginning to get leadership positions in some clubs, and let us tell you, people in these groups get serious about it. Three meetings a week, lots of arguments, lots of writing, homework, the occasional social and red Solo cup here and there. It’s tough to balance, and we’re not sure how much of ourselves to give these groups. But the people are nice and the work is meaningful, so we’re happy for now. \
#2018. Did you do the readings for that class? Oh cool, so we were all just faking it, then. That makes us feel a bit better. What did you say about our blockmates? Oh, they’re great! We get together at night and play Smash for hours, then go to El Jefe’s at 3 a.m. Okay, not every night. Like weekends. By that I mean every other weekend. Sure, we guess you can say we get a little lonely sometimes, but it’s really not that serious (we think). We didn’t get that summer internship, either. Ah, no it’s okay, we’re fine. We really wanted to take time for ourselves anyway, and figure it all out. But first, Jefe’s. We’ll have time to solve the career thing later, we promise.
#2019. Things aren’t the same as they used to be before. Every semester is always the hardest, but it seems like this year is just so much more work than ever before. We still really like Harvard, but it just seems as if the world has exploded. Everyone seems so angry, depressed, upset, and disillusioned (and with good reason!) But we’re not sure what to make of all of it, and if we really belong here. This school promises to take care of us and make sure we’re safe, tells us the bad things at this school won’t happen to us too, but it does. And the wait lines for getting help are really long, and even if we go, no one looks like us or believes our story, so it doesn’t feel like they’ll help anyway. Maybe it’s best to just ignore it for now. Then again, we’re starting to notice that lots of our friends are ignoring it too. They’re taking time off, skipping classes, dealing with their own issues and concerns, retreating into their own worlds. The scariest part is, no one’s really talking about any of it. Why are we so afraid of talking to each other?
#2020. Overall, in the grand scheme of things, not much has changed. We’re older, grayer, bruised, tired to the bone (and dare we say perhaps even a bit wiser). We gave all of ourselves to this place — to our academics, our clubs, our institutions. Not sure if it was worth it. Sometimes it felt like no one was listening, that it was all in vain, that we shouted into the void and it turned around and ignored us and our contributions. Maybe we should’ve listened to that group a while back, and not have joined that extracurricular, or taken that class, because it wouldn’t have given us as much as we gave it. But we need to change course — we’re almost about to graduate. And it seems we can’t even spell the word job right now — or fellowships, or grad school, or the future. And it’s frightening, but there’s some promise in that.
What have we learned in the last seven semesters? Life goes on. This is both comforting and terrifying, but there is hope. Even in the darkest, most isolating moments we’ve experienced, when everything is stressful and earth-shattering, it all eventually comes to pass. Let’s just hope that remains true, and that we can hold fast to our friends here, after we’ve lived and grown so much together. But for now, we’ll savor these last few moments and will sign off — until the next confession.
Jessenia N. Class ’20, a Crimson Editorial Chair, is a Cognitive Neuroscience and Evolutionary Psychology concentrator in Quincy House. Robert Miranda ’20, a Crimson Editorial Chair, is an English concentrator in Pforzheimer House. Their column appears on alternate Thursdays. 
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Since allegations concerning former Government professor Jorge I. Dominguez came to light in February of 2018, the University has taken a number of administrative steps with regards to Dominguez’s case, culminating in the revocation of his emeritus status in May. Since then, the University has convened an external review committee to try to understand how the institutional context of the Government department and the University protected Dominguez for decades. But one of the women who raised allegations against Dominguez now says that she and three other accusers are “concerned” by the University’s seeming lack of concern for their stories.
In regards to the entire Dominguez affair, it has become increasingly clear that Harvard has failed. It has failed to protect its students and employees from sexual harassment, it has failed by allowing for a culture where a professor alleged to be a harasser went unchecked, and now, it is failing in its ability to hold itself accountable for its errors. The University has made it a practice to convene committees and to study problems at length, but this reaction in and of itself is not a response. Actions speak louder than words, and though the external review once seemed like a promising avenue for a constructive review of the climate surrounding this incident, these women’s concerns highlight the disturbing possibility that it will be woefully inadequate for the seriousness of the problem it seeks to study. It’s time for the University to respond with more than just another committee.
Those bringing these claims to light are courageous. Having experienced difficult and deeply uncomfortable interactions, these individuals have stood up and continue to stand up to make their voices heard. We applaud them and call on the University to treat these claims with the gravity that they deserve. These four women have gone through presumably traumatic incidents. We are incredibly grateful that they remain persistent in ensuring that the Government department and the University at large learn from these egregious incidents, and that meaningful steps are taken to ensure community members’ safety in the future.
Looking at the composition of the supposedly external review committee, we are suspicious that two thirds of its members have ties to Harvard. In light of Harvard’s poor handling of the situation in the first place, these connections could conceivably serve as reasons for the committee to protect Harvard’s reputation even when serious mistakes were made. The lack of transparency surrounding the entire investigation over the last two years means that it is incumbent on the University to take concrete steps to demonstrate that the present external review is actually committed to understanding what really went wrong and enacting meaningful change to prevent such harassment in the future.
Moving forward, we call on the reviewers to be transparent about their approach and to be clear with students and faculty about what is and isn’t being looked into. The reviewers should work to coordinate additional on-campus visits and should open written input pathways to those with meaningful testimony to offer. Anything short of this will exacerbate the distrust that many in the Government department and around the University feel — not only because of Dominguez, but because of the University’s continued inability to make inroads into the problem of campus sexual assault and harassment.
This staff editorial solely represents the majority view of The Crimson Editorial Board. It is the product of discussions at regular Editorial Board meetings. In order to ensure the impartiality of our journalism, Crimson editors who choose to opine and vote at these meetings are not involved in the reporting of articles on similar topics.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
As a responsible member of the Harvard College student body, I clicked on the link for the Undergraduate Council presidential elections this morning (from one of the countless reminders and petitions that I have been receiving and deleting), intending to vote for the candidates that can best represent my interests and advocate for changes on my behalf (this year, for example, the UC did a fascinating job attempting to introduce food-delivering robots, initially voting down a statement of support for a student, and had a really comprehensive debate on interpretations of the UC constitution).
And after the arduous tasks of logging onto TheHub and reaching out for my phone to complete two factor authentication, I finally landed at the online voting page:
“Please insert your top five picks for President and Vice President of the Undergraduate Council, respectively.”
I took a look at the lists of candidates and decided that none of the candidates can represent me in making the necessary changes to the UC. None of the candidates seem to have thought hard about what is wrong with a system that literally inspires less voter turnout than a 9 a.m. section and successfully promises the same changes every year: A muticultural center, reforms to academic curriculum and funding for mental health, sexual assault prevention, race relations, and social spaces, for example. The list continues, and every time another candidate reiterates the same empty promise, the UC’s credibility suffers yet again. In fact, even Aditya A. Dhar ’21 and Andrew W. Liang ’21’s promise to dissolve the UC from the inside, as a joking expression of student frustration, is not unprecedented.
Subsequently, I decided to express my frustration by voting to abstain. I left all the boxes unchecked and clicked “Next.”
Then, out of the blue, a red boxed message popped up: “There was a problem with your submission. There are missing required fields or fields not entered in the correct format.”
After trying to play around the rule — I tried placing all candidates on the fifth place, all as my first choice and many other permutations — I realised that I must vote for a candidate in order to participate in the UC elections at all. When I exercise my right to vote in this election, I must put my vote behind a candidate and the UC system.
By any measures, not being able to abstain in the Harvard UC election is not a devastating problem. Afterall, only 2 percent of the student population (about one fifth the size of CS50) voted in the past midterm elections. But more than my right to abstain, this ballot precisely embodies what is wrong with the UC.
The UC lives within a fantasy where it is the champion of student clubs, the popular party planning committee, and the generous and welcomed financier of student events (despite the fact that much of that money comes from our own pockets in the form of the Student Activities Fees). But as great as their plans may be on paper, they are simply out of touch from reality. For example, while the initiative “From the UC to U” was cited in the Final End of Year Report as a reform “to update students on Council happenings,” the report fails to mention that the 24 videos posted in 2019 averaged less than 300 views each, which is less than 5 percent of the student body. The ballot design once again exemplifies their misunderstanding or neglect of student opinion: In an election where one of the submitted referenda was to dissolve the UC and a pair of candidates are running on a platform to dissolve the UC, the UC still does not consider the wild possibility that students who are frustrated by the UC and do not feel represented by any candidate may wish to express their feelings by voting to abstain.
This op-ed is not a denial of student activism or organizing student government. Student activism and government can be and have been important forces on campus and broader society. But needless to say, the UC is not doing an acceptable job in either field. And if they wish to improve the current dysfunctional system, they have much to learn from other student groups on campus and around the country that have made change or organised student movements.
And until there is a candidate who recognizes these flaws and a UC that is dedicated to fixing them, I would like the right to abstain in a UC election.
Justin Y. C. Wong ’22, a Crimson Editorial editor, lives in Dunster House. 
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Jonathan Brehm’s hands have been cleaning books with alcohol and acid for decades. They’ve scoured yard sales and churches for nearly fifty years, collecting a library to rival Alexandria’s. Now, they’re struggling for survival in a swiftly evolving Cambridge.
Brehm calls himself the Cambridge “Book Scout,” the “last relic of an old Cambridge.” Every Sunday, he sets up shop from sunup to sundown on the southeastern corner of the Cambridge Post Office, directly across from Cambridge City Hall. From his two-garage collection of more than 10,000 books, each week Brehm selects a lucky 20 cardboard boxes or so — nearly 1,000 books — to pack onto his cart and spread across the curbside. Brehm’s collection spans everything from Mayan histories to linear algebra textbooks to first-edition hardcover gems.
“Seventy-five to 80 percent off! Need a price, give a shout!” Brehm declares every time a pedestrian lingers at one of his boxes. In a quiet moment, Brehm takes a long breath in and begins to roll a cigarette.
Brehm was born in 1952. Growing up in New York City, he often got caught up in “territorial” skirmishes, running away from older boys and finding refuge in libraries. Brehm would spend hours camped out among the stacks; he says they have always been a “safe space” for him.
At 16, Brehm dropped out of school and began living with friends on the Lower East Side and working as an usher. After two years, Brehm had saved up almost $60,000 and, frustrated with New York, he moved to Cambridge.
Living in a remarkably low-rent seven-room house near Central Square, Brehm opened up a guitar repair shop that he would run for 30 years, until 2000. He lived in “sumptuous poverty,” and spent his time pursuing two hobbies — album and book collecting.
“Comparatively speaking, Cambridge was slow and pastoral; it was very attractive,” Brehm says. “Unfortunately, all the things I thought I was escaping in New York have made their way here.”
Brehm describes the Cambridge of his youth as full of poetry, literature, and music. He established himself in the Central Square music scene, frequenting parties where all the talk was about the latest album, book, or poem to strike the beatniks’ fancy. Brehm had found a tight-knit community of arts-minded people like himself.
“You know, if you hadn’t read ‘100 Years of Solitude’ nobody’s going to talk to you at that party. You can’t even imagine that anymore,” Brehm says.
When he moved to Cambridge, Brehm began scouring Cambridge yard-sales for books and albums — not only for his personal collection, but to sell to local second-hand book and music stores. The Cambridge bookstore scene was rich, and Brehm quickly learned which stores wanted what, and he “played them off of each other.”
Brehm’s book-collecting today doesn’t look altogether different than it did in 1970. “I ride on my bike five, six days a week all over Cambridge and Somerville,” Brehm says. “I have constellations of libraries, churches, yard sales. I know the timing, the setting, the owners. I know more or less who’s running the floor.”
While Brehm’s book scouting has remained his hobby for nearly half a century, the book store scene of his youth has “dissipated” in the face of rapid gentrification.
“The survivors complain, and the ones who are gone are just gone. It motivated me to run my own show,” Brehm says. “Localism has been replaced by this kind of abstract ideal of accessing stuff, not sticking around long enough to let a place sink into your psyche.”
After 30 years of what he calls “unreality” — filled with smoking too much pot and buying too many books — Brehm lost his house in 2000. Immediately, he needed to find a place to store 5,000 albums and his library. He and his girlfriend began squatting with friends across the city, and Brehm spent his weeks biking, hawking books from yard-sale to store, trying to come up with any income he could scrabble together.
After seven years of alternating between the streets and boarding with friends, Brehm’s girlfriend was diagnosed with cancer and began undergoing chemotherapy. Brehm had accumulated a collection of excess books at the time, and he decided he should start selling them on the Post Office’s corner on Sundays to help pay for the treatment. After a year of treatment, his girlfriend died. Brehm decided to continue selling — this had become his livelihood.
After nearly 10 years of sleeping on the streets and watching the city change around him, Brehm finally made enough money to afford Cambridge subsidized housing in the fall of 2017.
“If not for Cambridge subsidized housing, none of this would be possible,” Brehm says. “I even have a workshop out in Walden now, my house around Central, and two garages nearby.”
Even with things looking up, however, Brehm says he sells fewer and fewer books every week.
“It’s pretty pathetic if you think about it, that I’ve been doing this for 13 years,” Brehm says. “It’s my only source of income… For me, it’s always been sort of a grand adventure. I’ve always been too optimistic. Too out-of-touch.”
Brehm believes he is selling fewer books because passersby are increasingly less interested in Cambridge: they are more interested in their phones, in the new restaurants moving in from New York and California. Students move in and move out without taking the time to look around.
“It’s a fluctuant time. I take my cues from a potpourri of inputs. Just trying to keep up with all the rapid changes,” Brehm says. “There’s also such a new appreciation of the tech thing in general. Even the poets want to be tech-savvy now. They’ve left me behind. I don’t mean to be so yappy, but I’m kind of scared.”
As the wind picks up and the sky turns grey, Brehm pulls his hat down over his ears. He buttons up his coat and flicks his cigarette into the street. A passing cyclist races by, waving at Brehm. Perhaps it is the sting of the cool wind, or perhaps it is the song he starts humming, deep in his throat — but suddenly he tears up, rubs his eyes, and speaks.
“It’s a little bit like that song, you know, John Henry,” Brehm says, referencing Johnny Cash’s Ballad of John Henry. “He’s a spike drivin’ man. That’s his gig. He drives these spikes for the rails to go into the crossbars underneath. And eventually they come up with this machine that drives the spikes for him. He’s been the engine of his own end. He dies with the hammer in his hand. It’s pathetically tragic. I worry that I’ve done that to myself.”
Brehm stops humming. “I hope I’m not one of the last relics of an old Cambridge,” he says. “To so many people here now, an old Cambridge never even existed.”
—Staff writer Luke A. Williams can be reached at luke.williams@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter at @LukeAWilliams22.
Sections
In 2010, four Harvard undergraduates endeavored to provide an alternative power source to impoverished communities by harnessing the kinetic energy generated from kicking a soccer ball. In 2013, their company, Uncharted Play, garnered $92,296 on Kickstarter alone, surpassing their $75,000 goal.
Prominent figures weighed in with support for the product, which was developed by Jessica O. Matthews ’10, Julia C. Silverman ’10, Jessica S. Lin ’09, and Hemali A. Thakkar ’11. In 2013, former President Barack Obama played with the ball in Tanzania alongside Matthews and said, “You can imagine this in villages all across the continent.” Famous soccer players like Barcelona Soccer star David Villa, Microsoft founder Bill Gates, and former President Bill Clinton all chimed in on the Soccket’s power.
But in 2014, freelance reporter Jennifer Collins traveled to Cuetzalan to follow up with 10 families who had received the soccer ball. Eight reported that the ball, designed to provide energy for three years, had broken within a few days to a few months. Headlines poured in about the faulty nature of the Soccket: “Ball Generates Electricity for Poor Kids… Until It Breaks” and “Sorry, Obama, Soccer Balls Won’t Bring Progress to Africa.”
“In summary, we totally f*#ked up this Kickstarter campaign,” admits Uncharted Play in a Kickstarter post from December 8, 2014. It had failed to produce a durable, energy-generating soccer ball, but promised to ship another, better model — the Soccket II — to its consumers. (According to comments by Kickstarter sponsors, it failed to do this as well.)
***
Soccket was born as a final project for Professor David A. Edwards’ course Engineering Sciences 147: “Idea Translation: Effecting Change through the Arts and Sciences.” Matthews’, Silverman’s, Lin’s, and Thakkar’s 2008 class assignment soon became a full-fledged social impact startup.
Despite early roadblocks, Silverman and Matthews succeeded in capturing the attention of Silicon Valley investors and were able to make their product into reality. According to Soccket’s statement on Kickstarter, just 30 minutes of play with the soccer ball would provide three hours of power for a small LED lamp plugged into the ball.
Even as a small team of eight students, Uncharted Play received significant media coverage, including a full-length story in the Atlantic. It won the Popular Mechanics’ Breakthrough Award in 2010. Uncharted Play’s mission of providing underprivileged communities a consistent source of electricity drew many American endorsements and powerful NGO partnerships in regions in which the founders were looking to provide energy.
Silverman believes that the Soccket was able to score these prestigious endorsements and its financial success because “the idea itself was captivating,” she says. The Soccket “brought light, no pun intended, to a pretty heavy conversation.”
When reflecting on the process, Silverman recalls the roadblocks that existed beyond merely developing their product. She remembers that Silicon Valley investors would comment, “your project is cute;” in defense of Soccket, she would say, “my company is innovative.” Silverman feels “that men coming out of prestigious institutions are not confronting the kind of bias” in Silicon Valley that young women like Silverman and Matthews faced.
***
Just as quickly as the hype erupted, however, the soccer ball’s faulty technology came to light, a sharp rebuke to the three-year lifespan the company promised on a tech specs sheet.
In an interview with The Crimson in 2011, Silverman commented on the founders’ lack of engineering experience — they studied the social sciences when they took Edwards’ class. But to Silverman, their non-engineering backgrounds also allowed them to “dream bigger,” she said at the time. “Not knowing the confines of the box lets you automatically think outside the box.” But was Soccket too far outside the box to be feasibly developed?
Silverman understands the criticism that the Soccket received for not being a long-term energy solution; however, she believes that the goal of the Soccket was to get people “who do not have reliable access to the grid” from “nothing to something.” Asked about the 2013 production failure, Silverman declined to comment, but cited that due to “the nature of production,” any product development has its “challenges.”
In an April 2014 interview with CNET, Matthews also noted that the small, start-up nature of Uncharted Play may have factored into its challenges: “We’re not Nike. We’re not Walmart. We’re a group of 8 people in an apartment in New York City,” which made it difficult to monitor what “happens on the ground,” she says. Matthews, Lin, and Thakkar did not respond to a request for comment from The Crimson.
This precarity within the entrepreneurial space ultimately led Silverman to exit the company in 2015 to enter a more “structured setting” where “thoughtful feedback and professional development” would be easier to come by.
After Silverman’s departure, Matthews rebranded the company from Uncharted Play to Uncharted Power. The company shifted from revolving around Soccket to focusing on larger systemic changes to be made in the energy industry by working with corporate partners to install “‘MORE’ [technology] — Motion-based, Off-grid Renewable Energy — into existing products,” like strollers and floor panels. Matthews has already raised $7 million, which she claimed in Business Insider in 2016 is “the most raised by a woman of color, ever.” The ProjectDiane report has similarly famously shown that as of 2018, only 34 black, female founders in the United States have ever raised over $1 million in venture capital funding.
Regardless of the success of the new company and the systemic problems it is trying to tackle, one question still looms large: what happened to those broken Soccket soccer balls? The development of the Soccket may not have been the innovative and impactful solution to the energy crisis it hoped to be, but at least for Matthews, it was a stepping stone — from a Harvard classroom into Silicon Valley.
Sections
Cambridge’s EHChocolatier storefront looks quiet and empty at 11 a.m. on Sunday morning. Knead Doughnuts — a gourmet doughnut shop based in Providence, R.I., popular for their locally-sourced ingredients and specialty doughnuts — was supposed to host a pop-up shop in the store from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. It didn’t seem to pull in any customers. The newly frigid November temperatures must have kept people indoors. Or so we thought.
A family of three stands outside the shop, bundled up and peering dejectedly into the windows after being turned away. As we walk up to the shop’s doors, they warn us, “No more doughnuts.”
We continue inside anyway. The pop-up only popped-up an hour ago –– there’s no way there are no doughnuts.
We’re greeted by two huge, empty doughnut boxes and an apologetic smile. Tucker G. Brown, Knead Doughnuts’ representative at this event, is packing up to head back to Providence. The people outside were right: There are no more doughnuts.
“It was really nonstop from the moment we opened the door,” Brown says. “There was a line outside before we opened, and then there was not one break in between.” The 250 doughnuts that Knead brought sold out within an hour of opening, Brown explains. “And then it was over.”
Knead Doughnuts’ current popularity belies its humble beginnings. At its opening in 2016, the shop’s struggles ranged from no parking spots for customers to inadequate kitchen space. People would walk into the shop after paying for parking, and Adam J. Lastrina, owner of Knead Doughnuts, remembers thinking to himself, “Why is everyone so angry?”
Eventually Knead Doughnuts was able to expand and keep expanding. They opened a second shop in Providence and began to host pop-up shops in cities like Cambridge. Lastrina explains that Knead Doughnuts has been popping up in other storefronts because of the difficulties of running a small business.
“From climbing bills, to rent, to payroll, to minimum wage, to insurance… if you're a small business and you go through that, you know the pain and the joys that come along with that. And so I think we're all better off if we're more supportive of each other,” he explains.
According to Lastrina, pop-ups are a win-win for both the small businesses hosting and the small businesses popping up. The host attracts more people to their shop, and the pop-up gets a whole new audience, eager for a product they can’t easily find on a regular basis.
Pop-ups are also beneficial because they appeal to constantly changing trends and popular desires for new attractions: “People are always like, ‘What's next? What's the next special? What's the special day? Where are you this weekend?’” He continues, “Consumers are sort of expecting collaborations and pop ups.”
The doughnut fans in Cambridge were certainly awaiting this pop-up, considering the lack of doughnuts present after only an hour of business. And although Brown’s stay in Cambridge this Sunday was shorter than anticipated, Brown says Knead Doughnuts is interested in having another pop-up in the Boston area soon.
Closing an empty doughnut box, Brown smiles and says, “Seeing the amount of hard work and care and precision that goes into making all of this, it's really heartwarming to see people appreciating all the work.”
Sections
Cambridge has been a leader in progressive policy nationwide, from same-sex marriage legislation to sustainability initiatives. Its latest move will reach Harvard Square next week when the city reduces the speed limit to 20 miles per hour in all five major Cambridge squares.
Cambridge has been trying to implement a 20 mph limit on most city-owned streets since the early 2000s. On Oct. 28, they finally succeeded. The plan is the latest move in implementing “Vision Zero,” a street safety strategy that the city adopted in 2016 to eliminate all traffic fatalities. The policy comes as a major victory for bike and pedestrian advocates — but it also presents them with an array of new challenges.
Vision Zero was first implemented in Sweden in 1997, where it cut traffic fatalities in half. Since then, the project has spread to European countries and other U.S. cities including New York, Los Angeles, and Seattle. In addition to safety measures like protected bike lanes and shorter red light durations, Vision Zero advocates worldwide have pushed for 20 mph speed limits in high bike density areas, citing a study from the AAA Foundation for Traffic Safety that demonstrates that pedestrians are almost half as likely to be killed by a motor vehicle traveling at 25 mph than they are a motor vehicle travelling at 30 mph. The fatality rate drops significantly again between 25 and 20 mph.
Cambridge was at the forefront of traffic safety even before its adoption of the Vision Zero strategy in 2016. “[The city] has a long history of prioritizing road safety and traffic calming,” says Louisa Gag, a representative for Vision Zero’s Cambridge Coalition, a network of Cambridge-based road safety advocacy groups. Cambridge was one of the first U.S. cities to construct bike lanes in 2004 and has been pushing for reduced speed limits for over a decade.
But, as a small municipality, Cambridge couldn’t act alone. “Cambridge is a smaller political player,” says Jeff L. Rosenblum, a former Cambridge city staff member and co-founder of LivableStreets, a member group of Vision Zero’s Cambridge Coalition. “A lot of these major changes in state policy rely on Boston,” he continues. “Unless Boston puts their foot in the door, these kinds of changes aren’t going to happen.”
After years of insistence from Cambridge, Boston did put its foot in the door in 2016. That year marked the beginning of a series of lobbying efforts by the city, which have brought about recent changes in state law allowing cities to reduce speed limits — first, from 30 mph to 25 in 2016, and, most recently, from 25 mph to a markedly safer 20 this past year. Cambridge’s new policy is the direct result of this surge in traffic safety enthusiasm among Boston legislators.
According to advocates, recent fatalities prompted the state legislature’s shift.
“Fatality is the straw that breaks the camel’s back,” says David C. Read, the vice president of ambulatory care operations and medical oncology at the Dana-Farber Cancer Institute and the founder of Longwood Area Cyclists. He cites the deaths of two cyclists, Harvard Medical School researcher Anita Kurmann in 2015 and Brookline librarian Paula Sharaga last February, which prompted the city to implement new bike safety measures in Longwood.
In the past four years, 79 people have been killed while walking, bicycling, or driving on Boston’s streets. Traffic deaths have decreased since Boston adopted the Vision Zero road safety strategy at the end of 2015, but Read is right to highlight that it has primarily been fatalities, not serious injuries, that have prompted the positive change.
Boston’s embrace of Vision Zero in 2015 came in the wake of a cyclist’s death at a notorious Back Bay intersection. Vision Zero’s pressure on the Massachusetts State House, which ultimately facilitated Cambridge’s new 20 mph policy, followed the July 2018 death of a three-year-old boy in South Boston.
Without fatalities, the push for traffic safety measures tends to stall, Rosenblum argues. “Sometimes it’s hard for Cambridge city staff to do something proactively because citizens or the city don’t want change,” Rosenblum says. “Then, when people die, they want the change,” he continues. “Is it an inevitable product of social democracy? I don’t know.”
But for Gag, Rosenblum, and Reed, reduced speed limits are only the first step in a long path toward eliminating traffic fatalities. How to enforce those lower speeds is another question the city and advocates must grapple with. “Ticketing drivers is a spot treatment,” Gag explains. Gag goes on to characterize tickets as a reactionary solution with minimal preventative effects relative to broader, structural measures like red light cameras, speed bumps, and chicanes — artificial curves in the road that force motorists to slow down.
But these structural solutions will require a groundswell of citizen support that Cambridge doesn’t yet have, Rosenblum warns. For instance, implementing red-light cameras to monitor speed makes some residents concerned about government surveillance, Rosenblum says. Questions concerning policing power arise in conversations over increased enforcement of the new speed limit as well, Gag says.
Advocates agree that Cambridge’s 20 mph policy is a crucial step forward in implementing Vision Zero. But they stress the amount of work and citizen backing still needed to make this vision a reality. “It’s so hard to measure what could have happened if you had not implemented something,” Rosenblum says.
Sections
“Some people do look at [the summer before college] like that one moment of freedom before you go from one set of responsibilities to another,” Ezra B. Feder ’23 says. “But I think in that free time, I couldn’t see a better way to spend it than in a way that I really thought was valuable — in a way that I could help other people.”
Feder was one of the 75 students in the Class of 2023 to participate in the new Service Starts with Summer Program, affectionately referred to as 3SP by its organizers. Administered by the Phillips Brooks House Association, the program gives each participant a $1,500 stipend for completing 100 hours of work on a self-directed service project in their hometown.
Feder spent his summer volunteering for Artists for Humanity, a Boston nonprofit that trains under-resourced urban youth for jobs in art and design. He organized the annual summer art and design exhibition, a task that involved everything from gathering refreshments to publicizing it to the community to mentoring the artists one-on-one.
Kevin L. Ballen ’22, one of the founders of the program, explains that organizers guide students through their projects virtually, using platforms like Zoom, a video conferencing service, to produce webinars with Harvard faculty who have experience in professional service work. Webinar speakers included Dean of the College Rakesh Khurana and Michael H. Brown '83-'84, president of the Board of Overseers and co-founder of the public service organization City Year.
Program participants also conferenced with small cohorts of other students, received feedback on written reflections, and checked in individually with upperclassman leaders throughout the summer.
Despite the program being relatively new and its class relatively small, the feedback from the students in 3SP was overwhelmingly positive.
“There was so much energy from the student body for this program,” says Travis A. Lovett, Assistant Dean of Civic Engagement and Service. “I was overwhelmed by the response we had... hearing the students pitch their ideas to each other.”
Nick J. Brennan ’23 worked at the Grant Cottage State Historic Site, the last residence of President Ulysses S. Grant, on Mount McGregor in upstate New York. He was drawn to the site’s mission of preserving and expanding history education.
Using old newspaper clippings and the cottage’s small library collection, Brennan researched, scripted, recorded, and edited an audio tour to introduce visitors to the history of the mountain. His final product included over a dozen narrators playing different characters from the time period, as well as pictures and interactive quizzes.
“The goal of the audio tour is to really give people a more immersive experience to Mount McGregor and what life was like when Grant was there,” Brennan says. “It's important to be able to engage those visitors and provide them with an enjoyable experience, but also make sure that they're hearing a historically accurate, educational account.”
Brennan adds that participating in the program helped him build confidence and make friends with fellow freshmen before the school year started. He hopes to continue serving his community by guiding students from his hometown through the college application process and increasing access to higher education.
This was a task that Marilynn Miguel ’23 attempted to take up directly in her project. Miguel held a two-day college preparation workshop in her hometown of Cumberland County, New Jersey, where many students lack opportunities in higher education.
For the first day of the workshop, Miguel contacted colleges around the country for help, collecting informational material from over 140 schools in 49 states to distribute to attendees. She also brought in guest speakers to share their advice and experiences, such as a college admissions representative from Princeton and an alumnus from her high school who ran for Congress. For the second day, she recruited recent high school graduates to mentor younger students about the college application process.
Now on campus, Miguel is continuing her efforts to improve access to higher education for lower-income and first-generation communities. Working for Project Teach, she goes to local public schools in Boston and Cambridge to give presentations on how students can make the most of their time in high school.
“A lot of my [college] pathway is based on the experience that I've acquired from 3SP,” Miguel says. “I definitely love the program, and I'm very happy that I did it because it really did give me a type of foundation to do other things once I got to campus.”
Because all communication in 3SP happens virtually, the students do not actually meet each other or the program’s administrators in person until they arrive on campus.
At the beginning of this school year, 3SP held a dinner to welcome students to campus, celebrate the work of participants, and bring the summer to a close. But for the program’s participants, the closing dinner does not mark not the end of their commitment to public service.
“I think it's really important to emphasize a more holistic definition of service,” Brennan says. “It's really cool how students from a lot of different extracurricular disciplines can come together and find … a bond in the service that they do.”
Sections
My Harvard introduction is largely the same as every other freshman’s: name, home town, freshman dorm. But the inevitable response I typically get is not standard at all:
“Woah! Your name is...Aristotle!?”
The next few questions follow a similarly predictable progression. “Are you named after the Philosopher?” “Are you Greek?” “Are you going to concentrate in Philosophy?”
No. Yes. Probably Not.
Many times, people don’t even believe I’m telling the truth. “Now, what’s your real name?” or “Is that your alias for the day?” are both verbatim questions I’ve heard in the last year.
People might say I have a “famous name,” but it’s tough for me to see it that way. I’m named after my grandpa, or “pappou,” who was born in a small village in Greece where “Aristotle” is a common name. At my Greek Orthodox church alone, I know three other Aristotles.
When my pappou arrived in America in the mid-1950s, his uncle advised him that having a name as identifiably “Greek” as Aristotle wouldn’t serve him well in the States –– he’d have to alter his name to “Arthur.” Reluctantly, he did.
But when my mother was naming me, she wanted to be as authentic as possible: she called me “Aristotelis,” the Greek version of Aristotle, my pappou’s true name.
So, for me, the name is not so much an allusion to the grandeur of the Parthenon and the philosophers who ruminated beneath its shadow; rather, it sparks an image of a hard-working, small-town, Greek-American immigrant. Not a famous name; a ubiquitous one.
***
Naming can serve as an exercise in creativity. Recently, “unique” names have seen an almost 200 percent increase in popularity. Whether it’s Beyonce and Jay-Z attempting to trademark Blue Ivy, or “Atticus” taking the top spot on parents.com’s 2017 list of “Top 100 Unique Names,” American society has become fascinated with crafting the next “unicorn” name.
Explanation for this trend can be found in fads and pop culture. For example, names derived from Game of Thrones, including Arya and Khaleesi, have shot up in popularity in the last couple years. Another explanation is the “American frontier mindset,” as dubbed by a 2016 BBC article. In a society that values individualism, Americans strive to stand out as unique and exceptional. Some suggest this trend might motivate parents to seek names that will give their children a head start as they aspire for singularity. Regardless, the trend toward unique names only continues to increase.
I’m also not the only one at Harvard to sport an uncommon name. Galadriel A. Coury ’23 is named after — yes — the queen of the Elves in J.R.R. Tolkien’s The Lord of the Rings trilogy. She explains that her father’s cousin suggested the name, and after much deliberation, her parents agreed on it for its “mystical and powerful” sound. She describes herself as very “pro-creative names.”
“People remember me,” she says. “In my interviews or whatever, I can just start off with my name… it makes me interesting right off the bat. I don't have to make as much of an effort at looking cool, because my name does it for me,” she says with a chuckle.
Coury’s name often provokes a double-take. Seconds after offering her name to a new group of people, one or two heads will inevitably flip back toward her, eyes wide. “Did you know your name is from The Lord of the Rings?” Yes. Yes she does.
James U. Joyce ’22, an active Crimson editor, hasn’t experienced quite the same benefits that Galadriel has, but enjoys having a famous name nonetheless.
“In high school, there was no reaction. People didn’t really know who James Joyce was,” he says. “Then I got [to Harvard]. It became a big thing...Every week or so, I meet someone new who says, ‘That’s your name! I have to ask about that!’ People here have actually read James Joyce.”
In Joyce’s case, the name is a family one. He explains, “I’m named after my uncle, who was named James Joyce, who was named after his grandfather, who was also James Joyce. It has been running in the family forever.”
Of course, I had to ask if there was any relation to the towering literary figure: Joyce affirmed that supposedly there is one, generations back.
Fortunately, he doesn’t feel any expectations associated with his name. “But one of my goals, he says, “is to be the first Google search result when you look up James Joyce.”
This is a point on which Joyce, Coury, and I could all agree –– while people might have expectations for you when you’re named after a well-known figure, you really just feel like a regular person. Coury puts it best: “I don't know anything else. I don't have anything that I would compare [having a common name] to...There's never been a point where I haven’t liked my name.”
Sections
In 1997, Massachusetts was one of four states that permitted incarcerated people to vote. That same year, a group of people incarcerated at Massachusetts Correctional Institution at Norfolk filed paperwork to form the first-ever prison Political Action Committee, which sought to improve living conditions within the prison.
Within weeks, then-governor Paul Cellucci signed an executive order barring prisoners from forming PACs. He instructed the Department of Correction to use “punishments such as isolation, restriction and loss of privileges” to enforce the law, and the PAC’s founders were placed in solitary confinement. In 2000, Cellucci introduced a state constitutional amendment to disenfranchise people incarcerated for felonies from voting in elections governed by the state constitution, which came to include both presidential and municipal elections when Cellucci signed a modified bill into law the following year.
Today, an activist group of “free-world and incarcerated people” known as Massachusetts Prisoners and Organizers Working for Enfranchisement and Restoration, has begun the lengthy process to reverse the 2000 amendment and re-enfranchise incarcerated individuals. The group needs to collect over 80,000 signatures before Nov. 20 for the Massachusetts legislature to consider their proposed amendment in 2021. If a quarter of legislators support the amendment, it will become a ballot question in the 2022 election.
MassPOWER estimates that the proposed amendment would re-enfranchise over 8,000 people. More than half of those re-enfranchised would be black, Latinx, or indigenous, despite the fact that those demographics make up just one fifth of Massachusetts’ total population.
“You’re talking about a system that isn't built for justice — it’s built to disenfranchise people and suppress their agency in government,” says Austin L. Frizzell, a volunteer organizer for MassPOWER. The MassPOWER coalition comprises a number of groups with prison-abolitionist goals, including Emancipation Initiative and Families for Justice as Healing, as well as the Harvard Prison Divestment Campaign, which calls on Harvard to divest its endowment from the prison-industrial complex.
The Emancipation Initiative, a central coalition member of MassPOWER, was founded by Derrick Washington from a maximum-security prison in Massachusetts in 2012. Washington, who is currently incarcerated, realized that the Thirteenth Amendment prohibits slavery in the United States “except as a punishment for crime,” making him, as he described it to The Atlantic in September, a “slave of the state of Massachusetts.”
In an editorial on MassPOWER’s website, Washington writes that disenfranchisement strips incarcerated people “of the protective armor of government.”
“Restoration [of suffrage] springs forth the conception of human dignity,” he writes, “providing lawmakers with incentives to oversee the holistic processes in how the raw material of justice is shaped while infusing a sense of equity throughout the system.” Because incarcerated people are denied a political voice, he writes, legislators can ignore them, and as a result, incarcerated people face toxic living conditions, have difficulty communicating with family, and experience psychological exhaustion.
Washington’s sister was unable to put us in touch with him for an interview. When we called the Souza-Baranowski Correctional Center, where Washington is incarcerated, an operator indicated that the prison was under lockdown, but refused to provide further information.
The Massachusetts Governor’s Office and the Department of Correction did not respond to requests for comment.
Organizers began discussing the MassPOWER initiative in late 2018. They realized a coalition was necessary because a constitutional amendment petition would require tens of thousands of signatures, says Elly Kalfus, an organizer with Emancipation Initiative. “So we got together with different groups who share our values to form MassPOWER,” says Kalfus.
MassPOWER has more than 350 volunteers who are collecting signatures at congregations, subway stops, and other public spaces across the state. The $15,000 they’ve raised so far is paying volunteers who have been affected by the carceral system, Frizzell says. To date, 10 state legislators have also endorsed the amendment.
One of those legislators is State Senator Jamie B. Eldridge, who says the 2000 Massachusetts constitutional amendment is fundamentally anti-democratic. “It’s a disenfranchisement that disproportionately impacts African Americans and Latinos, given the makeup of our prison population,” he says. “So I see it as another form of a sort of modern Jim Crow.”
The MassPOWER movement centers the leadership of incarcerated and formerly -incarcerated activists. The focus in all abolitionist work, says Kalfus, is to ask, “how do we really follow the leadership of incarcerated people who are experiencing it themselves?”
Though the initiative has generated a lot of momentum, Frizzell acknowledges the road ahead will be difficult, and that they are not yet where they want to be. “We have a state where it makes it very hard to do this,” Frizzell says.
Massachusetts law, he explains in an email, makes passing indirect initiatives particularly difficult. Signatures must not only be collected in a short period between mid-September and Nov. 20, but every municipality must also receive and approve a different signature form. And because signatures can be invalidated by small stray marks, MassPOWER needs to collect far more names than the legally required number.
The MassPOWER Initiative is particularly necessary to combat prison gerrymandering, says Ayana S. Aubourg, a program director at Families for Justice as Healing, a MassPOWER coalition member that both works to end incarceration of women and girls and supports families affected by mass incarceration.
Prison gerrymandering refers to the fact that many black and Latinx people are incarcerated in prisons located in white, suburban neighborhoods. “People who are incarcerated in these white suburban areas are increasing the power of [the counties’] vote,” Aubourg says. “But their voices aren’t able to count, and they’re not able to vote. Yet they’re being counted, and that parallels the Three-Fifths Compromise.”
Win or lose, Frizzell says that MassPOWER will submit the signatures anyway. “We think we can make it,” he says. “Regardless of what we get to, it’s important for us to submit, because those signatures are an indication that this state is ready to talk about this kind of work.”
Sections
Economics Professor Stephen A. Marglin ’59 is an infamous presence in the halls of his department. In the early 1990s, in a building full of professors extolling of the virtues of American capitalism, Marglin professed that the abolition of capitalism is “necessary, but not sufficient.”
“I never felt like I had to hold back my beliefs. Maybe I should have, but I never did,” Marglin says.
Marglin has worked to expand Harvard’s intellectual diversity for over fifty years. Today, he sits surrounded by floor-to-ceiling shelves with books on topics from social change to imperialism, a physical manifestation of Marglin’s stark difference from many of his peers in the department.
But Marglin wasn’t always so vocal about his beliefs. He began his career as an undergraduate at Harvard, studying and touting the benefits of neoclassical economics — a belief in free and unregulated markets. In his senior year, he contributed two chapters to a new textbook about neoclassical economics. In 1968, less than a decade out of college and three years after receiving his Ph.D., Marglin received tenure at Harvard. He began his career as one of the youngest-ever tenured professors at Harvard and a leading voice in neoclassical economics.
Within months of getting tenure, however, the tremendous social upheaval of the late 1960s led Marglin to question the foundations of his discipline. He went to India to discuss the new cost-benefit analysis he had been pioneering with the Indian government. On this trip, Marglin began to question the Western projects he previously embraced. Marglin had spent his life surrounded by the idea that he now believes implicitly suggested “the superiority and modernity of Western culture and the ‘backwardness’ of local people.” He acknowledges that “we would have been insulted if you called us colonialists, but we had a lot in common with colonialism.” In a new country, Marglin began questioning his prior beliefs: the assumptions of individualism and capitalism.
When Marglin came back to Harvard, he found a new social consciousness in unexpected places. He remembers a group of “fearful, very preppy kids” who came to his office shortly after he returned. One introduced himself as the son of the president of Chase Manhattan; the rest had fathers heading various other New York banks. The students asked Marglin how to lobby their fathers and convince them to change their views on the war. “I said to myself, boy, this place has changed,” he recounts.
As the 1960s came to a close, Marglin’s allegiance shifted from neoclassical economics to more radical beliefs. Quickly, he established himself as the most liberal member of the Economics Department. This status lent him the ire of the department’s leadership, who were quick to see him as stridently rejecting the whole body of economic thought; at least, he seemed to reject the parts of their theories that they cared most about.
As one of the most radical members of the Economics Department even today, Marglin has tried to diversify course offerings, and to create spaces for a wide range of economic thought on campus. In 2003, Marglin wanted to create an alternative to Economics 10: “Principles of Economics” — the introductory economics class that, at the time, was taught by Martin S. Feldstein ‘61. The intention was to introduce students to various critiques of mainstream economics. But Marglin recalls that Feldstein was “adamantly opposed” to the idea and brought the rest of the department in line.
“Feldstein's position was that there are two kinds of economics. There's good economics and there's bad economics,” Marglin says.
Marglin explains that this binary is part of a deeper-rooted issue in the social sciences.
“The profession likes to think of itself as apolitical, but that's just completely wrong. All of us need to confront our ideologies, to allow them to be challenged, to have it in competition with other ideologies. The political aspect cannot be avoided. It's how you address it that matters.”
As ardently as Marglin advocates for changes to the status quo in economics, he’s quick to explain that critiquing mainstream economics does not mean villainizing it. Marglin maintains that he finds immense value in mainstream economics as a way to understand the world, yet stresses that economics is not the only way to understand the world.
Still, Marglin acknowledges the limits of his influence.
“I don't think I've had the kind of impact I'd like to have had. Or, in fact, not much at all. But I do think I've had some impact on students, and I'm very pleased about that.”
Despite working in a field structured around an ideology at odds with his own, Marglin still holds a cautious optimism for the future of economics.
“If students want something different, they should demand it, and not one by one, but together. They come to my course because they have some suspicion that they're missing something, but they don't know what it is.”
Sections
From being "broken down" by the Devil in "The College Dropout" to proclaiming himself a god on "Yeezus," Kanye West now "bows down to the King upon the throne" in his latest release "Jesus Is King," a self-proclaimed gospel album. While some gospel artists have embraced the album, music critics have largely dismissed it as inauthentic. They also say that his regularly-held private gospel concerts, which he calls Sunday Services, are a self-serving way to profit from religion.
To assess the religious resonance of the album, FM turned to the most obvious source on all things Kanye: the Harvard Divinity School. Specifically, professor Matthew L. Potts, who studies the intersection of Christianity and culture through literature.
Potts first heard about Kanye while working at a Catholic homeless shelter in Phoenix, Az. A guest explained to him that “Jesus Walks,” one of Kanye’s most famous songs, accurately reflected his own relationship with God. Potts was surprised that Kanye could connect so deeply with people. Potts says Kanye “has evidently put his own faith into [“Jesus is King”],” producing “emotionally and religiously resonant music.”
Potts believes that while Kanye’s Sunday Services may be exclusive celebrity events, there is something to be said for “music realized in a Christian setting.” He refuses to say that the album “is not gospel music.” He also sees little difference between the exclusivity that people critique about Kanye’s services and televangelists, who are paid to preach on public broadcasting channels,, for instance, and that it would be “unfair to single out” Kanye for this type of gathering.
As any tabloid from the last decade is quick to reveal, Kanye hasn’t lived a traditionally Christian lifestyle in the past. However, Potts notes that struggling to find faith makes for a convincing Christian leader. Potts compares Kanye to the Apostle Paul, who describes himself as the “worst of sinners” in the New Testament. Potts says that “part of the authenticity of [Paul’s]conversion” came from his sinful beginnings, and Potts argues that Kanye’s conversion represents this same level of authenticity.
Kanye himself underscored this connection to Paul — in his last album, “The Life of Pablo,” he directly compares himself to the Apostle. Potts points out that West deals with his past on the track “Selah” and invokes the understanding that God saved him and his past is no longer important which “is a belief that is deep in Christian history.”
Between bars about his own wealth and power, Kanye shows off his command of Christian theology, making sprawling references to everything from the well-known hymn “Amazing Grace” to verses from the Gospel of John. In “Selah,” he rhymes, “Everybody wanted Yandhi/then Jesus Christ did the laundry,” alluding to an iconic image of the blood of the Lamb washing away the world’s sins.
We expected Potts to find the line irreverent, even demeaning, but he interjects to tell us it’s his favorite. While some say “Jesus is King” is trite, he identifies deep meaning within it. “What’s so smart about it,” he says, “is that [Kanye] plays with a tension in Christianity between the high and the low, the sacred and the mundane.” After all, Potts quips, Martin Luther himself wrote that just as preachers find God while reading the Gospel, fathers should be able to find God while washing their children’s dirty diapers.
But Kanye goes beyond likening himself to just an apostle— he likens himself to Jesus Christ. On “Selah,” he imagines what it would be like to await crucifiction: “even with the bitter cup/forgave my brothers and drank up,” he says, referring to Judas’s betrayal of Jesus. To some, the line might seem egotistical. But Potts argues that Kanye is grappling with what one’s relationship to Christ should be. Many devout Christians seek to imitate Christ and aspire to his level of humility and kindness. During the Roman Catholic rite of the Eucharist, priests can “actually become” Christ. “What I think Kanye’s getting at,” Potts explains, “is that it is a prideful thing to say you can imitate the Son of God.”
Potts seems most interested in the points at which Kanye exposes his imperfections as a Christian. Take, for example, his controversial song, “On God.” in which he thanks God for the commercial success of his sneaker line, among other material things. While Potts personally disapproves of this emphasis on material success, he points out that Kanye is not unique in associating God’s favor with wealth: many churches in Southeast Asia preach the “prosperity gospel,” for instance. Besides, Potts highlights that Kanye himself admits that he’s unsure if he’s a good Christian.
Still, not all of Kanye’s provocative religious lines land as well.
Potts is quick to acknowledge that Kanye’s remarks on mass incarceration in “On God”— “All my brothers locked up on the yard/you can still be anything you want to be”—and public statements on slavery don’t “sit well with [him] at all.” In “Selah,” when Kanye claims that only God can free people from bondage, he drastically over-simplifies a complex theological argument.
While Potts doubts Kanye will remain as devout as he is currently, he hopes that Kanye will continue to blur the boundaries between religious and secular art and bring religion into public discourse. “Like any other human being,” Potts says, “he’ll always have to reinvent himself.”
“He’s so creative; I’m sure he’ll find a new mode to explore and practice his art.”
Sections
In the midst of Cold War tensions post-World War II, the poet Langston Hughes caught the attention of the FBI for his left-leaning work. The FBI, suspicious that Hughes had communist ties, compiled a lengthy file on him. That file — now available in the Harvard Archives — contains a photocopied title page of a student publication: “The Harvard Communist.”
The Harvard Communist was published by Harvard’s Youth Communist League in the 1930s and 40s. While the publication initially served as a platform for communist ideologies, it later transitioned into a collection of succinct news items, informed by communist analysis.
The Harvard Communist first appeared on Harvard’s publication scene in 1935, approximately one year after Harvard’s YCL was founded. The Youth Communist League USA was founded in Berlin in 1919 and came to the United States in 1922. Before the group made its presence known on campus with a magazine, it was a secret club. The group did not believe that its secretive nature made it “unusual” on campus, for there were other “secret clubs.” It existed covertly merely for “practical reasons.”
At that time, the open expression of communist, or even radically liberal, views could potentially lead to investigations. The House Un-American Activities Committee was formed in 1938; later, hearings and blacklistings could put one’s future in jeopardy.
The Harvard Youth Communist League likely viewed its secrecy as necessary for preserving both the YCL’s reputation and its own.
But, in the April 1937 Harvard Communist issue, the YCL nonetheless proclaimed itself the “finest” club on campus, citing its dedication to the working class.
The article, “The YCL at Harvard” described the League’s broad purpose and goals. To summarize them, they inserted a quote from Lenin, which stated that in order to be “a real Communist,” one must receive a “Communist education.” Such an education promotes directing “one’s work, one’s strength to the common good.” The YCL interpreted this statement as a call to unite students in order to achieve peace and progress, abandon discrimination and prejudice, and ensure that their peers receive a “truly liberal” education.
Members of the YCL envisioned this education as one with extreme respect for Communist philosophy — “the highest and most advanced development of human thought, being true scientific methodology applied especially to the social sciences.”
Harvard’s YCL members studied not only to become good Harvard students, but to become true Marxist scholars. “At Harvard then, we are a university within a university,” they wrote in the pages of the Harvard Communist. They were on two simultaneous academic missions: one within Harvard, and one within Marxist studies more broadly.
Those two “universities” were not always harmonious. The first two editions of the magazine criticized Harvard, stating that Harvard’s system of tuition and scholarships is designed to “seduce the more capable minds of the lower middle-class and proletariat into supporting the capitalist class.” The students from lower and middle classes need to have a greater intellectual ability to gain admittance, the magazine stated, and then face “a disadvantage scholastically with those who do not need to work.”
The second edition of the Harvard Communist continued this complaint in the form of a dreary short story. The main character is a bright worker who gives up an intellectual future at an unnamed university because of the insurmountable tuition.
The Crimson satirized the fledgling publication after the editors printed their second issue in 1935 with lines such as “unfortunately grammar gets the better of the writer” and “the sensational publication soon dips into discussions of events of world-shaking importance."
However, the YCL would eventually turn away from long magazine issues to short news bulletins. On December 4, 1939, the League took a distinct anti-war stance.
A simple, single-page leaflet titled “What’s behind the news?” ends with a dramatic exclamation: “AMERICAN PRO-WAR GROUPS ATTEMPT TO WHIP UP WAR HYSTERIA IN ORDER TO INVOLVE THE UNITED STATES IN THE EUROPEAN CONFLICT…. IS THIS NEUTRALITY? IS THE U.S. HEADED TOWARD WAR?”
Once Japan declared war on the U.S., the YCL’s attitude toward the war completely changed and it began inserting headlines such as, “Attack Hitler Now! Open A Western Front In Europe!”
It began taking an anti-fascist and incredibly patriotic stance. The group pledged full support to the government, committing itself to “join with all loyal Americans in pledging our unqualified support to any steps our President and Congress may take to meet the crisis.”
The YCL made multiple comments about how “real” Americans supported government during the pressing time that was WWII.
Decades later, this was the polarizing rhetoric that would be used against communists in the midst of the Cold War. But by then, the Harvard Communist had ceased its publication.
Sections
Five-thousand miles away, a video call beams from the Big Island of Hawaii into Boylston Hall. Tonight, a panel of Hawaiian academics is directing the audience’s attention toward a conversation that has captured the hearts of the people –– the construction of the Thirty Meter Telescope on Mauna Kea.
This event, hosted by the Task Force on Asian and Pacific American Studies and co-sponsored by the Student Astronomers at Harvard-Radcliffe and Native Americans at Harvard College, is packed with students from many different Harvard schools. The speakers are no less diverse, hailing from places across the globe: from Brown University to their homes in Hawaii. Throughout the night, they illuminate the situation through their conversation, presentations, and anecdotes.
Mauna Kea, a dormant volcano and the tallest peak in Hawaii, has long been a cornerstone of Indigenous Hawaiian culture and religion. All five of Hawaii’s mountains are sacred, but Mauna Kea is the most so –– its summit is believed to be the region of the gods, and in ancient times, laws restricted anyone but high-ranking ali’i, members of the royal family, from visiting it. However, several characteristics of this sacred landscape –– the altitude, exceptionally clear weather, and isolation from urban developments –– have transformed the mountain into a popular site for astronomy and, more imminently, the proposed site of the TMT.
The TMT will be the first of its kind, consisting of a single-mirror system that will have unparalleled light gathering power. Given the increased clarity of the data that can be collected from this telescope system, it is projected to open up new areas of astronomical inquiry.
“It'll be a revolution,” says Rodrigo E. Cordova ’19, the former president of the Student Astronomers at Harvard-Radcliffe. “If it ever gets built, it'll be a new scale of resolution that astronomy just has never had before. And what you can do with that is you can see the smallest of galaxies… the TMT is big enough that we will probably have the first ever images of exoplanets.”
Such telescopes are not newcomers to the Hawaiian Islands. Over the past few decades, thirteen telescopes have been situated on this mountain, developments which have disrupted the ecosystem and landscape of Mauna Kea. In the past, reports of mercury leaks from the facilities and the disposal of untreated sewage from such sites have raised concerns as to the safety of the Mauna Kea aquifers. In response to these criticisms, Dan Meisenzahl, a spokesperson for the University of Hawai’i, wrote in an email, “The University of Hawaiʻi has acknowledged and apologized for the shortcomings of its management of Maunakea in the last century. The great advances in UH’s management of Maunakea since the 1998 state audit are well documented in subsequent independent audits.”
But with the development of the Thirty Meter Telescope, the stakes have changed.
“The scope of the telescope is so much bigger,'' says Makana Kushi, the Program Assistant and Coordinator for Native American and Indigenous Studies at Brown University. Being the largest construction project on the Mauna Kea peak, Kushi predicts that the impact on the structural integrity and ecology of the mountain will be far more drastic. But Meisenzahl claims that the TMT will actually lessen the impact environmental impact of telescopes on Mauna Kea. He wrote in an email that “Five of the 13 telescopes on Maunakea will be decommissioned before TMT is operational and the sites will be restored to their original state.”
“The fact is that people are galvanized by this movement and are starting to have this cultural and political awakening,” Kushi says.
Several of the event’s speakers have been part of this awakening. Kuʻulei Perreira-Keawekane, a Native Hawaiian activist and educator, is one of the people who appears via Skype. She has been involved in defending Mauna Kea and shows the audience the contents of her “raid bag” that she carried on the mountain: first aid supplies, a photo of the mountain, and a dust mask and goggles to mitigate the effects of tear gas.
Protests against the construction of the TMT have taken root in the past few years, drawing in native Hawaiians and other allies in a fight for Indigenous lands and recognition from the government. Kushi believes that people are starting to realize that the protests are about more than just Mauna Kea. ”It's a matter of Hawaiians having a say over what happens on our homelands,” she says.
“People will not accept its industrial scale. The kind of destruction that happened just to build the smaller telescopes was painful for Hawaiians to see,” says Mary Tuti Baker, a postdoctoral Fellow at Brown University in indigenous and environmental political theory.
Even though many are opposed to the TMT’s construction, however, the speakers emphasized that this opposition is not anti-science. Jocelyn L. Doane, the public policy manager at the Office of Hawaiian Affairs, says that the narrative should not be centered around a battle between Indigenous religions and modern science, as it is commonly depicted in the media. She believes that the controversy surrounding Mauna Kea is not a zero-sum game; both parties are important and can benefit from each other.
“We have many Hawaiian scientists. We’re absolutely pro-scientists, pro-science,” Doane says. “Pure science is not bad, but we really have to be more open to weighing what would be damaged, what would be lost.”
As the protests at Mauna Kea persist, the conversation around respect for Indigenous cultures and the sciences will continue as well. And for Perreira-Keawekane, this hope for the future is what keeps her going in her activism.
“Because in those moments of fear, and in those moments of uncertainty and anxiety, this reminds me of why I do what I do,” she says, “The Mauna changed my life drastically, and my children will be able to experience that as well.”
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard Law School is eliminating the application fee for college juniors applying to the Law School through its Junior Deferral Program, the school announced Wednesday.
The JDP allows college juniors to apply to Harvard Law School under the condition that, if accepted, they defer their admission for at least two years and pursue meaningful work or study in the interim. Students who are rejected from the program may speak with a Law School admissions officer about their application to receive feedback.
Law School Assistant Dean for Admissions Kristi L. Jobson ’06 said the Law School’s JDP program will streamline its application by dropping the $85 application fee and hosting its own application outside of the Law School Admission Council’s website.
“We're constantly innovating in our office and trying to think about how to improve access to this program as well as to legal education as a whole,” Jobson, a former Crimson editor, said. “One thing we've been thinking about is Junior Deferral Program applicants are applying to one school. We're currently the only law school that offers a program of this type, and we're thinking a lot about the startup costs involved in the application process.”
The LSAC offers the Credential Assembly Service that hosts many schools’ application portals, according to their website. The service — which is required to apply to many law schools — costs $195 to register and then $45 for each individual Law School Admissions Test score report, on top of an application fee. Harvard Law School’s application costs $85. In total, applicants would spend more than $300 for a JDP application, according to Jobson.
When the JDP first launched in 2014, the program was only open to Harvard undergraduates. Since 2017, the program has been expanded to allow applications from all undergraduate institutions.
Two admissions cycles after the program expanded to non-Harvard students, the Law School is still looking to increase representation from public colleges and universities. Of the 42 undergraduate institutions currently represented in the expanded JDP program’s cohort, only seven are public, including Arizona State University; the University of California, Berkeley; McGill University; University of Georgia; University of Idaho; University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill; and the University of Texas, Austin.
Jobson said dropping the application fee is aligned with Law School administrators’ current goal to get students from across the country to apply.
“Part of this is our overall strategy of increasing access to the Junior Deferral Program for students at a variety of undergraduate institutions, including those that we're not currently seeing in the application pool,” she said.
Still considered a “pilot program,” Jobson said in a Sept. 30 interview that the Law School will not release the individual admissions data for the program at this time. She said in September the program’s admissions data is consistent with the regular admission JD class for the year they applied — including grade point averages, GRE scores, and LSAT scores.
—Michelle G. Kurilla can be reached at michelle.kurilla@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @MichelleKurilla
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Roughly 400 people across the country have signed an open letter dated Nov. 11 condemning Asian American organizations at the College for failing to co-sponsor a walk-out in support of Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals and Temporary Protected Status earlier this week.
The letter — titled “An Open Letter to the Asian American Community” — referenced a demonstration held Monday that was co-organized by student-led immigration advocacy group Act on a Dream and Harvard Asian American Womxn’s Association, among several other organizations. Organizers timed the walk-out ahead of Tuesday’s Supreme Court hearing on DACA, an Obama-era program that allowed children brought to the United States by their parents to live and work in the country.
Twenty-one campus organizations, including the Harvard Black Students Association and Native Americans at Harvard College, co-sponsored the walk-out. The only Asian American groups to co-sponsor the event were Harvard Task Force on Asian and Pacific American Studies, Harvard Philippine Forum, and the Khmer Student Association.
Despite AAWA’s “active efforts” to involve Asian American organizations, most did not respond to invitations to co-sponsor and those that did declined due to a lack of support on their boards, according to the letter. Those groups include the Asian American Association, Chinese Students Association, Harvard Korean Association, South Asian Association, South Asian Women’s Collective, South Asian Men’s Collective, Harvard Vietnamese Association, and Asian American Brotherhood.
“This is not without consequence. In doing so, you have outed yourselves as non-safe spaces for undocu+ people within the Asian American community,” the letter reads. “Many of your Asian American peers, staff, co-workers, tutors, professors, and friends on campus are among those impacted, as well as our friends and families beyond these gates.”
AAA, CSA, SAA, SAWC, AAB, and SAMC leadership did not respond to multiple requests for comment. HVA President Catherine H. Ho ’21 and KA Co-Presidents Joyce Kang ’21 and Joon Y. Kim ’21 declined to comment.
The letter argues that immigration is an issue of “high importance” to Asian Americans. In 2017, there were approximately 1.5 million Asian undocumented immigrants in the United States, according to Pew Research Center.
The letter has garnered signatures from not only Harvard affiliates, but also students from other universities, including Stanford University, Yale University, Northwestern University, University of Pennsylvania, and the University of São Paulo.
Larry Liang ’20 said he signed the letter to signal support for groups to “shift” their own politics. He said he believes in the importance of supporting other minority groups.
“I think Asian Americans should stand in solidarity with all immigrants because the majority of ourselves, we were all immigrants at one point,” he said.
Though several Asian cultural organizations have attempted to remain apolitical so as not to alienate members with different political views, the letter contends that an “apolitical cultural community is a pernicious lie.”
“It is literally impossible to live as a person of color on the stolen land that is the United States without either being political or being politically instrumentalized by oppressive structures,” the letter reads. “Therefore, the choice to disengage is indeed a political choice, and an extremely dangerous one at that.”
Several signatories said they support the letter because they believe they have an obligation to do so.
“I signed the open letter because I believe Asian-American is a political term and Asian-American cultural organizations have a responsibility to engage politically,” wrote David J. Moon ’21, a member of TAPAS and KA, in a text.
The sentiments included in the letter are not new to Harvard. Last semester, a series of posts on the Harvard Confessions Facebook page sparked a contentious two-hour long forum in Winthrop Senior Common Room about the role of Asian cultural organizations.
Students from several Asian affinity groups convened to discuss topics including exclusive membership policies, underrepresentation of Southeast Asians and South Asians, and the lack of political advocacy among cultural groups.
Liang said he is encouraged by the letter and the support it has received; he believes it will start conversations about the role of Asian affinity groups on campus.
“I'm hopeful that this letter will move things in the right direction or move the conversation in the right direction,” he said.
—Staff writer Amanda Y. Su can be reached at amanda.su@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter at @amandaysu.
—Staff writer Amy Y. Li can be reached at amy.li@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter at @ilyma39.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Harvard College Open Data Project predicted that Sanika S. Mahajan ’21 and Rushi A. Patel ’21 will win the Undergraduate Council presidential election based on the results of the survey it sent out to students. Official voting ends Thursday, Nov. 14 at noon.
HODP — a student-faculty group that conducts statistical analyses of campus-related data sets — has correctly predicted the results of the past three UC presidential elections.
Five tickets are vying to lead the next session of the UC: Aditya A. Dhar ’21 and Andrew W. Liang ’21, Prashanth “PK” Kumar ’21 and Michael O. Raji ’22, M. Thorwald “Thor” Larson ’21 and Case McKinley ’21, Mahajan and Patel, and James A. Mathew ’21 and Ifeoma “Ify” E. White-Thorpe ’21.
HODP predicted the election results by running a simulation based on the 237 survey responses it received. Assuming that its survey responses are representative of the voting population, the group predicted Mahajan and Patel have a 98 percent chance of winning the UC election.
Additionally, HODP predicted that Dhar and Liang — a Crimson business associate — will come in second place with an 89 percent chance, followed by Mathew and White-Thorpe in third, Larson and McKinley in fourth, and Kumar and Raji in fifth.
Charles G. Onesti ’23, Lucy Li ’21, Seth D. Billiau ’21, and Kevin L. Bi ’21 analyzed the data to make HODP’s UC election predictions this year.
Bi said that Dhar and Liang’s ticket made this year’s UC campaign season distinct from those in previous years.
“Normally we assume that the types of people who are likely to vote are also likely to fill out our survey,” Bi wrote in an emailed statement. “However, this year, we believe that there is a good chance that many of the students who would vote for Aditya and Andrew may be less likely to vote in our survey due to the unusual nature of their campaign.”
Dhar and Liang are running on a campaign to abolish the UC under the slogan “a campaign to end campaigns.”
“Nice,” Dhar and Liang wrote in an emailed statement in response to HODP’s projection.
HODP estimates that, in order for Dhar and Liang to have greater than a 50 percent chance of winning, the actual distribution of their supporters would have to be about 45 percent higher than those that participated in the survey. The group estimates that, for Mathew and Ify to do the same, their support would have to be more than doubled.
Some candidates, however, were not convinced by HODP’s predictions.
“I disagree,” Kumar wrote in an emailed statement. “I think the polls are wrong and hope to prove so tomorrow.”
Last year, the UC Election Commission adopted a new voting system. Each candidate receives a quantity of points corresponding to their ranking on the ballot — first-choice tickets receive one point, second-choice tickets receive 0.5 points, and third-choice tickets receive 0.33 points.
— Staff writer Kevin R. Chen can be reached at kevin.chen@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @kchenx.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Theoretical physicist Lee Smolin explained the incomplete nature of quantum theory before a packed lecture hall in the Science Center on Wednesday evening, discussing his newest book, “Einstein’s Unfinished Revolution: The Search for What Lies Beyond the Quantum.”
Smolin is a faculty member at the Perimeter Institute for Theoretical Physics, adjunct physics professor at the University of Waterloo, and a member of the graduate faculty of philosophy at the University of Toronto. His presentation was the latest in a series of book talks hosted by the Harvard Book Store.
Chanda Prescod-Weinstein '03, assistant professor of physics and astronomy and core faculty member in women’s studies from the University of New Hampshire, introduced the talk. Smolin served as her Ph.D. adviser, and she began by recounting the time she first met Smolin.
“Lee encouraged me to understand that becoming a physicist means growing into a whole person with broad interests,” Prescod-Weinstein said.
Smolin began the talk with a basic introduction to quantum mechanics and the idea of scientific realism, providing a foundational understanding of his book’s subject matter for audience members without a physics background.
“This talk is multi-level,” he said. “It’s to the non-scientists who are here for curiosity, and it’s to the colleagues and friends who are scientists.”
“You’re a realist if you believe that nature exists independent of our perception,” he added.
Smolin went on to explain how the past century’s theories of quantum mechanics are incomplete, adding that he has sought to fulfill Albert Einstein’s mission to develop a complete, realist theory that describes nature.
“The conclusion that I come to is that they’re all near misses. And nobody anticipated that,” Smolin said. “We thought, ‘We’re going to quantize gravity. How hard could it be?’ And we did.”
“We want to find the theory that tells the whole story,” he added.
Scientists and amateur enthusiasts alike said they enjoyed the talk. Asem H. Hassan, a physics graduate student at Northeastern University, called the talk “really awesome,” adding that he read and enjoyed Smolin’s previous book and enjoys his “critical” approach to physics.
“The biggest takeaway — maybe seeing him,” Hassan said. “I’m coming from a physics background, so maybe the first 45 minutes of the lecture, there was nothing new in it for me, but maybe the last couple of slides were really very interesting.”
Edwin Chng, a graduate student at the Harvard Graduate School of Education, said Smolin succeeded at making the talk accessible to all audiences, adding that it wasn’t “peppered too much with a lot of equations and theorems.”
“I did physics as an undergrad, so this was a great talk because I kind of revised and reviewed some of the knowledge that I had and also that he kind of is pushing on the frontiers of physics trying to get out Einstein’s unfinished theory,” Chng said.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Aidan F. Ryan ’21 will lead the newly elected 147th Guard of The Harvard Crimson, the newspaper’s President announced on Monday.
Ryan, a Social Studies concentrator from Hooksett, N.H., is currently one of two Central Administration reporters. In that capacity, he has covered controversial donations to Harvard and the leadership of University President Lawrence S. Bacow. He also serves as a social media manager for The Crimson, overseeing the paper’s Twitter and Facebook accounts.
He was one of two reporters who worked on an investigation uncovering a hostile work environment in Winthrop House in spring 2019. The day after The Crimson published the piece, the College announced it would not renew Winthrop Faculty Deans Ronald S. Sullivan Jr. and Stephanie R. Robinson. Ryan, who is a Mather House resident, will begin as Crimson President on Jan. 1, 2020.
“The 147th Guard is an incredibly committed, talented, and driven group of leaders who will — with no doubt — continue to carry out The Crimson’s proud mission of covering and informing our readers,” current Crimson President Kristine E. Guillaume ’20 said. “I am excited to see the next President, Managing Editor, and Business Manager take The Crimson to new heights next year.”
News writer and multimedia editor Shera S. Avi-Yonah ’21 will serve as Managing Editor, overseeing the production of The Crimson’s daily newspaper, magazine, arts and sports sections, and blog. Avi-Yonah, a History concentrator and Dunster House resident who hails from Ann Arbor, Mich., currently serves as a College Administration reporter and covers Dean of the College Rakesh Khurana and the administration of Harvard College. She is also an Associate Multimedia Editor, responsible for the photos and videos in each day’s paper.
Avi-Yonah worked alongside Ryan to report on the controversy surrounding Winthrop House and Sullivan. She was also one of two reporters to break the news that famed Economics professor Roland G. Fryer, Jr. faced multiple investigations into allegations of sexual harassment and faced a threatened lawsuit over the course of her reporting.
Next year’s Business Manager will be Emily M. Lu ’21, a Statistics concentrator and resident of Kirkland House from Santa Rosa, Calif. She will take the helm of The Crimson’s finances and operations after serving this year as an Advertising Manager. She also served as one of two summer Business Managers this year.
Founded in 1873, The Crimson is the student newspaper of Harvard University. It is the oldest continuously published daily college newspaper in the United States and the only breakfast-table daily publication of Cambridge, Mass. The paper is proud to provide news and analysis to a wide range of Harvard affiliates, Cambridge residents, and readers across the nation.
The Crimson selects its leaders through an election process called the Turkey Shoot, in which all outgoing members of the masthead are invited to participate. A candidate for a senior leadership position must receive at least 75 percent of the vote to be elected.
Joining Ryan, Avi-Yonah, and Lu on the masthead are:
News
Alexandra A. Chaidez '21, Associate Managing Editor
Molly C. McCafferty '21, Associate Managing Editor
Business
Jonathan V. Garzon ’21, Associate Business Manager
Andrea M. Lamas-Nino '21, Associate Business Manager
Editorial
Ari E. Benkler '21, Editorial Chair
Isaac O. Longobardi ’21, Editorial Chair
Arts
Iris M. Lewis ’21, Arts Chair
Allison J. Scharmann ’21, Arts Chair
Blog
Ariana Chiu ’22, Blog Chair
Sahara W. Kirwan ’21, Blog Chair
Design
Margot E. Shang ’21, Design Chair
Matthew J. Tyler ’22, Design Chair
Magazine
Andrew W. D. Aoyama ’21, Magazine Chair
Nina H. Pasquini '21, Magazine Chair
Multimedia
Allison G. Lee ’21, Multimedia Chair
Ryan N. Gajarawala ’22, Multimedia Chair
Sports
William C. Boggs ’22, Sports Chair
Joseph W. Minatel ’21, Sports Chair
Technology
Alexander K. Chin ’21, Technology Chair
William Y. Yao ’21, Technology Chair
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Student founders from the We Are America Project shared their stories of navigating issues of diversity in the United States in a workshop at the Harvard Graduate School of Education’s Gutnam Gallery Wednesday night.
Lowell High School teacher Jessica A. A. D. Lander and students in her course on diversity in America launched the project last year. The program seeks to promote conversations about what it means to be an American within today’s political and social context. Since it began, 1300 students from 23 states have participated.
Lander said she started the project to show her students that their experiences form a part of American history.
“I wanted my kids to see that their stories were just as much a part of American history, and that the real American history is made up of all those individual stories—all those individual strands—and we can really only fully understand American history, American diversity by understanding each of those strands,” she said.
Adam Strom, director of the education initiative Re-Imagining Migration, moderated the event. The group aims to educate young people on topics related to migration.
“We’re talking about ideas about America that are not very inclusive. There’s an urgency to these conversations because we’ve been having this conversation about who is an American and what is America since before the United States was born,” Strom said in his opening remarks. “These are ongoing debates. It’s particularly heated around schools.”
Lander said she and her students began the project by writing "We Are America," a book that compiled stories from students in her class about their identities. The book then developed into a nationwide project.
Philly Marte, one of the student founders of the project, said he enjoyed working to redefine American history to be more inclusive and diverse.
“This project and these stories will create a sense of unity within this country, within the people that are writing these stories and reading these stories. Your story matters, your voice matters, and there’s someone else that has gone through what you have and understands,” he said.
Wednesday’s event opened with a panel, where students answered questions about their personal experiences. The audience then broke into small groups facilitated by the student panelists to discuss questions about their own American identities. Finally, attendees rejoined for an audience question and answer session with the students.
Abigail S. Williamson, a Salem public school teacher who attended the panel, said the event inspired her to listen more deeply and ask her students more about their lives.
“I think it reminded me how important listening to students is and the power of students’ stories. As a teacher, it's so important to know who our students are not just academically, but their life stories and who they are at a deeper level,” she said.
Lander said she hopes that students across campuses everywhere will engage in more conversations about American identity in the future, especially with regard to diversity.
“I think through hearing these stories and sharing stories on campus, you gain a lot of acceptance of others by finding those connection points,” she said. “I think we do that through storytelling and being willing to share and to be a little bit vulnerable. The work that you guys do in college is building new connections and creating your community. This is the work of your generation.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
In its third matchup of this season, the Harvard women’s rugby team got its revenge and defeated Dartmouth in a stunning victory, 23-22, this past weekend in the NIRA semifinal game. After defeating the Big Green during the regular season, the Crimson fell to Dartmouth last weekend in the Ivy League Championship. Fresh off a devastating loss just weeks before, Harvard was able to top Dartmouth, earning a spot in the NIRA National Championship this coming weekend.
“We went out with the mentality that we know we can beat them,” junior Milan Roberts said. “We beat them earlier in the season and we just felt that we had nothing to lose. It could have been the last game of our season, so we just really wanted to put everything on the line.”
Both teams realistically entered the game with similar mentalities, and the NIRA semifinal game turned into a nailbiter as expected. Tries and penalty kicks went back and forth as both teams struggled to completely take control of the game. The Crimson found the board first with a penalty kick by Roberts, sparking confidence amongst the Harvard team. However, the Big Green responded shortly after, and extended its lead to 12-3. Unwilling to let their heads down, Harvard maintained its intensity with tries from senior captain Emily Prentice and Sofia Fella to regain the lead, 13-12.
“There were definitely moments of frustration,” Roberts said. “But ultimately, we just kept working as a team and driving the ball forward, getting small meters and elevating on small victories we had throughout the game.”
In the second half, the momentum shifted back into Dartmouth’s favor, as they put back-to-back tries on the scoreboard, taking back the lead, 22-13. With 25 minutes left to play and down 9 points, the Crimson managed to ignore the feeling that the game might be slipping away and recollected itself.
“There was definitely a shift from when Dartmouth scored a try with about 25 minutes left in the game,” junior Erin Wright said. “Our headspace really shifted: we started to think, ‘No more. This game is ours and we’re taking control of it now.’ It felt as if we looked at the scoreboard as a team and all believed that there is plenty of time left to complete the job we came here to do.”
After a dominating stiff arm and a determined dive into Dartmouth try zone, Delia Hellander cut the Dartmouth lead to four points with about 17 minutes left. A conversion kick from Roberts made the score 22-20, a score that would not change for the subsequent 15 minutes.
“We just continued to focus on our communication and trusting one another,” Wright said. “We especially focused on being resilient in the face of adversity that we knew we would face going into the game.”
The team remained resilient throughout the second half, maintaining constant pressure and attacking the Big Green defense. With about a minute left and still down two points, Harvard had the opportunity to take the lead with a penalty kick from Roberts.
“Just do not miss it,” said Roberts when asked about what was going through her mind before the kick. “It was right down the middle, so I really had no excuse to miss. I was just thinking, ‘Do not do something stupid like trip. Just make it through.’”
Cool under pressure, Roberts kicked the ball straight through, giving Harvard a one point lead with 1:15 to go. The Crimson regained possession and kept control until the time ran out.
“Winning by one point with one minute left was definitely shocking and such an exciting way to win the game,” Roberts said. “It was just a feeling of absolute relief. There was so much excitement and happiness throughout our entire team.”
Harvard played a great team game. The team chemistry and trust within one another was apparent and absolutely a factor in this huge win.
“The entire team stayed connected, upbeat and confident even through the rough moments,” Wright said. “We never got down ourselves. We played for each other and we played as a team.”
The Crimson will host Army West Point in the NIRA National Championships this weekend, Sunday, November 17.
“We will just be focusing on playing from the heart once again and giving it our all,” Wright said. “We are going to play some really great and some really fun rugby this weekend.”
— Staff writer Lucy Connor can be reached at lucy.connor@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
#SophomoreSzn is upon us, and here at Harvard, that can only mean one thing: a mild existential crisis about picking a concentration.
While it seems like literally every other university is normal about the whole picking-a-major thing, what’s Harvard without a dose of completely unnecessary stress? If you’re floundering for a concentration as the deadline nears, don’t worry. Flyby’s compiled some last-ditch solutions so that you can walk into that fancy banquet in Annenberg with your head held high!
Take a Minute to Think
Never underestimate the power of a clear headspace. Take a walk. No, seriously. Get out of your dorm and block a two-and-a-half hour period from your life to decompress and think about the classes you actually enjoyed taking. If all else fails, maybe the cold will motivate you to make up your mind so that you can get back inside!
Assemble a Shark Tank Meeting with Your Friends and Have them Pitch Their Concentrations to You
Have a blockmate who’s been pre-med since birth? What about that friend who switched from Gov to Econ and tries to convince everyone that consulting isn’t that snakey? Or just want to hear an MCB and a HCRB concentrator duke it out over semantics? Grab some snacks and ask your friends to geek out over what they study! Best case scenario, you’ll feel a sense of direction after they’re done pitching. Worst case, it’ll probably be at least mildly entertaining.
Spend Some Boardplus and Hope The Answer Comes to You
In trying times, sometimes all you can do is eat a plate of mozz sticks and try to feel better. Wander on home to your grille of choice, order something hot, and try to not think of anything remotely related to your concentration.
Accept Defeat and Work on a Dog Sanctuary on an Island
Worst case scenario, when the going gets tough, pack your bags and leave. Instead of finding your way to a concentration you enjoy, focus all your energy into finessing some of Harvard’s money for a flight to Turks and Caicos, and live the rest of your days as a volunteer at this puppy shelter in literal paradise.
Wildly impractical? Maybe. A financial disaster? Most definitely. Guaranteed regrets in about 3 months? You betcha.
But at this point, any alternative to making adult life choices is becoming more attractive by the minute, so it’s time to snag some of that endowment and literally flee your problems.
But seriously: at the end of the day, you’ll be fine. It can be tough to figure out what you truly enjoy, how to set yourself up for a career path that is both practical and fulfilling, and which set of concentration requirements work with your schedule/interests, but it’s really going to be okay. Sophomore declarations aren’t written in stone (yes, people do actually change their majors in college), and there’s more than enough time to map out life beyond what you study in college! Best of luck with declaring to all the 2022s out there!
