Sections
A young Sabrina Wu ’20 believed she had cracked the code for climbing the social ladder. “If I have a cool talent, people would talk to me, right?” she recalls thinking. So she went online, watched a bunch of how-to videos, and taught herself how to beatbox. She was confident her newfound skill would make her “so cool,” but her plan backfired. Wu remembers, “People were like, ‘Wait, someone beatboxes?’ And the other girls were like, ‘Yeah, have you seen that Asian girl do it?’ And then you have to beatbox, and then they ask you no further questions.”
Beatboxing didn’t quite land in the middle school cafeteria, but it has served Wu somewhat better in college. “I mostly just do it as a bit for stand-up,” she says. “I think it’s so lame, but it makes for some good jokes.”
Stand-up comedy is Wu’s main focus these days. She was the co-president of the Harvard College Stand-up Comic Society, opened for the comedian Cameron Esposito, interned for The Daily Show, and spent last summer performing stand-up in New York City.
Wu is the daughter of Chinese immigrants who, in her own words, “do not watch SNL.” So, growing up, she didn’t know much about comedy — and didn’t even think about pursuing it. Gabriel Iglesias’s “Hot and Fluffy” Netflix special, which she watched at a dinner party one night at age 16, was her first introduction to comedy.
“My mind was blown,” she recalls. “I'd never seen anything like that. I was like ‘ohmygod it would be so cool if I could do that.’” Shortly after watching the special, Wu told a group of her friends a “really raunchy tampon story.” It was a hit. The quarterback of the football team even told her, “That was funnier than Gabriel Iglesias,” and added “you gotta do stand-up.” With the quarterback’s blessing, she took a stab at stand-up.
She started performing at high school talent shows, putting on 12-minute acts about twice a year. When she came to school, she joined Harvard College Stand-Up Society but didn’t initially devote much time to it. She was busy with other activities, like avant-garde theater.
The summer after freshman year, she didn’t get an internship or study abroad like many Harvard students. Instead, she went home to Ann Arbor and decided, “I'll just try to get really good at stand-up in Michigan.” After frequenting open mics all summer, Wu came back to Boston ready to brave the open mics there.
But the first time Wu felt truly committed to a future in comedy was the following summer after sophomore year, while living in Los Angeles with a friend who also wants to go into comedy. “It was like us being together just being like, ‘Is there anything that we want more than this?’ And we’re like, ‘No.’ We were living a fever dream life. We were like staying up till three and being like ‘We're gonna make it!’”
Momentum kept building from there. Shortly after that summer, she opened for Cameron Esposito — one of her “lesbian heroes” — and then took a semester off to intern at The Daily Show. She stayed in New York the following summer and immersed herself in the open mic scene. In Brooklyn, she found a comedy community she really enjoyed.
“I did [stand-up] in Michigan, and I do it at school, and I do it in Boston, all of which have not that many queer women of color doing it,” Wu says. “When I went to Brooklyn, I basically learned about this whole new scene full of queer people of color that do, I think, more original and creative stand-up. It was just like a really refreshing community, actually. I found it really pleasant because I didn't have to cater to old white people.”
Though Wu pursues comedy outside of Harvard, she has also invested herself in the comedy scene on campus. When she joined the stand-up club as a freshman, there were only about eight members, so when she later became co-president, she tried to increase the presence of stand-up at Harvard. Now the club’s regular membership hovers between 20 to 30 people and the club’s shows fill Science Center lecture halls.
How does Wu bring so many to Harvard’s comedy scene? “I think we stay true to believing that anyone can do this, especially if you give them time and support.”
Sections
At the threshold of Molly K. Leavens’ ’19-’20 room on the third floor of the Dudley Co-op, a sign greets me: “NO STUPID (non-environmentalist) PEOPLE BEYOND THIS POINT.” The parenthetical, written in her own curly handwriting, stands out from the otherwise bold typeface.
Leavens swears her room is “normally immaculate,” but today, piles of clothing and shoes cover her furniture and carpet, and she has pulled all the drawers out of her dresser for display. Leavens hasn’t purchased new clothing in four years in order to reduce waste, and she is now giving her accumulated belongings away.
“I took out everything I owned and told my friends to come and adopt belongings in exchange for a small donation to the national Environmental Defense Fund,” she explains. She catalogued the items that her friends took and asked each of them to send her a photo and accompanying story of each belonging in use.
The playful warning on her door and her conditional generosity reflect Leavens’ self-described “guiding moral principle of radical environmentalism” — a love of nature that pervades everything from her hikes through the fjords of Norway to a thesis on the global chocolate industry.
Though environmentalism is now “the core part of her identity,” it wasn’t always so pronounced. Born in Chicago, she began skiing at the age of 21 months — the first winter she could walk — and soon became one of the nation’s top racers. In sixth grade, she moved to Utah to train full-time, and in her junior year of high school, she missed 100 school days to ski. She came to Harvard as an elite varsity athlete.
While skiing during her gap year, however, Leavens injured her back, and after a freshman year of constant rehabilitation, she realized she had to quit the team.
“I was lucky that I was somewhere like Harvard and that I could funnel all that energy and enthusiasm into something else really quickly,” she says. “For me, that was largely environmental work.” She’s completing a special concentration on food and the environment and advocates for sweeping changes — from the world becoming 95 percent vegan to the straightforward idea that “toilet paper should not be white. Like that is just stupid, because it’s bleached,” she says.
Radical environmentalism has brought Leavens around the world. For her thesis, which she describes as “a manifesto on the chocolate industry,” Leavens has traveled to Ghana, Indonesia, Japan, and throughout Latin America — all on Harvard’s dime.
As she explains her work in the cocoa industry, Leavens walks to a shelf and picks up a small jar of dark brown beans from Belize. “This is a cocoa bean,” she says. “If you take off the shell, you get nibs. And if you grind this up into paste, you get chocolate.” She demonstrates, cracking the shell open and popping the nibs into her mouth. “I would try those,” she continues through a mouthful, “and then I had to map the different flavor profiles.”
She spent time investigating every part of the chocolate supply chain, from working with a farmer on Sulawesi Island of Indonesia to interviewing sustainability managers at the world’s largest chocolate companies. She quite literally put her life into her work — she recounts that, while traveling through Guatemala during some of the worst flooding the country has ever seen, “a road that I was traveling collapsed and I had to swim across this raging river.” She was featured on the front page of the nation’s most widely circulated newspaper.
Her love of chocolate, food, and the environment pervades her life. Leavens is the Co-op’s “Steward of Cool,” meaning she tracks all of their food to minimize waste. “Like kale stems — every time I cook, I chop them up finely and put them in everything,” she explains, “because no one else will use the kale stems.” She has experimented with nearly every fermented food imaginable: beer, kombucha, chive blossom vinegar, goat cheese, and more.
Leavens’s impassioned environmentalism and personal happiness are in synergy, whether in the kitchen or on intense hikes. “I love being outside,” she says. “Nature is where I’m absolute happiest.” She shares this passion by leading Harvard Outdoor Club trips, but her preferred journeys are even more intensive. She’s hiked along the circumference of Andorra; from coast to coast of Scotland; and through France, Italy, and Switzerland — again, on Harvard funding. After graduating, she’ll embark on a research fellowship in Argentina, where she will fulfill “a lifelong dream of being a cowgirl” and travel to Antarctica to study the environment at the fellowship’s end.
“I’m not a religious person,” Leavens says. “But radical environmentalism is so much like my guiding spirituality.”
Sections
The first house Cahleb T. Derry ’20 lived in had two stories, a wide green lawn, and a baby grand piano. Derry was born in Rockland, N.Y., to Hope Daley, who planned events for Columbia Law School, and Craig Derry, who taught people how to sing.
Derry is wearing a red and emerald Ralph Lauren coat when I meet him. He has chosen a gray stairwell in Winthrop House for our interview. This is his favorite place on campus, though not for its aesthetics — he tells me that the stairwell has excellent acoustics. Derry lives just above, and this is where he comes to sing.
Even though Derry had a baby grand and a father who taught people to sing, it wasn’t until third grade that he realized he had a talent for singing himself. It was dismissal time, but the school buses were late. To pass the minutes, children were told to take turns giving a performance. Derry sang “I Just Can’t Wait to be King,” and remembers thinking, “I kind of like how I sound in my head when I’m singing. I don’t know if people will like it, but I have to try.”
But third grade brought its trials, too. Derry’s mother lost her job, and his family fell behind on their mortgage. A lawyer offered to buy the building, rent it to the family, and sell it back to them when they had enough money again. But the lawyer didn’t end up doing any of those things. One July evening, just before Derry entered the third grade, he went inside for dinner to find the dining table was gone. All of their possessions were in boxes. Derry’s family didn’t have another home for a long time after the house with the baby grand.
As his family moved from basements to cars to hotels and back again, Derry became a competitive Pokemon battler on Youtube and excelled in school. His mother did what was necessary to keep Derry from having to switch schools. Derry tells me her rationale: “Your life is already so unstable, your schooling should be something that’s stable.”
Derry explains that he now understands the risks his mother took. “There are a lot of black women, especially, who are in prison for lying about addresses to keep their kids in the same schools.”
Derry’s roommate steps over us in the stairwell on his way to their suite. They’ve have known each other for much longer than their time at Harvard. They went to Prep for Prep together, the academic “boot camp” that Derry attended through seventh and eighth grade. After Prep for Prep, they were students at Hotchkiss, and soon they will graduate from Harvard together.
Derry is concentrating in History and Literature with a secondary in Women, Gender, and Sexuality. The first part of his thesis is about how Madonna’s “Vogue” functions the show “Pose”. Derry is a Ralph Lauren brand ambassador; he has also worked as an intern at the Office of BGLTQ Student Life, a FAP proctor, and a member of the Lowkeys.
Derry never formally learned to play the piano and he never took singing lessons, but he can play piano and he can definitely sing. “Those are the kinds of things I picked up from my dad, just by being his son,” he says.
“The actual job I want in my real life is to be a talk show host,” Derry adds. He will hold other jobs before that, but, he says, he has a feeling that something is going to happen. “I don’t want to be rich, but I do want to be famous.”
I say goodbye to Derry and walk out of the stairwell. As the door closes behind me, he begins to sing.
Sections
After his body breaks the surface of the water, sending a soft ripple outwards to the gutters of Blodgett Pool, there follows a moment of prolonged stillness. Suspended two or three feet underwater, Daniel W. Chang ’20 pauses for a few seconds, peaceful: He is at home in the water.
When he surfaces, his smile and his laughter return almost instantly.
Chang exits the water and surveys the pool, empty after the end of morning practice. “This place is where I’ve learned my biggest life lessons when it comes to working hard, my academics, and especially my identity and how I fit into a team setting,” he says. “It’s the most important place to me on this campus.”
Chang serves as Quincy House’s Resource Efficiency Program representative and is concentrating in Environmental Science and Engineering. In competitions, he frequently breaks the two-minute mark in the two-hundred meter breastroke. And when he was elected to lead the Harvard men’s swimming team, Chang became one of the nation’s only openly gay captains of a Division I NCAA sports team.
The youngest of four, Chang first started swimming at age eight in his hometown of Johnson City, Tenn. Encouraged by his teammates, siblings, and a particularly supportive coach, he excelled at the sport, attending the 2016 Olympic trials and earning All-American honors 10 separate times.
He reflects on his achievements with a sense of humor. “I always joke that one of the reasons why I love swimming so much is because I sweat a ton whenever I do anything else,” he says, laughing. “I really hate sweating — so that’s why I think I was drawn to swimming.”
As he became more and more competitive, Chang began to reckon seriously with the possibility of swimming at the collegiate level. Pursued by Harvard, Princeton, and the University of Michigan, he settled on Harvard after his recruiting trip. “I really felt at home,” he recalls. “It’s hard to explain, but in those 48 hours, I felt as if I fit in effortlessly.”
Still, that experience of fitting in wasn’t always seamless. “When I left Tennessee and came to Harvard, I thought that being a gay athlete would go from being really, really difficult to being perfect — but nothing in life is ever going to be perfect.” He shrugs. The experience of being an openly gay athlete, Chang says, “has been the main driver of my maturity over the last three years — I’ve really had to force myself to think about what’s important to me.”
“I would never say that our culture was in any way negative,” he adds after a moment of reflection. “But in the end, we are a men’s Division I sports team — and some cultures that are associated with that will always exist, regardless of other external factors.”
Chang cites Schuyler Bailar ’19 — the first openly transgender athlete in any NCAA Division I sport and a Harvard swimmer one year his senior — as an important mentor and friend.
“There has been some really awesome positivity that has grown in the last four years,” he says. “Whether it’s team culture related to social things or our performance, we’ve really been motivated to push ourselves to be more than just ‘scrawny Ivy League athletes,’” he says, making air quotes with his fingers.
Though he would be hesitant to acknowledge it, a substantial part of the credit for that culture shift is owed to Chang himself — and his efforts as captain.
“My last four years of captains have been really amazing,” he says. “I’ve always wanted to be as good of a leader as they are — but partially because of my identity, I think I have felt like I could never be the same captain that they were.”
He pauses, surveys the pool again. “That was something I really had to grapple with throughout my first couple of weeks as captain,” Chang says. “I had to realize that, regardless of my identity, I can still be a really strong leader on this team of six-foot-six, really tall white men.”
In the water and out, Chang’s leadership stands as a testament to the culture that first drew him to Harvard, a culture that he went on to shape. “Being captain has shown that I really have grown into my role on this team.” He smiles. “Regardless of my sexual identity, I feel very confident to lead.”
Sections
Mariko N. O’Neil ’20 is neither Asian American nor male, but she is a member of Harvard’s Asian American Brotherhood. Her membership, though self-described as “pretty hilarious,” is broadly indicative of the many identities O’Neil vacillates between with impressive ease. Born in Hong Kong but raised in London with stints in Japan, O’Neil is not easily defined by any specific ethnicity or nationality. Case in point: over breakfast in Adams House, she tells me that she is a proud owner of an Irish passport, despite having visited the country “only like five times in my whole life.”
At age 18, O’Neil traveled to Beijing without a valid visa or a place to stay. A year later, the frequent travels of her early years would be met by the relative stasis of college life. However, O’Neil’s many international identities have still played a part in her Harvard experience — she participated in the First-Year International Program and became a FIP leader in subsequent years.
O’Neil is quick to tell me that her childhood spent “floating back and forth between Japan and the UK,” fostering a feeling that her national identity might be “a little bit arbitrary.” In highlighting the fluidity of her nationality, she tells me that, when in Japan, people are quick to label her as American, but — and at this point in the interview, she adopts a frighteningly good American accent — she describes the immediate reaction she has grown accustomed to after speaking one sentence at Harvard: “You’re British!”
As a freshman, O’Neil recalls, social life on campus wasn’t always “the most optimal experience.” Instead of wandering aimlessly around the yard on Fridays, she decided to start going to concerts in and around Boston. She describes these venues as departures not only from the “top 40 hits” blasted at Harvard parties, but also from its rampant exclusivity. “It was inclusive; anyone who wants to come could come,” she says.
Since arriving on campus, O’Neil’s interests have flourished in a multitude of directions, often unrelated to the identities she brought with her. She serves as the art editor of the Harvard Advocate, is a member of the Lowell House Society of Russian Bell Ringers, and hosts a regular Saturday night show on Harvard’s radio station, WHRB. She describes with particular fondness her introduction to the radio community during her freshman year. The comp, she explains, consisted of weekly lectures taught by a passionate student. “We just sat and chatted about music,” she remembers. “I felt like I learned as much in that as I would have in a class.”


As a statistics concentrator, O’Neil has largely pursued her creative interests in these sorts of alternative classrooms. When I observe that her field of study seems a noticeable departure from her extracurricular activities, she explains the benefit of her ability to “compartmentalize.”
“When I decided to study stats,” she says, “I chose to put my creative interests in the extracurricular bucket, rather than in my academics.”
O’Neil’s ability to find spaces for all her interests while at Harvard is a testament to her self-starter attitude, perhaps epitomized by a past summer spent working on an organic peach farm in rural Japan before heading her own data analysis project for Amazon’s Tokyo outpost.
Despite her various extracurricular pursuits and global escapades, when asked to describe a favorite Harvard memory, O’Neil returns to the concert-going habits she cultivated as a freshman. She recounts a concert she attended this fall with friends from all corners of her wide-reaching Harvard universe. “It was my best friend’s birthday,” she says, “and so we told all our friends to come to this concert, which was kind of like a capstone of what we love to do together.” The crowd was “massive,” she says, “but I physically couldn’t even see anyone who I didn’t know, because I was just surrounded by all my favorite people.”
In recounting this experience, O’Neil reflects that people she once saw as members of disparate communities on campus have, in her final year of college, “all kind of come together, [having] found each other in some way or another.” After spending just an hour with her, though, I hazard that the cohesion of these communities is no random act of fate. Rather, it is a testament to O’Neil’s unique ability to interweave myriad identities and passions within herself and between her peers.
Sections
I don’t know how I expected my interview with Andrew Pérez ’20 to start, but I definitely didn’t expect him to offer to shave his head on camera for the video accompanying our “Fifteen Most Interesting Seniors” feature. He assures me that does this all the time — his hair grows back quickly: Every time he needs a fresh start, it’s the first thing to go.
We’re meeting in the back of the Gutman Library, surrounded by books about education and a chalkboard display propped up against the wall behind two red foam apples. Pérez tells me that he wants to be a teacher, hence why he chose to meet at a Graduate School of Education library. His first choice location was the Hip-Hop Archive — unfortunately closed on Friday afternoons.
Originally from Pico Rivera, California, Pérez is a senior in Mather concentrating in Sociology. He has served as the president of the First Generation Students Union, later called Primus; he is one of the founders of the First Year Retreat and Experience (FYRE); and he has been involved with Latinx cultural organizations and the Ethnic Studies Coalition. He began community building work in high school, where he created a bridge program that helped first-generation and low-income students transition from middle school to high school.
“It was basically the same thing that FYRE is,” Pérez says. When FYRE got approved for funding in 2017 after seven years on the back burner, Pérez was president of the First Generation Students Union — so he and then-vice president Charity E. Barros ’18 got to work. Today, FYRE is a full-blown and institutionalized pre-orientation program open to over 100 first-years, dedicated especially to helping first-generation and low-income students make the transiton to Harvard.
Outside of his community-building work, Pérez is involved with music on campus. He works at the Hip-Hop Archive and is an organizer for No Label, a group made up of students across the Northeast situated at “the intersection of business and music,” as he describes it. The group is dedicated to creating brand partnerships between institutions and artists. He has helped organize events on campus with artists like Travis Scott, 6lack, and Bad Bunny. Over the summer, he interned at Interscope Records and left with a few highlights.
“I got Selena Gomez tea,” he says. “The child in me was like, ‘Wizards of Waverly Place!’ You were my crush. Here is your green tea venti with whipped cream.’” I forgot what exactly the order was. I know it was a green tea… and she added something on it that I was like, ‘That doesn’t sound right.’ But I was like, ‘Hey, whatever the love of my life wants.’”
Pérez is currently writing his senior thesis on the culture within the U.S. Border Patrol, trying to determine how Border Patrol agents view their job: protecting their homeland, or protecting immigrants by apprehending them on life-threatening journeys through the desert. When I ask him what he wants to do after graduation, he laughs. “Asking a senior that question is disrespectful, he says.”
He does have an answer, though: After graduation, he is going to be a consultant for a few years, a move he describes as “selling [his] soul.” But after that, he plans to return to his original plan — teaching sixth or seventh grade.
“I want to have some pretty cool stories before I go back,” he says. “I want to be able to be like, ‘Hey, I traveled to this country,’ and really inspire the kids, and so I want to take a moment to collect my bag and travel the world and then go back.”
When I ask him why he wants to be a teacher, he laughs again.
“So, not to shit on Fifteen Most Interesting seniors, right?” he says. “People here are interesting and cool. But there are so many other interesting cool people in the world that just didn’t have the chance to be here for whatever arbitrary reason, right?” Pérez wants to empower students to choose exactly what they want to do with their lives –– whether that means going off to a place like Harvard or staying in their hometowns.
“I would want to teach a community that is more like mine back home. A more first gen, lower income, some students are undocumented, kind of room, because I think those are students who are so creative and have such a story behind them, but are often not said and spoken about,” he continues.
Our conversation winds down as he tells me about a time he rented a car with friends for spring break in Canada, only to have it towed in the parking lot of an Allston restaurant. We leave Gutman,walk towards the river, and part ways soon after. As he crosses the street, he calls over his shoulder, “Later homie.”
Sections
Harvard Bhangra dance team found Awnit S. Marta ’20 before he found them.
Marta had planned to watch the group’s performance during Visitas, but without a Harvard ID, he was turned away. Dejected, he headed back to his host’s room. Later that weekend, though, he crossed paths with some of the team’s members. They noticed him right away: He stood out because he was wearing a turban.
“They were so interested to know who I am,” recalls Marta, an inactive Crimson multimedia editor. “From that day I was like, you know what, I know this is going to be a big part of my Harvard journey.”
Harvard’s Bhangra team combines traditional Punjabi dance with contemporary Western hip hop in their performances. Marta remarks that “Bhangra’s a lot about energy, about smiling.” When he first joined Harvard Bhangra, the group was struggling — a low participation rate combined with inadequate leadership. Marta stepped in as a sophomore and helped to create a board for Bhangra, hoping that, with more structure, the group would survive and grow.
“I was just very excited and dazzled by the fact that people [in Bhangra] were like: Tell us what we want to do, because we want to do something.” Marta repeats how nice it is when other people care, and then apologizes for repeating the same thought. Then repeats it again.
He’s excited by the excitement of others. That’s why he resurrected the Harvard British Club and assumed the role of Prime Minister; that’s why he helped revitalize the Eliot darkroom.
When Marta first arrived on campus, he initially had trouble finding a place for himself. He was one of few Sikh students on campus. He is also a first-generation college student, an international student, and a refugee. His parents had fled Afghanistan for the Netherlands, where they lived for eight years until they moved to England. His first name alone — Awnit — reflects his family’s history: “My name is spelled with a ‘W’ ... [and] in Dutch, the W is pronounced as a V. So in British English or American English, it would be written with a V — that in itself speaks to who I am.”
Where Marta couldn’t find community at Harvard, he forged his own. Since Harvard harbors such a small number of Sikh students, Marta began to reach out to Boston’s Sikh community at large. He organized a group of students and other local young people to attend Gurdwara, or Sikh temple; they playfully call themselves the Gurdwara Gang.
Though Marta slowly began to find his niche, explaining his life in Cambridge to his family never came easily. “There are certain conversations I struggle having with my parents, when it comes to jobs or academics,” Marta says. “I talk to [my mom] sometimes about how what I’m learning in my British Empire class — the irony — how I can extrapolate the skills I’m learning, and apply them to my Afghan heritage.” The way Harvard operates, in all arenas from academics to social rules, doesn’t always translate clearly to Marta’s family back home.
This changed with the chai machine — his senior thesis.
Marta giggles with surprise when I bring up it up: “How did — did someone say this? Oh, wow, that’s interesting.”
“Making chai is even harder [than making tea],” Marta explains. “There’s a whole process of it: how you heat the water, how you insert the ingredients. With the milk, you have to let it boil, you have to supervise the whole process. And I thought: What if we could automate this whole process?”
The idea came to him over the summer, while he was “doing nothing related to engineering.” When he returned to school, he approached his academic advisor; while telling the story, Marta pantomimes his advisor’s skepticism and engineering instinct to delineate the project into a bullet-point list of tasks. Marta’s mother was just as confused: “She was like, ‘What?’”
Finally, Marta could build a bridge between his home and school. The chai machine “is one of those things which [my mother] can fully comprehend and understand.”
After years of bringing his home to Harvard — through Bhangra, British Club, the Gurdwara Gang — Marta found a way to bring Harvard home.
Sections
In the center of room 303 in Farkas Hall, Julius Z. R. Wade ’20 and I sit at a table illuminated by two spotlights. Darkness fills every other corner of the room. The setup reminds me of a scene from an old-school detective film. I joke that it feels like an interrogation; Wade seems far more comfortable with the spotlight than I am.
Despite having no artistic experience before college, Wade has participated in more than 30 shows at Harvard as an actor, director, producer, and stage manager — “the whole nine yards,” he says. Aside from theater productions, Wade is also involved in Harvard’s comedy scene as a member of the improv troupe On Thin Ice, the Harvard College Stand Up Comic Society, Satire V, and On Harvard Time, where he serves as the executive producer.
Wade’s joint concentration in History and Literature and Theater, Dance, and Media doesn’t bear any resemblance to his original career plans. As a child, he aspired to be a neurosurgeon, but he wasn’t scared to change his mind.
“In the process of applying to schools, I gained an appreciation for the unknown — that sounds philosophical and weird,” he laughs. “I think that [the process] made me more open to exploring and pushing myself in new ways that I wouldn’t imagine.”
Inspired by his FOP leader, who was a member of OTI, Wade auditioned freshman fall and joined the group. That semester, he accompanied an entryway-mate to common casting auditions for the fall shows: he was called back for 11 of them.
“I was like, ‘Holy shit! This is crazy!’” Wade exclaims. “It was a series of fortunate events. I was lucky, I got lucky.”
The momentum that he built up freshman year has carried him through multiple productions. Among the most memorable is his sophomore fall directing debut with “Sweeney Todd.”
“That one will always have a special place in my heart, because that was one year after I got rejected [from directing] the First-Year Musical,” he says. “It was a nice, full-circle moment for me.”
Wade’s largest project to date is his thesis, a one-man production of Mac Wellman’s “Terminal Hip” that he’ll perform at the Harvard Art Museum in February. The production explores his relationship to the American Dream as a person of color, for whom that dream has “historically be inaccessible.”
Wade is also a first-generation college student. He grew up in Miami, Fla. — a “crazy ass city” — where he became the first person from his high school to attend Harvard.
“Harvard was the place I wanted to go for literally… a long time,” he says. “It was after I saw the movie ‘Click’ with Adam Sandler.”
After my surprised burst of laughter subsides, he clarifies: “his daughter [in the film] is very smart and talked about doing calculus as a seven-year-old and going to Harvard or something? So at that point, I was like, Harvard is the only school that exists.”
Now, after four years at his dream institution, Wade feels “increasingly emotional about everything.”
“I just know that this life that I’m living is much different than any life anyone my family has lived,” he says slowly, his voice slightly straining. “I’m so fortunate, and I’m so driven to trail-blaze for them, to provide for them. That identity and this experience that I’ve had as the first person in my family from the background that I’ve come from is just so special to me. I never want to not tie that to myself.”
Wade hopes to act in film and TV immediately after graduating, but he also plans to eventually return home to give back to his community. “If I’m successful and if I have a platform… then I would want to move into public service. Having my own non-profit would be amazing,” he explains.
Almost as an afterthought, I ask Wade a final question — what does he have to say to aspiring artists?
“Go for it. Follow the interest until it becomes a passion, and it will happen,” he says. “Trust yourself, step into the darkness, and I think you’ll have a good time.”
Sections
During our hour-long conversation, the disparate interests of Yu-Mi Kim ’20 — which span from DJing to poker, creative writing to medical research, skateboarding to personal finance — melt together like the colors of an ice pop on a hot summer day.
Her love of music, for example, leads to a discussion of her poetry. She played instruments throughout her childhood, then, after researching mixing and electronic production, began DJing. “I think it’s really interesting how pretty much every sound or instrument is available to you, as well as samples,” she says. “It’s very similar to quoting, let’s say, in poetry. I actually wrote poetry today. And I think they’re very similar, in that it’s very much about placement. Although DJ[ing] and mixing is more spatial.”
DJing reminds her of her interest in filmmaking, too. “You can change sound waves, equalize and bring out lower ranges and higher ranges and plan where music will come out of the speaker — envision exactly how it will hit an audience,” she says. “I find that really fascinating. And even just playing with the meaning of songs, for example through juxtaposition, like you would through montage in a film.”
Or, for example, Kim’s love of fiction writing is simultaneously linked to her interests in the environment and climate science. She believes that “all of our fiction has become connected to human consciousness, humans in general, when you’re missing the background, and the setting itself, the environment, and losing track of the landscape. It’s kind of a microcosm of what’s happening in the world.” Her stories are “boring,” she says — about a man walking up the stairs, or a woman staring out of a window — attempting to explore this very problem.
Kim also enjoys “building infrastructure” and “scaling” organizations. For the past two years, she has co-directed the Harvard Student Art Collective — “a community designed to give platforms for anyone looking to express on this wildly intense campus,” according to its website. Under her leadership, it has tripled in size.
Kim cares about making structures that allow for other people to create, explore, and work together. For example, she has a passion for personal finance, and explains that she once created a personal budget for a friend to help her pay off her credit card debt. She also tells me I should really consider getting a Roth IRA. She also cares about those people –– even ghostwriting Tinder messages for her friends.
Kim might not like that I began this article using a simile to describe our conversation. During her freshman and sophomore years, she was drawn to haiku writing and objective correlatives — using a group of things or events to represent emotions — because simile and metaphor “create this false sense of equivalence when there’s never full equivalence.”
“They’re kind of mapping out and trying to convey something when you really can’t ever fully convey something in all its complexity,” she says. “I think I like creating that impression throughout through an objective correlative, as opposed to a definitive statement of: ‘This is my narrative.’”
Kim is hyper-aware of the different narrative possibilities that exist for her, she says, because of the interviews she did for her past jobs in private equity and banking. In these interviews, like in a college application, you have to “craft yourself” along with a cohesive story so that you can be a compelling candidate. This interview is different — she calls it “open-ended” — but she still can’t stop thinking about the ways this story might be written.
“So you could make the argument that stylistically, [my aversion to metaphor] is what I've been pointing to throughout this whole conversation,” she says. We both laugh. “But that would be another narrative. And that would be saying that I'm being very deliberate in how I’m speaking, when I think I’m rambling.”
“Yeah,” she says, and laughs again. “I like persimmons, and black licorice, and I don’t like talking about myself.”
Sections
As energetic Afrobeats swell from a small red speaker, the chilly, subterranean Eliot House dance studio begins to thaw. Augusta C. Uwamanzu-Nna’s ’20 orange and gold ankara skirt flutters as she dances, smiling at the camera lens as it records her.
Uwamanzu-Nna is a part of Omo Naija, Harvard’s contemporary Nigerian dance troupe, which fuses traditional and modern dance styles inspired by West African culture. It was seeing Omo Naija perform during Visitas that convinced Uwumanzu-Nna to come to Harvard.
Uwumanzu-Nna gained local and national recognition when she was accepted to every Ivy League university. She says that she had no idea what to even expect from elite schools. “I honestly just thought [Harvard] was going to be a predominantly white institution with a lot of random things, but I just didn't expect to see something like [Omo Naija] and I was like, ‘What? Wow, this is crazy,’” she says.
At Visitas, she was dancing from her seat as Omo Naija performed onstage, and as soon as she stepped foot on campus to start her freshman year, she joined the troupe herself. By her sophomore year, she was a captain and had successfully established Omo Naija as a recognized club. Today, the group performs at colleges across the East Coast.
Omo Naija has provided Uwamanzu-Nna with a strong community and creative outlet. “This place is tough,” she says of Harvard. But Omo Naija has always been a supportive space on campus. “Literally every time I come to practice — and we have three two-hour practices a week — I'm here and I don't think about anything.”
Uwamanzu-Nna is a bioengineering concentrator; this year, when she’s not dancing, she’s conducting research at Brigham and Women’s Hospital in Boston. She is working to create a new technological process by which proteins and other biomarkers can be detected through tests called single molecule array assays in under-resourced settings, where lab machines are not easily accessible.
While this work is part of her thesis research, the development of this technology is a multi-year project that she hopes to continue after graduation, before she goes on to pursue an M.D.-Ph.D.
Throughout her years as a STEM student at Harvard, Uwamanzu-Nna has observed the academic struggles that students, including herself, have faced — from imposter syndrome to testing anxiety. In high school, Uwumanzu-Nna says, people encouraged her, “speaking goodness onto [her],” which affirmed her abilities. “I love getting mentorship and I love inspiring people and just assuring people that things will be okay,” she says.
The support she received has driven her to champion other black students in STEM. She worked with the Dean Doyle of the School of Engineering and Applied Sciences to create a Harvard chapter of the National Society for Business and Engineers. She helped organize the Harvard chapter of the National Society for Black Engineers as well as a brunch for black women in science and engineering.
Black women from all walks of scientific life came to the brunch, including women from the PBS science documentary series NOVA, tech consulting firms, and electrical engineering fields. Recalling her reaction to seeing all these black women in these spaces, Uwamanzu-Nna says excitedly, “‘This is crazy, like I see you in this spot and you’re so cool and I am resonating with you and I could maybe see myself in your position one day. And I think having events like that — that type of work is so important to me.”
This passion for mentorship has extended into her work with Harvard Undergraduate Consulting on Business and the Environment. While Uwamanzu-Nna doesn’t intend to pursue consulting in the future, it still taught her valuable lessons and provided her with a strong community of people whom she might have never known otherwise. As one of the only black women on her board, she says, “I was able to take up space in an organization — to take up space as a black woman.” She feels that the experience helped her to gain confidence as a leader.
“In May of 2020, I will graduate with a Bachelor of Science and Engineering and, that's just why I'm so proud of myself — when I do that — because this place is hard,” she says. Wherever Uwamanzu-Nna goes, she hopes to seek support from, and give support to, those around her. “It’s just good to have people believe in you, you know?”
Sections
Dearest readers,
You’re catching us on a good day. We won’t go so far as to say we saved the best for last, because we’ve published some pretty spiffy content over the past year, but this is our last issue of 2019, and it is fit to burst with interesting profiles of interesting seniors, so… you do the math.
There are 15 reasons that you should read this issue: one for each of the seniors that we’ve decided to profile. “15 Most Interesting” is perhaps a misnomer — we could have selected several groups of 15 seniors to profile out of the many nominations we received.
Our 15, though, are all very interesting in distinct ways. And now, in an homage to FM’s origin story, they’ll each receive their 15 minutes of fame. They’re only have one more semester on campus — so read about them before they leave! It’s never too late to make 15 new friends.
And this is about where we sign off, both literally from this editor’s note and figuratively from leading this magazine. It’s time for NHP and AWDA to take the reins: we happily hand over the sleepless Tuesdays and the endless camaraderie that we’ve experienced while running the mag. It has been an honor and a delight to run Fifteen Minutes this year. We hope you enjoy reading this magazine as much as we loved making it.
Yours in glossy print,
NMM & ALS
Sections
After growing up on what he describes as an “island,” Amitai B. Abouzaglo ’20 came to Harvard eager to create meaningful and wide-ranging relationships in a way that his insular upbringing had not allowed.
The island Abouzaglo speaks of isn’t surrounded by water, nor is it lacking inhabitants. In fact, his hometown is Dallas, Texas, the ninth most populated city in the US. The island Abouzaglo speaks of was his primarily Orthodox Jewish community, in which his life was “subsumed by Jewish character, and little else.”
Emerging from that environment, Abouzaglo wanted to be at the forefront of bridging connections between different groups of people. He dedicated much of his first year at Harvard to creating a council whose membership spanned a variety of different religious backgrounds. Known as the Spiritual, Religious, and Ethical Council, SREC for short, it provided a space in which people could develop multi-faith literacy and work toward inter-religious leadership. It was later integrated into the Harvard College Interfaith Forum.
“The most important part of those evenings,” Abouzaglo reflects, referring to the group’s meetings, “was that the different representatives of the faith groups were sitting right next to each other, and were then able to say, ‘hey, I know this event on Wednesday, would you like to come?’" Soon after, he recalls, religious groups began to organize interfaith gatherings of their own volitions.
The high value that Abouzaglo places on human connection is evident in all aspects of his life. When he has free time outside his studies as a Comparative Study of Religion concentrator, he says, he spends as much of it as he can with others.
“Honestly, the thing that I try to do the most is… [sit] down with anyone,” he explains. “It doesn’t need to be someone I consider a friend for me. If I talk to you for a few minutes, and I feel like we allowed ourselves to sink to a more authentic place of ourselves, then you’re a good friend to me.”
As we sit in the “fishbowl” room at Harvard Hillel, Abouzaglo explains that over the past year, he has become increasingly involved with work outside Harvard. In 2018, Abouzaglo founded a non-profit organization called Embodying Peace that, according to its website, works to support grassroots initiatives that build ties and create change in Israel and Palestine.
With a staff comprised of fifteen college students and recent graduates throughout the US and Israel-Palestine, Embodying Peace, according to Abouzaglo, works on a number of projects, including furthering political equality in Israel and creating “people-to-people dialogue programs” between Palestinians and Israelis.
While “peace” is in the name of the organization he founded, Abouzaglo invokes it with particular caution, noting how drastically its meaning can vary depending on where and when it is used.
“[Peace] is a dirty word in Israel-Palestine, and it’s a heartwarming term in the rest of the world, in the United States. Why is it a heartwarming term? Because it represents all of our values jotted down into one term,” he says. “Because peace negotiations haven’t been realized over the past 25 years, it has become a dirty word.”
Eventually, Abouzaglo hopes to move to the Israel and Palestine region to run his nonprofit on the ground. But, at least for the remainder of the year, he will continue to operate from campus. Reflecting on his efforts to create change halfway across the world as a student in Cambridge, he draws a parallel back to his life as a senior in high school.
“Now, toward the end of college, I also live on an island,” he says, except that “the islands are very different. One of them was in Dallas, Texas in the Jewish world there, and another one is in the muck of Israel-Palestine activism on the ground, but still having to live on campus and conduct student life and academics.” Nevertheless, he says, “I totally recognize that the gulf between me and the future is not that distant, and it’s not that deep, and it will be reconciled.”
Sections
“I love the river because it reminds me of home,” James A. Bedford ’20 says as we set out for a brisk walk along the Charles. “Back home in England, I live on a sailing boat.”
When Bedford was a teenager, his family faced financial difficulties and he and his father made an unconventional choice. Rather than sell their 40-foot boat, which they had spent years fixing up together, the two decided to sell their cottage and move aboard. Bedford had to commute over two hours each way to school but, without a moment of hesitation, he says that it was worth it.
In another world, Bedford might have stayed on the water. “Like a lot of first-gens,” Bedford says, “college was not necessarily in the cards.” Bedford says he may have considered going to sailing school to become a crew member. But in high school, he was accepted into a social mobility program, the Sutton Trust, which helps British state school students apply to U.S. colleges.
Soon enough, Bedford moved from his sailboat, where he fell asleep listening to the water every night, to a bunk-bed in Greenough.
“The whole process was made extravagantly painful,” Bedford says of his adjustment to Harvard, because he “expected everything to be the same” as his life in England — and instead, was met with unfamiliar cultural references and a more individualistic, less community-oriented attitude. He faced the constant feeling that “‘you should know this; you should know how this works’” which he attributes to being both international and first-gen. To combat homesickness, he started walking along the river.
Academically, Bedford explored a variety of interests, ranging from Economics to Comparative Literature, before finding a home in Human Developmental and Regenerative Biology. When I ask about his concentration (and to start, what regenerative biology is), Bedford removes his hands from his jacket pockets despite the thirty-five degree weather to gesticulate as he speaks about the technique-based research he conducted last year; the way disease cells should be studied in a Petri dish; and the urgency of finding solutions to diseases like ALS and Alzheimer’s.
Beyond academics, Bedford has spent his four years advocating for first-gen, low-income students.
Bedford, with Andrew Pérez, founded and co-chaired the preorientation program First-Year Retreat and Experience, helping students from underrepresented backgrounds deal with the challenging adjustment to Harvard. Creating the program from scratch required an exhausting year of planning, recruiting, and branding. FYRE took a “took a lot of mental energy, a lot of our academic potential. A lot of sacrifice,” he says.
In the past year, Bedford has shifted his energy away from FYRE, but the program continues to inform his interests: FYRE “opened my eyes to so much that needs to be done,” he says.
Over the past year, Bedford has also been designing a new class, Stem Cell & Regenerative Bio 78: “Science Communication,” which he will offer alongside a professor next semester. The course, open to all STEM concentrators, will teach scientific writing and speaking skills.
For Bedford, scientific communication is one arena in which the elite have long monopolized the conversation, at Harvard and beyond.
Students from low-income, underrepresented backgrounds often aren’t taught the “value of their voices,”, Bedford says. In FYRE, “You can socialize people as much as you like,” he says, “and you can have seniors tell freshmen, ‘This is what I wish I’d known’ and that’s incredibly valuable. But it has to permeate the academic side as well.”
Co-teaching won’t be Bedford’s first foray into education, though it is his most intensive. He was formerly a teaching fellow for CS50, including at the Business School and Law School, and he puts it simply: “I am addicted to teaching.”
Bedford also has an Education secondary and is interested in returning to academia someday. “I want to spend a little time away from [academia] to see if that love is true or just relative,” he says.
After graduation, Bedford will work at the Boston Consulting Group, which he hopes will help him determine whether a PhD or work in the private sector, potentially on environmental issues, might be the right fit. Bedford plans to stay in the Boston area after graduation, in part to continue mentoring the students he led in FYRE.
When he tells me he’ll be staying in Boston, I ask if Bedford misses home. “I do miss my boat,” he begins.
Sections
Jessica L. Ding ’20 and I are squashed together in the Memorial Hall elevator with a small bench, a music stand, and a harp. When the doors open, a woman is waiting on the floor landing, watching with amusement as we shimmy our way out.
“You should try the flute,” she says to Ding, who deftly wheels the instrument over the elevator grate. Ding laughs politely, later admitting that the flute comment is “not unique.”
Ding is one of three Harvard harpists currently enrolled in the dual-degree program between Harvard and the New England Conservatory. Next year she’ll receive her Masters of Music, but for now she’s finishing up her Anthropology concentration — all while completing pre-med coursework.
“I’m torn between different paths,” she says. “Everything that I try winds up becoming something that I really like.”
It began with the harp, which she took up at the age of 10 after growing tired of the piano, which she played for six years. At the time, her elementary school was implementing an orchestra program, so Ding went on YouTube to survey the different orchestral instruments. “The one instrument that was there and that wasn’t offered by my school was the harp,” she says. Naturally, that’s the one she chose. “It just kind of stood out.”
Ding’s parents drove her to lessons two and a half hours away from her small hometown of State College, Penn., and once they could see that their daughter was committed to practicing, they purchased her an instrument of her own.
In her senior year of high school, while Ding was applying to the Harvard/NEC program, she also had the opportunity to enroll in a class at Penn State University. Perusing the various courses, Ding ultimately chose — as with the harp — the unfamiliar option: anthropology. By the time she got to Harvard, she already knew she wanted to earn her degree in the field.
At that point, medicine “wasn’t a path I was considering at all,” she says. “I had this idea of medicine as super formulaic: You come in, you diagnose someone, and then you give them medication that’s already been decided as a course of treatment.”
Meeting anthropology professors with medical degrees in her freshman year, however, swayed her opinions. “Anthropology really emphasizes how individual everybody is,” she says. The medical anthropologists she met emphasized that people differ in illness not simply from a biological perspective, but also in the ways they experience illness itself.
“That made me a lot more open-minded about what’s out there,” Ding says.
The summer after her freshman year, she worked abroad at a traditional Chinese medicine hospital, which solidified her decision to simultaneously pursue anthropology and premedical studies. Now, she’s working on a thesis about traditional Chinese medicine, which she spent 10 weeks researching last summer while shadowing two different physicians in Shanghai.
Ding has faith that her winding paths will ultimately coalesce, each somehow informing the other. This semester, for example, she’s taking what’s been her “favorite class ever”: Mind, Brain, and Behavior 980P, “The Role of Music in Health and Education.” She’s learned about doctors who integrate different art forms into their careers and new clinical studies that suggest music can help stroke or Alzheimer’s patients.
“I’m just going to go with everything I find interesting right now, and I think it’s going to work itself out,” Ding says.
That mindset has drawn her to numerous other activities: She joined Kirkland’s intramural crew team and served as director of the Harvard Program for International Education, teaching classes on international affairs to local high school students. Now she’s a co-head tutor, writing curricula for the program on topics like international elections.
When we finally wheel the harp to a suitably private practice spot in the basement of Memorial Hall, Ding gives me a brief but informative crash course on the instrument, which I realize I haven’t ever examined up close. She shows me how the different pedals control whether a note is sharp, flat, or natural; how the C strings are red while the Fs are black; how to play a simple scale, which I tentatively pluck out to my own delight. Then she sits down to play.
I try to remind myself that the notes flooding the air, light and soothing as drizzling rain, are each the product of real labor: intense concentration, rapid coordination, sustained strength. The harp rests on Ding’s right shoulder, and I ask if it’s possible for it to fall.
“Oh yeah,” she says. “That’s my biggest nightmare.”
But it hasn’t happened yet, and Ding, in spite of others’ clever comments, has not thought of switching to the flute. “No one ever says that to a pianist,” she grumbles.
Sections
Emilee A. Hackney ’20 just wants to go home. On a campus where every other senior is buzzing with after-college plans, Hackney is “counting down the days” until she can return to Tazewell, Virginia, the “really small coal farm town” in Appalachia where she, her family, and eight generations before them grew up.
People at Harvard are often confused about why she wants to return home, she says, when Harvard is so full of “opportunities” — interesting people and places and things. “People are always like, ‘You’re going to do great things,’ you know, there’s this pressure to get rich and famous or something,” she says. She does think she might return to the Northeast someday, maybe for a higher degree. But all of that is for the future.
Hackney grew up within 15 miles of her entire extended family. During her childhood, she wrote — she still remembers penning her first story in preschool about a lamb — and spent time with her family. She was raised Pentecostal, and in high school, she got engaged to the person she had been dating since she was 14. “We went to church together. I could speak in tongues. It was the craziest — it wasn’t crazy; I don’t want to say it was crazy,” she says, looking out over Harvard Yard from our table in Lamont Café. Sunlight spills onto her face. “It brings a lot of people comfort. I believed in it for a very long time.”
After high school, Hackney attended Southwest Virginia Community College for two years. She took some pre-med and business classes, trying to figure out what she wanted to do, and ended up with an associate’s degree in education.
While she was applying to schools to attend after community college, she mentioned Harvard to her fiancé, mostly as a joke. He said she couldn’t get in. She did.
Before Hackney left for Harvard, her engagement fell apart and she fell out of religion, and when she got here, she thought that she would never return home. But this campus was lonely and strange. She was placed in a tiny single in Cabot, and because she was an academic sophomore, most of the people around her had already found friend groups. Everyone was always doing something or going somewhere, especially extracurriculars.
“I think that was one of the reasons I was miserable my first year, because I felt like I had to do all this stuff,” she says. “Because everybody’s so busy all the time. People talk slow where I live, they move slow, there’s no rush. Here, everybody’s just like go, go, go, all the time.”
At Harvard, Hackney also found that she became representative of a whole region of the country. She has met very few people from Appalachia on campus. She is asked “10, 15” times a day where she is from. When people hear her accent, she faces confusion, bemusement, stereotypes. Once, during a shift at Blackbird Donuts, a woman asked her where she was from, and Hackney told her Virginia.
“And she was like, ‘Oh, down south?’ And I said yes, and I thought she was going to say something like, ‘Oh, me too.’ But instead she leans up on the counter” — Hackney leans over the table, getting close to me — “and says, ‘It’s really racist down there, isn’t it?’, really menacingly. What a pleasant conversation starter.”
But Hackney has found ways to make this campus feel like home. She worked at Blackbird for a year, and now she works at Lamont Café. She says that holding jobs in food service has grounded her and provided her a sense of continuity with her life at home, where she worked at Subway. She studies English, and for her thesis, she is writing a memoir about her experiences coming to Harvard.
She has carved out a space for herself on this campus, crafting her own definition of success. “It makes me happy to go to bed at 10 o’clock and wake up at 6 o’clock and go running. It makes me happy to have a routine. It makes me happy to just have a cup of coffee and work on my thesis or read a book.”
But even as she has become more comfortable here, she has also become more certain she wants to go home. “The longer I was here, I got really homesick. I’m just so tied to home. The heartstrings, that’s just where it is,” she says.
“I really would like to use this education to improve [where I’m from], somehow,” she says. “I don’t know what I’m going to do. I have no plan. I just want to go back and make it a little bit better. It’s home, you know.”
Sections
“In all of my art,” Abraham E. Rebollo ’20 says, “I pay homage to the Mexican revolutionaries who came before me.” By way of explanation, Rebollo adds that they recently created a costume in celebration of the adelitas, an archetype of Mexican women revolutionaries.
“I picture this character,” they begin, staring off toward a far corner of the pale yellow dining room of the Signet Society, where we sit. I follow their eyes in an attempt to see what they see, and I begin to imagine the costume they describe, one of many they’ve made during their time at Harvard. “She finds that there’s a new sort of revolution that needs to take place.”
The last time that Rebollo visited Mexico, though, they were just three years old. Rebollo has memories from this time of traveling back and forth by plane between their home in Texas and the country from which their parents emigrated.
Their parents were undocumented at the time, and 9/11 effectively ended these trips. With the creation of the Department of Homeland Security and U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE), the law enforcement agency with the power to deport and detain people inside U.S. borders, the mechanisms of immigration enforcement mutated.
In some ways, Rebollo says that their “little sleepy small town” of around 13,000 might have helped protect their family. Located just three hours north of Houston, the heightened immigration enforcement typical of big cities often felt distant. But they recall sometimes feeling fear — like the time in fourth grade, driving to school with their parents, when they saw an immigration van parked outside the town courthouse. Or when they’d pass the police and their parents would tell them: Don’t look back, don’t stare, sit up, wear your seatbelt. If the police stopped them, they had the power to check Rebollo’s dad’s documents — the absence of which would lead to deportation. (After over twelve years of trying to obtain legal status, Rebollo’s father was finally granted legal residency two years ago. Just this past summer, their mother also gained legal residency.)
“The fear that I felt was very much at any moment, my life could fall apart here in the United States,” they tell me.
Rebollo’s family’s immigration story has shaped their experience at Harvard just as profoundly as it did their childhood. Since coming to campus, they have funneled many of their reactions through art. In 2017, they created an adaptation of “The Trial” by Franz Kafka upon seeing their parents’ experience with the immigration system mirrored within the text. Referring to both the novel and their undocumented experience, they reflect that “it's just an impossible system to deal with. It’s to the point of insanity of having to try so hard to get any sort of help for your situation and to constantly face new roadblocks,” they say. At the end of their adaptation, an immigrant rights activist is arrested and executed by immigration agents.
While Rebollo has more written pieces in the works, their primary artistic endeavors at Harvard have been in costume design. Regardless of the medium, Rebollo says that they relate everything they create to their heritage.
For the adelita costume they described, Rebollo created a brown twill skirt encircled with the Mexican flag and white lace frill. “She’s very much a manifestation of what I desire to see and what I desire to be,” Rebollo explains. For every costume Rebollo makes, real people and parts of their culture often provide the inspiration.
Last fall, Rebollo costume-designed a production of Mr. Burns, a Post-Electric Play, a show about a post-apocalyptic world in which an episode of The Simpsons is performed live across generations, mutating as decades change amidst near-extinct human culture. Rebollo created costumes for characters that reflected ICE, Mexican cartels, and Spanish colonists as intertwined colonial forces.
The past summer of high-profile immigration abuses at the border reignited their passion to demonstrate for immigrant rights, often in conjunction with Act on a Dream, they explain. Just before our meeting, Rebollo had attended a demonstration against The Crimson criticizing its policy of calling ICE for comment.
After traveling home, Rebollo hopes to return to Boston, maybe to perform or design. In the future, they’d like to attend graduate school for education and eventually teach theater to high school students. To Rebollo, young people seem more empathetic — maybe because “they see a world in collapse,” they ponder aloud. Either way, Rebollo hopes to help people foster this mindset: “The world is in danger; what can I do to change it?”
