News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
University President Lawrence S. Bacow said in an interview last week that he supports the College’s efforts to “get a sense of what's really going on” through its review of Winthrop House climate amid outcry over Faculty Dean Ronald S. Sullivan, Jr.’s decision to represent Harvey Weinstein.
The College launched the review Feb. 26 after students and faculty criticized Sullivan’s decision, arguing that Sullivan’s representation of Weinstein — who currently faces multiple allegations of sexual assault — is incompatible with his role as a faculty dean. Bacow said Friday that he is in favor of the College’s efforts to gather more information.
“It's important during times like this to listen to our students and I think that's what they're trying to do,” Bacow said. “I think they're trying to get a sense of what's really going on.”
Bacow’s statements Friday marked the first time the University president has commented publicly on Sullivan since his decision to represent Weinstein first sparked criticism from students on campus.
Asked if he had spoken with Sullivan, Bacow said he has “not been involved in this issue at all — in any way, shape, or form.”
“This is an issue for the College,” Bacow said. “And it's being dealt with at the level of the College.”
The New York Post first reported Sullivan would join Weinstein’s legal team on Jan. 23. Two days later, Sullivan wrote an email to Winthrop House residents defending his decision by saying that defense attorneys have a duty to represent the “unpopular defendant.” Sullivan and co-Faculty Dean Stephanie R. Robinson wrote another missive days later announcing new “processes” they would implement, including appointing Resident Dean Linda D.M. Chavers as the “point person” for sexual assault issues in the house.
In the weeks following Sullivan’s announcement, students wrote open letters and held protests, calling on the College to remove Sullivan from his Faculty Dean position. Winthrop House was also vandalized, with messages including “Down w Sullivan” were spray-painted on the House’s exterior. Dean of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences Claudine Gay weighed in on the debate and called Sullivan’s response to students’ concerns “insufficient” in a February interview with The Crimson.
The College launched a climate review of Winthrop headed by former Dean of Freshmen Thomas A. Dingman ’67 in the wake of student criticism. As part of the review, Winthrop students received an online survey about their experiences in the House.
Bacow said Friday that though he has received updates from Khurana and Gay about Sullivan and Winthrop House, he is not directly involved.
Citing his distance from the issue, Bacow also did not directly answer whether he believes Sullivan has properly handled communicating his representation to Winthrop students.
“I'm not close enough to it,” Bacow said. “I mean again, I leave it to them to make those judgments.”
—Staff writer Aidan F. Ryan can be reached at aidan.ryan@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @AidanRyanNH.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard is set to play in the WNIT for the fourth consecutive year, tipping off against Drexel at 7:00 on Friday. Unlike in previous years, though, the Crimson will be playing in the friendly confines of Lavietes Pavilion as it seeks to prolong its season.
Harvard (16-12, 9-5 Ivy) comes into the game eager to wash away the bitter taste from its disappointing end to the league season. After leading the conference in point differential in the regular season and playing two overtime games against Penn, the Crimson was stunned by the Quakers in the Ivy League tournament in New Haven, falling 91-62.
“[The Penn game] was not what I expected,” head coach Kathy Delaney-Smith said. “Pretty disappointing. Probably one of the most disappointing games I can remember in the last 37 years, actually.”
It was Harvard’s worst loss in league play and worst overall since it lost to then-No. 1 Notre Dame by 45 in its season opener.
Penn’s size and skill proved to be too much for the Crimson the third time around, as the Quakers — ranked eighth in the nation in scoring defense — dominated every facet of the game and put it away early.
“I’m completely shocked by how we started [against Penn],” Delaney-Smith said, “and how we responded to normal things in a basketball game. Instead of us getting mad and digging in a little bit, we just went back on our heels, and I just never expected my team to do that. I don’t have an answer for why we reacted that way.”
In Drexel (24-8, 14-4 CAA), Harvard is set to face another stifling defense. The Dragons have the best scoring defense in the country, as they concede just 49.9 points per game, making them the only team in the nation that allows under 50.
After No. 9 seeded Hofstra upset top-seeded James Madison in the first round of the CAA tournament, No. 2 Drexel would have felt great about their chances to win the conference and secure an automatic bid to the NCAA tournament. But while they did reach the finals, the favored Dragons fell 53-49 to No. 4 Towson in the championship game, sending them to the WNIT.
Every possession will count for the Crimson against a tough Drexel team that generally plays mistake-free basketball. The Dragons rank 13th in the country in fewest turnovers and 22nd in turnover margin, making it imperative for Harvard to hold onto the ball and at least get a shot on each possession, something it has sometimes struggled to do against tough opposition.
The Crimson will also seek to clamp down on junior forward Bailey Greenberg, who not only leads Drexel in scoring at 17.5 points per game but also is the team’s leading rebounder and is the only Dragon averaging double figures in points.
Harvard features a much more balanced group of scorers. Junior guard Katie Benzan leads the team with 14.2 points per game, and she’s joined in double figures by sophomore forward Jadyn Bush and co-captain guards Madeline Raster and Sydney Skinner.
While Benzan led the Crimson with 12 points against Penn, Harvard’s leading scorer sometimes struggled with her shot, shooting 4-of-14 from the floor and 4-of-13 from three point range.
“I was always told that shooters shoot,” Benzan said, “and you have to have this mentality that if you miss five, you’ll make the next five. We were down 20 and we just needed scoring so I had to do whatever I could to help my team score and eliminate the lead that Penn had.”
Seniors Raster, Skinner, and Nani Redford, who are playing in their fourth straight WNIT, will try to ensure that this is not their final game in a Crimson uniform. They will be relied upon as usual to provide a threat from beyond the arc and to lock down on defense.
While the guards were very much the focal point against a big Penn team, Harvard may have the chance to get its forwards more involved against Drexel. Bush and junior forward Jeannie Boehm, who helped key dominant team rebounding performances for so much of the regular season, should have the advantage down low against an average rebounding and poor shot blocking team.
The Drexel game should be a refreshing change for Bush and Boehm after they struggled to deal with Ivy League Defensive Player of the Year Eleah Parker last Saturday.
The Crimson will seek to move onto the second round of the WNIT for the second time in three years while also trying to avenge a double-digit loss to Drexel in the 2013 WNIT. The winner of Friday’s game will face the winner of Georgetown and Sacred Heart early next week.

— Staff writer Lev Cohen can be reached at lev.cohen@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
The No. 12/11 Harvard men’s hockey team entered Friday’s ECAC semifinal clash with No. 9 Clarkson looking to avenge last year’s defeat in the same round. The Crimson (19-10-3, 13-7-2 ECAC) fell short, though, bowing out to the Golden Knights (25-10-2, 13-7-2) by a score of 5-2 in the round of four for the second straight year.
A poor start to the game set Harvard back in the early going, but the Crimson managed to cut Clarkson’s three-goal lead to just a single score a minute into the third period. This comeback effort, however, would fall victim to an unfortunate call and a bad bounce, ultimately rendering the contest out of reach for the No. 4 seed in the conference tournament.
“We needed to play better,” Harvard coach Ted Donato ’91 said. “We gave goals away too easily. [We] give up a faceoff goal, certainly had a little bit of puck-luck working against us, as they got a couple bounces…. We got it to 3-2, had some really good looks.”
The Crimson entered the second intermission trailing 3-1 instead of 3-0 thanks to a tally from junior defenseman Adam Fox 14 minutes into the middle frame. The potted puck, which changed directions en route to the back of the net, put the game within reach for the Harvard icemen, who had yet to find their groove by the mid-way point of the contest.
With the strike, Fox took sole possession of the program’s all-time record for most points scored by a defenseman in a single season. Mark Fusco ’83, a Hobey Baker Award winner in his own right, was the previous record-holder with 46 points in his senior year.
Another offensive-minded defenseman brought the Crimson closer to knotting the game when, early in the third period, freshman Jack Rathbone bulged the net on a shot from the high slot. Rathbone now has at least one point in seven straight outings (3–5—8).
Suddenly, after falling behind by three scores early on, Harvard had a legitimate chance of clawing all the way back to a tie game.
“[Rathbone’s goal] was enormous,” co-captain Michael Floodstrand said. “That got everybody going. The first goal was huge, obviously, by [Fox]. That second goal really solidified the fact that we were back in the game.”
But a spell of bad luck would halt the Crimson’s surge. Seven minutes after the pivotal Rathbone snipe, Golden Knights sophomore Jack Jacome punched home a goal with his skate after crashing the Harvard net. Upon review, the officials upheld the call on the ice — a good goal — much to the disbelief of coach Donato and his bench.
The margin returned to two goals, and the questionable call cut short any momentum the Crimson was riding after trimming Clarkson’s advantage to one.
With just four minutes remaining in the final frame, the Golden Knights buried the dagger. Junior defenseman Jordan Schneider fired a shot from the point that ricocheted off Harvard defenseman Reilly Walsh’s stick, fluttered toward the goal, and beat confused junior backstop Cameron Gornet.
For the Crimson, the resulting three-goal spread was insurmountable at that point. Frustratingly, both of Clarkson’s third-period marks were instances of the “Hockey Gods” siding with the Golden Knights and were thus relatively out of Harvard’s control.
“We weren’t really getting many bounces,” Floodstrand noted. “I don’t think we really truly got up until the third period, so it’s definitely something we have to work on.”
Harvard’s lackluster start forced it to play from behind almost from the very beginning of the contest. By the 5:13 mark of the opening period, Clarkson already owned a two-goal lead.
Three minutes into the tilt, a faceoff in the Crimson’s defensive zone went sour. Golden Knights junior Haralds Egle found twine on a wrist shot from the high slot. Classmate Nico Sturm, one of the elite two-way forwards in college hockey, won the draw cleanly, setting up Egle’s 18th tally of the season. Sturm and Egle finished the night with two points apiece, as did Schneider courtesy of a fortunate bounce on the final goal of the game.
Clarkson carried play for the next few shifts, and the tilted ice continued to yield results. Freshman forward Anthony Callin followed up Egle’s strike with one of his own, putting home a loose puck after a scrum in front of the net failed to neutralize the rebound from Harvard net-minder Michael Lackey’s initial save.
For the Crimson, focus remained intense and spirits high, but the excitement of competing in the ECAC final four quickly faded to the reality of an early multi-score deficit.
“It’s a tough start, especially in a big game like that where momentum swings are enormous,” Floodstrand said. “That’s a very good team. Getting down to them is exactly not what you want — not our plan all week. So that definitely takes its toll on the bench.”
Lackey, meanwhile, was in the process of settling into his first game minutes since Feb. 16’s injury against, coincidentally, the Golden Knights. Two immediate goals against made it that much more difficult for the senior puck-stopper to regain the confidence and rhythm he possessed prior to his knee ailment.
“It was going to be a tough situation regardless, just coming off [one month] not playing,” said Floodstrand of Lackey’s return. “Let alone him coming back from an injury, those are tough shots regardless that we shouldn’t give up.”
Lackey never truly settled into his crease, and coach Donato had little choice but to pull his senior goaltender in favor of Gornet. Thirteen minutes into the middle stanza, Clarkson freshman Nick Campoli sent a wrist shot toward the cage from just over the blue line. The seemingly low-threat attempt squeaked through Lackey’s pads and dribbled over the goal line. The savable shot proved to be the game-winner.
While the skaters in front of him also left something to be desired through the first half of Friday’s affair, Lackey simply was not providing the high-caliber goaltending required to knock off a top-10 foe like the Golden Knights. Gornet, whose solid performance during Lackey’s month-long absence (5-1-0, 1.83 GAA, .938 SV%) allowed Harvard to continue its high level of play, once again received a chance to prove himself.
“[Gornet’s] been dynamite for us, and he played really well when he came in today,” Floodstrand said. “He gave us a lot of momentum, made a couple great saves. One goal is, in my opinion, a blatant kick, and the other one was absurd. So you can’t really put any blame on him. He did a great job.”
Despite the loss, Harvard’s season did not end on Friday night, as it did last year with a conference semifinal loss to Clarkson. Shortly after the final horn, the team was made aware that it had clinched a spot in the NCAA Tournament, a 16-team league-wide battle for the top spot in college hockey.
“It’s tough right now, but it’s obviously a learning experience for a lot of us,” said Fox after the game, before learning that his group had clinched a spot in the Tournament. “We have to right the ship if we are fortunate enough to make the tournament.”
After No. 4 Minnesota Duluth’s handling of No. 5 Denver in the NCHC semifinals on Friday, the Crimson’s at-large bid to the big dance was solidified. The program will return to the NCAA Tournament for the fourth time in the last five years and the seventh time under coach Donato’s leadership.
The defeat still stings, though, especially among veteran Crimson players.
“It’s a fun tournament to win. We know from experience,” said Floodstrand of the ECAC playoffs. “It stings losing in any situation, but [especially] at the end of the year, when you can give yourself…a better opportunity to win the [NCAA] Tournament by getting a higher seed, as well as winning a [conference] championship. It stings the older you get.”
Harvard will await the official draw of the NCAA Tournament to determine its regional semifinal placement and opponent for next weekend.
—Staff writer Spencer R. Morris can be reached at spencer.morris@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @SMorrisTHC.
