News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
In her reputation (pun intended) for bland, white feminism and controversial feuds involving certain rappers, Taylor Swift has had her share of unsavory political faux pas. But after an album cycle darker than a Game of Thrones trailer and a highly-anticipated Instagram countdown, the pop princess returns with another contribution to her repertoire — what may yet prove to be the pièce de resistance from a glittery new oeuvre.
That’s French, for those of you plebeians who didn’t study abroad for one semester, memorize the five noble grapes of Bordeaux, and post a full album on Instagram to commemorate the burning of Notre Dame and (whoops! totally inadvertently) your many extravagant Parisian excursions.
Oh, you didn’t stroll through the Champs-Elysées with a crêpe in one hand and five lit cigarettes in the other? Cute. Well, guess who did? That’s right: Taylor G.D. Swift. You better believe Swift splashed out on a Criterion Channel subscription and camped out in one of her four multimillion-dollar mansions with a heavily-highlighted copy of Laura Mulvey’s “Visual Pleasure and Narrative Cinema.” Seriously, the evidence is incontrovertible: Last month, she dropped a music video that is literally the grandchild of the Nouvelle Vague.
Sacre bleu, you cry! Mon dieu! Surely “ME!,” in its frivolity and sparkly kindergarten iconography, is a far cry from the austere palatial grounds of “L’Année dernière à Marienbad.” How could a video that features a unicorn gargoyle dripping with liquefied Pepto Bismol-colored tulle ever measure up to the densely literary, postmodern absurdism of “Pierrot le fou”? Surely “girl there ain’t no ‘I’ in team” pales in comparison to the complexity of the ill-fated homosocial love triangle in “Jules et Jim”?
To that I say: When has Taylor Swift’s symbolism ever been obvious? For over a literal decade now, legions of Swift devotees have pored over music video Easter eggs and Instagram clues, decoding with the obsessive fervor of a Zodiac Killer conspiracist. Capitalized letters! Secret graffiti messages! Snake metaphors! The woman is a cipher. If there’s one rule of the Taylor Swift universe, it’s that semiotics are king. Everything means something.
So buckle the hell up, skeptics. “ME!” is a direct aesthetic descendant of the French New Wave, and nobody will change my mind.
To start, Swift plays Marianne to Brandon Urie’s Ferdinand, Patricia to his Michel. They hurl half-hearted insults at each other with the conviction of amateur actors. Sound familiar? Ever heard of Anna Karina? Jean-Claude Brialy? The French New Wave gave rise to a new generation of talent without the institutional backing, and the results speak for themselves. Jean-Pierre Léaud walked so Taylor Swift could run.
But that’s not all. These insults are also in French, albeit with the criminally bad pronunciation of a high-strung French student dictating to a Sony voice recorder on the day of the AP test. “Comment ose-tu!” Swift, who has definitely watched “À bout de souffle,” shrieks in a conscious imitation of Jean Seberg.
Much like Seberg’s character in the film, Swift predicts that “trouble’s gonna follow where I go.” Trouble arrives in the form of identically attired women in pastel pantsuits, an obvious critique of the reproducibility of image in the vein of Hito Steyerl’s “In Defense of the Poor Image.” The irony of talking about individuality while surrounded by clones embodies the same postmodernism anticipated by Godard in “Pierrot le fou.” Someone get Anna Wintour on the phone, because ladies and gentlemen, This Is Camp.
Swift proceeds to promptly dismantle the patriarchy. Every film buff worth her salt knows that the New Wave coincided with the advent of the Mouvement de libération des femmes (MLF), a women’s liberation movement that gained traction in the context of mai 68. “There’s a lot of cool chicks out there,” says Swift, turning away Urie’s advances, first a bouquet of flowers, then a ring. Most Swifties might make some claim about Swift’s budding relationship with that Joe Alwyn guy, but clearly it’s more complex than that. By turning away the engagement, Swift is obviously rejecting the hallmarks of a hegemonic patriarchal romance. Very de Beauvoir of her.
Even after all this decisive evidence, you might still be skeptical that a pop star would have this caliber of arthouse film literacy. To which I say: If BTS can draw from the theories of Carl Jung and Selena Gomez’s “Bad Liar” music video can be infused with “Pierrot le fou” imagery, then Taylor Swift can have her Anna Karina moment. At worst, she can feasibly argue she has no idea what she’s doing — “Qu’est-ce que je peux faire? Je sais pas quoi faire!” — and it would honestly still be so on brand, she could slap it on a $60 T-shirt and sell it.
—Staff writer Caroline A. Tsai can be reached at caroline.tsai@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @carolinetsai3.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
In the early morning hours of April 10, 1969, several hundred Harvard affiliates huddled inside University Hall while some 400 police officers assembled outside, prepared to storm the building.
Former Graduate School of Arts and Sciences student Susan Schwartz Jhirad ’64 said she and other students were “rather scared” inside the building they had occupied.
“We were quite nervous,” she said. “We knew we were going to be arrested. That wasn't the question.”
Several minutes after 5 a.m., armed with riot shields, billy clubs, and mace, the police rushed through the doors of University Hall and forcibly removed demonstrators from the premises.
The brief but violent clash resulted in between 250 and 300 arrests. Approximately 75 demonstrators and police officers suffered injuries. Arrested Harvard affiliates were rushed straight to district courts as protestors in the Yard chanted “Pusey Must Go” and “Strike, Strike” in a scene that cemented itself in Harvard’s history for years to come.
The University Hall takeover was not an isolated incident, but rather the culmination of months of ramped-up student activism around local and global issues.
The Vietnam War loomed in the background of students’ lives at Harvard, according to David I. Bruck ’70 — a Crimson reporter who had been sent to cover the April occupation and raid. That anti-war sentiment permeated many of the on-campus movements at the time, he said.
“Every day was haunted by the war,” Bruck said.
In the early months of 1969, an anti-Reserve Officer Training Corps movement gained increasing traction as Students for a Democratic Society — an organization at the epicenter of much of the campus’ political action — advocated the abolition of the program at Harvard. SDS member Richard E. Hyland ’69 said the group thought the elimination of the program would have substantial effects.
“We thought if ROTC was eliminated at all college campuses across the country, that would substantially impact the number of officers that the U.S. military could recruit, and it might impact the war,” Hyland said.
The movement against ROTC — and the Vietnam War more broadly — had been brewing for months. In December 1968, more than than 100 students staged a sit-in at Paine Hall just hours before a Faculty meeting was scheduled to take place.
This demonstration forced the University to cancel the meeting, and resulted in disciplinary action to students involved. Though the Administrative Board voted to ask student protestors to withdraw from the College, the Faculty overruled that decision, instead placing 57 students on academic probation and replacing their scholarship aid with loans.
Amid rising tensions, University President Nathan M. Pusey ’28 told members of the Student Faculty Advisory Committee in March 1969 that the Harvard Corporation — the University’s highest governing body — had decided to "do everything possible to keep ROTC.” About 150 anti-ROTC students disrupted that meeting.
A month later, activists proved they had not been discouraged by Pusey’s statement. Shortly before midnight on April 9, more than 300 protesters stormed the grounds of Pusey’s home on Quincy Street.
As they marched to the president’s residence, demonstrators chanted "ROTC must go — now," and "No expansion, smash ROTC."
After some initial violent confrontation, University police officers stood down and made no further attempt to interfere with the protesters. Students tacked a list of six demands onto Pusey’s front door, which including the removal of ROTC from campus and the restoration of scholarships to the disciplined Paine Hall protesters.
Though SDS members had agreed earlier that evening to delay an occupation of University Hall, events the following day would show otherwise.
Hyland said the 24 hours following the demonstration outside Pusey’s house amounted to “what may be the most important event in Harvard history.”
On the afternoon of April 9, 1969, demonstrators organized by SDS gathered in Harvard Yard sometime around noon. Organizers read out a list of demands — identical to those tacked to Pusey’s door the night prior — to the more than 100 protesters present.
And then, with chants of “Fight, fight,” the crowd flooded into University Hall. The demonstrators then demanded that Harvard administrators remove themselves from the building. Some such as Dean of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences Franklin L. Ford and Dean of the College Fred L. Glimp Jr. ’50 left peacefully while others were forcibly removed. Administrator James E. Thomas, for example, was carried out on the shoulders of one of the participants.
At approximately 4 p.m., Ford gave an order to shut the gates to Harvard Yard, and all phone lines into the building were cut off. He also told demonstrators they would be subject to criminal trespassing charges if they stayed.
The threat did not dissuade them, as demonstrators remained in University Hall. Shortly before 5 a.m. the next morning, a student arrived to warn the demonstrators that the police were en route.
Jhirad said she felt that many professors and administrators at Harvard supported the war, which motivated the students occupying University Hall to stand their ground.
“We're going to stay here and do this and get arrested,” she said, “It was civil disobedience.”
Police officers stormed University Hall using a battering ram to break down the doors and began to beat demonstrators once inside, Bruck said.
Jhirad said police officers were “really violently clubbing heads of students.”
“There were people who went to the hospital,” she said. “There are people who jumped out of windows and broke their arms.”
Pusey said that he had reached the decision to utilize the police to retake University Hall at approximately 10 p.m. on April 9 after meeting with other other administrators, including Ford and Glimp.
"It became clear in the course of the evening that the only possible alternative [to calling in police] was to take no action at all," he told The Crimson at the time.
Bruck was among those arrested by police, despite having shown press identification.
“We were all in the same lockup at Cambridge City Jail,” he said. “But I had my one phone call, and used it to call the paper and call in a report from jail.”
Though Pusey called in state police, the University’s forces wanted nothing to do with the intervention.
Robert Tonis, chief of the University Police, made his way through the crowd “apologizing” to students and pleaded to them not to try to “confront” state troopers, The Crimson reported at the time.
"As far as University Police are concerned, we didn't want to do anything about it," Tonis told The Crimson at the time. "But they're way over our heads now.”
The clash in the Yard triggered a cascade of consequential decisions in the following days and months as 2000 students voted to initiate a three day University strike later that day on April 10.
“[The strike] showed that even at Harvard, students were willing to risk their degrees and put themselves on the line to fight against the war,” Hyland said. “In other words, on that level, the goal was to try to make the country ungovernable until the end of the war.”
Jhirad said in lieu of going to clases, people would gather outside of classes to carry on academic discussions held by teaching fellows and other progressive faculty members.
The following day, the faculty voted to drop all criminal charges against the demonstrators, instead seeking academic disciplinary actions. Those arrested, however, would still be tried for criminal trespassing in May. District Court Judge M. Edward Viola found 170 of the 174 participants to be guilty.
The Faculty also voted to strip ROTC of all privileges not held by other extracurricular activities, and the Corporation endorsed that decision the next day.
The “Committee of 15” — a group charged with handing down disciplinary consequences for students involved in the takeover — announced its decisions to remove 16 students from the University while 20 others received “suspended suspension,” and 99 were given warnings.
Hyland said the consequences students faced on campus played into a larger conversation about the Vietnam War.
“Strikers played their small role in a vast tapestry of other activities,” he said. “We were trying not just to end the war of course, but to reorient the American view of foreign policy, so that we would never again be waging stupid, imperialist wars.”
He said the University Hall occupation had a “profound effect” on Harvard itself as well.
“[The occupation] jolted it out of its sleep, and forced it to try to come to terms with what education in the modern world should be like,” Hyland said.
—Declan J. Knieriem can be reached at declan.knieriem@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter at @DeclanKnieriem.
When Joseph C. McGrath ’69 heard repeated thuds outside his freshman year dorm room, he looked out his window to investigate the source of the noise.
“There was a guy hunkering down outside the window with this piece of grass in his mouth, and he had this great big-ass knife, and he was throwing it into a circle in the tree right there in front of Phillips Brooks House,” McGrath said. “And that was Tommy Lee Jones.”
Three decades prior to winning the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor for his role in the 1993 film “The Fugitive,” Tommy Lee Jones ’69 took on several roles as a Harvard undergraduate. A Dunster House resident, Jones concentrated in English and American Literature and Language, performed on stage at the Loeb Drama Center, and played varsity football as an offensive guard.
In their recollections of Jones, his former classmates spared no superlatives — they called him “a force of nature,” “intense,” and “a very unusual character.” Theodore E. Skowronski ’69 — one of Jones’ former teammates — called Jones a “great subject.”
“Sometime, I hope, some Harvard undergraduate looking for a thesis topic would take up the life story and the movies of Tommy Lee Jones,” Skowronski said.
Originally hailing from San Saba, Texas, Jones attended the all-boys St. Mark’s School of Texas in Dallas and graduated in 1965.
Jones’ high school classmate Lee S. Smith ’69 said Jones’s interest in acting pre-dated his time at Harvard. In their senior year, the pair acted in their school’s production of “A Man for All Seasons.”
“Of course, he had the lead role,” Lee Smith said with a chuckle.
When Jones crossed the country for his freshman fall, he moved into Mower B-12, where former United States Vice President Al Gore ’69 lived just across the hall. Gore and Jones became good friends and, later, roommates in Dunster.
“He is a great guy and a wonderful, lifelong friend,” Gore wrote in an emailed statement.
Jones — an eighth-generation Texan living in Cambridge — had distinct pride for his roots, according to his classmates.
“I would say first and foremost, he was a Texan,” Skowronski said. “He talked about working in oil fields as a roughneck, summers in college bucking broncos.”
Aside from his Texas background, Robert C. Panoff ’69 said Jones had a “very intense” personality.
“He comes across as being a quiet, almost taciturn, kind of guy,” Panoff said. “But he’s got this rumbling, guttural laugh when he actually does laugh, which is pretty funny too,” Panoff said.
Skowronski said conversations with Jones often consisted of long pauses that punctuated the conversation before Jones would make a comment that was “sort of out of context” but nevertheless “very insightful.”
“A master of non sequitur,” Skowronski joked.
Jones brought his characteristic intensity to the football field, his former teammates said.
During Jones’ time at Harvard, freshmen played on a separate football team from that of the upperclassmen. Jones joined the freshman football team his first semester alongside more than 100 other players vying for playing time. Skowronski said the two initially “butted heads” upon joining.
“We came up against each other in drills, blocking each other, competing,” Skowronski said. “But over the years, as we got to know each other, we became very, very close teammates.”
Standing at just over six feet, Jones was considered relatively undersized for his position, according to Skowronski. But McGrath noted he had the “quickest feet” on the team.
“He would do anything to complete the play, to fulfill the assignment,” Skowronski added. “He would go longer in a drill than most players.”
Jones bonded with his teammates over the years and worked out with them over the summer, according to Skowronski and Anthony M. Smith ’69, who recalled a time he and Jones did repeated sprints.
“I said, ‘Jonesy, let’s run this again.’ He said, ‘Oh, let’s not.’ I said ‘Please, let’s run it again,’” Anthony Smith said. “I should have listened to him because I pulled my hamstring, and that became a kind of injury all year.”
That fall, Jones and his teammates played in the famed 1968 Harvard-Yale Game that prompted the Crimson headline “Harvard Beats Yale 29-29.”
Former football player Stephen S. Gloyd ’69 said the team was “lucky” to have won because they had been trailing Yale. Gloyd said Jones had an “important” role in the game. According to Gloyd, Jones was on the field for the last two scores of the game.
In 2008, Kevin G. Rafferty II ’70 filmed a documentary titled “Harvard Beats Yale 29-29” that features Jones, recounting the match and recalling the players’ lives on campus at that time. Jones returned to Dunster in 2010 to present a screening of the documentary.
Skowronski said he considered himself “the luckiest guy in the world” because his last two plays — a touchdown and extra point — brought the team up to the final 29 points and solidified the team’s place in Harvard’s history for years to come.
Jones’ teammates witnessed how he juggled his roles as student, athlete, and actor throughout his time at Harvard. Many recalled the familiar sight of Jones changing into a costume at the end of practice and dashing out of the locker room for play rehearsal.
Former offensive guard Alan D. Bersin ’68 said Jones immediately rushed from “the violence of the football field to the elegance of a theatrical production” as other players retired for a typical evening of homework and sleep.
Jones performed in and directed a number of plays at the Loeb, including “Everyman” and “Coriolanus.” Former football captain Victor E. Gatto, Jr. ’69 said he would regularly watch Jones performing there with a group of teammates and their dates.
After watching “Coriolanus,” former football player Anthony M. Smith ’69 said he began to recognize Jones’ versatility in his many activities.
“I remember thinking, ‘My God, what does it take to do an academic load, play football, and act?” he said.
But Jones’ interest in the arts spanned other mediums. He joined the Signet Society — an arts and literary organization — and explored literature through his senior thesis, which focused on Catholicism in the work of Southern writer Flannery O’Connor.
Jones also took a public speaking class with fellow teammate Gerald E. Marino ’69, who described Jones’ palpable gravity when the class engaged in a “heckling debate.” Jones had arrived late from rehearsal still dressed in Shakespearean costume, Marino said.
“It was during the Vietnam War, it was during a lot of tension, it was during a lot of campus upheaval, and that debate specifically got out of hand,” Marino said. “But I remember Tommy, when he came up for his turn, he just really was able to calm things down. He has that kind of a presence about him, you know?”
Around the time of their graduation in 1969, Anthony Smith asked Jones about what he planned to do after the war. He said Jones responded with one word: “Act.”
Not long after, Jones made his movie debut in 1970 playing a Harvard student in “Love Story.”
Upon watching the film, Skowronski said he did a “triple-take” as he watched Jones appear on screen exactly how Skowronski remembered him as an undergraduate student: decked out in a “DeeHa” (Department of Harvard Athletics) sweatshirt.
Former football player Stephen S. Gloyd ’69 said he began to view Jones as a Hollywood “star” when he appeared in the 1980 film “Coal Miner’s Daughter.” Gloyd said whenever he watches Jones on the big screen, he is constantly reminded of his former teammate’s “gruff” and “brutally honest” demeanor in his college days.
Even with his fame, Lee Smith said Jones refuses to be regarded as an “idol.” Former football player Anthony Smith said he remembered once attempting to disguise Jones as they walked around Harvard Square after their graduation, even briefly considering sunglasses.
“This was the wrong actor to give sunglasses, because of ‘Men in Black.’” he said, referencing Jones’ role in the 1997 film.
The Oscar-winning actor has been recognized both globally and at Harvard for his distinguished career. In 2012, former University Drew G. Faust awarded him the Harvard Arts Medal — an award given annually to alumni of Harvard or Radcliffe for their achievements in the arts.
“I believe my experience here was the best thing that happened to my creative life,” Jones said at the ceremony. “For that, I will be grateful as long as I live.”
Jones has returned to Harvard often since graduating. He and his teammates consistently reunite every other year when Harvard hosts The Game in Cambridge. On the evening of the Game, Jones hosts dinner at the Signet for about a dozen of his former teammates, according to Skowronski.
“I don’t think he’s lost touch with common roots,” Anthony Smith said. “Even in all the money and fame.”
—Staff writer Elizabeth X. Guo can be reached at elizabeth.guo@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter at @elizabethxguo.
Though neither Harvard nor Radcliffe set a date on the books, they confirmed what had been a long time coming: a merger between the two schools would be inevitable. After much back-and-forth, Radcliffe made a public commitment in February 1969 to uniting with its neighbor in the foreseeable future.
On March 3, 1969, the Harvard Corporation — the University’s highest governing body — officially voted to begin the merging process — a decision that would end nearly a century of separation between the two institutions.
The merger came on the heels of a broader national trend toward co-education, according to Eleanor T. Hobbs ’69. Two of Harvard’s peers — Princeton University and Yale University — announced they would begin to admit women in the same year. These moves toward gender equity coincided with the rise of second-wave feminism — a movement during which women began to question traditional gender roles, Hobbs said.
The implementation of the union would involve meticulous planning. Administrators spent the months following the vote figuring out how to operate as one co-educational institution and resolve long-lasting inequities between Harvard men and Radcliffe women.
Radcliffe alumna Ruth M. Moscovitch ’69 said many conversations at her reunions today revolve around “the way [Radcliffe students] were treated back then.”
“I will tell you that a lot of time at reunions, on the part of my Radcliffe classmates, has been spent with what I would call ‘speaking bitterness,’ sort of getting it all out of our system,” Moscovitch said.
Founded in 1879, Radcliffe College opened its doors in Cambridge, branding itself as an institution dedicated to women’s education under the leadership of its first president, Elizabeth C. Agassiz. Radcliffe was then granted an official charter by the Commonwealth of Massachusetts in 1894.
The early charter seemed to hint at the inevitability of the union between Harvard and Radcliffe. The document stated that Radcliffe’s funds and property could — at any time — be passed over to Harvard, if such a move would benefit both institutions in their educational goals.
The process to achieve that mutual benefit took the form of discussions over several topics between Harvard and Radcliffe in the late 1960s and early 1970s. Much of the conversation centered on undergraduate housing, as students of both colleges pushed the administration to support coeducational residence.
Prior to the merger, women lived in dorms in the Radcliffe Quadrangle — also known as the “Quad” — while the men resided in Harvard houses alongside the Charles River in what Hobbs described as “separate but unequal housing.”
Several Radcliffe students said they were deprived of the same educational enrichment opportunities that men had outside of the classroom. Women were barred from joining the Harvard House communities, which led them to push for integration of the house system.
In Radcliffe’s early existence, classes for Radcliffe women were separate from those for Harvard men, though they were all taught by Harvard professors, according to the College’s website. In 1946, Harvard’s classes became co-ed, though Harvard faculty members were responsible for the academic training of Radcliffe students, and played no part in their social or extracurricular involvements.
Then-Radcliffe president Mary I. Bunting attempted to introduce a more vibrant house life to the school’s dormitories, but Hobbs said it still did not match up to Harvard’s house life.
“There weren't fellows and alumni and faculty living there, and there weren’t rigorous academic lunches and dinners and things like that,” Hobbs said. “It was sort of really watered down.”
Hobbs and others including Moscovitch and Judith T. Seligson ’72 said the distance from the Quad to the Yard posed significant difficulties on Radcliffe students’ daily schedules and resulting commutes. Radcliffe students were also not permitted to eat at the River houses, which were closer to the main academic buildings on campus.
Paul D. Guyer ’69 said the commute was a “pain in the neck” for female students.
“Undoubtedly, there were guys who knew and dreaded the fact that integrating the housing system meant that some Harvard guys would end up living up on Garden Street, and then they would have to do the schlepping,” Guyer said.
Beyond the commute, the separated housing made it extremely difficult to connect with students outside of their own institution, according to Seligson. Hobbs said both Harvard and Radcliffe dormitories maintained “parietals” — rules that governed visits from those of the opposite gender – that restricted men and women from spending time in each other’s residences.
Seligson said the residential arrangement was like “living a mile apart and separated.”
“We both got Harvard degrees, we were all going to school together, but it just seemed difficult to get to know each other,” Seligson said.
The student body overwhelmingly favored co-ed housing. In a December 1968 poll administered by a joint Harvard Policy Council and Radcliffe Union of Students subcommittee, 90 percent of students at Harvard and Radcliffe voted in favor of co-ed housing options in some dormitories.
Seligson said she and Jared K. Rossman ‘71 — members of the subcommittees — led the group to sponsor a petition demanding co-educational housing in February 1969.
That petition — signed by over 2,000 Harvard and Radcliffe undergraduates and presented to the Corporation — demanded that co-ed housing be a top priority and that the integration changes be made prior to the completion of an institutional merger, according to Seligson.
In 1972, men first entered into the lottery for housing in the Quad and, five years later, the two institutions achieved financial integration. The merge was not officially completed, however, until 1999, according to the College’s website.
Reflecting on the integration of the residential system, Hobbs said it was interesting to watch the men experience the inconvenience associated with the Quad Houses.
“It was the year men were assigned down to the Quadrangle that they started the shuttle system,” Hobbs said. “Isn’t that ironic? Of course, the guys couldn’t walk that far.”
Beyond housing, Radcliffe alumni like Moscovitch also said they were frustrated about how they had been routinely denied access to Harvard libraries and athletic facilities.
“The biggest example was that we were not allowed into Lamont Library,” Moscovitch said. “And if you took certain courses, the books that were on reserve for that course were all in Lamont Library.”
Hobbs — a member of Radcliffe’s swim team — said Radcliffe students were not allowed to swim in the indoor athletics facility, now known as the Malkin Athletic Center, until 1970.
“We always had to swim in the old Radcliffe pool, which was down in the yard, and it wasn’t even a standard size pool,” Hobbs said.
Moscovitch said many of these restrictions caused Radcliffe women to feel like “second class citizens.” Moscovitch noted this sentiment was heightened by the dearth of female professors at Harvard.
Marian B. Schwartz ‘73, who studied Slavic Studies, said her department would not allow female faculty to teach its literature classes.
“It was definitely a very male dominant department, a very tiny department, but male dominated,” Schwartz said.
As co-education became a legitimate future for Harvard and Radcliffe, Seligson said there were concerns regarding how the two institutions with very different traditions, student populations, and services would be integrated. In particular, these questions centered around how to navigate the four to one ratio of male to female students without lowering male acceptances or exceeding Harvard’s funding limits.
Despite the benefits of the merger, some Radcliffe women worried that uniting with Harvard would erase the history of women’s education at Radcliffe.
“A lot of women, and rightly so, didn’t want to relinquish Radcliffe identity,” Seligson said.
In particular, Ellen Messer ‘70 — the then-president of the Radcliffe Union of Students — said she hoped that the merge would not lead the Radcliffe students to “submerge” and lose their input into institutional processes at the school.
“This was the aspect of Radcliffe you would now say had a comparative advantage, that it had actually developed the institutions where students talked to administrators, we talked to the Radcliffe Counsel, we talked to the Board of Trustees on issues that were relevant to student life,” Messer said. “We were way ahead of Harvard in that respect.”
As for Radcliffe itself, the institution’s legacy now lives at the Radcliffe Institute of Advanced Study — an institution dedicated to “creating and sharing transformative ideas across the arts, humanities, sciences, and social sciences,” according to its website.
Schwartz called the merge “one of the best things Harvard could have done.”
“It just lifted all kinds of tension and conflict,” she said. “And it made us more like normal human beings, rather than having this artificial separation, which was pretty severe.”
—Staff writer Katelyn X. Li can be reached at katelyn.li@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @KatelynLi2
On the morning of November 24, 1968, the day after the annual Harvard-Yale football game, The Crimson distributed newspapers emblazoned with a headline that would later become nearly as iconic as the ritual itself: “HARVARD BEATS YALE 29-29.”
The headline was, clearly, inaccurate. Harvard had simply tied Yale 29-29 in the fourth quarter. But according to William M. “Bill” Kutik ’70, one of the Crimson editors credited with running the headline, there was a general consensus that Harvard had won in spirit.
“The headline perfectly captured the emotional sense of the game,” Kutik said. “Even though it wasn't true in fact, it was true in feeling.”
“The first 59 minutes were actually kind of a boring game,” said former tight-end John F. Cramer III ’70. “Yale ground down ahead and had this apparently insurmountable lead. And then there's the last minute.”
Harvard was facing off against a Yale team that included running-back Calvin G. Hill, soon-to-be drafted into the NFL and voted “Rookie of the Year” a year later. Though Harvard was emerging from an undefeated season, Yale was the favorite, according to Cramer. In the fourth quarter, the Bulldogs held a substantial lead: the scoreboard read 29-13. Yale’s victory seemed set in stone.
The tenor in the stadium changed, however, when Frank K. Champi ’70 threw a pass to right-end Bruce M. Freeman ’71 in the final minute of the game. Freeman took the ball to the endzone. And Harvard topped off this game-changing touchdown with a subsequent tw0-point conversion.
“I mean, who's ever scored 16 points in 42 seconds of a football game?” Kutik said.
Fifty years later, Freeman still remembered the moment well. “[Champi] threw a perfect pass. I didn't even run into the end zone. I sort of jogged and thought, ‘That was easy,’” he said.
Freeman attributed his ability to perform under this pressure of near-definite impending loss to “relentless preparation” and good coaching.
“I was never really worried I was going to forget a block,” he said. “It didn’t occur to me that I might drop a pass. No nervousness when you're really well prepared.”
While players managed to maintain their composure, the crowd exploded, Carner said.
“The atmosphere became very charged at that point. Even though it was unlikely, there was a possibility,” he said. “In order for the outcome to occur, as it did, probably 10 or 15 things happened that all had to go Harvard's way. So it's kind of like, if you flip a coin 15 times and it comes up heads every time”
That near impossibility became reality when Harvard scored yet another touchdown and Richard F. “Pete” Varney ’71 scored a two-point conversion.
Former Crimson editor Peter D. Lennon ’70 had been assigned to cover the game and said he had sought to reflect the enthusiasm of the stadium in the story for the paper’s readers.
“At some point, I went from trying to be a reporter, and stay focused and calm, to being a fan,” Lennon recalled. “So at some point during those 42 seconds, which seemed like the longest 42 seconds I had in my young life experience at that point, I just knew we were going to win.”
“I'll tell you, everyone on the Harvard side felt like they had won,” Kutik explained.
That Saturday afternoon, The Crimson distributed a one page extra, which included a play-by-play description of the game. Kutick said because everyone already knew the factual score by Sunday, The Crimson felt it could be more creative with its reporting for the Monday paper.
The iconic headline was a team effort, according to reporters. Former Crimson President James M. Fallows ’70 said Timothy G. Carlson ’71, another former Crimson editor, had first suggested the headline.
While reviewing the paper that Sunday night, then-production supervisor Pat R. Sorrento and former Crimson editor William C. “Bill” Bryson ’67 initially protested the headline because it was not factually accurate. But neither Sorrento nor Bryson had attended the game and Kutik eventually convinced them to give the headline a green light by describing the events of that day’s game.
“Two half-minutes before the game ended, Yalies were unspooling rolls of toilet paper from their side of the stadium, and cheering and screaming because they knew for sure that they had won the game,” Kutik said he remembered telling them. “And then when those unbelievable 16 points were scored in the last forty two seconds, emotionally, they all felt they had lost.”
Convinced, Sorrento and Bryson gave the go-ahead to print the headline. Bryson proclaimed: “Run it!”
The following morning, Kutik said he recalled Harvard students cheering in Adams House as they read the newspaper at breakfast. Later that week, The Boston Globe named the title as the headline of the year, he added.
“People loved it,” he said. “Even those who hadn't been at the game loved it because it was just so oxymoronic in some ways but yet so true.”
The players loved the headline, too. Punter Gary L. Singleterry ’70 called the headline “absolutely brilliant.”
It could not have been more perfect to describe what actually happened on the field,” Singleterry said. “For Yale, emotionally, it was a loss. For Harvard, emotionally, it was a huge win. And yet, it was a tie.”
—Staff writer Isabel L. Isselbacher can be reached at isabel.isselbacher@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @IsabelLarkin.
—Staff writer Samantha J. O’Connell can be reached at sam.o’connell@thecrimson.com.
The rise of protest in 1968 and 1969 gave way not only to a landmark moment for student activism at Harvard, but also to the birth of new campus publications. The Harvard Crimson — the University’s independent daily newspaper — leaned increasingly left as highly political protests ramped up on campus, prompting the rise of alternative media outlets.
Among these outlets were the Harvard Independent and the Harvard Political Review — two student-run publications founded that academic year — and the Harvard Gazette, a publication overseen by the University’s public affairs department.
Former Crimson President James M. Fallows ’70 said The Crimson gained the reputation of being “kind of lefty” in these years. He said it was “natural” for other outlets to pop up as Harvard affiliates criticized the paper’s coverage.
Former Crimson editor Carol R. Sternhell ’71 said The Crimson had not been completely objective in its editorial decisions at the time, citing specifically the paper’s coverage of the April 1969 occupation and raid on University Hall by student protestors. Coverage of the protests — both on the news and editorial sides of the paper — heavily featured anti-administration perspectives, Sternhell said.
“If you believe journalism should be neutral, we definitely crossed that line,” Sternhell said. “I don’t remember if we ever ran a column saying why the occupation was a bad idea. We probably should’ve.”
The fall of 1968 was a time of “extreme turmoil” both domestically and internationally, Fallows said, referencing the Vietnam War and campus protests, among other events.
Eric Redman ’70 — a former Crimson editor and Independent writer — said that Harvard’s campus was “extremely, highly politicized.”
“We had the police clubbing students. It was just a really, really politicized time, with a lot of bitter divisions on the campus,” Redman said.
Redman said The Crimson had been perceived initially as “too centered.”
“The academic year didn’t start out with the campus very radicalized. But as things went on and things occurred, it got radical pretty fast,” Redman said. “People were upset with The Crimson — they thought it was stuck in its old ways and not responding to the situation.”
Redman said the paper “tried to accommodate that [criticism]” by representing more left-leaning perspectives. “It would have been left behind, had it not veered to the left,” he added.
Sternhell said the paper’s coverage was less a response to perceived unpopularity and more so motivated by an urgent sense of responsibility.
“I remember feeling that if we didn’t stop this war, our children would ask us one day... ‘What did you do at this terrible time? Were you complicit?’” she said. “We were messianic about what was going on in the country. It wasn’t a game.”
Yet Fallows said The Crimson might have only appeared leftist to administrators and alumni. He said while the paper’s staff all opposed the Vietnam War and former United States President Lyndon B. Johnson, they did not want to take down the building for Reserve Officer Training Corps or the Center of International Affairs.
“The Crimson was — I don’t know whether it was to the left of students in general —but it was certainly to the left of the administration and to some alums,” Fallows said.
At the beginning of his presidential tenure in spring 1969, Fallows said a group called “Alumni of The Crimson and University” and the administration collaborated in efforts to rein in the paper.
In response, The Crimson assembled its own coterie of alumni — many of whom had established careers in journalism — to defend current undergraduates in order to keep the paper separate from administrative control, Fallows said. Though the effort to protect The Crimson was successful, disgruntled administration and students alike turned to other sources.
“We rallied to the graduate board to call for some alums who were in journalism to defend the students, with all the excess that students usually have,” Fallows said. “The Crimson remained student controlled, but also these other organizations arose.”
The first issue of The Harvard Independent ran on October 9, 1968, and the newly formed weekly newspaper dedicated itself to more long-form pieces from student writers than the Crimson’s daily cycle allowed for.
In its founding issue, Independent president Morris B. Abram Jr. ’71 published a letter that stated the paper had been formed to fill a “vacuum” in campus discourse and was committed to expressing “differing opinions” and covering issues with a “maximum attention to fairness and clarity.”
Former Managing Editor of The Independent Richard D. Paisner ’70, also a former Crimson editor, said the “key point” of the weekly paper was its “Counterpoint” feature — articles where two or three dissenting authors would be featured in the same piece covering the same issues.
“If you had a controversial issue, you saw multiple views of that issue. And I would say if there was a criticism of The Crimson it was that there were not multiple views, there was a right answer,” Paisner said.
Paisner said The Independent succeeded primarily because it cultivated an entirely different kind of journalism than The Crimson’s daily reporting through its more lengthy pieces.
“There was a big market in the Harvard student body for issues that deserved long thinking about and writing about,” Paisner said. “That’s the market that The Independent blundered into.”
Redman said the Independent’s conception had little to no negative impact on The Crimson.
“When The Independent started, there was more excitement about the fact that somebody had started something to the right of The Crimson than there was about anything that was in The Independent,” Redman said.
“It was something we weren’t used to seeing, but, you know, it’s a big, diverse world,” Fallows said.
Redman said though the Independent — which continues to publish weekly — was right of The Crimson, it was not a right-leaning or conservative paper.
“I would never include the word ‘right’ in The Independent,” Redman said. “All we had at Harvard was degrees of left,” Redman said. “There was really extreme left, where you would put The Crimson, then you had left, and then there was center left, which was where The Independent was.”
Meanwhile, the Harvard Gazette underwent a face lift. The Gazette — founded in 1906 — originally published a weekly calendar of events and notices.
In September 1968, the administration rolled out its inaugural newspaper version of the publication overseen by the University’s public relations department. The publishes — which still posts daily — featured stories about Harvard and its students.
Fallows said he remained unphased by the expansion.
“I think students today don’t look at The Gazette. Students then didn’t look at The Gazette,” he said.
In April 1969, another student publication cropped up: The Harvard Political Review. HPR — founded just days before the infamous occupation of University Hall — featured political essays and was run out of the Institute of Politics at the Harvard Kennedy School.
HPR contributor Bruce C. Vladeck ’70 said the journal was the product of the newly formed IOP’s soul-searching, as the institute had been founded just three years prior.
“This was an idea somebody had to give [the IOP] a purpose, to give it a useful function,” Vladeck said.
HPR’s founding president Andrew S. Effron ’70 said he had been a member of the Student Advisory Committee at the IOP prior to establishing the journal. In a 2016 interview with the HPR, Effron said members of SAC provided feedback and recommendations to expand the IOP’s undergraduate offerings to the Kennedy School.
Effron said he asked many of his friends to write for the first edition. That edition included an essay from former United Students Vice President Al Gore ’69 when he was a student, according to Vladek.
“One of the things I remember was that one of the leading articles in our first issue was by Al Gore, and everyone was all excited that he was doing this article,” Vladeck said.
Effron said the journal was able to tap into the student discourse on wider political issues at the time such as the Vietnam War, conscription, civil rights, and the electoral campaigns of 1968 and 1970. He said this more nationally focused angle distinguished the HPR from The Crimson.
“We sought to provide a forum for articles addressing political issues at the local and national level,” Effron said. “[The Crimson] frequently addressed political issues, but as a college newspaper, it focused primarily on internal campus matters.”
On the other hand, Vladeck recalls that the publication of the HPR felt separated from The Crimson and later publications like The Independent.
“It seemed to occupy a parallel universe,” he said.
—Luke A. Williams can be reached at luke.williams@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @LukeAWilliams22.
This past November, Lee A. Daniels ’71, traveled with his 14-year-old nephew to Cambridge to attend the Harvard-Yale Football Game. Harvard’s football team emerged victorious, but Daniels said he remembers the weekend for another reason.
The day before the Game, Daniels — a former Crimson editor — took his nephew to visit the Department of African and African American Studies on the second floor of the Barker Center. Though the department was closed that Friday afternoon, the in-person visit nevertheless held a special significance for him.
For the majority of Daniels’ undergraduate experience, the AAAS Department — founded in 1969 — had simply been a hope for many students. But now, the department stands as the “product of the resistance” both from within and outside Harvard, Daniels said.
“Back then, we were — that is, those students who were pushing for Black Studies Department — castigated as being radical, being not serious about the academic experience,” Daniels said.
Jeffrey P. Howard ’69 said the creation of Afro-American Studies was a long time coming at the University.
“It was clearly an idea whose time had come,” Howard said.
Though it is now referred to as AAAS, the department has undergone a series of name changes, including Afro-American Studies and Afro Studies since its inception.
The surge in demands for a department had begun in April 1968 when, in the wake of Martin Luther King Jr.’s assassination, the Harvard-Radcliffe Association for African and Afro-American Students had published their “Four Demands” in an advertisement in The Crimson. Among these demands was the development of more courses pertaining to black students at the University, an endowed chair for a black professor, and increased hiring for lower level black faculty.
That same month, the Ad Hoc Committee of Black Students, of which Howard was a member, had been established to facilitate the conversation surrounding what form African American studies should take at Harvard.
“The debate at the time was whether it should be a department or a committee,” Howard said. “We in our youth and enthusiasm felt strongly it should be a department.”
Some faculty members, however, advised against the creation of a full-fledged department. In January 1969, the Faculty Committee on African and Afro-American Studies recommended to then-Dean of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences Franklin L. Ford that a Center for Afro-American Studies be established, in lieu of a department.
Per the report’s recommendations, the faculty agreed to establish a degree-granting program — which would function as a center and not as a department — in African American Studies.
Despite this, black students continued to advocate for a department. They demanded that black students be given a direct role in creating the program, whether that be through developing the curriculum or helping to select faculty members.
In 1969, the Students for a Democratic Society — an organization at the epicenter of much of the campus’s political action — backed the demands of black student activists. The SDS incorporated black students’ demand for a department as one of its own initiatives, resulting in joint political demonstrations throughout that April.
Myles V. Lynk ’70 – a member of standing committee on Afro-American Studies — galvanized African American students who were engaged in the strike effort. He was selected to speak at the SDS stadium rally at Soldiers Field on April 15, 1969, to petition the University for change.
“Speaking for me, I think the sense was that you were walking on air, that everything was uncharted, that it was new, and there was no script,” he said, reflecting on the precipitous time of unrest.
Lynk recalled that the confluence of the assassinations of King and Robert F. Kennedy with the Vietnam War gave rise to an unsettled, politically charged energy on Harvard’s campus.
“It was a time of great ferment and uncertainty and hope and aspirations,” Lynk added.
A week after the Soldiers Field rally, the faculty acquiesced to students’ demands and voted not only to establish Afro-American Studies as a department, but also to give students a role in its development.
When the department was finally voted upon, Daniels said he felt that it was “long overdue.”
“It was the beginning of a new stage of black history at Harvard,” Daniels said.
Daniels said AAAS stands as a veritable “academic powerhouse” at Harvard since its inception in the late 1960s.
“We're owed a big apology from those people who said Black Studies programs would never amount to anything,” Daniels said.
In 1970, the AAAS department rolled out its inaugural set of 25 course offerings. In the 2018-2019 academic year, the number of courses listed has climbed to more than 200.
“It's far beyond what we expected,” Daniels said. “You look at the variety of offerings at the department — not only in African American studies but in African studies — and you see how wrong the critics were that said there was not something there that was worthy of scholarly attention.”
Former Dean of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences Henry A. Rosovsky — who also chaired the Faculty Committee on African and Afro-American Studies — initially preferred that AAAS be a committee over a department. In an interview last week, he said the department has become a “tremendous success.”
“It was not easy in the beginning. It was difficult to find leadership; it was born at a time of tremendous internal dissent and problems,” Rosovsky said. “But I very much believe in the subject. I believe in the vision.”
Rosovsky said he believed some opposition to the foundation of Afro-American Studies stemmed from beliefs that the field would become a “political accommodation” amidst the racial turmoil in the 1960s.
“But I think the department, by its intellectual achievement and strengths, convinced everybody that this was not simply a political issue,” he said. “On the contrary, it was really a major intellectual subject.”
Sebastian Jackson, a current Ph.D. candidate in the AAAS department, said the department’s development at Harvard has been a “very validating” experience. Jackson said he thinks the department does “get a lot of respect” from the University in comparison to how the field is treated elsewhere.
“One of the reasons why I wanted to come to Harvard was because it was quite clear that, at most top universities in the United States, Africana Studies and African American Studies are still very much ghettoized and not really taken seriously among the other departments,” Jackson said.
Ibrahim Ibrahim ’22, who enrolled in African and African American Studies 10: “Introduction to African American Studies” this past spring, noted that the AAAS department is sometimes perceived as less respected than other departments
“It seems like, because of the nature of how these kinds of questions are perceived, or these issues are perceived, they aren't seen as like deep academic.”
Even so, Ibrahim spoke highly of his experience in the course and the department as a whole.
“I definitely felt like I was growing as an intellectual,” he said “It’s like a journey and we’re all doing it together.”
—Staff writer Isabel L. Isselbacher can be reached at isabel.isselbacher@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @IsabelLarkin.
Though Harvard single-gender social organizations currently face penalties should they refuse to go co-ed, the Fly Club once flirted with the possibility of going co-ed on its own volition in September 1993.
On Sept. 30 of that year, The Fly’s undergraduate members voted overwhelmingly in favor a proposal to accept women into its ranks. Passing by a 28-0 vote with one abstention, the proposal then made its way to the club’s graduate board to approve the club’s resolution to admit female members in its 1993 fall punch.
The move would have made the Fly Club the first of campus’s nine all-male clubs to open its doors to non-male members. Though initially approved that fall, the club backtracked in 1994 and remained an all-male organization — as it still is today.
The Fly’s short-lived decision to go co-ed took place against a backdrop of resistance to the final clubs’ single-gender policies. These efforts amounted to a petition for a boycott of final clubs social events spearheaded by activist group Women Appealing for Change.
Ten days prior to the Fly’s vote, WAC purchased a half-page ad in The Crimson, which read in capitalized, bold-faced letters: “It is time to think.”
“If you are a woman and you attend Final Clubs, STOP. Every time you attend a club or attend a club function, you are promoting a social establishment that is inherently biased against you,” the ad read.
Then-Fly Club President Scott B. Logan ’94 said in September 1993 that external pressures such as the petition were not responsible for the Fly’s vote to open its doors to women.
"I think the boycott had the reverse effect," Logan said. "The last thing we wanted is to be forced to go co-ed. We wanted to do it for the right reasons, because it would make the club a better place and because it is the morally and philosophically right thing to do."
Fly Club graduate member Evan W. Thomas III ’73 told The Crimson at the time of the undergraduate vote that he expected the graduate board to uphold the vote.
"Even if some graduates would rather that the club did not admit women because it was single sex when we were there, I believe that they will still defer to the undergraduate's wishes," Thomas said at the time.
In October 1993, the graduate board did uphold the vote, but decided that the new policy should go into effect the subsequent fall so that the 1993 inductees could have a say. The graduate board prepared for the switch by forming a committee to review structural changes and alterations that might need to be made for a co-ed group.
The following year, however, the club could not reach a consensus on the matter. Despite spending the past year preparing for the change, the group ultimately chose to keep the policy as it had always been — single gender, all-male.
“This year's punching season will begin in early October and select the 158th class of Fly Club members, and, as it has been since 1836, they will all be male,” the club announced in a 1994 statement.
WAC condemned the Fly Club’s shift with a letter to the editor in the Crimson.
“This decision is an embarrassment to the student body and the alumni of Harvard-Radcliffe and undermines the values which Harvard is supposed to represent,” the group wrote.
The Fly Club’s decisions in 1993 and 1994 took place amidst frequent criticisms of perceived insufficiencies in University-wide female social spaces.
Maura H. Swan ’94 — co-president of the feminist organization Radcliffe Union of Students — wrote in an email that opportunities for social life were “lacking” at Harvard across gender lines.
“Women did not belong to final clubs, and many men were also not members. In addition, a solid number of women chose not to attend final club parties if they were invited,” Swan said. “The lack of opportunities to socialize was especially acute for those students who were underage and could not go to local bars or dance clubs.”
By 1994, several women’s groups had tried to establish a foothold on campus. While some remain to the present, others quickly disassembled. In 1984, Theresa A. Amato ’86 founded the Athena Society as a place for women to meet other women who they might not typically meet.
Yet the Athena Society, which was open to all genders as part of a nondiscrimination policy, eventually disintegrated. In 1991, The Bee, the first all-female Final Club, grew out of its ashes.
Sororities began to gain ground on campus. In 1993, Kappa Alpha Theta became the first female Greek organization to start a branch at Harvard. The following year, Delta Gamma opened a Harvard chapter and the Lynx Club was founded by Nicole Jampol '94.
Margaret Isa Butler ’96 — one of the first members of Delta Gamma — said she wanted women’s clubs to exist at Harvard because she valued “female friendship.”
“The reason women had to go with sororities — or some women did — was really just finances and infrastructure,” she said.
She noted that final clubs like The Fly had alumni boards and real estate to support their undergraduate membership.
“A group of women coming together for the first time could not compete with that, so the national sororities were able to help, right?” Butler said. “It was a source of support as we tried to launch something.”
Yet there were challenges that accompanied being a new social organization, Butler said, calling her sorority a “blip on the radar” for students on campus.
“We were not a huge part of the social scene, we were women trying to figure it out — trying to figure it out with the help of our women friends,” she said.
The demand for all-female organizations only increased in future years. The Seneca opened in 1999 as a social space for discussing women’s issues. The Bee gained 57 members by the turn of the century.
Even the women’s social groups that managed to stay afloat were not necessarily successful in everyone’s eyes.
In 1993, the WAC wrote that all-female groups were “not an alternative consistent with our broader aims of fostering a more healthy, sensitive, and integrated social environment, based on inclusion rather than exclusion.”
Butler said though she wanted more social spaces for women, she never expected all-male final clubs to make the switch to co-ed
“It never occurred to us that the final clubs would go co-ed,” Butler said. “We were in a mindset back then that single gender organizations are legitimate, so we just wanted to have women’s single sex organizations as well.”
Swan said she and other members of RUS were interested in a wider conversation about male final clubs — one that focused more on women’s safety in those spaces rather than their membership policies.
“My recollection is that we thought trying to integrate or abolish clubs would be a less effective strategy than changing the hearts and minds of those students who might potentially join the club,” she wrote.
RUS voiced opposition through the sale of baseball caps that read “FCS” — a thinly-veiled acronym for “Final Clubs Suck,” Swan said. She added that the hats became a symbol on campus for opposition toward the final clubs.
Though Swan said she never approached the administration about the issue, she added that RUS joined in the effort to create social alternatives to final clubs, hosting a dance open to all genders.
In the last 25 years, the social scene for women at Harvard has expanded, though single-gender organizations are subject to the University’s sanctions, which took effect with the Class of 2021.
The sanctions — announced in May 2016 — bar members of single-gender final clubs and Greek organizations from holding campus leadership positions, varsity team athletic captaincies, and from receiving College endorsement for prestigious fellowships like the Rhodes.
As of May 2019, 14 clubs are open to all genders, though many of these were single-gender until this academic year. Six all-male final clubs — including the Fly — still only admit men.
Though no formal penalties existed in 1994, WAC’s boycott marked a student-led effort to speak out against — and potentially change — final clubs on Harvard’s campus, according to Alexandra G. Guisinger ’94.
Guisinger said though she made sure to uphold the boycott by turning down invitations to final club parties, she did not experience a lack of social opportunities and was able to “just ignore” the clubs.
“I found that I had plenty of other opportunities where people didn’t feel like they needed to exclude on gender, on social class, or on any other metric,” she said. “I just hung out with those people, and there were enough of them to make the social scene nice.”
—Staff writer Rebecca S. Araten can be reached at rebecca.araten@thecrimson.com.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
In May 1994, Dunster House was home to controversy among several members of its tutor staff, who charged the House leadership had engaged in biased hiring practices, leading to a stifling climate in the House.
Eight Dunster tutors accused then-senior tutor Vincent W. Li ’87 — a Harvard Medical School student — of inappropriately influencing Dunster House Faculty Dean, formerly known as House Master, Karel F. Liem to hire Li’s brother, girlfriend, and two of his childhood friends as tutors.
The tutors at first only spoke to The Crimson under conditions of anonymity, fearing retaliation from Li. They charged that Li had been present for the interviews of many of his family and his friends. Moreover, the tutors questioned why Li’s close friend had been hired in 1991 despite being ranked last by the House’s student interviewers.
Students in the House did not take this news lightly. Dunster resident Ted G. Rose ’94 revived Dunster Students for Free Expression — a club established two years prior in the midst of another free speech controversy — to speak out against Li.
“I just remember that we wanted to make sure that the other tutors weren’t getting railroaded,” Rose said.
In March 1993, Liem reportedly held a meeting where he told tutors he could not work with people who “did not trust” him. Many tutors said they interpreted this as a threat. Former Dunster House tutor Sophie A. Volpp ’85, for example, said Liem threatened to fire her for speaking to The Crimson.
In September 1993, Li and his brother, William W. Li ’84, decided to turn to the law to resolve the situation. The pair sent letters to six different House tutors threatening to sue them for libel if the tutors publicly alleged improper conduct. In response, Volpp eventually resigned two weeks later, citing the letter as her reasoning.
“I think it was a little bit shocking to have that kind of aggressive, legalistic action in our small little community,” Rose said.
At Dunster, the Li brothers co-chaired the House’s pre-med committee — a group that reviews student’s medical school applications — which raised concerns among students. Dunster Students for Free Expression called for a third committee chair in order to mediate fears among House affiliates for making any public oppositional statements, among other demands.
“It’s a far more innocent time, you wonder whether that kind of threatening behavior can actually go somewhere,” Rose said. “I just remember that the question was hanging in the air, right?”
During this period, three tutors — including Volpp — resigned, directly citing the scandal as one of the central reasons for their resignation. Nine tutors in total did not return to Dunster the following year.
Rose said Dunster Students for Free Expression met with Liem so that it could serve as a “vehicle for students to come together” and voice their concerns.
“People were keenly interested in making sure that bullying tactics weren’t going to carry the day,” Rose added.
Victor Chiu ‘95, who served as co-chair of the House committee, said he remembered Dunster to be a “very open, liberal environment,” though he noted he had only a “vague recollection” of the series of events among tutors.
“People were free to form any protest organization or any organization to do whatever they wanted,” Chiu said.
Liem directed the Lis to withdraw the letters in October 1993. Liem took responsibility for the increased tension in the house and formally apologized for his conduct, though he noted he had not known about the letters prior to their being sent.
"I want to appeal to the students to look forward, and I will work together to find a fairer system of appointing and evaluating tutors," Liem said at the time.
Throughout the ordeal, he defended Vincent Li against the original charges of improperly influencing the hiring process, claiming that there had been no “wrongdoing” and instead calling the situation a “miscommunication.”
With the potential for lawsuits now out of the picture, Liem refocused on revising tutor hiring processes in the House. Among these revisions included amendments to the pre-med advisory committee that required Liem and another senior tutor to review applications and increased transparency between students, tutors, and administrators, Liem announced at an October meeting with House affiliates.
In June 1994, a University committee found the Lis guilty of harassment and called on the tutors to “desist the behavior.” Li told The Crimson that the tutors alleging harassment were “charlatans and amoral,” who “have no business being at Harvard.” Liem said the committee’s report only found Vincent Li guilty of being “unwise.”
The following academic year, Dunster seemed to have moved on, Rose said. Karel and Hetty Liem were re-hired as faculty deans, though their contract was renewed for two years instead of the typical five. Rose said he believed the House’s administration took the right approach to remedying the issue.
“That’s why repairing transgressions is to important, and why 25 years later, it can be hardly a memory in that sense, because the repair occurred,” Rose concluded.
Neither of the Lis responded to a request for comment for this story. Liem died in 2009.
—Staff writer Anna Kate E. Cannon can be reached at anna.cannon@thecrimson.com Follow her on Twitter @ae_cannon.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Flyby Blog is proud to present the first-ever annual Commencement issue! Students can check out this issue of Flyby for pieces about life post-Harvard, commencement how-to's, throwbacks, and interviews with seniors about their time at Harvard. We'll be posting one category of content each day!
5/27 — The Time of Your Life: To finish off the Flyby commencement issue, we're giving you senior and tutor interviews reflecting on your time at Harvard! So! Many! Feels!
5/24 — Throwbacks: Today we're throwing it back to your freshman year! Check out the Flyby commencement issue for a playlist taking seniors back to their freshman year and fun pieces reminding you of what's different and what's stayed the same since then!
5/23 — How to Post-Harvard: What — you might ask — about life after Harvard and commencement? Flyby is here to help with some content specifically tailer to help you in the ultimate post-Harvard how-to!
5/22 — How to Commencement: Today is all about commencement how-tos! Check out our writers takes on the weirdest senior sale items they found, a commencement-time bucket list, and some do's and don'ts for commencement!
Sections
By Linda Lee
In honor of Commencement season, Flyby went to Quincy Courtyard to talk to Harvard seniors about what they'll miss the most about Harvard. Beware — the responses are so wholesome you might just burst!
