News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered


At first glance, the beginning of “You” appears to be pretty cute. An aspiring young writer walks into cozy, independent bookstore in New York City searching for her next read, only to bump into the cute (like, very cute) bookstore manager who has been eyeing her since she walked in. They flirt — a pseudo-intellectual banter found only in TV shows and John Green novels — then exchange names over a credit card receipt, and part ways.
This scene, the first five minutes of Netflix’s 10-part television series “You,” is about as innocent as it gets as the initial meet-cute evolves into a much darker and thus more engaging tale. This series takes the cultural trope of boy-meets-girl and successfully turns it on its head by revealing the dangerous underlying obsession behind a contrived relationship.
The aforementioned bookstore manager, Joe Goldberg (Penn Badgley), goes home and proceeds to stalk his newfound crush, Guinevere Beck (Elizabeth Lail), on social media. He narrates his journey through her Instagram, Facebook, Twitter, and Tumblr pages. He pieces together what he assumes to be her story. “Every account set to public,” he says, “You want to be seen, heard, known.” A little insulted that she didn’t post about their encounter, he rationalizes, “I realized your online life isn’t real. If anything, the fact that you didn’t share me with your followers only confirms we really connected.”
When Beck takes classes, eats with her friends, and undresses in her bedroom, Joe is there — out of sight, head ducked down, baseball cap on, hands in coat pockets — driven by an omnipotent and narcissistic belief that only he can bring out the real Beck, that only he can fix her life. Ultimately, Joe succeeds, winning her over with, yes, his looks and charm, but also with classic grand romantic gestures — kidnapping her ex-boyfriend, eliminating her friends, and cosplaying as a Victorian author, to name a few.
It’s these psychotic elements that disrupt the classic romance drama vibes of shows like “Riverdale” (which shares the same executive producer, Greg Berlanti) and “Gossip Girl’ (in which Penn Badgley plays another, albeit more subdued, love interest). They are a welcome disruption, one that allows the show to preserve romantic drama viewers while attracting a new, more thrill-seeking, audience.
“You,” released by Netflix in late December (but actually produced by and originally distributed on Lifetime months earlier) also remains topical, not only through floating text bubbles and shots of Facebook posts, but also by exploring themes like domestic abuse, sexual harassment in academia, and toxic masculinity. Penn Badgley delivers a nuanced performance as a character who is emblematic of toxic masculinity — one who struggles, and fails, to recognize that his “protective action” are both menacing and problematic.
And yet he still manages to be sympathetic. During one scene, Joe is snooping around Beck’s apartment and hears her come home, then he hides in the shower. As she comes tantalizingly close to discovering him in his hiding spot, one cannot help but hold your breath for him and hope he does not get caught.
That’s what makes the show so interesting: its deception. Joe isn’t the usual calculated criminal mastermind. He’s impulsive, inexperienced, and unprepared for the drastic measures he takes to infiltrate himself into Beck's life. “How exactly does one get rid of a body?” he wonders at one point. “I can’t just Google this thing without creating a pretty damning evidence trail.” Most of the time, he’s just a pretty nice guy. Take his mentor-like relationship with young Paco (Luca Padovan), his neighbor’s son who often takes refuge in the hallway from the yelling, arguing, and bed-creaking produced by his mom and her abusive boyfriend. Joe feeds him, gives him books to read, and shares rare book-restoring advice: “The most valuable things in life are usually the most helpless. So they need people like us to protect them.”
So who is Joe? Is he truly compassionate, or is he simply a psychopath beyond understanding?
“Beck, I love you,” Joe says, “and loving someone means you will do anything for them.” This is Joe’s mantra. He repeats it every episode, after every thrown punch or pulled trigger. He is a character who has convinced himself that he knows what’s best for Beck, that what he is doing is justified — and in turn, hopes to convince viewers of the same.
Though “You” focuses on psychopathy, books, social media in the modern age, and the personas that accompany it, it is ultimately a show about toxic masculinity. It’s a show that captures what happens when guys “know” best, when mansplaining turns into manslaughter, and when arrogance, paranoia, and a desire for control are taken to the extreme.
“What’s chivalry?” Paco asks Joe in episode two.
“It's treating people with respect. Especially women, like men should.” After watching the show, one hopes this version of chivalry is dead.

—Staff writer Kalos K. Chu can be reached at kalos.chu@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
“I thought we were selfish and play in a manner that’s not deserving of this program,” said coach Tommy Amaker in a terse postgame conference.
A night after winning a triple-overtime thriller that made national headlines, the Crimson appeared well on its way to earning a weekend sweep and improving to 5-1 in Ivy play. But after charging to a 15-point lead heading into the last three minutes of the first frame, Harvard (11-8, 4-2 Ivy) collapsed in the second half — being outscored 46-27.
The Crimson’s 61-67 defeat came largely with Big Red star sharpshooter Matt Morgan silenced for much of the night, especially from deep. Morgan tallied 15 points to conclude the game, largely due to a late spurt of free throws. But the Ivy-leading scorer took just five attempts from three, converting on one.
Instead it was a contribution of role players on the Cornell team — led by a second-half streak of triples from sophomore Jimmy Boeheim and junior Josh Warren — that pushed the Big Red(12-10, 4-2) over the edge. One final triple from sophomore Terrance McBride proved to be a dagger, as it extended a narrow Cornell lead to four with 33 seconds remaining.
On the offensive end, the Crimson shot a respectable 51.2 percent from the field but accumulated 24 giveaways in an altogether-messy outing. The first seven minutes of the contests saw both teams combine for eight turnovers, which turned into an omen for the rest of this contest.
“Hunting for your shot, rather than one of our principles of letting the shot find you,” said junior guard Christian Juzang when asked to elaborate on Amaker’s reference to selfishness.
Although Coach Amaker emphasized that junior guard Justin Bassey’s absence Saturday night due to minor bruises was “not an excuse”, there was a clear gap in the Harvard defense throughout the night. Furthermore, junior Bryce Aiken was all but shut down in the second frame, after tallying a team-high 17 points in the first and a career-high 44 points the night prior.
The Crimson offensive rhythm was also disrupted by Big Red coach Brian Earl’s decision to implement a full-court press with his team down double-digits in the second half. Although Cornell did not directly force a giveaway due to its press until 3:49 remaining in the half, Harvard struggled to settle into its familiar half-court set and relied on mid-range shooting to keep up with the Big Red’s flurry of triples.
“I’m not concerned about last night or being back-to-back and all of that nonsense, that people want to use as excuses,” Amaker said. “In evaluating my team and our team, it’s an embarrassment and I’m disappointed in having saying that, but that’s the truth.”
After fighting tooth-and-nail throughout much of the early portion of the contest, Harvard broke away with an extended 17-0 run from the 6:47 mark to 2-minute juncture in the first frame. Sophomore Danilo Djuricic provided the opening triple to give Harvard its first lead of the contest at that late six-minute point, and the run was highlighted by an Aiken basket penetration play that saw him curl in an and-one conversion.
However, a sluggish start to the second frame and a series of Big Red spurts brought the scoreline back to even at 47-47 by the final eight minutes of play. Coach Amaker attempted to inject first year Kale Catchings into the lineup for a spark, but the freshman was held in check and went scoreless in his brief four minutes of game action.
A Lewis dunk off of a tip-save from junior Robert Baker at the 5:44 mark injected some energy to the Crimson side, but its brief 55-51 lead was quickly subsumed by critical buckets from Cornell’s McBride and accurate free throw shooting from Morgan. The Big Red broke through again at 62-59 off an and-one Morgan finish at the rim, but Juzang’s mid-range basket in response at the 1:48 point would be the last offense Harvard would see.
With Princeton-Penn on the road next weekend, this reflection point for the Crimson will be as crucial as ever. Now 4-2, it secedes the top Ivy spot to Yale, who swept by the Quakers and Tigers this weekend.
“This week is going to be big as far as us taking a step forward, or a step back,” Juzang said. “You can use this as fuel and you can use this for the better, but we just have to make sure we’re all united in it.”
Outside of the result, this weekend was also alumni weekend, and several former Crimson made video announcements on the Lavietes screen. Among the list included Chris Egi, Christian Webster, Jeremy Lin, Keith Wright, Siyani Chambers, Brandyn Curry, and Kyle Casey.
— Staff writer Henry Zhu can be reached at henry.zhu@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @Zhuhen88.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Maybe you look forward to Valentine’s Day all year, or maybe you think it shouldn’t exist. Regardless, there is probably someone in your life for whom you feel obligated to get a gift, whether it’s a significant other, a galentine, or your mom. If you’re stressing because you don’t have the time to window-shop for that perfect present, Flyby has you covered! Here are some of the best finds we’ve seen in Harvard Square, organized by how far they are from the Yard, so you get to decide how much effort you put into this year’s lovefest.
Within Five Minutes
If your mind immediately went to those chocolate-filled hearts they sell for like $5 at CVS as soon as you heard “Valentine’s Day,” you’re not alone. Love Bites offers a snarky twist on this tradition, with cutesy messages written on the boxes ($6.99) that will definitely cue bae in on how you feel about their idea to exchange gifts.
Head to Black Ink, which is directly across the street from the Harvard Square T station, and check out their Valentine’s Day display for some true romantic inspiration. You can choose anything from the Complete Novels of Jane Austen (50% off!) to baby heart candles. If you really want to impress your date, however, get them a pack of Paris Map Coasters; you can spend some quality time together planning your perfect imaginary vacation over drinks.
Check out Zinnia Jewelry/Cabot’s Candy for the best combination possible. Here, you can buy your special someone a super cute necklace ($19.99) and pick up some champagne truffles ($9.50) for yourself on the way out.
Within Ten Minutes
If you are willing to take a little more of a hike in order to make the day special for your boo (or bestie), head down to Lush and check out their display of body care products. Who knows, maybe your roomie has secretly been lamenting the lack of eggplant-shaped bath bombs ($6.95) in their life — this could be your chance to make up for passing out in their bed last weekend. 
Or, if bae’s morning breath is starting to put a strain on your burgeoning love, send them a hint in the form of a tasteful bottle of mouthwash tabs ($9.95).
Stop by Follow The Honey if you want to show your special someone how sweet you think they are by getting them some local raw honey! They have different flavors on tap, and you can fill up a mason jar with whatever type you want ($14) for a gift that no one will expect (but everyone will appreciate). You can also pick up handmade beeswax candles shaped like different animals ($11) if your recipient is into all-natural gifts.
Papyrus has something for everyone in your life, including your most important valentine: your dog. Get your one true love a box of Valentine’s Day dog treats ($19.95) while you pick up some sexy dice ($14.95) for date night and a cute coin purse for your blockmate.
Within Fifteen Minutes
If you’re feeling extra dedicated (and energetic), trek in the direction of the river until you get to Petali, where you can secure a tulip bunch (9.99) that screams “I value and support you.” You can also just wander through the shop, which displays an impressive amount of Harry Potter merchandise, and enjoy a floral aroma that you probably thought wasn’t possible until at least April.
Last but definitely not least, check out Good Vibrations for the most impressive Valentine’s Day spread you will ever witness. Some standouts include a candy bra ($12) and Sweet Treats vibrators ($12), which are sneakily disguised as chocolate bars.
No matter what you end up giving them, your person is lucky that you care enough to get something. And if none of this works, fall back on a reliable Harvard adage: time is a commodity. The precious moments you spent reading this article with them in mind is a gift in and of itself.
Sections
Crema served the Harvard community as a beloved date spot for many years, but now that it has closed its doors, where can young lovers congregate under the guise of emotional availability? Since your date is most likely going to end up a disappointment anyway, make sure you at least have something delicious to consume while you pretend to be interested in the consulting internship they landed for this summer.
Zinneken’s: For the Brunch-Loving Romantics
Small and cozy, Zinneken’s fairy lights and ~aesthetic~ waffles are sure to give you butterflies in your stomach - if not for your date, at least for the waffle.
Date tip: can’t decide between nutella and cookie butter? Liege and Brussels? Why not challenge your date to create a waffle that’s completely the opposite of yours and then split both?
L.A. Burdick: For the Boujee Couple with the Sweet Tooth
Not a fan of coffee? Wallet feeling too heavy? Have an exquisite taste in chocolate? Look no further, as L.A. Burdick’s fairy lights (I’m sensing a theme here), artisanal chocolate animals, and famous hot chocolate. The hot chocolate will give you a warm feeling in your tummy and a brief respite from the winter chill.
Date tip: spice up the night and show off your adventurous side by opting for the “spicy dark drinking chocolate” that your date will surely be curious to try.
Black Sheep Bagel Cafe: For the Studious Lovebirds
With bagels and decor straight out of a whimsical New York City cafe, Black Sheep emits idyllic productivity. From classic savory options like their Lox Bagel (or if that’s too plebeian for you, their Lox 2.0) to sweet options like their Ricotta Toast, these bagels will have you finding a bae-gel in no time.
Date tip: Bring your laptop and get some work done before your date, so if the date doesn’t work out, at least it wasn’t a complete waste of your time.
Gyu-Kaku: For the Adventurous Couple
With its dimly-lit romantic ambience and table grills, you can grill your own food while also grilling your date! If roasting marshmallows on the dinner table doesn’t create sparks, I don’t know what will.
Date tip: Come during Happy Hour (11:30 a.m. - 5 p.m. daily) or Super Happy Hour (Mon-Thu 9 p.m. - close), so that if you don’t leave happy, at least your wallet will!
No matter where you end up on your dates, good luck out there!
