Sections
My favorite episode of “Botched” is the one in which Dr. Terry Dubrow gives Janice Dickinson new boobs. Janice is one of three patients featured in the season’s second episode, entitled “Janice Dickinson Knows Breast.”
Over winter break, I watched the first season of “Botched” in three days. The premise of the show is as follows: in each episode, two middle-aged Beverly Hills plastic surgeons — Dr. Terry Dubrow (the king of breast augmentation) and Dr. Paul Nassif (the king of rhinoplasty) — meet three clients who want to “fix” their bad plastic surgery. Kimber wants a “cuter” and tighter vagina. A man known as the “Human Ken Doll” wants the doctors to rip muscles from his thighs and insert them in his pecs.
I’ve always liked Janice. I was first initiated into the reality TV genre at age 6 by two shows: “American Idol” and “America’s Next Top Model.” The aforementioned Janice, once a 1970s supermodel, served as a judge on “ANTM.” My entire reality TV host canon was partly informed by Janice.
Regardless, I think I liked this episode in particular because while watching, I started taking a mental poll — one I now conduct at the end of every episode. I call it “Whose body part is it anyway?” (In my head I imagine that a live-studio audience chants each word like it’s its own sentence). On the show’s casting website, the producers invite anyone who is “unhappy with their results” to apply. It seems like the main tension in the show is between the patient and their “botched” body part. But, as Dubrow and Nassif plan to “fix” a patient’s body part, they begin to claim each body part as their own creation. It became clear to me that the main tension is really about who owns each body part — the patient or the professional?
At the beginning of Janice’s episode, she sits in a plain gray studio and while looking directly at the camera, explains her breasts’ life story. She talks about them in terms of her career: Janice dishes that in the early 1980s, when she was posing in Versace advertisements and appearing expressionless on the cover of American and French Vogue, designers loved her barely-A-cup boobs.
They made sense, work-wise. She only got implants once she shifted from high-fashion to commercial modeling in the late 1980s. But 30 years later, her boobs started to pose a problem: She went to a taping of “American Idol” in a black mini-dress with a plunging neckline that showed off her cleavage. Tabloids published pictures of her chest with yellow circles drawn over the ripples of her silicone implants. They announced that the body that once made her money was sagging towards imperfection, and therefore, obscurity. Her problem didn’t seem like an aesthetic one, but rather a professional one. In the episode, before her consultation, she visits a stylist to pick outfits for New York Fashion Week, warning the woman that she needs an outfit that covers her chest because “I have tricky breasts.” Revealing the ripples means she wouldn’t look “perfect.”
The “Botched” theme song sets the stakes for this perfection. In the opening sequence, as doodles of faceless figures suddenly materialize on a sketch pad, a guy who sounds like the way Madonna’s backup dancers move faux-whispers “I wanna be sexy, I wanna be hot. Fix me, make me beautiful. I wanna be perfect.” The song offers three different routes — being sexy, being hot, or being beautiful — to perfection.
In seventh grade, I learned you don’t have to be beautiful to be hot. Dillon, leader of the popular boys (formally known as “D-Crew”) taught me this during lunch period one day. He explained that E, the heartthrob in middle school, was beautiful because her face was symmetrical, her nose bump-free, and her lips pillow-y. G, the hot girl in middle school, was hot because of the way she walked, the way she bit her lip, and the way she bent over to get pens from her backpack. You were born beautiful. But, you could work towards being hot: standing a certain a way, angling your butt in a certain direction, gazing with a certain intensity at people when they talk. Being hot and being beautiful were equally desirable. (During lunch period, boys played an impossible game of “who would you rather kiss: G or E?”) If you weren’t born beautiful, you could work toward a close enough approximation of it by becoming hot.
Being hot isn’t a superficial consideration. On the first night of spring break, I went to a panel to see Gary Indiana, an art critic/playwright/novelist, talk at an art gallery. A discussion about celebrity led Indiana to the faces of the current presidential administration. He said something very close to “we have one of the ugliest cabinets ever… I want to be convinced you’re right just by looking at your face.” According to Dillon’s definition, this ability isn’t limited to those born beautiful — you could also work towards being hot and acquire the same power.
According to “Botched,” not just anyone should become hot: Nassif and Dubrow are the gatekeepers deciding who’s permitted to enter the territory of “hot person.” During Janice’s consultation, she becomes a patient instead of a person. She meets Nassif and Dubrow in an austere office. The chairs are gray leather, dusty books that look like big Bibles line the office walls, and framed awards hang on the wall behind them. They sit with their arms folded thoughtfully on their laps, like judges waiting for a testimony. Nassif wears a lavender shirt and tie and Dubrow wears scrubs — together, they aren’t just doctors or businessmen, but both. And together, they regulate bodies: the men agree to do the surgery if satisfactorily persuaded by their clients. Dubrow explains the mechanics of Janice’s breasts to her. He explains how he will construct new breasts: He will “pick” and “peel” the muscle off her bone. It sounds like he’s making a clay figurine.
For a show all about plastic surgery, “Botched” is actually very anti-plastic surgery. The doctors won’t operate for the sake of it — in a later season, the doctors refuse to operate on a woman who wants twenty pounds of fat injected into her butt so she can have the biggest recorded butt in history because they deem it unnecessary, dangerous, and probably unattractive (in that order). They select clients based on their arbitrary metric of the productive value of their surgery. A porn star is granted a tighter vagina in part because it will look better on camera. Janice receives new implants because they’re a medical problem: Her implants are so old they might rupture. The doctors regulate people’s ability to become hot while selectively denying procedures to these clients, using their power to deem requests productive or medically necessary.
On the day of her surgery, Janice has been demoted from person to patient. As Janice lies in the hospital bed, wearing a hair net and blue hospital gown, make-up free, and slowly growing loopy from the nitrous oxide, the camera suddenly cuts to Dubrow scrubbing his hands and arms with soap. “Janice is a challenging patient,” he explains.
I usually close my eyes during the surgery scenes but I accidentally opened my eyes in the middle of this one. I saw Dubrow slice a hole in Janice’s breast so he could excavate the implant. Janice was unconscious, waiting for Dubrow to make her hot. In her first post-op appointment, Dubrow tells Janice she’s going to damage his work if she touches her chest: “I’ve got you in a good place anatomically.” At Janice’s seven-day check-in, she puts on a tank top, looks down at her voluptuous, ripple-free cleavage, and yells “I’m gonna rock these!” as if they’re a new pair of shoes she’s modeling. By the end of the episode, the show suggests they are Dubrow’s boobs,simply on display in Janice’s body.
In a six-weeks post-surgery clip, Janice reveals the benefit of her new boobs: She can successfully work towards being hot again. In the clip, she’s shooting a campaign for her skincare company. She walks on set wearing a white Hervé Leger with a plunging neckline that shows off her ripple-free boobs. Thanks to her new boobs, she will “be going to the beach and getting the skimpiest bikini I can get my hot little hands on.” Janice didn’t feel like she could work with rippled boobs, but “after [her] experience with Dr. Dubrow,” she’s “looking better than ever.” It’s not simply how she works her breasts but how she works the breasts Dubrow gave her.
One of my favorite pictures of Janice is from her Versace 1980 spring-summer advertisement. Janice, Jerry Hall, and another model each wear tacky capris and white trench coats that look like lab coats. Each one’s hair has too much volume. But Janice still looks hot: She stands in contrapposto, sticks her butt out slightly, tucks her hands in her pocket, and scowls vaguely at the camera. She’s working the mustard-yellow capris,making them look so hot that a man with angular cheekbones and huge biceps literally claws at her feet, resting his head on her leg, looking both distracted and perturbed by her appearance. By the end of “Botched,” Janice slumps in a chair as Dubrow styles her new boobs in a tight navy tank top.
— Magazine writer Jensen E. Davis can be reached at jensen.davis@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter at @jensendavis12.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
​​​​​​
R. Bruce Donoff, dean of the Harvard School of Dental Medicine, will step down from his position at the start of 2020, University President Lawrence S. Bacow announced in an email to Harvard affiliates Friday.
By the end of his tenure, Donoff will have served in the role for 28 years. This makes him one of Harvard’s longest serving deans, according to University Provost Alan M. Garber ’76 and Harvard Medical School Dean George Q. Daley in a co-written letter to Medical and Dental School students Friday following Bacow’s announcement.
Garber and Daley detailed Donoff’s impact on the Dental School and Medical School communities and the broader fields of oral health and medicine in their letter.
“His work has built an important bridge between dentistry and medicine,” they wrote. “Throughout his career he has been an effective advocate working to integrate oral health and medicine as a way to ensure improved outcomes for his own patients as well as dental patients everywhere.”
Donoff’s contributions to dental education extend beyond the Dental School and impact the broader dental health community, according to the letter.
“HSDM’s mission reflects his aspiration to develop global leaders dedicated to improving human health and breaking down traditional barriers between oral and systemic health,” Garber and Daley wrote. “He ensured that dental students spend time working in community health centers as part of their training and expanded the scope of HSDM’s international presence, helping to launch Rwanda’s first dental school.”
Bacow, Garber, and Daley all offered praise for Donoff in their letters, commending his achievements and dedication to oral medicine and healthcare.
“He has made major research contributions to his specialty, advancing knowledge of bone graft survival, sensory nerve repair, and wound healing, as well as oral cancer,” Bacow wrote.
Garber and Daley’s letter also commended Donoff’s work as an educator.
“His personal commitment to academic excellence has shaped his quarter-century as dean, driving the recruitment of extraordinarily talented students, faculty, and staff, and shaping efforts to make oral healthcare available and accessible to more people across the country and across the world,” Bacow wrote.
“As an educator and a mentor, Bruce pioneered problem-based learning to help students better understand the fundamental concerns of those seeking treatment and their diseases, all the while stressing that students must listen closely to their patients and treat them with respect,” Garber and Daley wrote.
Daley will lead the search for Donoff’s successor, according to his and Garber’s letter. Donoff will officially step down January 1.
—Staff writer Alexis K. Bolner can be reached at alexis.bolner@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @AlexisBolner.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
On Saturday, the Harvard men’s hockey team announced its three captains for the 2019-2020 campaign. Forward Nathan Krusko and defensemen Adam Fox and John Marino will each don the “C” as seniors on next year’s squad.
The 2018-2019 iteration of the Crimson convened for one final time on Monday, where team members voted in the trio of letter-wearers — only the second instance of three captains in program history following a leadership group comprised of Eddie Ellis ’18, Jake Horton ’18, and Merrick Madsen ’18 two seasons ago.
“We have a lot of good leaders on this team, but to be acknowledged and recognized by my teammates as someone who embodies the qualities that a good captain, a good leader, has, was obviously rewarding for me,” Krusko said. “Along with John and Adam, we’re really excited with the group we have moving forward, and we think that great things are ahead.”
Fox, Krusko, and Marino will take the reins from outgoing fourth-years Michael Floodstrand and Lewis Zerter-Gossage, who led this year’s team back to the NCAA Tournament despite a talented team in 2017-2018 falling short of this milestone. This triad of captains hopes to build on the promising, youth-led season that just recently concluded.
“We had a good amount of freshmen step in and play big roles for us,” said Fox of the recent season. “We had a lot of experiences that will help us going forward…. Getting back in the Tournament after not making it is good, but the goal always is to win the National Championship, win the Beanpot, win the ECAC.”
Fox, Harvard’s offensive juggernaut on the blue line, enjoyed his most productive year to date this season, setting a program record for most points by a rearguard in a single campaign (9–39—48). In mid-February, the Jericho, N.Y. native eclipsed the 100-point plateau, becoming the first junior to do so since Wisconsin’s Justin Schultz in 2011-2012. He finished the season with a whopping 116 career points (22–94—116).
From his first shift in a Crimson sweater, Fox has served as a key facilitator both at even strength and on the powerplay, where he is especially lethal having led the NCAA in points per game on the man advantage (0.70) this season. For his junior-year performance, the two-time First Team CCM/AHCA All-America selection has been named a top-three finalist for the Hobey Baker Award, given to college hockey’s most outstanding player.
With the tri-captain designation, Fox will continue to set the standard with his on-ice play.
“Being in the same conversation with [Fox and Marino] is very exciting and rewarding for me,” Krusko began. “We all bring our own aspects to the team, leadership-wise. [Fox] leads by example on the ice, always does the right thing. I think it’s very similar in John Marino. He’s always a workhorse on the back end…. I kind of look at myself as someone who is going to be…more of a communicator to the team.”
It is no secret that Fox’s skillset is NHL-caliber. Numerous reports have predictably speculated on Fox’s future, many claiming that the defenseman is not interested in departing the collegiate ranks for the Carolina Hurricanes organization, which currently owns his rights through Aug. 15 of next year. Nevertheless, Fox has yet to announce his plans publicly, so the default assumption for now is that he will return for his senior campaign.
Marino joins Fox as a letter-wearer on the experienced Harvard blue line. A product of North Easton, Mass. and the South Shore Kings youth program, Marino has been a mainstay on the Crimson back end since his freshman season. Marino, who has skated in 101 career games, has logged 42 points (7–35—42) and a plus-38 rating — evidence of his reliable two-way game and oft-overlooked offensive talents.
As with Fox, Marino, a 2015 sixth-round pick of the Edmonton Oilers organization, is facing a decision on his professional future. After being drafted, Marino skated in the USHL for a season, eroding one year off the Oilers’ four-year stake to the junior’s negotiating rights. So Marino has the potential to become a free agent after this summer’s Aug. 15 deadline. For the time being, however, the shutdown blue-liner has tabled an official verdict on his post-Harvard career and looks forward to the opportunity to lead the Harvard squad.
“It’s an honor to represent the team,” Marino said. “I’m going to do the best I can to lead by example and do everything I can to help the team.”
Krusko will serve as the trio’s only forward captain. The Alpharetta, Ga. native’s career has been marked by multiple highlights, including a recent Lake Placid-clinching overtime goal against Dartmouth in this year’s ECAC quarterfinals and a three-point (2–1—3) outing in the 2017 Beanpot finale worthy of tournament MVP honors.
Krusko, a somewhat undersized and shifty winger at 5’9”, has skated on all four lines throughout his three seasons in the crimson and white, totaling 47 points (15–32—47). Krusko’s junior campaign challenged him, as he was tasked with coming back from bilateral hip surgery in the offseason. Between the subsequent lack of summer training and a talented crop of freshmen upping the competition for ice time, 2018-2019 was Krusko’s least productive season. Nevertheless, the forward has emerged from these tribulations as a stronger leader and more dedicated teammate.
“Having lost an entire summer of training was definitely not ideal,” Krusko began. “There were definitely fears in my mind about what my future would look like and how my career would play out…. One thing I learned is you can almost use that as motivation to do things the right way, and just use that to push yourself every single day to be the best you can be and be a better person.”
As Fox, Krusko, and Marino inherit the captaincy, the 2018-2019 season officially is in the rearview. Twenty members of this year’s promising team are set to return next year to accompany their newly elected leaders.
In addition to the captain announcement, the team awarded several other accolades at Saturday’s team banquet — a reminder of the squad’s fruitful season. For his stellar on-ice performance, Fox received the John Tudor Memorial Cup, given to the team’s MVP. Fox’s classmate, forward Frédéric Grégoire, took home the Donald Angier Hockey Trophy, as he was deemed to be the group’s most improved player. Freshman Jack Drury was recognized as the most spirited rookie with the George Percy Award, and the team celebrated outgoing co-captain Floodstrand by presenting him with the Ralph “Cooney” Weiland Award on account of his devotion to the game and spirited play.
While each new season presents its share of question marks, the 2019-2020 Crimson could very well enter as ECAC favorites, boasting another dynamic group of freshmen to complement the now-wiser young core from this past campaign. Particularly if Fox returns for his senior slate, it is scarcely an exaggeration to say that Harvard, propelled by a Hobey Baker favorite, an experienced blue line, and a skilled forward group, will contend for a national title.
Leading the charge will be Fox, Krusko, and Marino, who hope to captain their team back to the Frozen Four after experiencing it as wide-eyed freshmen three seasons ago.
—Staff writer Spencer R. Morris can be reached at spencer.morris@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @SMorrisTHC.
