News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Though Harvard is one of the top schools in the nation, its dining services leave a lot to be desired. During my first semester here, I’ve heard more freshmen complaining about campus dining than about bad WiFi, all-nighters, and harsh professors combined. This is an entirely reasonable concern to have, since food plays a prominent role in student life here on campus and home-cooking for many is thousands of miles away.

But personally, I don’t think that Harvard dining is all that bad.

The major concerns with Harvard’s dining services seem to center on issues of quality and scarcity. In Harvard’s dining halls, breakfast is kept on a weekly schedule, with various forms of potatoes and breakfast meats swapped out daily, while lunch and dinner have rotating entrees, starches, and vegetables.

Many students’ main area of concern is the quality of the food we are served. The meals are distributed in lukewarm trays that are wrapped in plastic until they’re brought out and, many times, the food doesn’t have much flavor. It definitely isn’t five-star worthy. But, logically, this makes sense, since the dining halls have to serve upwards of about 6,000 students.

Nevertheless, having such limited options per meal that aren’t the best quality makes it much more likely that people won’t enjoy even one part what is being served. Harvard’s dining halls contain fewer choices than many other universities in the area, such as Boston University or Northeastern University, which have stations for pizza or stir fry, providing a constant option for students if they don’t like the food on a certain day. At Harvard, there is always an array of raw vegetables at the salad bar, and the grill is always open, but there seems to be a lack of focus on having options that remain the same for students to enjoy every day.

Yet, in my opinion, it’s exactly this trait of having only a few options per meal that makes Harvard’s dining experience meaningful. This choice serves as a reminder to students of the greater values in education that Harvard wishes to put forth.

One of Harvard’s main focuses in student experience is diversity and inclusion, which I think the food system really emphasizes. Harvard University Dining Services incorporates in their menu an array of dishes from places not only across the U.S. but the entire world, offering a new kind of food to test at every meal. You can go from pad thai and Japanese oven-braised pork at lunch to fried buttermilk chicken and eggplant parmesan at dinner.

These dishes might not be people’s first choices, but they introduce a new opportunity for students to appreciate the various nationalities and ethnicities represented in the student body. I’m fortunate enough to come from Boston, where I’ve had the opportunity to try cuisines from around the world. However, in the dining halls, even I can experience dishes like south Indian Mulligatawny soup or central European pierogies. This kind of dining allows students not only to feel represented by the food they’re familiar with at home but also gives those who may not have tried these foods the opportunity to experience new cuisines. The fact that HUDS devotes itself to these purposes while also serving a large student body is remarkable and respectable, especially considering the array of recipes and time needed to prepare these dishes from around the globe.

I do see the flaws in the way that Harvard dining works. I (often) get sick of some of the fairly tasteless dishes and just want that good old slice of pizza. I also feel a little gross when I find on my plate a sloshy spaghetti or an admirable attempt at culturally accurate dumplings (which, to be fair, I am rather used to as a Chinese-American). But, ultimately, I see the less-than-ideal dining experience as a justifiable price to pay for promoting the importance of diversity and offering new experiences.

So, the next time you consider complaining about measly mac and cheese or a waffle-gone-wonky, I hope you feel somewhat sated by taking advantage of the opportunities to explore and appreciate different areas of the world — all from the comfort of your home away from home.

Jonathan Yuan ’22 lives in Thayer Hall. His column appears on alternate Thursdays.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
During my undergraduate career, Winthrop House was my single-most important source of community. The nature of the randomly assigned Houses guaranteed a much appreciated diversity amongst my peers in the House. It was only fitting that the House staff mirrored this diversity, serving as resources for a variety of students. Ronald S. Sullivan, Jr. and Stephanie Robinson, our faculty deans, both exemplified and bolstered this diversity of backgrounds, interests, and, most of all, thought.
The recent announcement of Sullivan’s joining Harvey Weinstein’s legal team is very consistent with the thought, leadership, and open discourse I know the faculty deans to have fostered in Winthrop House. Regardless of my personal views on Weinstein and the accusations against him, I think Sullivan has the potential to improve and increase discourse in a way that benefits many of those who have critiqued his decision and, regardless, is entitled to and should be applauded for going against the grain at an institution known for being intellectually stimulating but not necessarily morally inclusive.
Overall, throughout my time at and after Harvard, I have learned key lessons that I consider now as I choose to respect, defend, and even appreciate Sullivan’s decision.
First, Sullivan and Robinson’s welcoming attitude of varied perspectives is rare, crucial, and has been displayed on prior occasions. This attitude should be commended. I recall one instance during my sophomore year at Harvard when then-Governor Nikki R. Haley was honored by the Harvard Foundation for leading the removal of the Confederate flag from her state’s Capitol building. Following outrage from students discontented by her race relations track record, including interns at the Harvard Foundation, there was an organized discussion held in Winthrop. With the Harvard Republican Club president playing a pivotal role in the meeting, alongside Harvard Foundation interns and Winthrop House Race Relations Tutors, the event had no shortage of diverse opinions.
This was an event Sullivan and Robinson were directly responsible for approving and encouraging, and indirectly for establishing Winthrop’s culture of dialogue and open-mindedness. Indeed, my views were changed by that event and hearing opinions different from mine, and my counterparts from the other side of the issue expressed similar sentiments.
Sullivan’s commitment to encouraging dialogue is illuminated in instances like these is even more commendable considering a key fact about Harvard’s campus — that students on campus have perpetually felt uncomfortable by the polarization and lack of dialogue. Just last month, yet another conservative on campus published an article with sentiments I can attest to being prevalent even when I started at Harvard almost a decade ago.
The visceral response to Sullivan’s professional decision is also indicative of the lack of dialogue on this campus. I would argue that even a person who vehemently disagrees with the views of this self-dubbed “lone conservative” or the accused Weinstein’s right to counsel should welcome the opportunity to associate with those defending them — an opportunity to learn from and potentially educate someone on the other side, whether morally or contractually. This open discourse is needed to change campus culture. Thus, Sullivan’s decision extends Harvard students a critical opportunity to learn of the importance of engaging with other viewpoints.
Outside of Harvard, this lack of dialogue is hurting the power of Harvard, its students, and its graduates to influence and improve the world around us.
I experienced this first-hand myself after enlisting in the U.S. Army National Guard immediately following my graduation from Harvard College. I went from a major institution saturated with liberal thought to one saturated with conservative thought. I have found that whether I posed a differing view when discussing whether transgender service members should be allowed or if I grimaced at the utterance of a racialized, gendered, or homophobic epithet during some activity with my fellow soldiers, my opinion was generally well-received, until it was remembered that I am a product of an institution that is not just liberally biased, but is monolithic enough to rescind offers to even just speak on campus from conservative thinkers like James “Jim” W. Gilchrist, Jr.
Only after I endured remarks about being a “snowflake” and retorted with an acknowledgement of the opposing perspective, explaining that I have worked to go beyond the Harvard mold to explore opinions different from my own (which contributed to my very decision to enlist) did they recognize the validity of my views. Regardless of whether my views were moderated by theirs to reach a middle ground or remained unchanged, I learned to foremost acknowledge the other perspective. This learning should be intrinsic to the Harvard education: We should leave Harvard with the ability to change hearts and minds, societies and standards of behavior because when we speak, people know we’re not only smart, but we’re open-minded.
Harvard has a moral responsibility to facilitate discourse that educates our students, provides us with a badge of open-mindedness akin to that we get for intelligence upon graduation, and ensures that people like Sullivan are appreciated as trailblazers in open discourse at best, or as a welcome opportunity to directly engage with the other side at worst. Harvard’s role as a thought leader in our society comes with a mandate for diversity of thought, and this is precisely why Sullivan and Robinson are exemplar faculty deans worthy of applause, not admonishment.
Faith A. Jackson ‘17 is a first-year student at Harvard Law School.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
This past Tuesday, Harvard workers and students went to Washington D.C. to join a rally marching to protect Temporary Protected Status, a program that grants temporary refuge in the United States to residents of countries ravaged by conflict or natural disasters. In the rain, they gathered to fight for the basic right to stay in the United States, where many of them have spent years building new lives.
We recognize the urgency of these protests, and we admire the efforts of those involved in the Harvard TPS Coalition as part of the larger fight to protect people living in the U.S. under the TPS program. Workers and students alike have rallied repeatedly on campus, pushing for increased legal support in light of the very real danger posed to their livelihoods in the U.S. given the current political climate.
Over the course of the current administration, the TPS program and those who benefit from it have faced growing uncertainty. Though a court order has stalled the Trump administration’s terminations of TPS for individuals from El Salvador, Honduras, Haiti, Nicaragua, Nepal, and Sudan, their status still remains uncertain for the foreseeable future.
In light of these dangers and in justice to the people who have built new lives in the U.S., we echo our support for the continuation of TPS. Furthermore, we believe Harvard should work assiduously to support its employees who are TPS recipients by using its political clout to lobby Congress. The individuals affected are not only valued members of the Harvard community: They are human beings, deserving of the right to feel safe in the place where they have rebuilt their lives.
If University President Lawrence S. Bacow decides to take a more public political stance, on the issue, it will not be without precedent. Former University President Drew G. Faust, in a letter to top legislators co-written with Princeton University President Christopher L. Eisgruber, offered public support for TPS shortly before her term ended. This statement, amongst others, came after a number of protests and a petition presented to her by TPS workers earlier that year.
After Faust’s departure, the University must strive to maintain public support of immigrants, both under TPS and otherwise. In September, Bacow met with members of the undocumented community on campus, including TPS workers, but has not yet recently made a similar statement showing his support. Following his expression of sympathy for immigration issues and advocacy groups and references to his own immigration story, Bacow should show material support for the immigrants by committing Harvard’s political sway to protecting these valued members of our community.
We appreciate that Bacow has identified support for Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, an Obama-era immigration program designed to protect undocumented immigrants who arrived as children, as one of his main lobbying priorities. We call on Bacow to also make a specific, explicit statement advocating on behalf of those who might face terminations to TPS in the same way that Faust did during her tenure.
Bacow has the chance to reaffirm his commitment to justice for all members of the Harvard community, no matter their origins. We urge him to take it.
This staff editorial solely represents the majority view of The Crimson Editorial Board. It is the product of discussions at regular Editorial Board meetings. In order to ensure the impartiality of our journalism, Crimson editors who choose to opine and vote at these meetings are not involved in the reporting of articles on similar topics.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
The building decayed on the edge of campus. The basement dirt floor was muddy; weeds crept in and threatened the foundation. Lawrence Hall was once the kind of building pictured in a mid-19th century etching of Harvard, petticoated gentlewomen striding across the foreground. First built as a laboratory, it was later adopted by the Harvard Graduate School of Education. In 1970, it was slated for demolition to make way for the beige sprawl of the new Science Center.
As Lawrence Hall fell to the rodents and overgrowth, Harvard’s campus was in turmoil amidst a decade of revolution and political anxiety. 1969 had been a year of tumult: the University Hall anti-war occupation and the subsequent violence lingered in the air. Students had occupied University Hall for 18 hours, until Massachusetts State Police prompted their forced removal. Like other campuses across the country, protests, sit-ins, teach-ins, and rallies at Harvard were ubiquitous. In the spring of 1970, Lawrence Hall entered this fray when a group of socialist-leaning graduate students took the building over and instated the Free University.
At its inception, Free University hoped to provide an alternative education to all Cambridge residents through a series of talks, workshops, and teach-ins. Their mission was “to provide people with something better to do than to go to classes,” Walter Jaros, a graduate student organizer, said in an interview at the time. But it was not the first of its kind: Free schools were cropping up across the country, promising the kind of free-access, progressive education conventional institutions seemed to lack.
The occupation began with David Holmstrom’s office assignment. “For some reason they kept giving me offices in buildings that were going to be torn down,” recalls Holmstrom, a Social Studies and Government tutor at the time. That spring, Holmstrom was the sole occupant of Lawrence Hall. He had the only key. “No building had been occupied before without, like, eight demands,” Holmstrom said, referencing the demands of University Hall protestors. In contrast, Free University proponents “just wanted the building,” Holstrom said. “So [Harvard] really didn’t know what to do about it.”
"This building condemned under Article 2, People's Code: all buildings used for oppression are to be returned to their rightful owners, the people,” read the posters that papered Lawrence Hall. The new proprietors — “the people” — swept up the dust that had accumulated over decades and duct-taped exposed wires. They hauled silk screening equipment, tools for playground construction, and the optimism of a new decade on their backs. The occupants hadn’t received permission from the administration — but they hadn’t been denied it, either.
First on the Free University’s agenda: a teach-in and film screening from the Boston Black Panthers. Other sections of the university’s schedule read like a liberal arts college syllabus: “a poster workshop, and discussion groups on ecology, radical arts and skills, Cuba, women's liberation, Asia, political economy, and radical alternatives to traditional careers.”
Organizers distributed a flier featuring a sketch of a person with feathered hair and an alluring gaze. The text reads: “A dance for humanity: gay, straight — we are all One.” The Gay Liberation dance, held at Lawrence Hall, was the first dance publicly intended for people of all sexualities in the Boston area. It was packed, and the din of sixties rock filled the century-old building. The promise of the Free University — liberation, freedom to be yourself — was fulfilled.
But there was one issue: apathy. Harvard students certainly knew about Free University — Holmstrom describes it as “notorious” — but few seemed to care. As one Crimson editorialist put it: “No one on the Administration seemed to give a shit when [Lawrence Hall] was taken. The big problem has been that so far very few students have given a shit either.” But Free University, unlike the University Hall demonstration, didn’t have the opportunity to live out its potential and achieve its loftier educational aspirations.
The Free University Commune, a collective of Cambridge homeless people, had also made Lawrence Hall their home.
Then, on May 8, in the blue hour of 4 a.m., a fire broke out on Lawrence Hall’s third floor. In the span of 15 minutes, the building was aflame. Its 30 former inhabitants were now without a home, and the month-long, fiery project of Free University was extinguished.
—Magazine writer Olivia G. Oldham can be reached olivia.oldham@thecrimson.com.
Sections
A friend of mine recently ate a bad bagel. It was, she pointed out, a cruel symbol of Capitalism’s False Promise — a promise which has, in its three long centuries, caused extreme inequality, the destruction of our world’s natural beauty, social alienation –– and what do we have to show for it? Even with our so-called “free markets” and “invisible hands,” a person can still walk into a store and buy a subpar bagel. In 2019. It isn’t right.
Now, Capitalism is over-correcting, threatened by the monetary consequences of subpar bagels, and those very same free markets are plowing down Harvard Square eateries left and right. Chipotle is gone. Crema Cafe has gone belly-up. Au Bon Pain est mort. Petsi Pies was struck down in its prime. Whether the proverbial “bagels” will improve when these cherished spots are replaced with pricier, trendier eateries that sell “avocado tartine,” “crack pie,” and “&pizza” remains to be seen. But in the meantime, let’s take a moment to remember the fallen, for to be forgotten is to die another death.
Petsi Pies
Immortalized in The Crimson as a “beloved Putnam Avenue bakery,” Petsi Pies was murdered by Darwin’s Ltd. this month. Those close to the deceased remember Petsi as a loving friend, a brilliant listener, and a charming spot for Harvard students who sought to escape the Square without putting in the effort to actually escape the Square. One of the bereaved lamented that Petsi “looked a little like Luke’s Diner” from Gilmore Girls. Petsi was cherished for its adaptability –– name be damned, it sold more than just pies –– and its unflagging commitment to community. Petsi, may your memory be a blessing.
Crema Cafe
Crema Cafe, an exotic Harvard Square bakery –– “crema” is Italian for cream –– drowned in December amidst the rising tides of gentrification. Snuffed out by the ever-aggressive Bluestone Lane, Crema left behind a lasting legacy. Perhaps best described as politely unassuming, the cafe had a claustrophobic charm. One mourner fondly recalled, “I liked how the Cs in the Crema Cafe sign were bigger than the other letters.” In the face of rising rent and increased competition, however, those epic Cs proved insufficient to keep a small business afloat. To Crema, we send up a prayer.
Chipotle
After years of uncanny luck in avoiding the E. coli outbreaks that ravaged its peers around the nation, the Harvard Square Chipotle finally died of natural causes last month. It had a wonderful run, but was always third fiddle in the Square’s burrito scene, after Jefe’s and Felipe’s (only the rarest of bands can succeed with three fiddlers). Chipotle left behind a beautiful storefront and a series of nasty Yelp reviews spanning more than a decade. One customer wrote of his experience with steak portions, “Are you fahkin shittin me?” Another remarked, “Mexican Grill? This place is about as Mexican as I am,” although this comment is hard to interpret without knowing whether the author is, indeed, Mexican. A lover of top 40 music, long waits, and copious amounts of salt, Chipotle will be missed.
Au Bon Pain
Au Bon Pain has cashed in its chips, metaphorically speaking. It has gone to meet its maker. Kicked the bucket. Dropped like a fly. The cafe was a Boston native, affectionately remembered as “ABP” — a prep school nickname that stuck. ABP is survived by two loving parents, Harvard Business School graduate Ronald M. Schaich and Louis Kane (no relation to Citizen Kane). They birthed the national chain in 1981, in the early years of the Reagan Administration. One attendee of ABP’s open-casket funeral expressed outrage at the tragedy: “This is an omen, I tell you, a veritable canarie in the retail coal mine. What does it say when national chains can’t keep up with rising rents? By 2025 Harvard Square will be nothing but a string of Tattes. It won’t even be clear where one Tatte ends and the next begins.” Au Bon Pain, we will remember you fondly.
—Magazine writer Andrew Price can be reached at andrew.price@thecrimson.com.
Sections
Slow, heavy piano notes fill the studio room in the Harvard Dance Center as the dancers unravel their bodies to the beat of the music. Among the bodies is Nejla Y. Yatkin. She moves with the rest of her students, twisting and turning as the music envelops them all. 

Yatkin is an acclaimed dancer and choreographer known for incorporating transcultural themes into her choreography, which she performs around the world. She came to the Harvard Dance Center to teach a one-time master class.

The day after her class, FM sat down with Yatkin to ask some questions. 
FM: You lived in Berlin with Turkish parents. Can you tell me a little bit about the environment you grew up in?
NY: I grew up in West Berlin, which was hard. Berlin was divided into communist Berlin and democratic Berlin. I was living on the democratic side with walls, surrounded by the walls against the communist side of Germany. I grew up with a lot of demonstrations and culture and music and festivals. There were always festivals — either the French or the English or the U.S. A lot of the radicals and intellectuals lived in Berlin. It was a culturally rich place.

At home, my mother was very strict. My parents, coming from Turkey, were educated about the role of women being a certain way or groomed to basically serve your husband. A woman had to marry somebody, have kids, learn how to cook, and iron things for your husband. So I was living kind of a double life — being out there, going to school in one of the most radical places and at home, being constrained and not being able to express myself as a woman in a way I would like to. So there was sort of this double life going on until I was 17 and I decided that I needed to leave. While I was dancing, I was also doing it secretly. My parents didn’t know I was dancing and performing in high school.
FM: Did you want to pursue dance as a career while you were in high school? What made you want to pursue dance?
NY: I went to a Gymnasium, sort of like a prep school for college. I was imagining myself to become a visual artist or philosopher. Dancing was something I was good in, but it was not in my world that this could be a profession. I don’t know any professional dancers. Nobody said, “I’m gonna be a dancer.”

I did a piece to Pink Floyd’s “We Don’t Need No Education” [sic] to make fun at a graduation party in high school. I was also part of a music club, singing and dancing. So my art teacher saw me in both. And after she saw “We Don’t Need No Education,” where I had put students together in a classroom and did this funny choreography, she was like, “You have to dance.” She was so convinced that I needed to go and dance. I was like, “Dancing?” [She replied], “You have to pursue this as your career.” Then she suggested that I audition for a performing arts conservatory for modern dance. And I did. And so, here I am.
FM: It sounds like she was a big influence in your life.
NY: It was like a moment in time [Yatkin snaps]. She was there for one year when she came visiting from France. And I didn’t really have an intense connection, but she saw something and sparked something in me. I just followed the guidance.
FM: On your website, it says that you explore ideas of multiculturalism, identity, and migration in your choreographies. When you have these sources of inspiration, how do you translate them into a choreography?
That’s so difficult to explain because first you have the craft. And then poetry and the language and the words and all this other stuff you play with. You mix and take. What speaks to you? What makes sense? What is the sort of the poetic journey that you want to create?

And dance is so all-encompassing. It has music and space and time and bodies and costumes and lights. So you’re creating this whole world in your head when you’re creating dance. It’s almost like I’m still creating art but painting in space.
FM: Many of the themes you explore, such as identity and multiculturalism, have led to controversies in today’s society. How do you think your dances take space in this social climate?
NY: The body is an identity. Body is who you are. Body expresses all the history you had. When you enter a space with your body and exchange with your body, somehow you have to open yourself to others and get to know other identities.
Nowadays, I like to take dance out of the theater into the streets. The last couple years, I’ve been traveling around the world creating site-specific dances in public spaces to make people become more aware and more empathetic of bodies in space. I think when you see bodies move together in space, you open up and you feel more safe.
For example, I did a project in Tegucigalpa, Honduras, one of the most dangerous cities full of gang violence. I did a site-specific piece and had the dancers walk from one place to another in five different locations in the city. In the beginning, they were all afraid. “We can’t walk in the city. It’s dangerous. We need the military to accompany us.” But we did it. And the people were so happy to walk in that city. When you focus on fear, you create more fear. When you focus on creating an environment where people can feel safe, it shifts their perspective. People see the beauty in the city and that it is not that dangerous and that they can be empowered to take over the public spaces again and share with each other. That was a very empowering lesson for me too.
FM: I read that you have a passion for teaching. While you were teaching the master class, I heard you repeatedly refer to your dancers as “movers” and instructed them to “make a decision.” These phrases seem deliberate and somewhat strange. What kind of message do these phrases carry?
NY: Anybody can move. If you have a body, you can move. The body is made to move. If we don’t move, we literally die. Not everybody identifies themself as a dancer, and I use “movers” because it’s broader. And decision-making: everybody knows how to make a decision, but do they? How clearly are they making decisions? Do you make a conscious decision or does the body make it? Those words encourage people to maybe think about decision-making.
FM: I saw the movers coming out of your dance class, and they were all smiling, very happy. Can you guess as to why?
NY: I think it’s the serotonin [laughs].
—Magazine writer Jen E. Oh can be reached at jen.oh@thecrimson.com.
Sections
Two Harvard University Police Department officers block the entrance to Massachusetts Hall, watching nearly fifty people amass behind a poster with the word “DIVEST” written in massive orange letters. The students are a few dozen feet from the office of University President Lawrence S. Bacow. Accompanied by the cheerful strumming of a ukulele, they sing:

“We need to wake up, we need to wise up, / Come on Bacow, do it now, do it now, now, now.”

Isa C. Flores-Jones ’19 receives cheers as she enters Mass. Hall to give Bacow the group’s demands. She exits just moments later to another ovation.

Friday’s rally was the second event in a three-day campaign called “Land Under Siege,” organized primarily by Harvard Undergraduates for Environmental Justice. “Land Under Siege” consisted of a teach-in, the Mass. Hall rally, and an organizer training event.

The rally called for Harvard to divest from, and resolve all conflicts associated with, farmland across the globe. GRAIN, an international nonprofit working to protect small farmers, published a report last year accusing Harvard of buying and deforesting indigenous lands in Brazil and overdrafting water in drought-stricken California, along with other claims of unethical land management.

“The environmental movement is a social justice movement, so that’s the lens that we’re coming at it through,” HUEJ Co-President Arielle Blacklow ’21 says. The organization views the allegations against Harvard’s use of farmland as part of a larger conversation about environmental sustainability and fossil fuel divestment, according to Blacklow.

Despite the name “Land Under Siege,” however, the campaign’s events moved progressively away from land management, culminating in an organizer training session focused almost entirely on fossil fuel divestment.

Flores-Jones, the coordinator of Divest Harvard and a member of HUEJ, was a key organizer in the “Land Under Siege” campaign. She has watched the student movement for divestment and sustainability lose momentum throughout her four years at the college. “Land Under Siege” sought to recapture that lost energy.

One reason for declining student energy, Flores-Jones believes, is that climate change can seem abstract and seemingly distant from Harvard. “All of this is so, so, so far from the everyday realities of Harvard students,” Flores-Jones says. “We think of the University as so disconnected from these investment decisions.”

Divest activism focused on fossil fuels until she was contacted by Devlin Kuyek, a researcher at GRAIN, who brought her attention to land divestment. She says that Kuyek asked her, “‘here’s a place where Harvard’s active investments are hurting people right now and where the impacts of these investments are very tangibly being felt. Why aren’t you organizing around this?’”
***
More than two dozen undergraduates, graduate students, and Cambridge locals congregated in the Phillips Brooks House Association parlor room Thursday afternoon to learn about Harvard’s land investment practices and history from Kuyek, who Skyped into the room. He says that Harvard began investing in farmland during 2008’s global food crisis, and has spent approximately $1 billion to amass upwards of 2 million acres of land around the world.

The GRAIN report chronicles Harvard Management Corporation shell companies spraying highly toxic pesticides from airplanes in Brazil, pushing South African farmers off of farms granted to them by post-apartheid land reform, and destroying aboriginal burial sites in Australia.

Harvard Management Company spokesperson Patrick McKiernan wrote in an emailed statement, “The current natural resources team at HMC has made great progress in their multi-year repositioning of the portfolio. Their aim is to create a more focused and efficient portfolio that, in partnership with local managers, can meet or exceed our quality standards. As a result, we have sold a number of assets and are considering divestment from others.”

GRAIN calls for HMC to stop investing in farmland, resolve land and water conflicts with local communities ,and undergo independent assessments to compensate for any damage caused.

“Harvard Management Company focuses on environmental, social, and governance (ESG) matters for all of its investments, to ensure long-term value for both the asset and the communities in which we invest,” McKiernan wrote. “This commitment to responsible investing involves working with relevant constituents, including local authorities, to address any issues that arise during our investment, even if they predate HMC’s involvement.”

HMC’s sustainable investing guidelines include “respect indigenous people’s rights” and “factor in environmental sustainability,” though Kuyek alleged that Harvard has not been putting all of their guidelines into practice.

In order to transition to a more people-focused narrative, two HUEJ members — Roberta Jaffe and Steve Gliessman, owners of a small, family-run vineyard in California’s Cuyama Valley — joined in via Skype. They explained that though their groundwater supply had remained stable throughout California’s drought, it has been decreasing since Harvard opened an 850-acre vineyard nearby. Their powerpoint asked HMC to “stop exploiting land and water at the expense of local residents and natural resources.”

In April 2014, an HMC-owned company purchased 7,500 acres of vineyard land in the Cuyama Valley. The valley is one of 21 “critically overdrafted” basins in California, meaning that its groundwater, essential to agriculture during a prolonged drought, is not replenishing.
The teach-in ended with small groups workshopping the “Land Under Siege” demands.
***
The following afternoon’s rally begins with a group of around 30 students gathered outside the Smith Campus Center. They hold colorful signs made a week earlier at an art-build. One features bright pink and yellow hands on a globe and read, “Hands off the land!” Another, showing a cartoon-ish tree, reads, “Money doesn’t grow on trees, but it can protect them.”


This rally also seeks to align divestment with other social justice movements by highlighting the disproportionate impact of Harvard’s investment policies on marginalized communities.

After a series of chants, which draw onlookers and swell the crowd to nearly fifty, James L. Walkingstick ’21, a member of Native Americans at Harvard College, leads the group in prayer while burning a bundle of sage in a large shell. NAHC was a co-sponsor of “Land Under Siege.”

“Coming from an indigenous background, this strikes me as something unacceptable, because land seizure over the past 400 years has been usually against indigenous peoples and that’s being seen with Harvard with what they’re doing in Brazil and Australia,” Walkingstick says in an interview. “Environmental justice is inherently indigenous.”

Fuerza Latina, a Latinx cultural group on campus, also co-sponsored the event. FM spoke to Xochitl Morales ’22, Fuerza Latina’s civil engagement chair, the day after the rally. (She clarified that she does not speak on behalf of all Fuerza Latina.)

“I got Fuerza Latina involved because this is something that affects several Latinx communities across the world, in Brazil where Harvard is investing, where Harvard is taking land,” Morales says. “Environmental justice is a Latinx issue.”

The rally’s focus, however, quickly shifts away from land divestment and the harms done to indigenous communities to fossil fuel divestment more broadly, with Zoe Grodsky, a junior at Middlebury College involved with Divest Middlebury, speaking next.

“Six years ago at Divest Middlebury we received a resounding ‘no’ vote from the board of trustees, and just one year ago they told us that Middlebury would never divest because it was at odds with maintaining the fiduciary responsibility to maintain the college in its perpetuity,” Grodsky says.

But, facing mounting student pressure, Middlebury announced in January that it would divest from fossil fuels.

“This initiative is truly a testament to the power of student activism and resistance,” Grodsky says, calling on Harvard students to join a global movement for divestment.

Critics of various forms of divestment often claim that, even if universities divest from fossil fuels, less environmentally-conscious companies will buy up those shares, which, as a result of divestment will be riskier and offer higher yields.

“The point is to diminish not just the finances of the fossil fuel industry,” says Ilana Cohen. “Divestment is about diminishing the reputation of the fossil fuel industry, of declaring publicly that it is unacceptable to invest in the climate crisis, the same way that divesting from businesses supporting the South African apartheid regime was really a declaration that it was unjustifiable to prop up an apartheid system.”
***
The first Divest Harvard campaign peaked in a week-long protest in April 2015 called “Heat Week.” Hundreds of students and several faculty members blockaded Mass. Hall for a week, occupied the Harvard Alumni Association headquarters for two days, and blockaded University Hall multiple times. But the University did not change its investment policies.

Flores-Jones began Saturday’s organizer training session with an account of this history, starting with a video released before Heat Week. She stressed the importance of establishing institutional memory, having seen divestment momentum peter out as past leaders have graduated.

During the training, approximately twenty people sat on colorful couches in the Lowell Inn around a tupperware container of chocolate chip cookies. Each person shared their name and how they were feeling in a single word — “optimistic,” “eager,” “energized,” “enraged.”

The training, which sought to harness post-rally momentum, touched briefly on land divestment, but devoted the vast majority of its time to fossil fuels, giving the impression that land divestment was being used as a vehicle to generate energy surrounding climate change.

Three members of Harvard’s faculty — Regina C. LaRocque, James M. Recht, and Caren G. Solomon ‘84, all of whom have appointments at Harvard Medical School and are signatories to the “Faculty Petition for Fossil Fuel Divestment”— spoke at the event.
Recht said he believes faculty can help in three ways: moral support, emotional support, and potentially by “[lending] our bodies for participating in civil disobedience.”

“You guys aren’t supposed to be in this position where you take care of things for us,” he said.

The faculty left, and the meeting transitioned to planning a series of semester-long escalations. Crimson reporters were politely told to leave.
—Magazine writer Andrew Price can be reached at andy.price@thecrimson.com.
—Magazine writer Matteo N. Wong can be reached at matteo.wong@thecrimson.com.
Sections
I don’t remember what we’re talking about when my classmate says it, but I remember his words exactly: “I love your family, they’re so sweet.” But? I can hear the contradiction coming.
The noise of 50 rambunctious elementary schoolers fills my eardrums, but I’m not overwhelmed by the noise. I’m a fifth grader, and my friends and I rule the bus from our thrones in the back. After a long day at school, we relax on the ride across bumpy back roads, and our conversation drifts lazily.
But then he finishes his sentence, and no longer am I the big fifth-grader in control.
“Your family is so sweet; it’s just… it’s too bad that you’re all going to Hell.”
***
Religion — Christianity, to be specific — has always been a part of my life. I grew up in a village called Peach Bottom, in the tiniest corner of the deepest part of Pennsylvania’s Amish Country. In Peach Bottom, red lights don’t hold up traffic, but horses and buggies do. The land surrounding my house mostly contained cows, and the few human neighbors that I had were almost all Amish, Mennonite, or, at the very least, extremely Christian.
I learned to write my name in a church basement. There were only two preschools in my town, and both were run by Methodist churches. Three days a week I would go to Wee Friends Nursery school to sing “Jesus Loves Me,” “He’s Got the Whole World in His Hands,” and “Away In a Manger.” I played the innkeeper during the Christmas play –– to my chagrin, I was too tall to play the coveted role of Mary.
In third grade, my predominantly Protestant class spent a unit learning about the local Amish community. As children, we were used to interacting with the Amish at the grocery store or library, though the Amish kids attended their own one-room schoolhouses.
“What are some similarities between us and the Amish?” our teacher asked.
“We both go to church!” piped up one of my classmates.
“Well, how many of you go to church on Sundays?” the teacher asked in response.
All hands shot up in the air, except one. One timid student, shrinking in the back. Yeah, that was me.
***
Though Christianity came at me everywhere I went in town, religion was starkly absent when I retreated to the comfort of my log-cabin home. My mother grew up switching between various Protestant churches, and my father endured the strict rules of Catholic school as a child. By the time they reached adulthood, they had both decided religion was not for them.
I grew up believing in magic, fairies, and Santa Claus –– but no God.
Everyone has that “thing” that makes them stick out. As an atheist, mixed-race, nerdy 10-year-old living in “Pennsyltucky,” I had more than a few “things,” but growing up in Amish Country, it was my lack of religion that most obviously separated me from my peers.
I started becoming aware of my non-Christian upbringing in elementary school. It never bothered me that all my classmates were religious, but I began to feel like people cared that I was not. My friends would ask what church I went to, and I wouldn’t have an answer. At lunch one day, I watched two classmates high-five and recite the Ten Commandments on loop, like some odd remix of Miss Mary Mack. I had never heard of the Ten Commandments. I sat quietly and ate my PB&J.
***
With the start of middle school came a whole new set of preteen struggles. I’m not talking about party FOMO or pressure to watch R-rated movies — the only R-rated movie my friends wanted to watch was “The Passion of the Christ.” What I really felt excluded from was youth group.
I first realized that I was blissfully ignorant of a whole social scene during a sixth grade activities fair. One of the talks was called “WyldLife.” I liked the outdoors, I reasoned, so I decided to attend. I discovered that WyldLife was not simply a hiking trip, but in fact a program to help young people “model and express God's love” and elicit a “God-given desire for a life of fun, adventure and purpose.”

I felt like I was missing out on a huge part of middle school life because I was so detached from Christianity. So, one Friday night, I followed my friend through the looming doors of her megachurch.
I was one tiny body in a vast room of middle schoolers. I looked around. Across from me I saw what looked like a giant stage. Huge projector lights gleamed in my face. Churches I had visited as a kid typically defined themselves by their humility and modesty; this place looked like it was ready to host a rock concert. “This might actually be fun,” I thought to myself, surprised.
The lights dimmed, silence spread through the pews, and all eyes focused on a man crossing to the center of the stage. He was a nondescript white guy, probably in his late twenties. He announced the theme of that night: dating.
The giant projector suddenly lit up, and an eHarmony video depicting a woman tearfully expressing her obsessive love for cats began to play. I did not then—and do not now—have any explanation for this; I just know that it happened.
Once the video ended and the confused laughter had died down, the man segued less-than-gracefully to the topic at hand.
“Last year I dated a girl who wasn’t Christian. It didn’t end well.”
His speech continued from there. When it ended, we broke into smaller groups based on gender. I had never dated, but the eighth-grade girls in my group had. We discussed the concept of potential romance with our youth group leader and came to the collective conclusion that it is much easier, and generally preferable, to date someone who shares our religious beliefs.
I nodded along, but my agreement felt hollow. I had never distanced myself from these girls for having a different belief system than me; it didn’t feel fair for them to be separating themselves so completely from people who held other beliefs.
That night, the friend I had followed to church and I had a sleepover. We lay in the dark, processing what we’d heard in the meeting. After a silence, I piped up.
“What would you do if you really loved someone who was Jewish?”
No answer.
“How about … Catholic?”
It was a tough question for her. She didn’t have anything to say.
I thought about how I felt when I was told my family was going to Hell, when I was chastised for letting slip the phrase “oh my God,” when I was told that non-Christians were not worth dating. I knew how I would answer the question.
I didn’t believe there was a higher being, but really, who was I to say? Why would I distance myself from other people for believing in one?
For the first time, lying on the floor of my friend’s basement, I felt okay about my religious identity because I realized I didn’t care about anyone else’s. I decided this thing that had troubled me my entire life, that made me feel left out and less than, could actually be an asset.
So, I walked into school the day after that sleepover and stopped pretending. My math teacher told me that day that I was “blessed in the brains” (I can’t say why –– math is not my strong suit). This was the first time a religiously infused remark had failed to make me uncomfortable, and I replied with a simple, “Thank you.” I was flattered by the compliment—but yet I was quietly confident that it was not God that had helped me improve my math skills, but rather my own hard work.
***
This past Easter, I visited my family friends in a small Connecticut town. To my dismay, I realized I was going to have to attend church before I could run around collecting candy-filled eggs (yes, I am still a competitive Easter egg hunter at the age of 18).
When we got to the building, I walked reluctantly into a room dappled by stained glass. I heard kind words coming from the pastor’s mouth and listened to the ring of the bell choir, and I raised my voice to sing with the congregation. I didn’t believe the words I chanted, but the service was lovely.
What once would have been an uncomfortable situation for me had simply become a fascinating one. Accepting myself as an outsider in this place, I had the confidence to recognize its beauty.
—Magazine writer Maya H. McDougall can be reached at maya.mcdougall@thecrimson.com.
Sections
In 2019, both Bill Bartley and his Burger Cottage will turn sixty.
Over the years that his family business has operated in Harvard Square, Bartley has never needed to advertise his restaurant, and today it’s packed for the lunchtime rush. “We just let the food speak for itself,” he says, laying three burgers onto a sizzling grill. “People aren’t stupid — if they have a great meal, they tell their friends.”
Pinned to the wood-paneled walls of Mr. Bartley’s Gourmet Burgers is a noisy array of replica street signs, aged posters, and autographed sports jerseys. As the grill begins to hiss, Bartley edges his spatula under the corner of one of the burgers and flips it with a turn of his wrist. Something about the decor and the aroma of the food evokes a certain nostalgia: from its place on Massachusetts Ave., the restaurant has witnessed half a century of history.
“At one point in the ’70s and ’80s when me and my brother and my parents would walk in and turn the key, there would be a 125 years of combined restaurant experience when we’d open that door,” says Bartley. “We were a machine back then.”
Still, such a storied past cannot insulate the restaurant and its owner from an uncertain future: Like countless other small business owners in the Square, Bartley fears that skyrocketing rents may soon price him out of the space that his family has operated since the year he was born.
For the past 48 years, Harvard has owned the 1244-1256 Mass. Ave. properties, home to Bartley’s, Harvard Book Store, and the Hampden Hall swing dormitories currently used by Lowell House. “They always were the best landlord in the world,” says Bartley, gleaming spatula in hand. “We’ve never had a problem with Harvard — until right now.”
With his lease set to expire, Bartley entered into negotiations with Harvard’s leasing team over the summer. “When I met with them, they said they loved us, that we were the greatest tenant of all time,” Bartley confides proudly. “Every Fourth of July, I have a family cookout, and I remember telling the woman who was doing the negotiations at the time, ‘Thanks so much — everybody at the cookout is going to be so excited.’” His face lights up as he recounts the years his family members spent working the same grill that crackles behind him.
But before long, his smile fades. “And then they sent me the lease,” he continues. “She said she had an offer, but it wasn’t anything like what we had had before.” Bartley braces the heels of his hands against the counter, his head bowed. “Finally I just said, ‘Fine, I’m going to do something we’ve never done before — I’m going to call my lawyer.’”
Bartley is hardly alone in his concerns. In just the past two months, Harvard Square has witnessed the closings of Crema Cafe, Tealuxe, Chipotle Mexican Grill, Urban Outfitters, Sweet Bakery, Au Bon Pain, and Petsi Pies. Though small business owners report increased competition from chain stores and online retailers like Amazon, their problems have deeper roots: In a neighborhood where property values have risen steadily over the past several years, even national chains struggle to sustain the profit margins necessary to pay the rents their landlords demand.
“Mr. Bartley’s Burger Cottage has been a staple in the Square for nearly 60 years,” explains Harvard spokesperson Brigid O’Rourke in an emailed statement. “[W]e look forward to achieving a mutually acceptable lease.”
In the meantime, however, Bartley’s lease remains undetermined, his future rent unknown. “Crazy shit!” he exclaims, shaking his head. “When we were negotiating and [a Harvard representative] was playing hardball, I remember telling her, ‘Do you really want to be the one who makes me go? Because I can go someplace else. Do you want that to happen on your watch?’”
He surveys the store and its creative chaos, taking in the haphazard clusters of brightly-colored vintage signage and Boston sports memorabilia surrounding the chairs that have seated a laundry list of celebrities and public figures from Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis to Adam Sandler. He sighs. “But we’ll see — we’re a tenant at will in a month.”
Should Bill Bartley have to leave the neighborhood, he will take a piece of its history with him. Yet his departure would be but one of many, part of a long, gradual erosion of the landmarks that have distinguished Harvard Square for many years. And as the face of the Square changes, small business owners have no choice but to confront a version of the neighborhood’s future that may no longer save space for them.
A holiday card preserved in the Cambridge Historical Commission’s archives depicts a snow-dusted corner of Harvard Square, illuminated by street lights that warm a seemingly frigid evening. Red script neatly penned below the image reads, “Isn’t this a beautiful corner of Harvard Square, with the warm glow of the Tasty, the restored News Kiosk, and the elegant curve and delicate detail on that corner — evoking 19. century London!”
Though the Out of Town News kiosk is a familiar sight for most Harvard students and Cambridge residents, The Tasty — as opposed to Tasty Burger — may be less recognizable. The Tasty was a 12-seat diner located in the Cambridge Savings Bank building that served burgers and fries 24 hours a day. The site of Matt Damon ’92’s date with Minnie Driver in “Good Will Hunting,” the restaurant was well-known and well-loved within the neighborhood and beyond. It shuttered in October 1997, when renovations began on the Cambridge Savings Bank building, and with rents set to increase following the conclusion of the construction project, the restaurant never returned. The Tasty was first replaced by an Abercrombie & Fitch; today a 24-hour CVS Pharmacy occupies its place.
Upon reaching the bottom of the card, the red writing bends and stretches up the stationary’s right edge. The note concludes with a promise: “Shall we preserve and care for it? Yes — absolutely!”
To some of its longtime occupants, the Harvard Square of today bears little resemblance to the neighborhood pictured in the holiday card. “It’s not the small, individual type mom-and-pop stores anymore,” says Ned Ver Planck, owner of the multi-level hardware store Dickson Bros True Value Hardware. Operated by Ver Planck’s family since 1964, Dickson Bros sits a storefront down from the Corcoran Building, which housed Urban Outfitters, Sweet Bakery, and Tealuxe. As the Corcoran Building enters renovations of its own, it is possible these three stores will go the way of The Tasty.
“It’s more the bigger, corporate type stores, big business type stores,” Ver Planck continues. He reports that the smaller, locally-owned model used to be more common before large investors began purchasing more and more property in the Square.
A man enters Dickson Bros with his granddaughter and weaves between the narrow aisles looking for a very specific screwdriver. When Ver Planck helps him locate it, his face lights up. “I knew I’d be able to find this here!” he says excitedly. His granddaughter smiles shyly, clutching at his pants.
Ver Planck rings up his customers at the cash register and then returns to the conversation. “That guy coming in with his granddaughter just now, he was saying it: ‘The Square has changed a lot,’” he notes. “So, has it affected us yet? No. Will it affect us? I hope not,” he confides uneasily. “But I don’t know how it can’t affect us when you’re ripping down one building and renovating two buildings along the main drag,” he adds, referencing the Corcoran Building. “I don’t know how it can’t affect business.”
Ver Planck owns the building that houses Dickson Bros, insulating him from the rising rents that have forced out many local businesses. But as property values in the neighborhood increase, his property taxes follow suit. “Rents have skyrocketed — it’s gone out of control,” he says of the neighborhood more broadly. “They went up in the ’80s, but then they stayed constant for awhile; now with the buildings getting sold, the rents are just going to continue to go up.”
The initial rent rise in the 1980s cited by Ver Planck traces its roots to the decade prior. Throughout the turbulent Vietnam War years, thousands of people flooded into Harvard Square, having heard that, as G. Garrett Epps ’72 explains in a Crimson article from 1970, “Cambridge was where the dope and music [was].” The 1969-70 academic year was marked by frequent protests that occasionally turned violent, reaching a climax in the April 15 “trashing” of Harvard Square, in which 3,000 demonstrators set fires in the streets, threw flaming debris into the Coop, and smashed all the first floor windows of the Holyoke Center, now the Richard A. and Susan F. Smith Campus Center.
Local businesses began to suffer as a result. Forced to install steel grates over their windows, many business owners worried that the Square was losing the quaint appeal that attracted wealthy consumers from the suburbs. The July following the “trashing,” Vice President of the Cambridge Chamber of Commerce Malcolm Fryer suggested to the city council that business “had fallen off because people [were] afraid to come into the area.”
As the raucousness of the Square leveled off toward the end of the decade, large chains began to replace many of the small businesses that had suffered throughout the 1970s. In 1978, the Woolworth’s five-and-dime store was forced from the 15 Brattle St. storefront it had occupied since the 1920s; The GAP promptly took its place. Corcoran’s, a furniture store owned by Paul R. Corcoran Jr. ’54, yielded to Urban Outfitters in 1987.
The wave of closings that proliferated throughout the 1980s and 1990s likely lent urgency to the holiday card writer’s tone — but the dynamics of change were outside the scope of their control. Even the intensity of their commitment to “preserve and care” for the Square could in no way prevent the exodus of small businesses from the neighborhood.
Over 20 years later, the staff of Mr. Bartley’s expressed similar sentiments in an Instagram post dated from Christmas Eve of 2018. “As we pause to look back on all the wonderful moments we have had over the years, we are struck by how many of our local businesses are no longer with us,” the caption reads, situated beneath a photo of the restaurant’s staff wearing reindeer antlers and Santa hats. “We are still here and going strong because of you and your families that come back year after year, and we are incredibly great for that, and feel like our customers and staff are like family.”
Just below eye level at 12 Bow St. sits Harvard Square’s favorite “hole in the wall”: Café Pamplona. Josefina Yanguas, a native of Pamplona, Spain, founded the restaurant out of her own basement in 1958, hoping to meet new people and alleviate her longing for home. Pamplona’s atmosphere and fare has attracted customers for over 60 years, and while Yanguas left the restaurant in 2004, current owner Nina S. Hovagimian acknowledges that Pamplona’s resiliency is unique.
“Nothing is up to code with the laws today — I mean today if you wanted to open this, you couldn’t; you’d never get a permit,” Hovagimian admits. “The city lets us stay open, I think, partly because it’s historical — it’s part of old Harvard.” Pamplona was the first coffee shop in Harvard Square to have an espresso machine, attracting students and locals throughout the 1950s and 1960s.
Café Pamplona’s low ceilings, dim lighting, and mustard yellow walls are distinguishing traits that make the restaurant irreplaceable for more reasons than its unique design and location. Hovagimian has made sure to maintain its legacy. “The menu hasn’t really changed. The recipes we use are original recipes that [the original owner] used to have in the ’60s.”
Despite the constancy of Café Pamplona, however, business has started to decline. Hovagimian has cut her hours short, saying that she has “no business at night,” and the typical patterns of rushes and lulls are becoming unpredictable.
“I haven’t changed anything, you know what I mean?” she says, gesturing around the bustling cafe. “The Square has changed. Clientele has changed, the night business has changed. I used to have people come here and have coffee at night; people now go out to drink…. People tell me from 20 or 30 years ago [the Square is] completely unrecognizable.”
Local activists, longtime Cambridge residents, and eager Crimson editors have waxed nostalgic about the “changing face” of Harvard Square for decades. But the rapid closings of recent years seem to represent an acceleration of the historical trend that has altered the Square since the 1980s.
Yet, despite the longstanding impact of such changes, several local business owners acknowledge that today’s commercial landscape is notably distinct. “One thing I used to always say about this neighborhood is nothing ever changes,” emphasizes Paul DeRuzzo, owner of University Wine Shop. “But in the last — I’m going to say about 10 years — it’s changed a lot.”
Local businesses hoping to enter the Square may find it increasingly difficult to gain a foothold and sustain themselves in the current climate. “In 20 years from now, you’ll hardly find any small shops or retails on the street,” DeRuzzo says. “No one’ll be able to afford it, the way it’s going now.”
Between 2015 and 2019, median assessed property values in Cambridge rose from $570,900 to $781,000. This increase, however, reflects a change across all of Cambridge’s properties; individual institutions, particularly ones in the Square, have witnessed far greater gaps between their past and current value assessments. Though the city of Cambridge does not publish rent data, assessed property values provide insight into the rise and fall of rent rates over time. As a building becomes more valuable, landlords can charge their tenants more, driven in part by increased property taxes.
DeRuzzo had accumulated over 30 years of business in his 1739 Mass. Ave. location before retail firm Myer Dana & Sons bought the shop’s building in 2017. The rents imposed by his new landlord proved too high for him to afford, and he was forced to move locations in December of that year. According to DeRuzzo, average rent per square foot in the area ranges from $35 to $42. The new rent charged by Myer Dana & Sons was $25 more per square foot than Deruzzo had previously been paying.
DeRuzzo attempted to negotiate, even researching average rents in the area and presenting the landlord with realistic prices. But despite his best efforts, the firm refused to budge.
“One of the most dishonoring things was they didn’t believe us,” DeRuzzo said. “They had their own view of what rents were and didn’t go out and do their own homework and figure out themselves.”
Representatives from Myer Dana & Sons declined to comment on DeRuzzo’s claims, and his former location remains unoccupied to this day.
“To me, it’s just disappointing that it’s so tough for people to make a living in small retail anymore,” DeRuzzo says.
Though DeRuzzo argues that the proposed rents at his old location would have surpassed market levels, the increase imposed by his new landlord reflects the increase in real estate value across Cambridge. Between 2015 and 2019, the assessed value of 1741 Mass. Ave., a property adjacent to the original University Wine Shop location also owned by Myer Dana & Sons, increased 47 percent from $1,001,000 to $1,472,600.
Over the same time period, the assessed value of of 1244-1256 Mass. Ave., the Harvard-owned building home to Mr. Bartley’s Burger Cottage, increased from $11,849,700 to $17,504,500. One of the most staggering increases, however, is the building where Crema Cafe formerly resided: In 2015, the block of properties filed at 37 Brattle St., which also houses Felipe’s Mexican Taqueria and Flat Patties, was valued at $15,213,100. In 2019, the property clocked in at $25,663,000.
“The recent addition of property ownership by non-local entities, principally by investment firms, has, I think, caused rents to appreciate at a higher rate and to a level that is really not accessible to the average local businessperson,” says Adriane B. Musgrave, executive director of Cambridge Local First, a non-profit network of local businesses committed to educating the public on the importance of a strong local economy.
The block of properties at 37 Brattle St. was purchased by Asana Partners in 2017. The North Carolina-based real estate investment firm paid over $100 million for the property, and according to a Crimson article published in December, Asana decided not to continue Crema’s lease for 2019 due to “declining returns.”
Asana Partners could not be reached for comment.
Bill Bartley was sad to see Crema leave the Square. When the cafe’s closing was announced in December, the chalkboard sign outside of Bartley’s that typically encourages passersby to stop in for a burger displayed a message of solidarity: “We will miss you Crema!”
Bartley estimates that Crema would have needed to pay $30,000 per month in rent and recalls cautioning the owners against fighting to remain in the Square. “Get out,” he remembers saying, “You can pay the 30; you might be able to tread water for a couple of years, but get out — it’s just not worth it.”
Reflecting on his own experience running a restaurant, Bartley continues: “At that rate, you’re going to go downhill — you’re going to have to cut on ingredients, you’re going to have to cut on staff, you’re to have to cut, cut, cut just to tread water.” He sighs. “This is a really bad hobby to have, so if you’re not making money, I’d say you got to get out.”
Previous Crema co-owner Liza Shirazi could not be reached to confirm Bartley’s assessment. But in late December, she relocated to Davis Square, opening a new restaurant in January with partner Steve “Nookie” Postal called Revival Cafe + Kitchen. The faded outlines of “Crema Cafe,” still visible on the awning above 27 Brattle St., will soon read “Bluestone Lane” — the name of the high-end Australian coffee chain replacing it.
Over the last few years, businesses with decades of history have shuttered, including Schoenhof’s Foreign Books, which closed in 2017 after 161 years of business. Longevity does not appear to be a symbol of stability or security, as stores must meet higher rents with relatively constant revenue. Cornerstone restaurants such as Café Pamplona and Pinocchio’s Pizza & Subs have become exceptions; their continued success is in part due to their uniquely stable relationships with their landlords.
Adam DiCenso, owner of Pinocchio’s, takes a break from serving customers at the counter and steps out into the unusually warm February sun. Pinocchio’s opened in 1966, and DiCenso’s family took over the restaurant in 1982; while rents have increased gradually, Noch’s appears to have weathered this change.
“Fortunately for us,” he says, glancing around, “knock on something, we’ve been having [our rent] go up but nothing crazy, no doubling of rents or tripling of rents or whatever I’ve heard with some of the places.” Pinocchio’s rents its space from a family that has owned the building for over 100 years, as opposed to a real estate company or trust — and the DiCenso’s have maintained an amicable relationship with them. “I’ve heard horror stories about some of the landlords around here, and they’ve been great with us. Once again, we’ve been really lucky with that.”
Similarly, Hovagimian pays rent to the family of Café Pamplona’s original owners, who still own the building. She deems her rent “reasonable,” and recognizes her setup’s uniqueness. “It would be impossible for me to pay rent like these other places pay rent, because I sell one coffee at a time,” she says, nodding at the cramped kitchen behind the counter. “[The cafe] is not owned by Harvard; it’s not owned by a corporation, so it’s still family-owned. And [the landlords] also understand that I wouldn’t be able to survive if I had to pay more.”
Most businesses, however, lack the security afforded by these unique ties to landlords, and their futures remain uncertain. Without such relationships, many of the recently closed establishments — Crema, Chipotle, Sweet Bakery, and Tealuxe, among others — were vulnerable to the whims of their landlords and unpredictable market forces.
Still, new businesses forge ahead to fill the gaps left by these closures. Milk Bar and &pizza, one of the Square’s most recent additions, continues the trend of larger chains replacing local establishments, occupying what used to be Tory Row and the Crimson Corner Newsstand at 3 Brattle St.
Despite the numerous additions, Harvard Square stands to lose an intangible quality during this turnover. “The local businesses are what make Harvard sparkle,” says Musgrave.
“If you talked to a lot of people about the history of the Square, they would say that a lot of its authenticity and a lot of its charm was rooted in the independent business owners who were a part of that community,” says Randy R. Ricker, owner of Brattle Square Florist. “That’s something that’s been eroding for 20, 30, 40 years.”
Yet the demand for locally-oriented businesses is still strong. “The reception from the Square — from the people who have lived here forever and the other businesses — has been so much better than we ever expected,” says Shoshanah B. Garber, co-founder of Black Sheep Bagel Cafe.
Black Sheep, a new mom-and-pop styled restaurant on JFK St. owned by a particularly young mom and pop, opened in June 2018, standing in contrast to the Square’s current influx of chains. “A lot of people seem to be really appreciative of what we’re doing here,” Garber continues. “We live in the neighborhood, so we’re really as local as we can be.”
Chains seem to threaten the personable nature of local businesses that many treasure. “We used to have property owners who really loved and cared about the Square for more than just financial value, and we’ve lost a lot of that,” says Musgrave. “At the end of the day, the only thing that these investors care about are the dollars and cents, not about community, not about neighborhood character, not about vitality. Those things are related to financial success, but sometimes they are separate.”
According to Musgrave, Harvard Square’s transformation mirrors “techy destinations” such as New York, San Francisco, or Los Angeles, and it risks losing the spark that attracts visitors and local residents alike. “If our globalization and homogenization of business happens to such an extent, then why would I go to [Harvard Square] to see something new and unique and cool?” she asks.
“Why would I waste my time to go some place when I’ve already been to those places before?”
—Magazine writer Andrew W. D. Aoyama can be reached andrew.aoyama@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @AndrewAoyama.
—Magazine writer Jane Z. Li can be reached matteo.wong@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @JaneZLi.
Sections
In 2019, both Bill Bartley and his Burger Cottage will turn sixty.
Over the years that his family business has operated in Harvard Square, Bartley has never needed to advertise his restaurant, and today it’s packed for the lunchtime rush. “We just let the food speak for itself,” he says, laying three burgers onto a sizzling grill. “People aren’t stupid — if they have a great meal, they tell their friends.”
Pinned to the wood-paneled walls of Mr. Bartley’s Gourmet Burgers is a noisy array of replica street signs, aged posters, and autographed sports jerseys. As the grill begins to hiss, Bartley edges his spatula under the corner of one of the burgers and flips it with a turn of his wrist. Something about the decor and the aroma of the food evokes a certain nostalgia: from its place on Massachusetts Ave., the restaurant has witnessed half a century of history.
“At one point in the ’70s and ’80s when me and my brother and my parents would walk in and turn the key, there would be a 125 years of combined restaurant experience when we’d open that door,” says Bartley. “We were a machine back then.”
Still, such a storied past cannot insulate the restaurant and its owner from an uncertain future: Like countless other small business owners in the Square, Bartley fears that skyrocketing rents may soon price him out of the space that his family has operated since the year he was born.
For the past 48 years, Harvard has owned the 1244-1256 Mass. Ave. properties, home to Bartley’s, Harvard Book Store, and the Hampden Hall swing dormitories currently used by Lowell House. “They always were the best landlord in the world,” says Bartley, gleaming spatula in hand. “We’ve never had a problem with Harvard — until right now.”
With his lease set to expire, Bartley entered into negotiations with Harvard’s leasing team over the summer. “When I met with them, they said they loved us, that we were the greatest tenant of all time,” Bartley confides proudly. “Every Fourth of July, I have a family cookout, and I remember telling the woman who was doing the negotiations at the time, ‘Thanks so much — everybody at the cookout is going to be so excited.’” His face lights up as he recounts the years his family members spent working the same grill that crackles behind him.
But before long, his smile fades. “And then they sent me the lease,” he continues. “She said she had an offer, but it wasn’t anything like what we had had before.” Bartley braces the heels of his hands against the counter, his head bowed. “Finally I just said, ‘Fine, I’m going to do something we’ve never done before — I’m going to call my lawyer.’”
Bartley is hardly alone in his concerns. In just the past two months, Harvard Square has witnessed the closings of Crema Cafe, Tealuxe, Chipotle Mexican Grill, Urban Outfitters, Sweet Bakery, Au Bon Pain, and Petsi Pies. Though small business owners report increased competition from chain stores and online retailers like Amazon, their problems have deeper roots: In a neighborhood where property values have risen steadily over the past several years, even national chains struggle to sustain the profit margins necessary to pay the rents their landlords demand.
“Mr. Bartley’s Burger Cottage has been a staple in the Square for nearly 60 years,” explains Harvard spokesperson Brigid O’Rourke in an emailed statement. “[W]e look forward to achieving a mutually acceptable lease.”
In the meantime, however, Bartley’s lease remains undetermined, his future rent unknown. “Crazy shit!” he exclaims, shaking his head. “When we were negotiating and [a Harvard representative] was playing hardball, I remember telling her, ‘Do you really want to be the one who makes me go? Because I can go someplace else. Do you want that to happen on your watch?’”
He surveys the store and its creative chaos, taking in the haphazard clusters of brightly-colored vintage signage and Boston sports memorabilia surrounding the chairs that have seated a laundry list of celebrities and public figures from Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis to Adam Sandler. He sighs. “But we’ll see — we’re a tenant at will in a month.”
Should Bill Bartley have to leave the neighborhood, he will take a piece of its history with him. Yet his departure would be but one of many, part of a long, gradual erosion of the landmarks that have distinguished Harvard Square for many years. And as the face of the Square changes, small business owners have no choice but to confront a version of the neighborhood’s future that may no longer save space for them.
A holiday card preserved in the Cambridge Historical Commission’s archives depicts a snow-dusted corner of Harvard Square, illuminated by street lights that warm a seemingly frigid evening. Red script neatly penned below the image reads, “Isn’t this a beautiful corner of Harvard Square, with the warm glow of the Tasty, the restored News Kiosk, and the elegant curve and delicate detail on that corner — evoking 19. century London!”
Though the Out of Town News kiosk is a familiar sight for most Harvard students and Cambridge residents, The Tasty — as opposed to Tasty Burger — may be less recognizable. The Tasty was a 12-seat diner located in the Cambridge Savings Bank building that served burgers and fries 24 hours a day. The site of Matt Damon ’92’s date with Minnie Driver in “Good Will Hunting,” the restaurant was well-known and well-loved within the neighborhood and beyond. It shuttered in October 1997, when renovations began on the Cambridge Savings Bank building, and with rents set to increase following the conclusion of the construction project, the restaurant never returned. The Tasty was first replaced by an Abercrombie & Fitch; today a 24-hour CVS Pharmacy occupies its place.
Upon reaching the bottom of the card, the red writing bends and stretches up the stationary’s right edge. The note concludes with a promise: “Shall we preserve and care for it? Yes — absolutely!”
To some of its longtime occupants, the Harvard Square of today bears little resemblance to the neighborhood pictured in the holiday card. “It’s not the small, individual type mom-and-pop stores anymore,” says Ned Ver Planck, owner of the multi-level hardware store Dickson Bros True Value Hardware. Operated by Ver Planck’s family since 1964, Dickson Bros sits a storefront down from the Corcoran Building, which housed Urban Outfitters, Sweet Bakery, and Tealuxe. As the Corcoran Building enters renovations of its own, it is possible these three stores will go the way of The Tasty.
“It’s more the bigger, corporate type stores, big business type stores,” Ver Planck continues. He reports that the smaller, locally-owned model used to be more common before large investors began purchasing more and more property in the Square.
A man enters Dickson Bros with his granddaughter and weaves between the narrow aisles looking for a very specific screwdriver. When Ver Planck helps him locate it, his face lights up. “I knew I’d be able to find this here!” he says excitedly. His granddaughter smiles shyly, clutching at his pants.
Ver Planck rings up his customers at the cash register and then returns to the conversation. “That guy coming in with his granddaughter just now, he was saying it: ‘The Square has changed a lot,’” he notes. “So, has it affected us yet? No. Will it affect us? I hope not,” he confides uneasily. “But I don’t know how it can’t affect us when you’re ripping down one building and renovating two buildings along the main drag,” he adds, referencing the Corcoran Building. “I don’t know how it can’t affect business.”
Ver Planck owns the building that houses Dickson Bros, insulating him from the rising rents that have forced out many local businesses. But as property values in the neighborhood increase, his property taxes follow suit. “Rents have skyrocketed — it’s gone out of control,” he says of the neighborhood more broadly. “They went up in the ’80s, but then they stayed constant for awhile; now with the buildings getting sold, the rents are just going to continue to go up.”
The initial rent rise in the 1980s cited by Ver Planck traces its roots to the decade prior. Throughout the turbulent Vietnam War years, thousands of people flooded into Harvard Square, having heard that, as G. Garrett Epps ’72 explains in a Crimson article from 1970, “Cambridge was where the dope and music [was].” The 1969-70 academic year was marked by frequent protests that occasionally turned violent, reaching a climax in the April 15 “trashing” of Harvard Square, in which 3,000 demonstrators set fires in the streets, threw flaming debris into the Coop, and smashed all the first floor windows of the Holyoke Center, now the Richard A. and Susan F. Smith Campus Center.
Local businesses began to suffer as a result. Forced to install steel grates over their windows, many business owners worried that the Square was losing the quaint appeal that attracted wealthy consumers from the suburbs. The July following the “trashing,” Vice President of the Cambridge Chamber of Commerce Malcolm Fryer suggested to the city council that business “had fallen off because people [were] afraid to come into the area.”
As the raucousness of the Square leveled off toward the end of the decade, large chains began to replace many of the small businesses that had suffered throughout the 1970s. In 1978, the Woolworth’s five-and-dime store was forced from the 15 Brattle St. storefront it had occupied since the 1920s; The GAP promptly took its place. Corcoran’s, a furniture store owned by Paul R. Corcoran Jr. ’54, yielded to Urban Outfitters in 1987.
The wave of closings that proliferated throughout the 1980s and 1990s likely lent urgency to the holiday card writer’s tone — but the dynamics of change were outside the scope of their control. Even the intensity of their commitment to “preserve and care” for the Square could in no way prevent the exodus of small businesses from the neighborhood.
Over 20 years later, the staff of Mr. Bartley’s expressed similar sentiments in an Instagram post dated from Christmas Eve of 2018. “As we pause to look back on all the wonderful moments we have had over the years, we are struck by how many of our local businesses are no longer with us,” the caption reads, situated beneath a photo of the restaurant’s staff wearing reindeer antlers and Santa hats. “We are still here and going strong because of you and your families that come back year after year, and we are incredibly great for that, and feel like our customers and staff are like family.”
Just below eye level at 12 Bow St. sits Harvard Square’s favorite “hole in the wall”: Café Pamplona. Josefina Yanguas, a native of Pamplona, Spain, founded the restaurant out of her own basement in 1958, hoping to meet new people and alleviate her longing for home. Pamplona’s atmosphere and fare has attracted customers for over 60 years, and while Yanguas left the restaurant in 2004, current owner Nina S. Hovagimian acknowledges that Pamplona’s resiliency is unique.
“Nothing is up to code with the laws today — I mean today if you wanted to open this, you couldn’t; you’d never get a permit,” Hovagimian admits. “The city lets us stay open, I think, partly because it’s historical — it’s part of old Harvard.” Pamplona was the first coffee shop in Harvard Square to have an espresso machine, attracting students and locals throughout the 1950s and 1960s.
Café Pamplona’s low ceilings, dim lighting, and mustard yellow walls are distinguishing traits that make the restaurant irreplaceable for more reasons than its unique design and location. Hovagimian has made sure to maintain its legacy. “The menu hasn’t really changed. The recipes we use are original recipes that [the original owner] used to have in the ’60s.”
Despite the constancy of Café Pamplona, however, business has started to decline. Hovagimian has cut her hours short, saying that she has “no business at night,” and the typical patterns of rushes and lulls are becoming unpredictable.
“I haven’t changed anything, you know what I mean?” she says, gesturing around the bustling cafe. “The Square has changed. Clientele has changed, the night business has changed. I used to have people come here and have coffee at night; people now go out to drink…. People tell me from 20 or 30 years ago [the Square is] completely unrecognizable.”
Local activists, longtime Cambridge residents, and eager Crimson editors have waxed nostalgic about the “changing face” of Harvard Square for decades. But the rapid closings of recent years seem to represent an acceleration of the historical trend that has altered the Square since the 1980s.
Yet, despite the longstanding impact of such changes, several local business owners acknowledge that today’s commercial landscape is notably distinct. “One thing I used to always say about this neighborhood is nothing ever changes,” emphasizes Paul DeRuzzo, owner of University Wine Shop. “But in the last — I’m going to say about 10 years — it’s changed a lot.”
Local businesses hoping to enter the Square may find it increasingly difficult to gain a foothold and sustain themselves in the current climate. “In 20 years from now, you’ll hardly find any small shops or retails on the street,” DeRuzzo says. “No one’ll be able to afford it, the way it’s going now.”
Between 2015 and 2019, median assessed property values in Cambridge rose from $570,900 to $781,000. This increase, however, reflects a change across all of Cambridge’s properties; individual institutions, particularly ones in the Square, have witnessed far greater gaps between their past and current value assessments. Though the city of Cambridge does not publish rent data, assessed property values provide insight into the rise and fall of rent rates over time. As a building becomes more valuable, landlords can charge their tenants more, driven in part by increased property taxes.
DeRuzzo had accumulated over 30 years of business in his 1739 Mass. Ave. location before retail firm Myer Dana & Sons bought the shop’s building in 2017. The rents imposed by his new landlord proved too high for him to afford, and he was forced to move locations in December of that year. According to DeRuzzo, average rent per square foot in the area ranges from $35 to $42. The new rent charged by Myer Dana & Sons was $25 more per square foot than Deruzzo had previously been paying.
DeRuzzo attempted to negotiate, even researching average rents in the area and presenting the landlord with realistic prices. But despite his best efforts, the firm refused to budge.
“One of the most dishonoring things was they didn’t believe us,” DeRuzzo said. “They had their own view of what rents were and didn’t go out and do their own homework and figure out themselves.”
Representatives from Myer Dana & Sons declined to comment on DeRuzzo’s claims, and his former location remains unoccupied to this day.
“To me, it’s just disappointing that it’s so tough for people to make a living in small retail anymore,” DeRuzzo says.
Though DeRuzzo argues that the proposed rents at his old location would have surpassed market levels, the increase imposed by his new landlord reflects the increase in real estate value across Cambridge. Between 2015 and 2019, the assessed value of 1741 Mass. Ave., a property adjacent to the original University Wine Shop location also owned by Myer Dana & Sons, increased 47 percent from $1,001,000 to $1,472,600.
Over the same time period, the assessed value of of 1244-1256 Mass. Ave., the Harvard-owned building home to Mr. Bartley’s Burger Cottage, increased from $11,849,700 to $17,504,500. One of the most staggering increases, however, is the building where Crema Cafe formerly resided: In 2015, the block of properties filed at 37 Brattle St., which also houses Felipe’s Mexican Taqueria and Flat Patties, was valued at $15,213,100. In 2019, the property clocked in at $25,663,000.
“The recent addition of property ownership by non-local entities, principally by investment firms, has, I think, caused rents to appreciate at a higher rate and to a level that is really not accessible to the average local businessperson,” says Adriane B. Musgrave, executive director of Cambridge Local First, a non-profit network of local businesses committed to educating the public on the importance of a strong local economy.
The block of properties at 37 Brattle St. was purchased by Asana Partners in 2017. The North Carolina-based real estate investment firm paid over $100 million for the property, and according to a Crimson article published in December, Asana decided not to continue Crema’s lease for 2019 due to “declining returns.”
Asana Partners could not be reached for comment.
Bill Bartley was sad to see Crema leave the Square. When the cafe’s closing was announced in December, the chalkboard sign outside of Bartley’s that typically encourages passersby to stop in for a burger displayed a message of solidarity: “We will miss you Crema!”
Bartley estimates that Crema would have needed to pay $30,000 per month in rent and recalls cautioning the owners against fighting to remain in the Square. “Get out,” he remembers saying, “You can pay the 30; you might be able to tread water for a couple of years, but get out — it’s just not worth it.”
Reflecting on his own experience running a restaurant, Bartley continues: “At that rate, you’re going to go downhill — you’re going to have to cut on ingredients, you’re going to have to cut on staff, you’re to have to cut, cut, cut just to tread water.” He sighs. “This is a really bad hobby to have, so if you’re not making money, I’d say you got to get out.”
Previous Crema co-owner Liza Shirazi could not be reached to confirm Bartley’s assessment. But in late December, she relocated to Davis Square, opening a new restaurant in January with partner Steve “Nookie” Postal called Revival Cafe + Kitchen. The faded outlines of “Crema Cafe,” still visible on the awning above 27 Brattle St., will soon read “Bluestone Lane” — the name of the high-end Australian coffee chain replacing it.
Over the last few years, businesses with decades of history have shuttered, including Schoenhof’s Foreign Books, which closed in 2017 after 161 years of business. Longevity does not appear to be a symbol of stability or security, as stores must meet higher rents with relatively constant revenue. Cornerstone restaurants such as Café Pamplona and Pinocchio’s Pizza & Subs have become exceptions; their continued success is in part due to their uniquely stable relationships with their landlords.
Adam DiCenso, owner of Pinocchio’s, takes a break from serving customers at the counter and steps out into the unusually warm February sun. Pinocchio’s opened in 1966, and DiCenso’s family took over the restaurant in 1982; while rents have increased gradually, Noch’s appears to have weathered this change.
“Fortunately for us,” he says, glancing around, “knock on something, we’ve been having [our rent] go up but nothing crazy, no doubling of rents or tripling of rents or whatever I’ve heard with some of the places.” Pinocchio’s rents its space from a family that has owned the building for over 100 years, as opposed to a real estate company or trust — and the DiCenso’s have maintained an amicable relationship with them. “I’ve heard horror stories about some of the landlords around here, and they’ve been great with us. Once again, we’ve been really lucky with that.”
Similarly, Hovagimian pays rent to the family of Café Pamplona’s original owners, who still own the building. She deems her rent “reasonable,” and recognizes her setup’s uniqueness. “It would be impossible for me to pay rent like these other places pay rent, because I sell one coffee at a time,” she says, nodding at the cramped kitchen behind the counter. “[The cafe] is not owned by Harvard; it’s not owned by a corporation, so it’s still family-owned. And [the landlords] also understand that I wouldn’t be able to survive if I had to pay more.”
Most businesses, however, lack the security afforded by these unique ties to landlords, and their futures remain uncertain. Without such relationships, many of the recently closed establishments — Crema, Chipotle, Sweet Bakery, and Tealuxe, among others — were vulnerable to the whims of their landlords and unpredictable market forces.
Still, new businesses forge ahead to fill the gaps left by these closures. Milk Bar and &pizza, one of the Square’s most recent additions, continues the trend of larger chains replacing local establishments, occupying what used to be Tory Row and the Crimson Corner Newsstand at 3 Brattle St.
Despite the numerous additions, Harvard Square stands to lose an intangible quality during this turnover. “The local businesses are what make Harvard sparkle,” says Musgrave.
“If you talked to a lot of people about the history of the Square, they would say that a lot of its authenticity and a lot of its charm was rooted in the independent business owners who were a part of that community,” says Randy R. Ricker, owner of Brattle Square Florist. “That’s something that’s been eroding for 20, 30, 40 years.”
Yet the demand for locally-oriented businesses is still strong. “The reception from the Square — from the people who have lived here forever and the other businesses — has been so much better than we ever expected,” says Shoshanah B. Garber, co-founder of Black Sheep Bagel Cafe.
Black Sheep, a new mom-and-pop styled restaurant on JFK St. owned by a particularly young mom and pop, opened in June 2018, standing in contrast to the Square’s current influx of chains. “A lot of people seem to be really appreciative of what we’re doing here,” Garber continues. “We live in the neighborhood, so we’re really as local as we can be.”
Chains seem to threaten the personable nature of local businesses that many treasure. “We used to have property owners who really loved and cared about the Square for more than just financial value, and we’ve lost a lot of that,” says Musgrave. “At the end of the day, the only thing that these investors care about are the dollars and cents, not about community, not about neighborhood character, not about vitality. Those things are related to financial success, but sometimes they are separate.”
According to Musgrave, Harvard Square’s transformation mirrors “techy destinations” such as New York, San Francisco, or Los Angeles, and it risks losing the spark that attracts visitors and local residents alike. “If our globalization and homogenization of business happens to such an extent, then why would I go to [Harvard Square] to see something new and unique and cool?” she asks.
“Why would I waste my time to go some place when I’ve already been to those places before?”
—Magazine writer Andrew W. D. Aoyama can be reached andrew.aoyama@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @AndrewAoyama.
—Magazine writer Jane Z. Li can be reached jane.li@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @JaneZLi.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
​​​​​​
UPDATED: February 14, 2019 at 3:50 p.m.
For the second year in a row, a record number of students applied to and enrolled in the English department’s creative writing workshops.
The application process for workshops, which usually each consist of 12 or fewer students, includes a writing sample, and approximately 60 percent of the 477 students who applied to at least one workshop secured a spot, according to Director of the Creative Writing Program Darcy Frey.
This spring, the program includes 24 workshops — another all-time high — in both fiction and non-fiction disciplines. The changes coincide with the program's expansion into Lamont Library.
“We’re not only trying to increase the number of workshops to serve more students, but we’re also trying to diversify the kind of workshops we’re offering,” Frey said.
Last fall, the program added new workshops in science writing and a class on "Journalism in the Age of Trump." The program added a class on television writing this semester. Four new faculty also joined the program this school year.
The creative writing program has doubled in size in the last seven years, according to English Department Chair Nicholas J. Watson. He said he believes the growth is partially attributed to the creative writing workshops being “hands-on work.”
“Making is just a thing that seems to connect with students,” Watson said. “I think it’s partly because we’ve expanded the idea of creative writing to some extent, so quite a lot of the workshops taught are non-fiction — we’ve got journalism, science writing.”
The uptick in applications, student enrollees, and number of classes come just as the creative writing program physically expanded into a space on the fourth floor of Lamont Library, which underwent construction last fall and reopened for the new semester.
“It’s already been really transformed,” Frey said, of the new space. “They’ve created a whole new suite of faculty offices and a seminar room that will be available both for creative writing workshops and also any English Department classes.”
The creative writing space sits directly above Lamont Library’s poetry room, a proximity that Watson said she hopes will cement a stronger bond between the library’s program and creative writing.
“We’re hoping to have closer contact with the poetry readings and other readings that are organized there and elsewhere by the library system,” Watson said. “That’s a big plus, and it’s a great sign of how far the creative writing here has come.”
Daria “Dasha” E. Bough ’21, who enrolled in English CLR: “Introduction to Screenwriting,” said she was drawn to the course in part by the work of the course's instructor Musa Syeed, one of the department’s four recent hires.
“I want to shoot a film this summer in Russia so I wanted some experience with how to type up a script, and I’d seen some of the works of the professor, Musa Syeed, and he seemed like the type of person I wanted to work with,” Bough said. “I was really intimidated to apply because I hadn’t applied to a creative writing class before but I’m excited to be in it; it’s been great.”
Andrew “Andy” J. Koenig, a first year graduate student in the English Department who is taking English CWC: “Writing Critically: Creative Writing Workshop,” said he applied to the program because he wanted to "switch things up."
“In my department, you can take a creative writing course and it can count towards your degree, so I wanted to switch things up a little bit and not just take a bunch of literature seminars because that can be really exhausting,” Koenig said.
Correction: Feb. 14, 2019
A previous version of this article was accompanied by a photo of the Writing Center with a caption that incorrectly labeled it as the location of the new creative writing space. In fact, the new creative writing space is located in Lamont Library. 
—Staff writer Sahana G. Srinivasan can be reached at sahana.srinivasan@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
​​​​​
The Faculty Council considered potential “in-between” resolutions to the ongoing debate over “shopping week,” the weeklong period at the start of each semester during which students preview classes before enrolling, at its biweekly meeting Wednesday afternoon.
The Council — the Faculty of Arts and Sciences’ highest governing body — also discussed updates to the General Education program’s quantitative reasoning requirement at the meeting, according to Council member David L. Howell.
Philosophy Professor Bernhard Nickel, who chairs a faculty committee tasked with proposing potential changes to shopping week, presented the course enrollment update — in the form of a 16-page interim report — to the Council along with Dean of Undergraduate Education Amanda Claybaugh. They proposed that FAS try to "find a balance" between keeping shopping week in its current form and eliminating it completely.
Though faculty have debated the merits of shopping week for many years, the most recent discussion reignited in March 2018 when Dean of the College Rakesh Khurana introduced the topic at a faculty meeting informally.
Since then, multiple professors have spoken in favor of eliminating shopping week in favor of an early registration system. Many undergraduates and some professors, however, have praised shopping week for the flexibility it offers students.
The committee began its work last September after the Faculty rejected a proposal to end shopping week entirely. In the following months, it held three formal listening sessions and launched a website to gather student input.
One measure the committee suggested at the Wednesday meeting that may help anticipate enrollment numbers more accurately is having fewer classes with enrollment caps, according to Howell. Another suggestion was to create a centralized system for conducting course lotteries across departments.
“In an ideal world, students would not have to worry about capped classes, but in the real world, for various reasons, they do,” Howell said. “We can't get rid of capping, but do it in a way that is more rational and better coordinated.”
Ultimately, the committee will “take it slow” in formulating its final recommendations on shopping week, Howell said. He estimated that the full faculty may not hear and vote upon a formal proposal on the subject for more than a year.
Claybaugh and Dean of Faculty Affairs Nina Zipser, who also holds a Ph.D. in mathematics from Harvard, presented an update to the Council on the new quantitative reasoning requirement in General Education.
When the faculty approved new Gen Ed requirements in 2016, the details of what would constitute the new quantitative reasoning requirement were “never really set,” according to Howell. Under proposed changes from a committee tasked with revamping the quantitative requirement, courses that count would apply data analysis to a variety of disciplines. The courses, which would vary in skill level, would be mandatory for all students with no option to test out.
“The requirement ensures that students reach a level of quantitative facility involving mathematical, statistical and computational methods that will enable them to think critically about data as it is employed in fields of inquiry across the FAS and SEAS,” Howell said.
The next Council meeting is slated for Feb. 27.
—Staff writer Molly C. McCafferty can be reached at molly.mccafferty@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter at @mollmccaff.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
​​​​​​
The Office of International Education, which facilitates term time, summer, and academic year study abroad for Harvard students, moved from its historic building at 77 Dunster St. to 1414 Mass. Ave. last month, according to Director of OIE Camila L. Nardozzi.
Nardozzi said the move, which was completed Jan. 25, was in large part motivated by the inaccessible nature of the Dunster Street location.
“The administrators' goal is to have student facing offices in fully accessible buildings, and 77 Dunster is not a fully accessible building,” she said.
OIE staff were skeptical at first about the move because they thought the new location at 1414 Mass. Ave might be difficult to find, according to Nardozzi.
“People equate it with Bank of America. Because of that we were concerned students wouldn’t be able to find us,” Nardozzi said. “However, we've still had a ton of appointments, a ton of drop ins, so I think people are still finding us.”
Nardozzi added that OIE staff were “really happy about the results” of the new space..
“I’m happy there’ll be some other folks moving in. It’s nice to be in a space with other folks. They have different traffic than we do. Just having more students around is nice,” Nardozzi said.
77 Dunster St., the former site of the OIE, will still house the Office of Undergraduate Research and Fellowships, which had previously shared the same building with the OIE.
Director of URAF Gregory A. Llacer wrote in an email that URAF “definitely benefited” from the new space because it “had outgrown the upstairs and badly needed more offices.”
“Both floors allows us to have all our counseling and programming staff on the first floor, so we can serve and accommodate all students, including those with mobility challenges,” Llacer said.
Llacer said URAF has also made the space more comfortable.
“We also now have an actual reception and reading area, better and more comfortable waiting space, and a room for our undergraduate research ambassadors to hold peer advising sessions, which we didn’t have before,” Llacer said.
Llacer added that URAF is still looking for ways to further take advantage of its expanded space.
“As we grow into the space we will look for more opportunities to engage students in the building as we do in our residential house during the summer,” Llacer said.
— Staff writer Aspen H. Buck can be reached at aspen.buck@thecrimson.com.
— Staff writer Edward W. Carr can be reached at edward.carr@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
UPDATED: February 14, 2019 at 11:29 p.m.
Dean of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences Claudine Gay said Monday she is working to recruit three professors who study ethnicity, after the loss of two tenure-track professors specializing in Asian-American studies angered ethnic studies advocates.
The announcement came in the wake of letters to administrators and a protest earlier this month calling for a formalized ethnic studies program. Activists cited programs at other universities and decades of organizing around the issue in arguing that the creation of such a program is long overdue. Gay and University President Lawrence S. Bacow have since praised advocates' efforts and promised to look into the issue further.
Activists specifically criticized the impending departures of two professors, Associate Professor of Education Natasha K. Warikoo and Assistant Professor of History Genevieve A. Clutario, in three separate letters to Bacow. The University decided not to put Warikoo up for tenure in November 2018, and Clutario recently accepted a position at Wellesley College.
Bacow wrote in an emailed statement Wednesday that though the decision to establish an ethnic studies program would ultimately fall under the “purview of the faculty,” he has supported Gay’s efforts on this front.
“I have been in conversations with Claudine Gay, the dean of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences, around this topic and we have been focused on ensuring that any new program would have the faculty and resources essential to deliver it,” he wrote. “Dean Gay has already recruited a number of faculty in this area, but we know ... there is more work to do and we will continue to make progress in the months ahead.”
Gay said Monday that FAS prioritized hiring Sociology and Social Studies faculty last semester, and three “young, early-career scholars” who study ethnicity have been offered positions in the two fields. At least two of the three recruits, whom Gay did not name, have accepted the offers and will join the faculty this fall.
Gay said in an October interview that she planned to focus on recruiting faculty who specialize in ethnic studies before potentially making plans to develop a formalized program. She also said she planned to meet with ethnic studies advocates in the spring.
Gay has already met with members of the Task Force on Asian and Pacific American Studies. She added that her goal for this semester is to persuade the third recruit to accept FAS’s offer and then begin thinking about "hiring priorities” for next year.
“What I was saying in that meeting — and it’s actually not unlike what I’ve expressed in other venues at other times — is that I’m very aware of student interest and, frankly, needs in this area, and I believe that it’s all valid,” Gay said.
Gay also praised the students advocating for an ethnic studies program as “thoughtful” and “extraordinary.” She acknowledged that the departure of Clutario and Warikoo constituted a “big loss,” and that the new recruits are not meant to replace them.
Alice S. Cheng ’20, a member of TAPAS who met with Dean Gay, wrote in an email that, though it was “exciting” to hear about the new hires, she believes it is “equally important” that Harvard create a structured ethnic studies program to support faculty who specialize in the field.
“It is critical to see ethnic studies faculty hired into some kind of structure where they can build a scholarly community with one another,” wrote Cheng, a former Crimson editor. “We've seen from many instances of ethnic studies faculty leaving that the lack of understanding and acknowledgement of ethnic studies as a legitimate academic discipline in various departments can leave faculty feeling unsupported and lead to their departures.”
Jeannie Park ’83, president of the Harvard Asian American Alumni Alliance, argued that unless the University establishes a formalized ethnic studies department, professors will come and go in a revolving door.
“Harvard needs a structure that supports and retains faculty so that we aren’t just filling holes but building a world-class program,” she wrote in an email. “The changing make-up of our campus and our world demand that we step up on this front.”
— Staff writer Jonah S. Berger can be reached at jonah.berger@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter at @jonahberger98.
—Staff writer Molly C. McCafferty can be reached at molly.mccafferty@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter at @mollmccaff.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
​​​
Harvard and several University employees filed motions last month denying culpability or requesting dismissal in a wrongful death lawsuit alleging they were negligent in their care of a Harvard undergraduate.
The suit concerns the death of Luke Z. Tang ’18, who died by suicide on campus in September 2015. Wendell W. Tang, his father, filed the lawsuit in the Middlesex County Superior Court on Sept. 11, 2018, accusing the University and its employees of “negligence and carelessness” that directly resulted in Tang’s death. The lawsuit argues the defendants are responsible for damages amounting to at least $20 million.
In a Jan. 18 filing, Harvard University Health Services mental health counselor Melanie G. Northrop, a defendant in the suit, denied the charges against her that allege she was negligent and that she is responsible for paying damages.
The original complaint outlined 12 instances in which Northrop allegedly showed negligence, including claims that she failed to follow suicide prevention protocols.
The complaint states that shortly after Luke Tang's first suicide attempt in a College residential building in April 2015, the College sent him to McLean Hospital in Belmont, Mass. for inpatient care. Administrators outlined a “contract” laying out terms for Luke Tang’s return to the College, including a requirement that he receive regular counseling and care, according to the complaint.
After Luke Tang failed to schedule a follow-up appointment with his therapist after a May 8 appointment, administrators discussed concerns about whether he had a summer treatment plan, the complaint alleges. Luke Tang left campus for the summer and returned in August. A month later, he died by suicide in Lowell House after going months without counseling.
Northrop’s filing denies the allegations that she was negligent. She also argues that she had no knowledge of Luke Tang’s plans to attempt suicide and could not have foreseen his death.
Northrop’s filing includes 14 arguments — listed as “affirmative defenses” — arguing that she was “justified in her actions” and “acted in good faith at all relevant times.” Her list of arguments also includes claims that the plaintiff lacks standing and that the statute of limitations relevant to the case has passed.
Northrop’s response also disputes parts of the narrative laid out in Wendell Tang’s complaint. Her filing contests that she did not have an alleged “special relationship” with Luke Tang and that her actions did not cause his death, both of which the original complaint alleges.
In a document filed Jan. 16, Harvard and several other employees named in the lawsuit informed the court that they had served Wendell Tang with a motion to dismiss the suit. The employees included Crimson Yard Resident Dean at the time Catherine R. Shapiro and Lowell House Resident Dean Caitlin M. Casey. HUHS psychiatrist David W. Abramson filed a separate motion to dismiss Jan. 18.
University spokesperson Rachael Dane declined to comment on the case.
Both Wendell Tang and Northrop requested a jury trial. If the case progresses to that stage, a trial is slated to begin in 2021.
—Staff writer Shera S. Avi-Yonah can be reached at shera.avi-yonah@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter at @saviyonah.
—Staff writer Delano R. Franklin can be reached at delano.franklin@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter at @delanofranklin_.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
​​​​​​
The Cambridge Historical Society held its annual meeting Wednesday, kicking off their 2019 session by introducing their theme for the year: “How Does Cambridge Engage.”
Dozens of Cambridge residents attended the event held at Cambridge Public Library, with society members comprising a majority of the audience. The event featured guest speaker Karilyn Crockett, an MIT lecturer on public policy who spoke on the historical importance of community activism. Diana L. Lempel ’05, who is currently pursuing a Ph.D. in Urban Planning at Harvard, moderated the event.
The conversation addressed Cambridge residents’ history of activism, focusing on their opposition to the construction of the Inner Belt highway project in the 1950s. The proposed infrastructure project would have cut through Cambridge and Somerville as part of the rapid expansion of the American highway system at that time. Though construction on the project was able to begin, it was never completed, due in part to Cambridge residents’ fervent opposition.
Crockett discussed the vital contributions of Cambridge “collaborators” in jumpstarting the movement to protest the highway’s construction. She described the activism as unusual — the project would have brought substantial federal funding and jobs to the Cambridge area, but would have required demolishing several neighborhoods along the way.
“For a city and residents to say no to that was thought as unimaginable,” she said.
Crockett also argued that there was a need for continued activism by the new generation of Cambridge residents.
“There’s something very powerful not only about progressive politics but about the ability to resist,” she said.
Outgoing Cambridge Historical Society President Tod R. Beaty called the conversation “dynamic” and “thought-provoking” in his remarks to the audience.
“I really love that that’s the direction the society is tipping,” he said.
At the conclusion of Crockett’s conversation, the society’s general membership unanimously voted to approve a new board of Governing Council officers, as well as five councillor nominees — Belinda Clerisme, Marni Clippinger, Howard Lurie, Katherine Rafferty, and Michael Tushman, who is a professor at Harvard Business School.
Beaty addressed the crowd before the vote, thanking councillors and members alike for their effort and support during his tenure.
“It’s been challenging, it’s been exciting, and it’s been satisfying,” he said.
The Historical Society has played a role in preserving Harvard buildings on campus and is financially independent of the City of Cambridge.
—Declan J. Knieriem can be reached at declan.knieriem@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter at @DeclanKnieriem.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
​​​​​​
Tutors in six undergraduate houses hosted discussion sessions in response to the announcement that Winthrop House Faculty Dean Ronald S. Sullivan, Jr., would represent Harvey Weinstein in his Manhattan sexual abuse case.
Since the news of Sullivan’s decision to represent Weinstein first broke, Lowell House, Currier House, Eliot House, Dunster House, Mather House, and Leverett House tutors have held listening sessions for students to air their concerns about Sullivan. At the request of those tutors, some faculty deans, house staff, and representatives from the Office for Sexual Assault Prevention and Response have also attended the events.
OSAPR also posted a message to its website encouraging concerned students to contact their staff, or to utilize confidential University resources like Counseling and Mental Health Services and the Harvard Chaplains, as well as private resources like the Title IX Office.
The New York Post first reported Sullivan’s decision to join Weinstein’s legal team on Jan. 23. Weinstein faces allegations of sexual assault from two women in the Manhattan case that stem from accusations that he raped one woman and forcibly performed oral sex on another.
Two days after the Post’s report, Sullivan sent an email to Winthrop residents addressing students’ concerns over his decision to represent the Hollywood producer. He wrote that defense lawyers have a duty to represent “unpopular” defendants.
On Jan. 27, Sullivan criticized Harvard’s handling of sexual harassment claims leveled against Economics Professor Roland G. Fryer, Jr., in a RealClearInvestigations article that referred to him as Fryer’s lawyer. Sullivan called Harvard’s investigations into Title IX complaints against Fryer “deeply flawed and deeply unfair.”
The Office for Dispute Resolution, which conducts formal Title IX investigations, has opened three inquiries into Fryer based on complaints brought by former female employees who say he harassed them while they worked at the Education Innovation Laboratory, the research group he founded in 2008. One of the investigations is ongoing.
A week after Sullivan publicly alleged ODR’s investigations into Fryer were unfair, he sent another missive — this time laying out “processes” that he and Stephanie R. Robinson, his wife and fellow Winthrop faculty dean, decided to implement going forward. Included in those processes was the announcement of Resident Dean Linda D.M. Chavers as the “point person” for sexual assault issues in the house.
Dean of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences Claudine Gay said Sullivan’s response to student concerns about his decision to represent Weinstein has been “insufficient” in an interview Monday. About 50 students held a protest outside Massachusetts Hall the same day to call on administrators to remove Sullivan from his faculty dean post. Almost 200 students had signed a petition to remove him as of Wednesday night.
Over the past two weeks since Sullivan’s announcement, tutors in the houses have held sessions for residents, starting with Lowell on Jan. 31. Most recently, Mather and Leverett held a joint session Wednesday evening.
Lowell residents praised Faculty Deans Diana L. Eck and Dorothy A. Austin for organizing a discussion so quickly. Sarah E. June ’14 — a resident tutor in Lowell House — said the general feeling at the session was that it is “contradictory” for Sullivan to both represent Weinstein and serve as faculty dean, at least “as it is understood in Lowell House.”
“I believe the faculty deans as that description is described, mentions that faculty deans set the tone of the house, and they very much do so,” June said. “[Eck and Austin] really were adamant and there was no pushback that we have a listening session and try to understand what students are thinking.”
Lowell resident Remedy H. Ryan ’21 said she understood defense lawyers’ duties, but thought Sullivan’s decision was incompatible with his role as a faculty dean.
“I think it’s important that everyone has a defense attorney,” she said. “That was something that I grappled with, but a lot of people could have defended Weinstein.”
Eliot tutor Marianne F. Potvin wrote in an email that Consent Advocacy and Relationship Education tutors — a group that works with OSAPR to serve as a resource within the houses — discussed over an internal email list the possibility of holding sessions to give students space to talk about Sullivan and Weinstein.
“My personal impression was that there was consensus among CARE tutors that the topic was important, and that students had had many reactions and questions that had yet to be adequately addressed,” she wrote.
Potvin said that Eliot students discussed concerns about Winthrop undergraduates, the potential reaction of freshmen being assigned to Winthrop on Housing Day, and “the apparent absence of reaction from College administrators” at the session, which the house held on Feb. 6.
Allison J. Piper ’20, who attended the Dunster session Tuesday night, wrote in an email she is “grateful” the house provided space for students to share their concerns.
“I'm rather surprised that many students aren't considering this Dean Sullivan thing a big deal. I went to the Dunster listening session partly to find support and talk about my reaction to this and partly to find other students who are similarly outraged,” Piper wrote. “As I left, I felt very supported. I'm grateful that my house gives me a space to express my frustrations and articulate my concerns.”
Correction: Feb. 20, 2019
A previous version of this article incorrectly described the Title IX Office as a confidential resource. In fact, Title IX coordinators serve as a private resource since they report on a need to know basis. 
—Staff writer Shera S. Avi-Yonah can be reached at shera.avi-yonah@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter at @saviyonah.
—Staff writer Aidan F. Ryan can be reached at aidan.ryan@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @AidanRyanNH.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
​​​​​​
Lawyers representing Harvard and anti-affirmative action group Students for Fair Admissions had their last chance to convince Federal District Judge Allison D. Burroughs to rule in their favor in a case alleging that the College’s admissions process discriminates against Asian-American applicants Wednesday.
The two sides squared off in a post-trial hearing Wednesday, each summarizing points they had made over the course of a three-week trial that began in the United States District Court for Massachusetts in mid-October.
SFFA originally sued Harvard in 2014, and the case will likely be appealed by whichever side Burroughs does not rule for, according to legal experts. The suit — which could end up in front of the U.S. Supreme Court — may shape the fate of affirmative action at private colleges and universities nationwide.
Wednesday’s arguments focused on the dispute over whether admissions data from recent years show an anti-Asian-American bias in Harvard’s admissions decisions. SFFA alleges that Harvard admissions officers consistently gave lower “personal ratings” — numerical scores assigned to College hopefuls that evaluate them on qualities like humor and grit — to Asian-American applicants than applicants of other races.
Both Harvard and SFFA hired experts to conduct their own analyses of the data. David E. Card, the University’s expert and an economics professor at University of California, Berkeley, argued that there was no statistically significant difference between admissions outcomes for Asian Americans and other applicants. SFFA’s expert, Duke economics professor Peter S. Arcidiacono, contended that the data actually reveals a persistent bias against Asian-American Harvard hopefuls.
“The most important, undisputed fact is that Asian Americans receive statistically significantly lower personal ratings from Harvard, lower than whites,” Adam K. Mortara, the lead attorney for SFFA, argued at the beginning of the hearing.
The University had not adequately explained why the discrepancy between Asian Americans applicants and other applicants that Arcidiacono’s analysis found exists, according to Mortara. He also argued the University needs to identify a variable that accounts for this difference.
“The law is, defendants cannot win discrimination cases by saying it must be some other variable without telling us what that variable is,” Mortara said.
Seth P. Waxman, a top attorney for Harvard, argued there are “many factors” that affect personal rating, including personal essays, recommendations, and alumni interviews. He further argued that there is no way to prove that lower personal ratings reflect racial bias because admissions officers take into account so many factors when assigning them, not all of which he said are reflected in Arcidiacono’s statistical model.
“SFFA has failed to prove that the cause of this disparity was racial bias when one after another admissions officer testified that they didn’t consider race,” Waxman said, referring to the testimony of admissions personnel who took the stand last fall.
Burroughs, too, focused on how to interpret the data, referring to it as Harvard’s “personal rating problem.”
“What am I to do with the statistical analysis?” she asked the lawyers.
Burroughs also asked attorneys to present arguments about what each side has to prove in order to win. A few minutes into Mortara’s arguments, Burroughs interrupted him to ask if, in order to find Harvard guilty of discrimination, she must find that admissions officers intentionally disadvantaged Asian Americans.
“Absolutely not, your honor,” he responded.
Mortara argued that the legal precedent of Teamsters v. United States — a 1977 case that holds that statistics are sufficient to prove racial discrimination — means “statistics alone” can prove that Harvard’s admissions policies are biased without evidence of intentional discrimination.
Waxman, though, countered by arguing Arlington Heights v. Metropolitan Housing Corp. — another 1977 case that holds that both statistical and anecdotal evidence showing intentional racial animus must be present for a judge to find discrimination — more adequately parallels the Harvard admissions suit.
The lawyers also clashed over what would constitute evidence of intentional discrimination. Mortara cited as one example a 2013 report from the University’s Office of Institutional Research that found the admissions protocol produced “negative effects” for Asian-American applicants, arguing that Harvard did not change its admissions process after top administrators read OIR’s findings. Waxman, however argued the report was “incomplete” and not designed to evaluate the fairness of the College’s admissions process.
Arguments did not only center on the College’s admissions protocols, as Burroughs also asked about details of SFFA’s case.
In particular, the judge asked Mortara about what she termed SFFA’s “no victim problem” — the fact that the group did not include any students who they allege should have been admitted to Harvard but were not because of their race.
“Why haven’t you shown me any students who should have gotten in?” she asked Mortara.
He argued that the judge had previously told SFFA that “individual students” were not required to prove the plaintiff’s claims.
William F. Lee ’72, a lawyer representing Harvard and senior fellow of the Harvard Corporation — the University’s highest governing body — argued that, because SFFA had not presented plaintiffs who were not admitted, the group had not adequately supported its claim that “hundreds were wronged.”
“They have not identified one,” Lee said. “They have failed to produce a single rejected applicant who claims discrimination.”
Lawyers for the University and SFFA were not the only ones to speak at Wednesday’s hearing. Genevieve B. Torres of the Lawyers’ Committee for Civil Rights and Jennifer A. Holmes of the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund each delivered fifteen minute statements on behalf of the Harvard students and student groups that filed amicus briefs in favor of the University’s position.
“The plaintiffs tried to erase countless student stories by placing undue evidence on its flawed statistical analysis,” Torres said, arguing that race-conscious admissions provides “critical context” for all applications in addition to improving campus diversity and educational opportunities.
Burroughs is expected to issue her decision in the coming months.
—Staff Writer Camille G. Caldera can be reached at camille.caldera@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @camille_caldera.
—Staff Writer Sahar M. Mohammadzadeh can be reached at sahar.mohammadzadeh@thecrimson.com
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
As we go through the great experience of college life, we laugh, cry, bond, fight, and above all, we flex. From touting outdated high school achievements to wearing certain goosey apparel, we Harvard students like to go above the normal boundaries of flex. Here are some special Harvard ones that will render even AirPods irrelevant.
“I took CS50” T-Shirts
Congrats on taking one of the most popular classes offered at the college, but watching David Malan rip apart a phonebook doesn’t legitimize you as a CS guru. This shirt may be well-fitted, but in the end, wearing it too often just makes you look like you lack a wardrobe.
Laptop Stickers
A show of passion for one’s activities, or a boisterous presentation of one’s affiliations?
“Dude, I don’t have any classes on Friday!”
Not only is it a flex, albeit a weird one, it is also very annoying. Have some sympathy for those who have to go through 3-hour labs on Friday mornings.
Office Hour Kid
This specimen is an unnecessary component to office hours — why waste time chatting up the TF with your p-set already completed when other students actually require assistance? Of course, when this kind of person starts helping out the strugglers, the narrative changes…
Supreme Hypebeasts
The demand is high while the supplies are low. We get it, you managed to buy a plain white t-shirt with a red logo for $5000 on ebay, so kudos to you I suppose.
No matter what your weird flex is, Harvard is one of those places where it’s not hard to find someone who’s flexing even harder. If you’re realizing that too many of these sound like you, though, maybe you should consider your classmates and watch your flex.
