News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
When nourished, kept in heat, touched, and talked to, Little Joe makes its owner happy. No, Little Joe isn’t a pet — it’s a genetically-engineered flower that produces a scent that triggers happiness. While its creator, Alice Woodard (Emily Beecham), rejects the idea that Little Joe has a mind of its own, others still talk about it as if it does: “What this plant really needs is love,” lab assistant Chris (Ben Whishaw) says earnestly. When plant breeder Bella (Kerry Fox) starts to suspect that Little Joe may be causing psychological side effects — namely a fierce loyalty to the plant that would ensure the survival of the species — Alice defends her creation, but slowly starts to realize that the uplifting Little Joe she created is no longer so innocuous. Despite this provocative premise, “Little Joe” doesn’t have a climax, nor does it spiral into action — instead, it beautifully sustains its psychological horror and unfolds at the same, unassuming pace at which Little Joe takes over the laboratory.
The plot is somewhat uneventful, driven by moments of subtle change. Because Hausner only superficially develops each character before they inhale the reactive pollen, it’s difficult to discern whether or not they’ve changed — but that’s precisely how Little Joe works, just barely altering the minds of its victims so that they appear to be the same. After Alice brings home a flower for her son, Joe (Kit Connor), after whom the plant is named, she is in denial about his sudden passivity and dismisses it as a normal adolescent mood swing — that is, until he announces that he wants to move to the countryside with his dad who he’s long disliked. She becomes surrounded by more and more people who are victims of Little Joe’s insidious pollen and are just enough like their normal selves that she thinks she’s the one who has gone mad. An eccentric score by Teiji Ito and Markus Binder fuels this building tension with a cacophony of discordant woodwinds, whistling, xylophones, and dogs barking.
Hausner relies on a cool, subdued color palette for her film’s aesthetic appeal, which complements the film’s futuristic dystopian premise. Alice is fashioned like a Wes Anderson character in pale, monotone hues, her silhouette accented with her red, perfectly kempt hair, and she and her colleagues wear mint green lab coats around their pristinely clean, white labs. In contrast to this sterility, the Little Joes are fluorescent and eerily animated: At night the greenhouse glows with red light that radiates from the blossoming flowers. These fluorescent pom poms look like they might belong in “The Lorax,” but are far more menacing: Their thin nettles move like antennas (making them closely resemble Venus traps, which have never been considered a friendly plant), and they produce puffs of pink pollen that gather in the air.
It becomes increasingly obvious that Little Joe is a thinly veiled metaphor for antidepressants; after all, both are designed to make humans happy — and who doesn’t want to be happy? But the allegory is less about the plant and more about those who create and defend it. Once the infected are converted into a numb state of contentment, they become aggressively defensive of the plant, claiming that they “feel the same, just happier.” The catch is, they are very much not the same, which any keen eye can detect. It’s a bit problematic and misplaced to fully carry out the comparison between clinically-prescribed antidepressants and a villainous plant for a host of reasons, and it’s not even clear if that’s what Hausner intends to do — but what the film ultimately seems to be critiquing is the human obsession with self care and well-being that leads us to seek out such extreme measures.
— Staff writer Kaylee S. Kim can be reached at kaylee.kim@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @kayleeskim.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
In “Nan Fang Che Zhan De Ju Hui” (“Wild Goose Lake”), director Diao Yinan explores the landscape of impoverished semi-rural China through a thrilling criminal manhunt. In spite of its undeveloped characters, the result is a spectacularly shot and edited film that shows great promise for the emerging director.
The story seems doomed from the beginning. On the run with a $300,000 Yuan bounty for his capture, motorcycle thief and ringleader Zhou Zenong (Hu Ge) meets Liu Aiai (Gwei Lun-mei), who is a charming young woman claiming to be sent by one of Zhou Zenong’s colleagues Huahua (Qi Dao). Aiai works as a “bathing beauty,” prostitutes who hang around the beaches near the local Wild Goose Lake. Diao then retraces the story up to that moment through two flashbacks, one from Zhou Zenong’s perspective and the other from Aiai’s, leading up their rendezvous at the suburban train station that opens the film.
From Zhou Zenong’s perspective, a fight that broke out during a gangster convention over territorial claims resulted in shots fired, tensions erupted, and a declaration of a competition between thief gangs, culminating in the brutal decapitation of one of Zhou’s own men. Fleeing the scene, Zhou Zenong accidentally shoots at the police and kills one of them, setting off a manhunt led by police captain Liu (Liao Fan). The underground gangs also join the chase after Zhou in hopes of nabbing the hefty reward for capturing him. Though Zhou wants his wife Yang Shujun (Wan Qian) (who he hasn’t seen in five years) to turn him in so she and their son can live off the reward money, the plot is cluttered with side narratives of alliances and bitter rifts between supporting characters. Diao does not develop any of the characters to their fullest potential, and focuses on isolated episodes involving them rather than providing insights into their pasts, and the cautious nature of the high-stakes situation — it is a criminal manhunt for a murderous thief, after all — keep the characters from developing nuanced personalities.
Beyond the complex plot, “Wild Goose Lake” is gorgeously shot. Diao’s action scenes are succinct and capture the climatic moments with closeups of lethal weapons hitting their targets. The scenes are also amusing in their variety (cinematography by Dong Jingson) from a noodle slurping scene in a shabby restaurant to a middle-of-the-night scouting scene in a zoo, featuring giraffes and elephants. In other places too, Diao is not afraid to indulge his imagination. He shows an exhausted Zhou Zenong hiding out in a room, facing a wall covered in newspapers and old photographs. As he points his gun across the tabloids, the camera zooms over each photo, animating the stills, complete with sound effects. Sound editor Zhang Yang elevates the camerawork throughout the film, occasionally dropping in some tastefully inserted Chinese tunes.
Diao also captures the grunginess of semi-rural cities in China with a jeering eye and a sense of humor. A sick dog lays whimpering on a hospital bed with his owner just feet away from where the doctor removes a bloody bullet from Zhou Zenong’s shoulder. The crumbling rooms in the deteriorated apartment complex where a few of the violent standoffs take place resemble holes in a block of moldy Swiss cheese. Diao, who also wrote the screenplay, uses humorous dialogue to make a commentary on Liu’s police force: In one scene, one of the many local policemen called in to join the manhunt innocently asks, “Where can we practice shooting? I’ve never had to use my gun before,” and Liu chews out another policeman for wearing a “flashy” fake Versace t-shirt. There’s almost a parallel between the scenes of the gang “convention” and the police assembly that Captain Liu holds later to try to track down Zhou Zenong, as the respective leaders split up territories to different assignments of people, in one case to steal bikes, and the other to find Zhou. Since both the police and the gangs employ vicious tactics to achieve their ends, Diao refrains from framing any side from blatantly right or wrong, and seems to suggest that these entities aren’t so different after all.
Disappointingly, Diao reduces his female characters to figures who are helplessly implicated in the complicated plot without much agency or personal motives. Even their double-crossing betrayals are more for self-preservation than they are defiant acts, considering the criminals and unscrupulous authorities they’re working with. Though “Wild Goose Lake” has no intention of being a emotional romance, Diao inserts salacious teasers — including a physically intimate scene between Aiai and Zenong on a canoe in the lake at night — that then fail to add anything substantial to the story.
Director Quentin Tarantino attended the premiere of “Wild Goose Lake,” which opened in the Competition at Cannes. Diao’s works, though too few and too early to tell, does indeed bear some resemblance to Tarantino’s, with his non-linear storytelling, resonances with film noir, and scenes of unfiltered violence. His last film, “Black Coal, Thin Ice,” took home the Golden Bear Award at the Berlin Film Festival in 2014, and “Wild Goose Lake,,” though not groundbreaking, follows a hopeful trajectory in Diao’s works. Perhaps a new Tarantino is in the making.
—Staff writer Lucy Wang can be reached at lucy.wang@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @lucyywang22.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
It’s nighttime at Port Authority, the largest and busiest bus terminal in the city that never sleeps. Outside the station steps, an animated group of dancers energetically vogue to a catchy beat. A white teen smoking a cigarette watches from afar, hidden in the shadows of the station, with his eyes especially drawn to a poised beautiful girl. So opens director Danielle Lessovitz’s film “Port Authority,” which premiered in the Un Certain Regard category at Cannes. Though Lessovitz features an underrepresented perspective in a non-cisgender primary character, it’s still a pretty formulaic love story that had potential to be so much more.
The boy turns out to be Paul (Fionn Whitehead), who’s just arrived in the city with no place to go. He soon gets taken under the wing of street rat Lee (McCaul Lombardi), who gets him a place to sleep in a city shelter and a job evicting tenants on behalf of their landlords. When he finally tracks down his stepsister, Sara, she decides that she doesn’t want anything to do with him and offers to give him money to shoo him away. Lessovitz weaves together familiar themes of such as finding opportunity in New York and getting caught by the flawed housing system. But adding in the Harlem Kiki ballroom — an younger offshoot of New York’s ballroom subculture — gives the well-tread narrative a spin. Following another boy in the homeless shelter after seeing him vogue at night, Paul meets Wye (Leyna Bloom), the same girl he first caught sight of at Port Authority, and quickly falls head-over-heels for her.
Lessovitz’s Paul is troubled, gauche, and mostly well-intentioned, and Whitehead perfectly embodies his awkwardness and pent-up feelings. In a somewhat clichéd exploration of Paul’s coming of age, Lessovitz also delves into Paul’s own inquiry into his sexuality, and her realistic portrayal of cringey quintessentially adolescent moments feels like a genuine effort. Paul is relatively aloof in Lee’s ulta-masochistic circle, constantly doling out homophobic slurs and jabs, setting a stark contrast to the unleashed Harlem ballroom drag scene that Wye brings Paul to. After Paul half-confronts Wye about her transgender identity (which Lessovitz drops hints of throughout the film but comes as a complete shock to Paul), sputtering, “Why didn’t you tell me?”, Paul is forced to rethink his sexuality. Lessovitz juxtaposes Wye’s level-headedness and rational behavior with Paul’s confusion and anger: Itching to start a fight, Paul goes out to the streets and approaches a group of strangers and asks one of them, “Can someone punch me?” The plead for a fight is not Paul’s first trifling with anger. Upon his first meeting with Wye, Paul explicitly tells Wye, “I have an anger thing.” Despite his reserved nature and inability to express his feelings, Paul still opens up to Wye about his past of bouncing around foster homes and missing his mother, who died before he got to say goodbye, revealing the trust and vulnerability he shares with Wye. Lessovitz avoids plunging the two into a completely transparent and hopefully relationship too quickly, as Paul hides from Wye that he actually lives in the shelter and instead shows her Sara’s apartment, passing it off as his own.
Bloom is making history as the first transgender person of color to star in a film at Cannes. Her resolute and mesmerizing eyes add not only to the allure but also toughness of Wye’s character. The physical chemistry between her and Paul radiates off the screen in a simple scene when she asks him to help take her measurements for a costume for an upcoming walk. Bloom’s dancing, as well as the rest of the voguing cast, is fantastic. Their voguing and walking scenes are glamorously entertaining, as the camera captures the flashing lights of the ballroom and highlights the dancers’ figures.
Ultimately, “Port Authority” provides one realistic take on a contemporary BGLTQ romance, but it falls short of providing social commentary and innovating cut the hackneyed nature of young love stories. Still, Lessovitz’s film and casting decisions are steps in the right direction, leaving her audience with hope for the future of underrepresented BGLTQ voices in Cannes.
—Staff writer Lucy Wang can be reached at lucy.wang@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @lucyywang22.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
It usually starts with a bright light. Often, one that is white and amorphous. Sometimes it’s warmer and it breathes, like a shape-shifting fire. I’ve read stories where it’s just a glowing wall of energy that envelops you. Lost time is the biggest tell-tale sign. One minute, you’re looking into this light, and the next you’re waking up, hours later.
Alien encounters are usually written off as far-fetched and unproven. Maybe they are. But I think it’s myopic to call them impossible.
Avi Loeb, chair of Harvard’s Department of Astrophysics and head of the Black Hole Initiative, has made headlines recently for his statements about ‘Oumuamua, an oblong interstellar object that he says may have come from intelligent lifeforms. I sit down with him to discuss the stigma around studying extraterrestrial life and why researchers should consider the possibility that ‘Oumuamua is something artificial.
“We know that a quarter of all the stars have planets like the earth, with surface conditions like the earth,” Loeb says. “I don’t see earth as special. I think anyone who thinks otherwise is showing arrogance.”
An interstellar meteor much smaller than ‘Oumuamua came to Earth five years ago but only made headlines last week. The entry speed of this meteor was twice the speed of the earth’s rotation. This unusually high velocity means the object was not bound to the sun’s gravity and instead must have come from the habitable zone of another star system, raising the possibility of life being carried within such a rock.
This idea of transferring life between stars is called panspermia. In theory, direct panspermia happens when an intelligent civilization sends out a probe containing life to spread.
“The interesting question is, ‘Did our life start this way or was it the clumsy process of chemicals coming together like many scientists believe?’” Loeb asks.
Government agencies, universities, and theorists have considered the idea that life came to Earth from somewhere else. Loeb raises the example of rocks that crashed into earth from Mars billions of years ago. By studying their magnetic fields, researchers were able to determine that one remained at a low enough temperature inside to have potentially carried life to this planet. Could such a journey be possible between stars, too?
Water bears, also called tardigrades, are often cited as an example of an enduring life form that could survive a journey like this one. As micro-animals, they have strong survival abilities and are able to withstand extreme conditions, living anywhere from volcanoes to the deep sea. They have the ability to go into deep, death-like hibernation for years and then revive. If a life form could travel between solar systems, it would be an extremophile like the tardigrade.
The United States government, among others, has launched numerous projects to investigate extraterrestrial life and UFOs. These projects are the subject of conspiracy and speculation,the most famous of which is a large crash in Roswell, N.M. in the 1950s. Only one document is declassified, and it describes a large flying disk that was found crashed at the military base. The Air Force later claimed it was one of their weather balloons. Some people call this a coverup, believing the disk to be a UFO. I’m not sure how much I believe the official story.
Extraterrestrial UFOs like the one purportedly sighted off the coast of Ireland in November are often written off as more commonplace phenomena like comets, clouds or man-made UFOs. Loeb says UFO sightings are likely military projects the public doesn’t know about.
Still, many eyewitnesses and conspiracy theorists believe we have had contact with extraterrestrial beings more directly than just seeing UFOs.Turns out there are some people who identify with certain extraterrestrial species. Online communities have formed from people who feel they are manifestations of “multidimensional beings” from other worlds — they call themselves starseeds. AskingAngels.com says there are more than 200 million of them.
Each of these groups possess a palette of characteristics that shine through in earthly ways. Pleiadians, for instance, are care-taking empaths with a martyr complex. Sirians are often practitioners of magic and witchcraft, with old souls and the desire to teach.
Browsing the depths of YouTube, Reddit, and some niche starseed sites, I try to figure out if I might be the earthly incarnation of a multidimensional soul. There are personality tests that can give me an idea. I’m asked multiple choice questions about my spiritual nature, my emotional dispositions, my crystal preferences. Looks like I might be a Pleiadian. That could explain my emotional repression.
Another kind of being that some claim has infiltrated our world is “lizard people” or Draconians. First popularized by David Icke, they come from the Alpha Draconis star system and reside on this planet to sabotage humanity. They often become powerful, rich, famous or all of the above to destroy us from within.
I look around for these lizard people on the streets of Cambridge. A witch from YouTube said they tend to smell and give off generally bad vibes. I sit at the Law school and spot a tall blonde man looking determinedly at some nonspecific distant point. He seems stressed but not heartless. I see a pair of students drinking coffee in the lounge. They look weary but nevertheless human. One man in a suit walks by and seems a bit lifeless behind the eyes. He could be one, but I didn’t get close enough to catch a whiff.
The simultaneous high probability of extraterrestrial life and lack of evidence in favor of it is called the Fermi paradox. Everywhere I look, I could speculate — the strange circular patches in the grass, a momentary lapse in my perception of time, a sudden foul smell. But I can’t be certain.
Loeb tells me that though we don’t have any conclusive evidence of alien life on Earth, that shouldn’t stop us from prioritizing scientific inquiry into the existence of interstellar life.
“It’s a natural tendency of humans, to think that they are the center of things,” he says. “We as a civilization will mature once we go out to the cosmic street, find other kids out there and realize we are not the smartest kid on the block.”
I might have seen a UFO the other day. It was overcast, so it was difficult to make out the source of the moving light above the power lines. I thought about the vast expanse beyond the sky and felt altogether less alone.
—Magazine writer Sophia M. Higgins can be reached at sophia.higgins@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter at @LAVAGXRL666. This is the fourth and final installment of her column, Further Realms, which explores rituals that uncover hidden worlds.
Sections
There is something theatrical about the way people straggle into CGIS South on this ordinary, rainy Monday afternoon. One by one, the drenched attendees shuffle inside, shaking out their umbrellas before descending into the depths of the CGIS South basement. They have braved the downpour for “Writing Asian America: A Reading and Conversation with Three Poets.” The three poets and Ju Yon Kim, an English professor and the organizer of this event, sit at the head of a circular arrangement of tables filled by around 25 attendees.
Kim briefly introduces the poets Tamiko Beyer, Emily Yoon, and Paul Tran. Collectively, the recognition they’ve earned in the poetry world is clear, and no one in the room seems surprised by their impressive list of awards. Beyer has authored a poetry collection called “We Come Elemental,” Tran placed in the Top 10 at the 2015 Individual World Poetry Slam, and Yoon was a recipient of the Ruth Lilly and Dorothy Sargent Rosenberg Poetry Fellowship from the Poetry Foundation in 2017.
For the next two hours, Beyer, Yoon, and Tran have a captive audience. As they successively read their works, the room begins to feel smaller, warmer, and brighter.
Beyer reads first from her upcoming manuscript. Her voice is soft but firm, and its power seems to rest in the spaces between her words. She reads poems on topics ranging from systemic racism to refugee detainment to police brutality —all seem to be informed by her passions for social justice and mitigating “climate disaster.” These causes drove her “to move people [and] to build power” in her writing.
But she also views herself as part of a broader push for cultural change. “I don’t think one thing can create social change, I see my poetry and all the forms of my writing as being part of a giant tidal wave of change,” she says.
While she says her writing is always informed by her Asian American heritage, being Asian American is not always an explicit theme in her work. She identifies as a woman of mixed race and often feels the need to explain her relationship with the term: She is half-Japanese American and spent ten years of her childhood in Japan.
After Beyer, Tran begins to perform their poetry from memory. There is no spotlight in this ordinary classroom, but they don’t need one. The space expands to hold the dynamic volume of their voice, the swirl of their green velvet dress, and their Ariana Grande references. In contrast to Beyer, Tran’s poems are unabashedly about themself and their family history.
When they first began writing, they struggled to justify what right they had to write at all, searching for the answer in poems focused on their family’s immigration history. So, by taking on a “responsibility of representation,” they found themselves writing about topics that felt “easily politified or recognizable.”
Only recently have they begun to value other parts of their life, ones that indulge a more personal, individual narrative.
But, Tran stresses the impossibility of disentangling these more collective Asian American experiences from their more personal identifiers.
“Even if I’m writing about my experience as a rape survivor, it is inherently Asian, queer, trans, and first-generation,” they say.
As Tran ends their expressive reading, the room’s attention shifts to Yoon. Yoon breaks the expectant silence, “Is my volume okay?” It isn’t, but the room contracts and each listener leans in, on the edge of their seat.
For Yoon, poetry is a “historical document.” Unlike a textbook or official records it allows “audiences [to] enter a historical knowledge through emotion.”
She reads from her book titled, “A Cruelty Special to Our Species.” Embodying her grandmother’s perspective, she delicately broaches the dark features of the Korean War. Yoon is Korean Canadian but she understands Asian America as “borne out of a political conviction” and a “notion of pan-Asian solidarity.”
When Yoon was younger and just beginning to write poetry, she found that Asian American writing showed there that “there are ways to write about integration, about isolation, about language with nuance and tenderness. I don’t think that I knew how to describe my experience or emotion.”
Yoon closes the book, a peaceful conclusion to her reading. The three poets stand and stretch. The pace of the room shifts and the performances from minutes before melt away as the room fills with casual chatter. Friends of the poets in the audience leave their seats for exuberant reunions. Behind them, admirers of the poets’ work line up to offer their compliments. Others leave without fanfare, slipping out of the room with their still-damp umbrellas in hand.
Sections
Cambridge Crossing, a new neighborhood development, is still in various states of construction. The buildings are mostly colorless: gray concrete walls and pathways, plate glass windows. On this cloudy afternoon, it's hard to tell where land meets sky.
Beneath the ordinary surface, though, change is underway. The city of Cambridge is planning to rename two streets near Cambridge Crossing, located in East Cambridge, after two prominent female African American activists with ties to the city.
North Point Boulevard will become Morgan Avenue after Gertrude Wright Morgan, an activist involved in the Niagara Movement and the establishment of the NAACP, and North Street will be Jacobs Street after Harriet Jacobs, a freed slave and prominent writer. In the wake of the Civil War, Jacobs helped orphaned black children in the South find homes in Boston.
Divco West, the real estate developer behind Cambridge Crossing, initiated the renaming. Cambridge Vice Mayor Jan A. Devereux reports that the previous residential complex was known as North Point, adding that, “since it’s no longer called North Point, I think [the developers] realized that probably something called North Point Boulevard was no longer on brand.”
To find new street names with more meaning, the developers approached the Cambridge Historical Commission and Department of Public Works to find prominent women of color candidates. The staffs selected the two winners: Morgan and Harris.
“We had a little ceremony with Cambridge's Historical Commission and the Department of Public Works and representatives from Divco West came,” says Devereux.
There was no such celebration on the streets themselves, however, and Cambridge Crossing residents seem unaware of the renaming and its significance. We ask around twenty pedestrians on the two streets if they know about the renaming. Only one does, and only because he happens to follow Cambridge Crossing on Twitter.
People spill out of a bus near a tidy, little park — the only green space in the area — and file into identical apartment buildings. “I didn’t know they were doing that,” says one passerby rushing home.
“I haven't seen any big announcements saying like, ‘Hey, we're unveiling this street’,” adds another. “I don't recall seeing anything else like, ‘These are the names we went through and this is why we decided what we decided’; it was kind of just like, 'Oh, yeah, cool, they're changing the name.’”
Though the impetus for this particular change came from the developer, Devereux says it reflects broader efforts by Cambridge city government to celebrate women. Recently, Cambridge has begun the plans for a $300,000 public art project to commemorate the 100 years since the 19th Amendment went into effect.
“Much of the traditional statues around the city are [of] men, and if you look at most of the artwork in City Hall it’s mostly [of] men,” remarks Devereaux.
Renaming streets — including Child Street, after Julia, and Earhart Street, after Amelia — though seemingly insignificant to the residents and passersby, is just a hint of the grander plan to help Cambridge more visibly reflect the powerful women of history with ties to the city.
Devereaux hopes to create something like an augmented reality map explaining the historically significant street names and other monuments around the city.
“I think that would be a nice complement so that there's a greater awareness that these streets exist,” she says.
But whether this initiative will be successful will likely depend on the city’s ability to publicize their efforts — and around Cambridge Crossing, at the moment, few seem to know or care.
Sections
Two young white women — one holding a lollipop in a Sugar Baby University t-shirt and a plaid miniskirt, the other in a low-cut yellow dress — flank a chalkboard. Below the board is a shelf of leather-bound tomes. On the chalkboard itself is written, “YOU + Seeking Arrangement = No College Debt.” The women stare seductively at me and the website text chimes in, “DISCOVER A NEW WAY TO AFFORD AN EDUCATION.”
Sugar Baby University is part of Seeking Arrangement, the world’s largest website for monetized dating. This means relationships that have an explicit financial agreement built into them, in which an older person pays a younger person to go on dates and sometimes to have sex. Babies and parents can be of any gender, but the website almost exclusively presents babies as women and daddies as men. Payment can be in cash, checks, presents and expensive meals, as well as vacations or shopping trips. The link on the Google results page, however, promises something much bigger: “Free Tuition.”
The problem here isn’t sex work. The problem is the way this company is advertising sex work.
I came across Sugar Baby University after reading an article in the BU Daily Free Press about a student who “turned to sugaring” in order to pay off her student debt. The piece opens, “Gina is not a student who spends money on frivolous things.” It continues, “Her hunter green Columbia backpack is well-worn and her nails look chipped and broken.” I know lots of women in college who use Seeking Arrangement, and I was interested in this figure of the studious, dressed-down college student who turns to sugaring to pay for her studies. This felt, to me, like a justification: It’s only okay that Gina sugars because she needs to do it. She doesn’t just want money to spend, she wants money to do something “good” — to get her B.A. Being a sugar baby is just part of a high achievement lifestyle: Gina prioritizes her education, and sugaring is a means to that end.
After hearing so many friends of friends talk about using Seeking Arrangement, I checked it out. The landing page of the Sugar Baby University website greets me with a “student debt clock,” a live update of the combined total that American students owe. Right now it tells me that number is $1,620,000,000,000. As I stare at the computer, the number twitches and grows before my eyes. It is a panic-inducing figure, stretching across the screen.
The company whips up fear, then they offer a way out: the “join” button hovers in the upper-right corner of the screen, no matter how far you scroll down. “College Sugar Babies receive an average $3,000 per month... Don’t waste precious study hours at a minimum wage job. Connect with generous benefactors on SeekingArrangement.com.” It frames sugaring as a loophole, the obvious answer that no one knows about. It’s as simple as taking out a loan, but this one you don’t have to pay back.
Seeking Arrangement encourages and incentivizes new signups to register using their college emails, so that their website can boast a list of the colleges where the most students use Seeking Arrangement. This in turn works to attract even more college students to sign up, assuring them that sugaring is done at big schools and normalizing the practice. But the benefits of Seeking Arrangement’s “students” section go deeper: Iit also attracts potential sugar daddies. Sugar Baby University even has its own page so people can find college girls easily to help them out of student debt.
In newspaper and magazine articles, and on the Seeking Arrangement website itself, there is a trend of vivid imagery, an invocation of the school fees, the books, the lab equipment sugar babies pay for with their sugar money. You can almost feel the weight of the textbooks they rush back to campus to buy. The Seeking Arrangement press kit includes a list of the schools with the most sugar babies and a pie chart detailing what sugar babies spend their money on. According to the logic of the website, although she is working for money, it is not her, the sugar baby, who pays for her college. Because her work is dating or having sex with a sugar daddy, it is the daddy who pays for college.
The allure of a college student sugar baby goes beyond the obvious savior complex. While the website is studded with images of sexy school girls, I actually think the driving power behind Sugar Baby University’s appeal and the way its marketing functions is not a true amalgamation of school and sex. The sugar baby is not a sexy school girl, but rather a school girl who, if so inclined, sometimes has sex. The Sugar Baby University model asks women to compartmentalize those two identities, a sexual person and studious chem major, within a single body. It lets daddies fantasize that when he meets his sugar baby in the bar she will act sexy, but as soon as he drops her off at the campus gates, she will go straight to the bookstore.
Seeking Arrangement also wants to appeal to potential sugar babies. “Join today for an elevated college or university experience.” SBU claims that it will make your education “higher class.” This works in two ways: On the surface, it refers to the material opulence of the sugar lifestyle. With the sugar daddy, she is vaulted into the realm of lavish dinners, shopping sprees, and impromptu vacations. But more than that, the promise of a “higher-class education” refers to the difference between a debt-ridden student and a woman who can pay for college out of pocket. The advertisements suggest that when you sugar, your education goes from constant work to a smooth ride. Rid of the worry lines caused by crushing student debt, the sugar baby herself is “elevated,” “higher class.”
In a promotional video for Sugar Baby University, an SBU logo appears over a fictional college campus and we watch white women jog in high heels between sleek classrooms where, instead of studying, they browse SeekingArrangement.com. They appear to be running from casting call to casting call. When an SBU student graduates, she is greeted by her sugar daddy with a chaste cheek peck and they drive away in his Porsche. In this video, Sugar Baby University is quite literally an educational institution, a real live college campus. It feels to me as though Seeking Arrangement wants me to equate sugaring with being a model. The paradox here, in my mind, is that most models are notoriously underpaid. While Sugar University appears initially to be a way to make money and get out of debt, the farther I get into the process of making a Seeking Arrangment account, the more it feels like they’re trying to convince me that sugaring isn’t a “real” job at all. When I think of modeling, I think of the allure as the glamour and the lifestyle, rather than the work. The framing of Sugar Baby University as a sunny campus where students attend casting calls instead of class ignores the fact that sugar babies are working in order to earn money.
The other night, a friend told me a story about someone who worked as a sugar baby during graduate school. During this time, she used money from a daddy to pay for an apartment. We agreed with a laugh: “yeah, definitely worth it — how’re you going to say ‘no’ to a free apartment?” But we’d missed something big: That apartment wasn’t free; the student worked for it and bought it.
Another problem is that the daddies don’t always see sugaring as work. In an episode of the podcast “Death, Sex and Money,” a woman who works as a sugar baby explains that while she self-identifies as a sex worker, “it’s more so the men that [she meets] who have a problem with that language.” Because they are choosing to pay for dates and sex using Seeking Arrangement rather than an escort service or what is traditionally labelled prostitution, many daddies have an aversion to labels that classify sex as work. Lizzie explains that men often specify “no pros,” or “no escorts,” and try to make transactions as subtle as possible. Many daddies don’t think of themselves as the type of person who would pay for a prostitute. This means they don’t think of the babies as professional; the companionship and sex are not seen as labor.
When people tell me about their own or friends’ experiences with Sugar Baby University, they refer to it in a very light manner, trying to combat any hint of stigma. This is a good thing, but it also feels eerie, as though Seeking Arrangement as a company also wants us to talk about sugaring in this way. It’s not that selling sex for money is cause for judgement or shame. But because Sugar Baby University presents the sugar baby as doing no work — as getting free money, having someone else pay for college — it acts as though there is no emotional labor or physical risk involved with sugaring. Seeking Arrangement erases the daddy as a factor and focuses instead on what he can give; in turn, it erases the baby’s work and focuses instead on what she gains as a student at Sugar Baby University.
—Magazine writer Malaika K. Tapper can be reached at malaika.tapper@thecrimson.com. 
It hadn’t happened in 14 years.
For the first time since the 2005 season, Harvard baseball won the Ivy League Playoff Series, defeating Columbia by an 8-6 score in a pulse-racing 11-inning affair and advancing to the Regional round of the NCAA Tournament.
“It feels amazing,” said junior pitcher Hunter Bigge on reaching a mark that Harvard baseball had been unable to accomplish for nearly a decade and a half. “Just knowing how far this team has come and seeing how hard everybody works every single day when we're at the ball field, it really feels good to enjoy the fruits of our labor.”
A season-high three-inning performance from junior closer Kieran Shaw was crucial on Sunday, as the hard-throwing righty pitched the 9th, 10th, and 11th innings, shepherding the Crimson (27-13, 14-7 Ivy) through several stressful situations. While the win was the Los Gatos, Calif., native’s first of the season, it was hardly the only highlight of what has been an incredible, record-breaking campaign for the third-year. 
If Shaw closing out the game felt appropriate, it was equally apt that senior first baseman Patrick McColl had the two biggest hits of the series-clinching victory. With Harvard trailing Columbia (19-23, 13-8) by a 4-1 score in the 6th inning and with two runners on base, McColl delivered one of the biggest hits of the season, crushing a ball over the center-field fence to tie the game and send Lions’ starter Ethan Abrams to the showers.
Five innings later, McColl came to the dish with the score knotted up at six. The bases were loaded with one out, and Columbia’s ace reliever Dan Harrington quickly earned an 0-2 advantage in the count. But just as he has all season, the Los Altos, Calif., native came through in the clutch, driving a double to left field to knock in the winning runs, giving the Crimson the 8-6 lead in the 11th. 
McColl’s five-RBI performance was a fitting conclusion to a terrific campaign out of the three-hole in the Harvard lineup from which he hit .396 and knocking in 12 home runs and 46 RBIs. His performance was crucial in helping the hosts snap the program-record Ivy League Championship drought.
“Everybody knows who Pat is now,” said Harvard coach Bill Decker of his star first baseman, who led the country in batting average for a brief spell at the beginning of the season. “He just finds a way to have ice in his veins, he’s part of that resilient factor that we talk about. Wonderful, outstanding human being, he’s just unbelievable.”
Sunday’s contest lasted just shy of four hours, featuring several momentum swings in front of a packed house of 1,050 at Joseph O’Donnell Field. The Crimson swept the weekend series from the Lions, but both games were thrilling affairs, an appropriate conclusion to an Ancient Eight campaign that featured a tintillating three-game series between the two sides a mere three weeks ago.
Columbia jumped out to a 3-0 lead off of Harvard senior starter Kevin Stone, who yielded three runs in three innings on Sunday. Stone, a four-year starter who was moved out of and back into the rotation this season, struggled early, but found a way to work out of trouble and keep his team in the ballgame.
“Those guys have been troopers our entire Harvard baseball careers and they’ve thrown the ball really well for us,” said Bigge about Stone and his fellow senior starter Ian Miller. “Kevin gave us a good start today and kept us in the game and that’s all it’s about for starting pitchers.”
Stone’s start might not have occurred under different circumstances, but with star sophomore starting pitcher Buddy Hayward returning from injury, the veteran was thrust onto center stage for the series-clinching victory. Although Hayward was unable to start, he entered the fray in the 7th inning with Harvard leading by a 6-4 score, recording a crucial out from the bullpen to strand a pair of runners.
When Hayward returned for the 8th inning, the starter turned-reliever did not fare as well, surrendering a two-out base hit that would score a pair of runs, tying the game at six apiece. Hayward was able to escape the 8th inning without further damage, setting the stage for nerve-wracking 9th and 10th innings, before the Crimson finally broke things open in the 11th.
If Sunday’s game featured back-and-forth offense from both sides, Saturday’s series opener was the epitome of a pitchers duel. Bigge toed the rubber, the staff’s No. 1 pitcher in Hayward’s absence, and threw a complete game masterpiece. The third-year surrendered just one 9th-inning run on a questionably-called balk, tossing a herculean 128 pitches, but was matched practically inning-for-inning by Columbia’s Josh Simpson.
Simpson and Bigge posted goose eggs until the bottom of the 7th inning, when Bigge made yet another imprint on the game — from the batter’s box. Bigge drove a Simpson fastball out to right field to lead off the inning, and the ball carried over the right field wall to break the impasse, giving Harvard a 1-0 lead that it would supplement with two 8th-inning runs.
Bigge’s performance was particularly impressive in a league that rarely features pitchers that bat for themselves in lieu of a designated hitter. The deadlock-breaking home run embodied the age-old baseball adage about the importance of pitchers “helping themselves”.
“It just comes down to preparation,” said Bigge of his two-way performance. “I don’t really think about it too much on game day.” 
With the Crimson leading by three runs entering the 9th inning, Coach Decker had a decision to make. Stick with Bigge, or go to the pen for a closing performance from Shaw. The first two runners reached base on singles, bringing the tying run to the plate in the form of Columbia’s star Chandler Bengtson. With Bigge’s pitch count well over 100, Shaw’s entrance into the game felt inevitable. The right-hander was loose in the bullpen, and ready if called upon.
But Decker trusted Bigge to finish what he started, a decision that paid off in more than one respect. While Bigge’s shutout was spoiled by the balk call by the home plate umpire, he was able to finish off Saturday’s final three outs, preserving Shaw’s arm for Sunday’s contest. Shaw would have unlikely been able to throw three innings on Sunday were it not for Bigge’s complete-game performance.
Bigge, Stone, Shaw, Hayward, and so many others embody the success Harvard baseball has experienced all season. Many players have had their opportunities to contribute, and also trust their teammates to finish the job.
This is a Crimson team that has not lost a series all season.
That is a statistic that should not be overlooked, particularly as Harvard departs the confines of the Ancient Eight for the NCAA Tournament, an entirely new ballgame. In just over a week, the team will gather on Memorial Day for College Baseball’s selection show, when the Crimson will discover their fate for the Regional round of the tournament.
Powerhouses like UCLA, Vanderbilt, Stanford, and Oregon State loom large in the distance. But with a respite of play for two weeks, Coach Decker’s team can afford to take a step back and appreciate what it has accomplished.
“There’s been some challenges,” said Coach Decker of his journey at the helm of a Harvard program that went went 10-31 and and 11-28 in his first two seasons in 2013 and 2014. “This is the best moment that I’ve personally had, it’s just my feeling about this group of kids.”
Harvard baseball hadn’t been to the NCAA Tournament since the 2005 season. But in 2019, not only did they win the league outright, they won two out of three games in each Ancient Eight series, ironically earning its first sweep of the conference season in the Championship series.
There are 11 days between now and the Crimson’s first game in the Regional round of the NCAA Tournament, on May 31st. There will be hours of preparation, scouting, flight-booking, hotel-reserving, and practice, between now and then. But those are worries for another day.
Ultimately, everyone who was in attendance at Joseph O’Donnell Field on Sunday will be left with the memory of over 30 Harvard baseball players storming the field and mobbing Shaw, reveling in the taste of an Ivy League title that has been 14 years in the making.
For Coach Decker and his players, it’s a moment they will surely never forget.
— Staff writer Amir Mamdani can be reached at amir.mamdani@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @AMamdaniTHC.
