News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Sitting in the John F. Kennedy Jr. Forum, waiting to hear a talk on the future of diplomacy, I quietly scanned through the day’s news. Suddenly, a flood of people filled the seats around me. They seemed to be discussing the study group that had just ended at the Institute of Politics. I noticed a man saying, “We’ve talked about that in class,” to a bunch of twenty-somethings. Maybe, I thought, the group was a class from the Kennedy School or a seminar from the College. But why, then, was one of the students commenting on the building’s architecture?
I was too curious to sit through an hour-long forum without asking. Enthusiastically, one of them informed me: “We’re students studying political science at Franklin Pierce University in New Hampshire.” New Hampshire?  Yes, that’s right. These students drove an hour and a half to experience what is less than ten minutes from where we sleep.
While moments of clarity exist, we as Harvard students often find ourselves unconscious of the frequency with which we receive unparalleled privileges. The forum I was attending and the access it represents is one of them. Rather than passively accepting this reality, I believe that, as Harvard students, we should strive to make these privileges accessible to those who do not attend our university.
There are few places in the world with such a high concentration of knowledge, resources, and connections. These benefits make Harvard an attractive place to study and can make trips into Boston feel like wasted hours. Students work tirelessly to build strong and inclusive communities and student organizations on campus. Every hour they spend has a positive impact on our community and helps make Harvard what it is. But, when looking to make an impact, we should keep in mind that our contributions can reach beyond the gates of Harvard Yard. So, if we’re unwilling to leave the Harvard Bubble, let’s bring in other people to use and disrupt it.
Harvard is a community resource. Public access to many events at the Institute of Politics as well as Harvard Model United Nations’ work with secondary-school students, for example, are great steps toward working for the broader community instead of just working in it. The University, student organizations, and individual students should embrace this responsibility. This doesn’t require us to block out extra hours on our calendar, just to reassess the work we already do to determine how it can best serve all of our communities. Instead of a team-building activity in Sever Hall, for example, bring your organization’s membership to a local soup kitchen. Harvard strives to produce “citizen-leaders” — and that can start right now, right here. Students’ leadership abilities will prove inadequate if they form in a bubble. Without understanding how privileged communities can interact with less privileged communities, without the perspective of other communities, the education of citizen-leaders falls short.
These students from Franklin Pierce University also made clear that many students here fall short in terms of spontaneity. How often do we see an event that we want to go to less than 48 hours in advance, say to ourselves “I have too much work,” and spend another hour in Lamont Library? And how often, when your friend texts you about an event happening that night, do we say “I’d love to come” and follow through? That level of spontaneity is something I’ve encountered less and less among my first-year classmates as we’ve become more and more a part of the Harvard community. And don’t get me wrong, I’ve been no better: I added that event at the JFK Jr. Forum to my calendar a week in advance. But that doesn’t change the fact that an entire class of New Hampshire undergraduates was willing to spend most of the day on something that some Harvard students find unthinkable: an activity that can’t be put on a resume.
We should learn from these students. Let’s add spontaneity into our personal and extracurricular lives. Let’s go to that show in Boston on Saturday night, even though we have a paper due next Wednesday. And let’s bring local high schoolers to our organization’s training event. Expanding our reach and impact outwards will help us develop as leaders and understand what makes Harvard special.
None of my criticisms characterize all Harvard students. They don’t even characterize some Harvard students 100 percent of the time. But we should reflect on how we spend our time here. Let’s learn, but without setting unrealistic expectations for ourselves. Let’s support, but without worrying how we weren’t productive for an hour. And let’s lead, but without forgetting to participate.
Noah D. Secondo ’22, an inactive Crimson Editorial editor, lives in Pennypacker Hall.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The College’s most popular course, Economics 10: “Principles of Economics,” is changing hands. Last week, Kennedy School professor and former Obama economic advisor Jason Furman ’92 and Economics professor David I. Laibson ’88 announced they will jointly take over teaching duties for the Economics Department’s flagship course this fall, in the wake of Economics professor N. Gregory Mankiw’s decision to step down from the course after 14 years.
As they look to start this new chapter for Ec 10, we believe Furman and Laibson have an opportunity and an obligation to change the direction and reputation of the course for the better. While remaining a popular and iconic class at the College, students have expressed specific concerns relative to affordability, the outsize role of graduate students in teaching the course, and ideological rigidity. These concerns seem to be indicative of a more broadly felt negative attitude toward the course. Spring and fall 2018 Q Guide scores showed under 40 percent of students enrolled in Ec10 would “likely” recommend it, and less than 10 percent “with enthusiasm.” We hope Laibson and Furman will think about why and how Ec 10 has developed this image and adjust the course to address those concerns.
Economics as a discipline and a way of understanding the world can be useful for students in a variety of disciplines outside of the Economics Department, as Laibson himself has pointed out,  Given that Ec 10 is its sole introductory course, it must be accessible to non-concentrators while serving as a rigorous introduction to prepare prospective economics concentrators to engage with the material at a high level of theoretical proficiency. As long as Ec 10 serves this dual purpose, it is imperative that the reformed course honors the needs of both groups.
Yet catering to concentrators and non-concentrators alike may prove difficult. To address this problem in the future, we suggest the Economics Department consider stratifying its introductory courses by varying levels of rigor and abstraction in a manner analogous to those offered by the Mathematics Department. The department could offer one course more unapologetically theoretical to prepare concentrators for higher level coursework, and another that offers non-concentrators an economic framework valuable for work in other disciplines.
However, absent such a change, Laibson and Furman can still do meaningful work to improve the quality of Ec 10. Laibson contends that the field of economics is not just about “finance and consulting,” but also about “inequality” and “discrimination,” and we hope that he and Furman will honor their stated commitment to applying economics in the context of these real world issues as they redesign the course. We also hope they consider structural concerns in addition to content. As we have previously opined, the prohibitive price of the Ec 10 textbook, authored by Mankiw himself, poses a barrier to low-income students who may wish to enroll in the class. We encourage Furman and Laibson to address this issue.
We see this transition as a huge opportunity to reform and improve Ec 10. Furman and Laibson have an opportunity to touch the academic lives of thousands of students over the coming years. A generation of Harvard students could have their thinking on questions of fairness, economic justice, inequality, and countless other issues shaped in part by this course. That is a tremendous responsibility for Furman and Laibson to shoulder. We wish them the best of luck.
This staff editorial solely represents the majority view of The Crimson Editorial Board. It is the product of discussions at regular Editorial Board meetings. In order to ensure the impartiality of our journalism, Crimson editors who choose to opine and vote at these meetings are not involved in the reporting of articles on similar topics.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard is a unique place because it lies at the crossroads of tradition and innovation. The University was the first founded in the United States and has a reputation that extends throughout the entire world. Yet Harvard is also at the center of global development, an institution that emphasizes civil engagement and awareness and supports researchers in fields ranging from art history to molecular biology. This mix of holding onto tradition and embracing the future is likely what drew so many of us here to this school. The two, however, can sometimes come into conflict, making us redefine our ideas of what we think is important.
Sometimes, these two attributes can work together in fantastic ways. Take the recent developments undertaken by restaurants in Harvard Square, a hub of student activity. Last semester, Felipe’s — a Harvard Square icon ever since its founding in 2004 — joined with SnackPass — a popular new app that allows for discounts and online ordering — to provide a better experience to customers. This union of history and technology has allowed for both groups to succeed, with students gaining a greater sense of comfort because of it.
Harvard Square also fosters a unique sense of community for members of Cambridge as a whole. El Jefe’s Taqueria, another staple, partners with Y2Y, a homeless shelter in the Square opened in 2015 aimed towards helping homeless youth, by donating a portion of its proceeds every month to helping the shelter keep up costs. This collaboration for a common good is something incredibly vital to this urban space, making Harvard Square not just a collection of shops but a community.
However, many times the old and the new are at odds, as historic and loved places are forced to leave because of the desire for something new. Already in the first few months of this year, so many eateries have closed their doors — such as the Starbucks in the Harvard Square Garage, loved by students for over 20 years; Sweet Bakery, which closed alongside Urban Outfitters; and others like Chipotle. In their place? Shops like Milk Bar, a pop-culture icon known for its cereal milk ice cream and cookies. Even right here in Harvard Square, we can see restaurants that are loved by members of Harvard being replaced by the costly, the flashy, the high-end.
Also, views on what makes a store valuable are at odds. Many of these closures in Harvard Square are brought on by the move to renovate spaces and increasing rent prices, which cause small business owners to struggle to maintain profit margins in order to pay their bills. For example, Sweet’s closure was due to its building being renovated, and there is still uncertainty about whether or not it will return. This purely economic reasoning leaves existing restaurants in a strange limbo, placing their success on how much money they make, and whether or not their property owners see value in investment.
After looking at what’s happening in Harvard Square, perhaps we all should consider how this conflict can shape our individual worldviews. Whether you’re majoring in economics or philosophy, each of us faces the question of how we wish to lead our lives. Do we see the importance of community or individual motivation? Do we care more about emotional attachment or inherent value? No matter how much one might try, there’s no way to separate the quantitative from the qualitative, the statistical from the holistic, or the past from the future.
Whether it’s related to urban development, college admissions, or even one’s goals for the future, every single person must realize that there is no simple, widespread answer to this question of what is valuable to us. Yet I think that students at Harvard tend to think in numbers, that success is dependent on how many connections you’ve made or how many figures will end up on your paycheck. Though things like money and finance are important, we shouldn’t just let tradition and history be destroyed in front of us as we sit back and watch, waving it off as “the way things are.” The things in life that cannot be enumerated, like the value of tradition and community, enrich society and allow us to find intrinsic meaning and value in the world around us.
Jonathan Yuan ’22 lives in Thayer Hall. His column appears on alternate Thursdays.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
On an unnaturally white carpet, in front of a burning fireplace and an equally bright Christmas tree, sit two small, smiling boys. They wear matching outfits, the distinguishing mark of young siblings everywhere: overalls, white shirts, vinyl shoes. The younger one is not yet a year old; his bare head and lone two front teeth are proof of this. He is my brother, likely unaware of that salient detail at that moment. I, older, at two and a half, am seated on a short log behind him. It is 2000.


When I was three my father came home from work one day with an enormous canvas, twice as big as me, featuring the photo. This canvas hung in our living room on a wall facing the front door, so any visitors to our home would be unexpectedly greeted by our smiles. I would spend hours staring at it. Later, I tried pressing my face against the canvas to see whose face was larger. My face on the canvas was bigger than mine in real life. Eventually, by the time I was five, I had grown larger — the real ‘I’, of course. Afterwards I always wondered: When exactly did I outgrow the Robert in the picture?
Over time, I grew so attached to staring at the picture that I began imagining myself inside it, interacting with my brother right before and after it was taken. The eyes that gazed out at me were smiling, playful, because he’d probably played with his brother in the car ride over to the photo studio. Even though his brother probably couldn’t talk, and he himself only knew a couple of dozen words, they could still communicate with each other. He was probably acting as the older sibling, holding onto his brother’s hand as he took his first, wobbling steps. Brotherhood, not childhood — maybe that’s really what this was all about.
My train of thoughts would stop for whatever reason and I’d be back where I was, in time again, sitting on the floor or the couch and not on top of a log.
When I think about it now, I think of the absurdity of it all — the vague narcissism that visitors must have imagined as they beheld our giant faces plastered on our walls. (Yet we were children — and children can get away with anything.) There is something darkly funny about the idea of a large photograph taking up almost an entire corner of a room. It evokes images of some European palace, with the owners’ faces everywhere one looks, on friezes and ceilings. Once I asked my mother how she and my father could even consider hanging such a ridiculous photo of us on the wall. She said simply, “Your father was so proud of that picture!”
Over time, the photo faded. Light and dust and my young fingers chipped away at the canvas, forcing flecks of it to fall off and disappear. When we moved to a new home nine years ago, the photo came off the wall and ended up in our garage. Our smiles now silently stare out from a dark corner. Yet the memory never left, because it is still everywhere; just not on our living room wall.
Each December, as part of our family’s Christmas decorating ritual, the photo ends up on a side table, surrounded by other, more recent photographs of our family. A smaller version hangs on a shelf in my grandmother’s apartment. My mother keeps a framed copy on her desk in her first-grade classroom. While looking through my closet this past winter, I was startled — yet unsurprised — to find a medium-sized copy in a frame, which now hangs on my bedroom wall. None of these even comes close to the canvas.
When I would think about my childhood, this image was always at the forefront of my mind. I’d seen other photos of my younger self, of course. But somehow, whenever I’d think of myself before age 10, I’d always think of two-and-a-half-year-old me, sitting on a log. It’s remained a reassuring constant throughout the past few years, especially as I forget so many of my childhood memories, leaving behind only fragments. I still remember the taste of the coffee cake my elementary school served; I still remember the thrill of being tall enough to ride the “Batman” roller coaster at Six Flags Magic Mountain; I still remember the prickly grass of the lawn outside my childhood home, and the plumerias which would fall and change color at all times of the year. Yet I cannot hold on to everything.
Maybe that’s why I value this picture so much. Sure, there are many other photos that I’ve discovered many in recent years, shedding light on forgotten birthday parties, family trips, and park playdates, all taken before cell phones could permanently document the world around you. Sometimes, you need something that’s larger than life itself, something that you can grab hold of and know it’s yours and not forget.
Something as big as that canvas, perhaps.
— Robert Miranda ’20, a Crimson Editorial Chair, is an English concentrator in Pforzheimer House.
Sections
A snaking line of people feeds into the two metal detectors guarding the entrance to a large room in the Hynes Convention Center. In the surrounding crowd, some flaunt their sleeves of inked skin, while others walk with blank legs and arms exposed.
After the security measures, double doors open into a massive hall with five rows of booths, each packed with folding chairs and cushioned tables.
This is the 18th Annual Boston Tattoo Convention: 8,000 people roam the rows, drifting from booth to booth and approaching artists to question or compliment them on their tattoo displays.
Attendees lie stretched across cushioned tables, as artists diligently etch their designs. Half-naked bodies are not given a second look. In this space, the intimate artform is normal, even casual. The rhythmic buzzing of tattoo guns fills the room, mixing with the laughter of artists and attendees.
Piercing booths, pop-up shops, and tattoo ink companies are sprinkled among the tattoo artists’ stalls. A boudoir photographer advertises a raffle to win a $1,000 personal boudoir photoshoot for you or someone special. A climate change nonprofit representative calls out, “Do you care about the environment?” to passersby.
An announcement blares over the loudspeaker, asking attendees to make their way to the stage near the entrance. By the stage, an acrobat gracefully twists around a hula hoop suspending from the ceiling by two long ropes.
Considering the hustle and bustle of the convention, it’s hard to believe that as recently as 2000, creating body art of any kind was illegal in the state of Massachusetts. The ban started in 1962, fueled by fears of hepatitis outbreaks in the 1960s.
The existence of this ban, however, did not mean that people weren’t tattooing. Instead, it meant that tattoo culture existed entirely in secret.
“[Artists] were working underground. You would have to take your chances. There was no regulation, there was no oversight whatsoever. There was no way for the public to know that they were actually going to a professional because there was no professional status,” said Natan Alexander, a Boston-area tattoo artist and the convention’s founder.
Alexander is covered in tattoos. His hair is slicked back, the sides of his head shaved. Wearing a crisply-pressed button-down and taut suspenders, Alexander emanates composure as he welcomes guests into the event with a beaming smile.
In the late ’90s, Alexander started Mass Ink Link, a website where people could email their state representatives about sponsoring various bills against the ban on tattooing. Along with other tattoo artists and supporters, Alexander pushed for three separate bills to lift the ban, each of which ultimately failed. Finally, in 1999, a legal effort led by the American Civil Liberties Union won against the state of Massachusetts. The ban was officially overturned in 2000.
The winning argument in the case stated that tattoos were an art form protected under the free expression clause of the First Amendment.
In 2001, Alexander started the Boston Tattoo Convention to celebrate the newfound freedom to tattoo. Alexander and other organizers work hand-in-hand with the Massachusetts and Boston Health Departments to ensure that the convention is a regulated space that fosters healthy tattooing culture.
Following the era of underground tattooing, Alexander hopes to create a safer, more inclusive tattoo culture — moving away from what he calls “toxic tattoo culture, which is more sit down, shut up, you get what you get.”
Not only are attitudes towards tattooing changing, but the demographics of tattoo artists have also shifted because the tattoo community has grown since the artform was banned.
“It was a really straight male-run industry. [Now,] there’s a lot more tattooers that are female, or non-binary, queer in the industry and more clientele that reflect that,” says K. Lenore Siner, a Boston-area tattoo artist also involved in producing the convention.
The Convention’s core purpose is to change the public’s perception of tattoo culture. It’s not just about the art itself, or the people who partake in it — it is also about creating an open and healthy environment for those who give tattoos and those who seek them.
“It’s about educating — educating people on what is a good tattoo, what is healthy tattoo culture,” Alexander says. “[Which is,] first and foremost, highly artistic, individualized, it is inclusive. And, it’s safe, in all caps.”
Sections
Humans develop from a single cell into an organism with 37 trillion cells and thousands of cell types. The original sperm and egg that meet to create a zygote contain all of the genetic material that a person will have for their lifetime. So, how does rich cellular complexity develop within human embryos? Ramesh A. Shivdasani, a professor at the Harvard Medical School and deputy director of the Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, calls this “the big, big, unopened question in biology.”
For centuries, scientists have debated how cellular complexity develops. During the Enlightenment, some scientists believed humans grew from a perfectly-formed, miniature person in the sperm or egg. By the 1950s, scientists were beginning to understand the importance of DNA in providing a blueprint for human development from embryo to organism. Today, the “unopened question” of how cells acquire different identities centers on epigenetics — the study of how genes are turned on and off, rather than the changing of the DNA sequence itself.
Which genes are on or off determines a cell’s identity, Shivdasani explains. As cells differentiate, different organs are created by different parts of the DNA. Fully-formed organs use different parts of the DNA than developing organs — once a kidney is formed, it turns off the DNA used in development and turns on other sequences. Prior to his lab’s most recent study, published on March 21 and led by post-doctoral fellow Unmesh Jadhav, the prevailing scientific assumption was that adult cells contain no record of which genes were active during their development.
***
Shivdasani has been curious about cellular identity since he began his medical training about 25 years ago. Jadhav joined Shivdasani’s lab six years ago, in part, to study the identity of intestinal stem cells. “I came and joined the lab and we started looking at all of this from an epigenetic angle,” Jadhav says.
One form of epigenetic control is the regulation of the dozens of regions of DNA, called enhancers, associated with each gene. Enhancers are like switches: they turn on and off in various arrangements. This allows different cell types to activate the same genes in different ways — if a gene has twenty switches, a brain cell might use twelve, while a kidney cell might use four of those and seven others. One way the body regulates these switches is through a protein complex — called Polycomb Repressive Complex 2, or PRC2 — that turns the switches them off.
About three years ago, Jadhav says, he began researching a potential relationship between PRC2 and another DNA repression mechanism, called methylation. They were probing a highly specific biological phenomena which Shivdasani described over email as “arguably esoteric.”
***
The scientific process is often taught as simple and straightforward: hypothesize, test your hypothesis, gain crucial insights, and so on.
“In truth, the path to scientific discovery is a torturous and serpentine path with a lot of diversions and false leads, wrong hypotheses, and a lot of serendipity,” Shivdasani says. Some of the most revolutionary scientific discoveries were accidental — the people who discovered penicillin and X-rays did not set out to do so. The same serendipity also led Shivdasani’s lab to cell memory.
“We had no reason to think memory would exist. We were frankly not even that interested in the problem,” Shivdasani says.
While researching PRC2, the protein complex that turns genes off, the lab was surprised that gene expression didn’t change substantially. So, Jadhav hypothesized that the other gene repression mechanism, methylation, was turning off the genes instead.
This hypothesis proved false. “It still remains a mystery to us of how these two balance each other out in an invivo system,” Jadhav says. But in the process of being proven wrong, they identified a new research angle.
“We always had our eye on how cells behave in development and what kind of transitions occur in particular stem cell behavior,” Jadhav says.
To test Jadhav’s original hypothesis, they removed PRC2-based gene repression and sequenced the genome of intestinal cells in mice to see which DNA switches were on or off. “Having studied the switches that are on or off in the intestine for years, we know every switch that is on in the adult intestinal cell,” Shivdasani says. In the absence of PRC2, they found far more active DNA switches than expected — three times as many.
The next step was to make sense of the data. Jadhav and his fellow researchers had previously studied developing intestinal cells, and used this experience when analyzing the data. They observed that the additional switches were near regions of DNA used in developing embryos.
“We looked back in the developing intestine, we looked in the embryo, we looked in the fetus, and we saw — lo and behold — that over the course of development those are the same set of switches that are being turned on,” Shivdasani says. The adult cell contained memories of the developing cell’s active switches.
Once they developed this new hypothesis about cell memory, they had to perform further experiments to test it. “Switching directions of research is a fraught endeavor, but when the payout is potentially profound, then one does it with a great deal of excitement and energy and enthusiasm, and that’s what we did,” Shivdasani says. “We took that ball and ran with it.”
The final study looks at intestinal and red blood cells in mice and analyzes publicly available data on brain and skin cells. This confirmed the existence of a fossil record of cellular development. “It’s almost as if you arrive at the station of a sedimentary rock and you cut through and you can see the Precambrian, the Cambrian, the Pleistocene, and you find all the fossils very perfectly preserved,” Shivdasani says.
Shivdasani finds the paper’s second discovery potentially more exciting. When they removed PRC2 gene regulation in specific circumstances, many of the genes used during development turned on. The genes that initially made the intestine into an intestine started working again.
“We did not think just by having modulation of one repressor like this would allow this entire history of development to be resurrected,” Jadhav explains.
Significantly, cells do not recover a general archive of development but instead have specific memories — intestinal cells can only resurrect the developmental history of intestinal cells. “It only recalls the memory that it has, which is only the memory of its tissue, and that’s why it’s sort of a Proustian kind of recovery of memory,” Shivdasani says.
According to Jadhav, though potential medical applications are speculative, they could be important to regenerative and cancer medicine. Cancer spreads throughout the body by turning on genes that should be off — perhaps cancer cells are tapping into the developmental archive. Knowing which genes are used during development could also contribute to significant advances in organ regeneration, and even provide insight into how tissues regenerate on a daily basis.
“This opens a lot of avenues about thinking on the lines of how cells maintain memory and how that can be linked to the epigenome,” Jadhav says. “That is an exciting possibility for me when I think about myself as an independent investigator in the future.”
Yet what, exactly, future investigations will yield is difficult to know. “Serendipity,” Shivdasani says, “is what all scientists live for.”
—Magazine writer Matteo N. Wong can be reached at matteo.wong@thecrimson.com.
Sections
56 Brattle St. looks like any other house near Harvard Square. It is painted light yellow and faces away from the street, shutters open but curtains drawn. While the house currently serves as the Cambridge Center for Adult Education, few know that 56 Brattle St. was once the residence of Mary Walker, a woman who was born into slavery in 1818, escaped from bondage, and later lived in the house with her family for 42 years.
When we visited the site, the employees we spoke to had never heard of Mary Walker. No obvious marker documents the building’s place in Cambridge history. Yet the house has found a spot on the map of the African American Trail Project, a Tufts University public history initiative that plots African American, Black Native, and diasporic historical sites around Massachusetts. Public history refers to historical knowledge created for those outside of specialized, solely academic settings.
“A number of the sites on the map do not actually have a marker of any kind. Some places there's no building, there's not even a plaque,” says Kendra T. Field, director of the Center for the Study of Race and Democracy at Tufts University and a leader of the Trail Project. “Part of what we're trying to do by including those types of sites is [to] spark questions for students and for others — about the places in which we find ourselves, the assumptions we make about these places — and [to] set people off on a journey to learn more.”
The African American Trail Project aims to use historical sites to examine contemporary social movements. The project was the brainchild of the late Professor Gerald R. Gill, who studied 20th century African American history and often spoke about creating a 'Tufts Black Freedom Trail', an idea later realized and now co-directed by his colleagues Field and Dr. Kerri Greenidge.
At first encounter, this historical walking tour may seem similar to Boston’s Freedom Trail. “The Freedom Trail that's focused on the Revolutionary War, and many other sites in Boston, lend themselves to a growing appetite for public history,” Field says. “I think it was all the more glaring that there wasn't a thorough-going effort to catalog the centrality of African-descended women and men and children to the making of this place.”
Unlike the Freedom Trail, the Trail Project is entirely self-guided — there are no options for tour guides or ticket prices. Participants can scroll through an interactive online map of more than 200 sites covering history ranging from the 17th to 21st century, and they can even email suggestions for new sites and stories to share. While paper trail maps are available on request, the digital focus of the project reflects its vision of an evolving and interactive interface.
“Our idea with the map was not to have a neat trail with placards that people go follow sequentially,” says Mary A. McNeil, a Harvard Ph.D. candidate in American Studies who helped to develop the program. “That’s where it differs from other trails. Our map and our trail is really a resource that we want folks to interface with as they will and as they want.”
The map provides a more personal exploration. Field hopes that reading about the various sites will prompt visitors to connect to their family stories and genealogy. For McNeil, the project is a reminder of her own Afro-Native heritage. “I think this project is very much me… My family is black and Wampanoag,” she says. “We can’t tell a story about a city that was so formative to the creation of a settler colonial nation, and not honor and respect the people who this land belongs to. We can’t fully tell the history of this city’s black community without thinking about the ways in which African descendants and Native American communities came together during certain moments. It’s always been a super central concern of the project.”
The idea of an alternative to the Freedom Trail is not unprecedented; the Beacon Hill Black Heritage Trail and the Upper Housatonic Trail Project have their own historical tours. Historical walking tours from Harvard include that of Professor of American History, Jill Lepore, who leads a historical walking tour of Boston and Cambridge as part of her Humanities 10a class.
“One aim [of the tour] is to look at what remains — what buildings survive — and what don’t, and why. The official Freedom Trail is a product of a particular moment in the history of heritage tourism,” Lepore says. “The research behind a lot of these newer trails is often just incredible, and so important. But my own walking tour isn’t segregated in that way; it’s not a women’s history tour or an African American history tour or a ‘Freedom Trail.’ It’s an excavation of the layers of history.”
In the recent past, the African American Trail Project’s intervention in public history has also inspired student activism on and off college campuses. In 2015, Tufts students led the Three Percent Rally, demanding an end to systemic racism in the university system. It highlighted the fact that low percentages of Tufts students and faculty were black at the time of the rally. “One of the things we did with this project was to expose people to who were the earliest African and African American students on this campus, what were their lives like, and what did they fight for when they were here,” Field says.
College students bear particular responsibility for using lessons learned from history to fuel social advocacy, says Field. “Institutions of higher education are very transient in terms of their population, so students are only there for, perhaps, four years. It creates all the more need for actively building historical memory, in order to see one's place within a trajectory and learn from past struggles,” she says. “I think this is a moment in which we can choose to pay attention to the past or we can choose not to.”
Sections
Many people were surprised by news of the recent admissions scandal, revealing that affluent families had used various forms of bribery and fraud in the college application process to secure their children spots at elite institutions.
Anthony A. Jack, however, was not.
“There is a difference between earning a spot, being given a spot, and straight up stealing the spot.”
Jack is an expert on inequality in higher education. He attended Amherst College as an undergraduate and completed his doctoral degree at Harvard Graduate School of Arts and Sciences. Currently a junior fellow at the Harvard Society of Fellows and assistant professor of Education at the Harvard Graduate School of Education, he recently published The Privileged Poor: How Elite Colleges Are Failing Disadvantaged Students, which deals with subject matter directly relevant to Operation Varsity Blues, the investigation into the admissions transgressions of the 50 people involved.
“We focus so much on individual differences, and saying one student is experiencing colleges [a certain way] because it’s something unique to that student or it’s that student’s background,” Jack says. “What the ‘privileged poor’ and the ‘doubly disadvantaged’ force us to think about is how social inequalities like poverty and inequality, especially in our neighborhoods and in our secondary schools, manifest themselves on our campus.”
Jack has coined the terms “doubly disadvantaged” ­— low-income students who enter college from local, typically distressed public high schools — and “the privileged poor” ­— low-income students who arrive at elite institutions from boarding, day, and preparatory high schools — to assess how differences in background could influence these students’ experiences at college.
Another term of Jack’s is the “hidden curriculum,” which refers to things like office hours, fellowships, and other academic advantages that low-income and first-generation college students may not be aware of if they haven’t previously attended a prestigious school.
The Privileged Poor are often able to navigate hidden curriculums as a result of their experiences in high school, although they are still affected by prior inequality. But those who weren’t fortunate enough to have exposure to a prestigious high school face even further inequality in an area where they already have fewer opportunities than their privileged peers.
According to a report published by EdBuild, majority non-white school districts can see as great as a $23 billion dollar disparity in public school funding when compared to majority white districts in the same area.
Jack identifies himself as a member of the “privileged poor.”
“I am a first-generation college student. I’m from a low-income background. When I got to Amherst, I discovered that even though we were low income, from single-parent households, a number of my classmates also went to private high schools on scholarships through programs like Prep for Prep, Peak, A Better Chance,” he says.
“And even though I thought my story was a singular story… programs like Prep for Prep place a significant number of low-income students into high schools like Andover, Exeter, and St. Paul’s, year after year.”
Jack found the way that people discussed inequality in college to be superficial, especially in contrast to his peers’ complex experiences. He found that researchers tended to regard disadvantaged students as a homogenous group, which Jack did not see as the truth.
“When I got to graduate school and I started reading all these articles and sociology about education and the experiences of first-generation college students, it was only half right. I did not see my classmates in the literature,” Jack says. “They talked about a set of experiences, of culture shock in isolation. And quite frankly, if you went to Andover or Exeter, you’re not really shocked by what you find in college in the same way that those who come from typically distressed high schools are.”
Dissatisfied with the existing representations of his experiences, Jack updated the literature in his doctoral dissertation while pursuing a Ph.D. in Sociology at Harvard. The Privileged Poor is this work: He interviewed 125 people — 103 of them undergraduates — to compare systematic disparities between low- and high-income black students and across other varying demographics of low-income students.
Jack’s research gives him a unique perspective on the admissions scandal. On this particular topic, he reflects, “it makes people think about over-matching” — a word he defines as when people “are at school that is above their [academic] punching weight,” and will be unable to handle the environments of such elite institutions.
“They always say that lower-income students and students of color ‘over-match’ when they get to schools like Harvard, Yale, and Princeton or Amherst,” he says. But in the light of the recent scandals, Jack wonders, “Who’s “over-matching” now? These students could not even get in on their own. They bought their spot. So who’s ‘over-matching?’”
Jack suggests that narratives of the inequalities that affect underprivileged students should receive the same media attention as the uber-wealthy antagonists of the admissions scandal.
When asked about what students themselves can do to help accelerate the progress of this change, Jack says, “It’s important to know that it is not the job of a student of the university.”
“I want students to be more vocal about the things that keep them on the ‘outs’ of different programs and different initiatives at the university. I do want us to be more vocal, but that does not mean that students have to do the work of changing university policies.”

    Sections
  
Eight Democrats and nine Republicans were coming to Harvard, and Marc J. Ambinder ’01, a college senior and budding political journalist, wanted to meet them.
The year was 2000, and the Institute of Politics was hosting its bipartisan orientation for the newly elected members of the House of Representatives, as it had for nearly three decades. Over the course of four days, Harvard scholars, government representatives, and other leaders would engage with the freshmen lawmakers, offering diverse perspectives on contemporary issues and congressional duties before the new members returned to Washington for their swearing-in.
Ambinder decided to cover the traditionally press-free event for The Crimson, which the IOP allowed so long as he received permission from the individuals he wished to quote.
One was Ric Keller (R-Fla.).
“I just sort of glommed onto [him],” Ambinder recalls.
Ambinder noticed that in one session, while the other members-elect — who included future House Majority Leader Eric I. Cantor (R-Va.) and future Senator Jeff L. Flake (R-Ariz.) — were engaging with the panelists, Keller was scribbling away at a draft of a bill to expand Pell Grants. Keller explained to Ambinder that he planned to drop it in the hopper the first day Congress met in session.
Simultaneously, panelist Ralph Hellmann, then-legislative director for the Speaker of the House, was advising the new legislators against making bold moves.
“Don’t try and think you have the fresh solution,” he said to the group, according to Ambinder’s reporting at the time. He told them to focus on smaller issues and work on their bargaining tactics — to “find something to go home with.”
{shortcode-04c97e276ea06954f1ba405fdb53a50cbd3dd8a8}
Last December, when 55 Democrats and nine Republicans descended on the Kennedy School campus for another Bipartisan Program for Newly Elected Members of Congress, a parallel scene unfolded.
Rashida H. Tlaib (D-Mich.) was listening to Gary D. Cohn, former chief economic advisor to President Donald J. Trump and former Goldman Sachs President, address the freshmen.
“You guys are way over your head, you don’t know how the game is played,” he allegedly said.
Tlaib blasted his off-the-record remark on Twitter, adding, “No Gary, YOU don’t know what’s coming — a revolutionary Congress that puts people over profits.”
The Washington Post reported that another attendee “interpreted Cohn’s remark as meant in jest, rather than an insult of the new lawmakers,” who were purportedly discussing the possibility of a bipartisan infrastructure package.
Cohn declined to comment for this article, wishing to “uphold the off-the-record nature of the program.”
The story of fresh-faced idealism, jockeyed against the cynicism of established old-timers, is not new, or even surprising. But last December, social media amplified the protests of a small group of new members who criticized the corporate, establishment nature of the IOP’s orientation.
Members of the progressive left, ushered into Congress when Democrats flipped the House in 2018, protested the absence of union representatives and grassroots organizers in the panels at the orientation while criticizing the presence of corporate leaders like Cohn. They noted that former government officials’ lobbying ties were not prominently disclosed, raising a social media storm that launched the orientation into national headlines.
The orientation program has historically placed the IOP at a unique intersection between two focal points of power: Harvard and Washington. But today’s hyper-partisanship has called upon the IOP to reassess its position in the face of an “obliteration of norms,” as Ambinder, now editor-at-large of the news magazine The Week, says.
“If you teach the right things,” he proposes, “then you can start to rebuild those norms.”
Nearly 50 years ago, Harvard claimed the distinct responsibility of educating new lawmakers, along with the advantages of forging such connections. The orientation’s bipartisan mission, though, predated the polarization of today. While historically, the IOP has faced difficulty attracting Republicans to the program, this year, Democrats also found fault with it.
Vulnerable to criticism from both sides, the IOP nonetheless adheres to its original vision for the orientation. But it is also open to adapting its curriculum in response to last year’s controversy.
To Ambinder, these revisions will make the orientation “more important if done well, and irrelevant if done poorly.”
School was in session for four congresspeople at Harvard in 1972.
Freshman orientation programs for congresspeople had already begun to crop up in the 1960s. In 1963, the American Political Science Association organized a program to prime new members on Congressional legislative processes, later partnering with the Congressional Research Services. The CRS also partnered with the Brookings Institution to offer a policy-focused conference for new members. The Republican Party organized a training conference for its new members after gaining 47 seats in 1967, and the Democrats followed suit in 1970 with a program of their own.
At Harvard, the IOP wondered whether its resources might make it a prime candidate to enter the ring. Though founded only six years prior with a largely undergraduate-focused mission, in 1972, the IOP decided to take on a new type of student, bringing two freshman Democrats and two freshman Republicans to Harvard’s campus for a month-long training period.
The program had a three-pronged goal: to help new members set up Congressional offices, to understand the legislative process, and to dive into contemporary policy issues.
It was a period of trial-and-error. In early 1972, Ernest R. May, then the IOP director, scouted out two promising Congressional candidates based on recommendations from advisory committees. They were Barbara C. Jordan (D-Texas) and Yvonne Brathwaite Burke (D-Calif.). Jordan was the first African American woman from the South elected to the House, and Brathwaite the first African American woman to represent the West Coast.
“Originally, as the idea was conceived, only the two black congresswomen were to have been invited,” Mark E. Talisman, a central architect behind the program, wrote in a report on the 1972 orientation. “That idea seemed deficient for many reasons, and the invitations were expanded to balance party representation as well.”
The IOP signed on Alan W. Steelman (R-Texas) and William S. Cohen (R-Maine) as additions to the pilot program. Steelman, 30, was the youngest member of Congress at his election, and Cohen was barely his senior at 32. Cohen was a moderate Republican — later in his career, he was one of the first Congresspeople to break from his party and vote for President Richard M. Nixon’s impeachment. From the start, the participants in the bipartisan program leaned slightly left.
Talisman, formerly the assistant to Representative Charles Vanik (D-Ohio) and an IOP Fellow, developed the curriculum and served as the new members’ “tutor” over the course of their month-long stay at the Kennedy School. During that time, the four freshmen engaged with “a variety of experts,” Talisman wrote. About two-fifths had experience on the Hill, including former Speaker John W. McCormack, and three-fifths were academics, most of them from Harvard.
Barney Frank ’61 (D-Mass.), former congressperson and assistant to the director of the IOP from ’66-’67, recalls that Richard M. Neustadt, the IOP’s first director, wanted to draw attention to Congress’s role at a time when most attention was focused on the executive.
“People were concerned that the executive had too much of the initiative in public policy,” Frank says, and Neustadt sought to refocus attention on Congress, which didn’t have “the kind of angry, very divisive partisanship we have now,” he adds.
The IOP hoped to introduce members to Harvard’s resources, giving them contacts to consult on policy issues during their time in Congress. In that way, the orientation could strengthen the relationship between the university and Washington through what the IOP viewed as Harvard’s unique asset — its faculty.
Faculty members and government representatives were once again the main focus of the program when it returned for its second run in 1974. Seventeen members-elect were invited, and the eight Democrats and four Republicans who attended heard from people like prominent Economics Professor Otto Eckstein, who discussed major economic issues the next Congress would face over a luncheon at the Signet Society. At the Spee Club, two Harvard professors led a discussion of national health insurance.
The selected invitees had the opportunity to learn from the nation’s most prominent minds in an intimate academic setting, away from the pressures of Capitol Hill. In its early days, the orientation’s atmosphere was “cozy,” as Talisman wrote, if not patrician.
But the IOP also viewed this environment as creating a “problem of ‘exclusivity,’” and decided to abolish its by-invite-only policy in 1976. This boosted the program’s attendance by the dozens, and, over the next decade and a half, the orientation became an established part of the election cycle.
{shortcode-d77f8b8d4adc4216fcedfeaa0ee4eb2def324f5a}
Each new midterm brought the IOP a new crop of freshmen — the majority of them Democrats. On average, throughout the 1980s less than half of the new class of Republicans attended the program, whereas two-thirds of new Democrats did.
Former IOP Director Philip R. Sharp explained that even though some Republicans thought of Harvard as “a high-prestige place to go,” others viewed it as “some left-wing place” — even as the House Administration Committee continued to put Harvard’s orientation on its calendar for congresspeople, few Republicans came.
{shortcode-cf32846be60da13f641e817d538243d7f3936daf}
Among those who did attend, the program was well-received. The IOP continued to improve the orientation in accordance with new members’ feedback, shortening the orientation length, tailoring topics to contemporary policy issues, and giving the participants more of what they raved about each year — time to interact with each other and with students.
Members praised the program in feedback forms: “Very worthwhile helping new members get to know each other, begin to understand ‘this system,’ focus on topical issues,” one respondent wrote in 1988.
Another stated, quite simply: “Thanks a million for a memorable course.”
By 1990, the IOP had settled into a regular routine running its congressional orientation, but the new decade brought new challenges.
In 1992, conservative think-tank The Heritage Foundation organized a competing orientation in Annapolis, MD held on the same dates as the IOP conference. Republican leadership urged its new members to attend the Heritage conference in lieu of Harvard’s, where they claimed the subject would be “‘family values,’ not the ‘tax and spend curriculum at Harvard,’” former IOP Director Charles T. Royer wrote in 1994.
Meanwhile, the Democrats were told in regional meetings not to attend the Heritage Foundation’s conference, Royer writes.
Only nine of the 52 new Republicans came to Harvard in 1992, including former Congressman Rick A. Lazio (R-N.Y.). He recalls the presentations themselves as largely left-leaning, confirming the evaluations of his Republican colleagues, but was not bothered. Liberal content was simply the “nature of the beast,” Lazio notes — the cost of having the opportunity to mingle with new Democrats.
In one session, Lazio remembers sitting with other members in a circle, each speaking about his or her inspiration for having run for office.
“That experience, in particular, I remember all these years later as very bonding,” he says.
In 1994, however, there were no such opportunities for bipartisan connection.
The “Republican Revolution” of 1994 ushered waves of conservatives into Congress, and Republicans reclaimed the House majority for the first time in 40 years. With Speaker Newt L. Gingrich (R-Ga.) at their helm, the 73 newly elected Republicans opted to forgo the trek to the “Kremlin on the Charles” — a phrase purportedly coined by Nixon, but still tossed around in the 90s, according to Sharp.
The IOP, unable to hold a bipartisan orientation with only one party in attendance, cancelled the orientation entirely.
Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.) was one congressperson elected that year. She recalls that the boycott had “more to do with Newt Gingrich’s desire to keep Republican freshmen from fraternizing with Democratic freshmen” than the content of Harvard’s orientation.
“That’s what Gingrich intended, and that’s what he got,” she says. “The only time that we met the Republicans was when we stood on the steps of the capitol for a picture.”
Representatives for Gingrich did not return requests for comment.
When Sharp took over as IOP director in May 1995, he and Executive Director Cathy A. McLaughlin embarked on a massive campaign to rekindle relationships between Republicans and the IOP.
The IOP reached out to the Heritage Foundation to “begin trying to build bridges,” Sharp says. It shortened its orientation program from one week to four days to lessen its burden on new members’ time. It diversified the speakers and topics to decrease the representation of Harvard professors, who were perceived as left-leaning. Before the 1996 conference, IOP representatives spent hours on the phone courting new Republican members.
Ultimately, nine Republicans-elect agreed to attend, and the orientation was back on.
In years since, the IOP has continued pushing for representation from both parties. This year, it collaborated with, but did not receive funding from, the American Enterprise Institute and the Congressional Institute, both formally nonpartisan nonprofits that traditionally lean conservative. It also collaborated with the Center for Strategic and International Studies, a bipartisan nonprofit known for its left-of-center foreign policy. The think tanks recommend and help provide speakers to the IOP.
The IOP also tries to carefully consider how topics are presented. Before the 2018 orientation, Sharp, who remains on the IOP’s Senior Advisory Committee, wrote “an extensive letter urging [the IOP] to take up the issue of climate change,” he says. “The IOP has been careful not to lean into the most controversial issues that would divide parties,” he explains, which was partially why the IOP ultimately called Sharp’s session, “Managing Catastrophes and Disaster Relief: Congress’ Role.”
Framing events in neutral language is one tactic the IOP has used to appeal to Republicans, but interest still remains low. In 2018, nearly two-thirds of the Republican freshmen attended the Heritage Foundation orientation while about one-third attended the IOP orientation.
“In hard-core red districts, [representatives] think they might be publicly criticized for going off to an elite, left-wing school,” Sharp speculates. With other orientation options available to new members and limited time, “it just remains a contest,” he says.
IOP Fellow Carlos L. Curbelo (R-Fla.) chose not to attend the Harvard orientation in 2014, explaining that with a young family, he wanted to minimize time spent traveling. He opted to attend the Congressional Research Service’s orientation instead.
“I think it’s regrettable that Republicans wouldn’t come,” he says. “To the extent that members have the time and are available, they should commit to all of these opportunities to get to know one another, to exchange ideas, and to talk about their respective visions for our institutions of government.”
Over two decades after the Republican boycott of 1994, the IOP has found itself in the midst of another dramatic political shift. But while the events of 1994 were precipitated by a national swing toward a new strand of conservatism, the sharp criticism of the 2018 orientation came from the opposite side of the aisle.
At 5 p.m. on Dec. 4, the first night of the orientation, current Secretary of Transportation Elaine L. Chao was set to address the new members.
The Center for Popular Democracy, a progressive advocacy group, had planned to go to Cambridge that week, anticipating that they might capture the new members’ attention. Hoping to amplify their message through the most visible members of the progressive movement, they invited Ayanna S. Pressley (D-Mass.) to co-sponsor their Medicare-for-All rally.
As Chao was delivering her speech that evening, Pressley was standing outside the Charles Hotel delivering her own. Joining her were fellow Democratic members-elect Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (N.Y.), Andy Levin (Mich.), Lori Trahan (Mass.), and Mary Gay Scanlon (Pa.).
Though some media outlets portrayed the Democratic representatives-elect as the organizers of these protests, which the Center for Popular Democracy and other Progressive coalitions held throughout the three days of the program, they are more accurately described as collaborators and guest-stars.
Representatives for Pressley and Ocasio-Cortez declined to comment, and representatives for Levin, Trahan, and Scanlon did not respond to requests for interviews.
{shortcode-d1cf60d3448afa016eb48d28393bd8ab6183a4fb}
Still, the progressive congresspeople’s actions stood as a testament to their preference to being on the ground, among grassroots organizers, rather than in closed-off conference rooms.
For some, like IOP Fellow Curbelo, the story unfolding in 2018 was reminiscent of the 1994 boycott. “These attacks [on the IOP], both from left and right, are just a demagoguery,” he says. “It is important for new members to hear from leaders from all sectors in our society, whether it’s corporations, labor, community activists, academy.”
But in 2018, “corporations” and the “academy” were upstairs on the fifth floor of the Taubman building while activists were outside on the sidewalk, leading protests on climate change and Puerto Rican debt divestment. By 11:40 a.m. on the third day of the program, Ocasio-Cortez was frustrated: “Goldman Sachs is here,” she tweeted. “Where’s labor? Activists? Frontline community leaders?” The tweet blew up.
The IOP had invited at least one activist to speak at the orientation. Brittany Packnett, Black Lives Matter activist and cofounder of Campaign Zero, a policy website for ending police violence, was slated to appear on the panel, “Navigating Washington and Capitol Hill,” but could not attend due to illness. Two activists, Bryan A. Stevenson and Malala Yousafzai appeared on IOP forums concurrent with the orientation, which members were invited to attend.
However, no labor representatives were invited.
The only time a labor representative appears to have participated at the orientation was in 1982, when the AFL-CIO sent Howard D. Samuel, president of the group’s Industrial Union Department, to speak on a panel about international trade.
“The observation of no labor representative is, I think, a fair one,” current IOP Director Mark D. Gearan ’78 says.
Sharp also suggests that lack of labor representation might have been an oversight, commenting, “It might be that there should have been representatives from prominent national labor… as opposed to only from business. I think that, probably in the future, will clearly happen.”
Others are more cautious. Vice President of Communications and Affairs at AEI John Cusey, who has worked with the IOP on the orientations, says Harvard should include experts in labor policy from academia or government, some of whom might have worked in unions, too. But activists with no experience in government or academia, he thinks, should be excluded. The program should offer “expert presentations,” he says, rather than “advocacy presentations.”
But the line between expert and activist might not be so clear.
Jennifer Flynn Walker, who helped organize the protests as Director of Mobilization and Advocacy for the Center for Popular Democracy, states that activists are themselves experts.
“If you’re going to talk about climate change, maybe you should have some groups that have been fighting against bus depots in neighborhoods [with] high rates of asthma for decades,” she says. “They’re just as schooled in the policy.”
By noon on Dec. 5, the second day of the orientation, climate protesters swarmed outside the Kennedy School’s Taubman building. Ocasio-Cortez came downstairs to show her support.
She reassured them: “Let me tell you, we hear your chants up there.”
Simultaneously, Dean of the Kennedy School Douglas W. Elmendorf urged the activists to quiet down so as not to disturb the new members’ learning spaces, Walker says.
“It got very tense at different points,” Walker says. “It was a relatively small protest and I felt that their response was a little bit outsized. But to their credit they let us protest.”
Elmendorf declined to comment.
The rallies were a success, Walker says: “I do think that we emboldened the Congress members to be more outspoken.”
Just minutes before Ocasio-Cortez came down to address the protesters, the representatives-elect had listened to “A Discussion with Business Leaders,” featuring the CEOs of General Motors Company, Johnson & Johnson, and Boeing. She tweeted out her discontent the following morning, after the freshmen had also heard from Gary Cohn, former COO and President of Goldman Sachs:
“# of Corporate CEOs we’ve listened to here: 4
# of Labor leaders: 0.”
In the 1980s, as the orientation was still expanding, the IOP enlisted corporations to help fund the program, but largely didn’t feature corporate speakers. Sears gave financial support in 1980, and by 1990, AT&T, AlliedSignal (an aerospace and automotive parts manufacturer), Bull HN Information Systems (a technology services company), and Sun Company (an outdoor-products retailer) provided funds as well.
The IOP stopped accepting corporate funding for the event after 1990, and is now the sole sponsor of the orientation.
In the past two decades, however, corporations have jumped from sponsors to speakers. Eight of the last 11 orientations since 1998 featured corporate CEOs; prior to that, they had little representation.
The early CEOs were former government officials. Thomas F. “Mack” McLarty, III, former CEO of natural gas company Arkla and current chairman of McLarty Associates, spoke in 1998. Kenneth Duberstein, CEO of the Duberstein Group, a political consulting company that advocates on behalf of corporations and associations, spoke in 2000. Both were former White House Chiefs of Staff, McLarty under President Clinton and Duberstein under President Reagan.
In 2014, the IOP hosted a panel exclusively comprised of CEOs, called simply “CEO Roundtable.” The first panelists were the CEOs of Xerox and American Express. The next Roundtable, in 2016, included the CEO of Mastercard.
By inviting more CEOs, the IOP has sought to represent perspectives outside of its original academic and governmental focus.
“To sit down with a few CEOs, for many of the members was useful,” Gearan, current IOP director, says.
Sharp points out that the presence of CEOs gave Rashida Tlaib, a newly elected Progressive from Michigan, a unique opportunity to “grill” Mary T. Barra, the CEO of Michigan-headquartered General Motors.
“I can assure you that their chances to meet the CEO of General Motors are going to be quite limited in the future,” Sharp says. “So, I don’t look upon that as having given a platform to General Motors. I look upon it as having given access and a chance to pummel them with questions and raise questions about equity, which they did with General Motors.”
Barra declined to comment.
While the absence of activists and the presence of CEOs at the orientation was immediately clear to progressives, what wasn’t as evident was that some speakers were also lobbyists, which Ocasio-Cortez tweeted about on the morning of the last day of the conference to the attention of national media.
Ordinarily, the House Committee on Ethics places limitations on the presence of lobbyists at privately sponsored conferences. However, these restrictions do not apply to institutions of higher education, giving Harvard more freedom in inviting speakers.
William D. Delahunt, former interim director of the IOP and former Massachusetts representative, was one target of criticism this year. Delahunt represents Fuels of America, a biofuels lobbying group, though the schedule listed only his Congressional background and IOP affiliation. He made remarks at the communal dinner on the first night of the orientation.
“I never once got involved in any conversation relative to that [lobbying] association, none whatsoever,” Delahunt says. “It would’ve been inappropriate if I had.”
Delahunt, who also serves as Vice Chair of the IOP’s Senior Advisory committee, says he and other lobbyists “were talking [more] about process than advocating for a particular issue.” If organizers of the program wanted to disclose the speakers’ lobbying ties in the future, he says he would not oppose it.
{shortcode-3c5eabd8d64947068553b559efd8f62ffe3039f5}
Lofgren, the California Democrat elected in 1994 and a current member of the House Administration Committee, hopes to review the policies surrounding the presence of lobbyists at privately-sponsored conferences.
“I just think that it’s poor practice to have skin in the game on the outcome of a presentation when it’s intended to be a nonpartisan, non-advocacy presentation,” she says. “I’m not suggesting that Harvard failed to abide by any rules. The question is, should those rules be revisited.”
Between the controversies surrounding corporate interests, hidden lobbying ties, and lack of grassroots activism and labor representation, the three-day-orientation reflected the changing ideological makeup of the Democratic party after the 2018 midterm elections.
“Each sweep brings... soul-searching,” Kennedy School lecturer Juliette N. Kayyem ’91 says. “Every election there’s a new lesson learned, and I think the IOP has kept its ear to the ground.”
But based on the events of last December, not all members of the progressive left agree.
Brady A. Roberts, a second-year student at the Kennedy School, criticized the orientation in an editorial in The Crimson.
In an interview, he recalls with dissatisfaction that while the newly-elected members of Congress were congregating on the fifth floor of the Taubman building, the elevators used to access that floor were closed off to the public — a security measure and part of the IOP’s efforts to keep the conference intimate and press-free. To Roberts, it represented the larger ways in which students have been shut out of the events held in their classrooms.
Hundreds of student-volunteers from the Kennedy School and College help facilitate each orientation, walking congresspeople between their hotel and the Kennedy School and attending breakfasts or dinners. Both students and members-elect alike report that the opportunity to engage with one another is a highlight of the program.
However, Roberts wants students to have programmatic input. In his editorial, he proposed that students whose undocumented statuses are under threat would make compelling speakers on a panel about immigration.
Like Ocasio-Cortez, he also wants labor activists to have a seat at the table. He said he wants the IOP to “entertain the notion that bipartisanship might include people who aren’t churning out peer-reviewed studies, aren’t leading publicly traded companies, but instead have their finger on the pulse for what people feel and believe in America,” he says.
“Gary Cohn and the CEO of Boeing might have different political views, but they’re both coming from pretty monolithic expectations in terms of how change gets done,” he says.
Once criticized for being too left-leaning, now the program is under scrutiny from progressives like Roberts, who criticize it for being “committed to a technocratic elitism, as opposed to true bipartisan[ship].”
That criticism has long been applied to the Kennedy School, where the IOP is headquartered: In 1989, a New York Times op-ed called the Kennedy School of Government a “temple of technocracy.”
Professor of Public Management Herman B. “Dutch” Leonard ’74 describes the “traditional Kennedy School process” in the Times article: “Somebody has defined a problem, somebody has come up with a set of alternatives, and somebody has defined the criteria by which to choose — now get to work.”
Like Roberts and the progressive representatives in the House today, in 1989, Leonard had asked, “Who got to do the defining? Is that the only way these things can be defined?’’”
Kayyem, Kennedy School lecturer and orientation panelist, points out that for members of Congress, solutions are defined through very specific means: namely, legislation.
“Congress has a constitutional duty to effectuate policy change,” she says. The IOP and the Kennedy School, as institutions of public policy education, “can provide a service to new Congress members in terms of that role, but it’s not going to be all things to all people.”
The personal connections that the orientation facilitates can be as important as the policy lessons it provides. Steven A. Horsford (D-Nev.), who attended the 2018 orientation, notes he is now working on legislation focused on prescription affordability and the nation’s infrastructure with Congresspeople he met at Harvard during panel events on those topics.
{shortcode-005461d2d602fb2130831ca5b52dec7079ed7ae9}
“I had the opportunity to talk with and get to know members from the other side that I would not have had the chance to otherwise,” Horsford says. “Following those panels, we were able to continue the dialogue… that relationship is now carrying into actual legislation.”
Nonetheless, he agrees that the IOP can improve the orientation by addressing the criticism voiced this year. It seems willing to do so.
“Going forward, I think it’s really important to be responsive to what members want,” Gearan says. “We have the opportunity, going into 2020, to really look into and imagine what is best for members, [what] we can uniquely provide to them.”
Gearan notes that the IOP looks forward to collecting representatives’ feedback after they’ve held congressional office for a year or more. By then, he believes members will have more perspective on whether the orientation prepared them for life in Congress.
From the beginning, the IOP considered Harvard’s unique selling point in hosting the orientation to be its faculty. Ushering in more outside perspectives, broadening the mission of the orientation beyond its academic, wonkish origins, has opened the IOP to criticism about which outsiders deserve voices. If CEOs were added to counterbalance academics, now, some want to counterbalance the CEOs.
The orientation’s ambitious goal — to educate new members of Congress — might increasingly collide with partisanship. With each curricular correction spurring a counter-correction, the adjustments reverberate through the decades.
—Magazine writer Clara J. Bates can be reached at clara.bates@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter at @ClaraBatess.
—Magazine writer Sonia F. Epstein can be reached at sonia.epstein@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter at @Sonia_Epstein.
Sections
The arrival of a stack of Pinocchio’s pizza boxes heralded the start of one of Goldman Sachs’s many campus recruiting events on a Wednesday afternoon. Held in a conference room in the Smith Campus Center, the event was centered around a panel discussion with Goldman employees, followed by time for questions and networking.
On the subsequent Friday, March 29, the Office of Career Services (OCS) hosted an event called “Building up or Selling out? A Discussion on Managing Selfish and Selfless Interests.” Several students and OCS staff trickled in past a table of assorted snacks into a basement conference room. After providing a run-down of norms for the confidential, introspective discussion to come, Daniel Lobo ’14, a recent hire at OCS, put on a Sam Smith track to set the mood.
Hanging on the walls were large sheets of chart paper, with fraught questions written across the tops:
“What is important to your career? Money? Mission?”
“What does ‘using your H degree’ mean to you, and why?”
“Who and what outside of yourself is affecting your professional decisions?”
Lobo explained that he asks these questions to spark dialogue about the perceived tension between “selfless” public service and “selfish” money-making careers. He believes that campus culture reinforces the “false dichotomy of nonprofit work versus investment banking.”
“I was just noticing that a lot of students were struggling with accepting their motivations for wanting certain jobs... In particular, I'm thinking of students coming in during finance recruiting,” Lobo says. “And I would ask them, 'Why do you want to do this?' And [they’re] sort of dancing around this idea that they just want to make money. I was noticing that some students just weren't comfortable saying that. And I sort of remember being in that head space.”
Throughout his time at Harvard College, Lobo was heavily involved in public service — he founded the Harvard College First-Generation Student Union and served as the co-president of the Harvard Students for Education Reform. By his junior year, he had accepted a job as co-director of Mission Hill Summer Program and had already begun preparations for that year’s operations of summer camp run by the Phillips Brooks House Association.
“And then I got a call that I had gotten a first round interview with Parthenon,” a consulting firm. “[I] took the interview, got the offer, took the job, did the summer internship, got the return offer, took the return offer,” he says. “And if I could go back, would I do things differently? No.”
After graduating, Lobo spent time working in educational consulting and then at a start-up, all the while remaining heavily involved in First-Generation Harvard Alumni. This group, of which he currently serves as president, supports the educational and professional development of students and alumni whose parents did not attend college.
“Another takeaway I wanted students to arrive at — which I sensed that some students did — was this idea that nothing is permanent. Your first job out of undergrad, it's not going to define your career by any means,” he says. “I've done four different jobs… in five years. I've enjoyed them all for different reasons and learned different things in all of them.”
Lobo said he believes that campus culture can push students towards predefined paths to success that may not align with their genuine personal motivations. For instance, he has observed a pressure pushing students to attend law school, land a job at a top firm, or conduct advanced academic research.
“There's just a lot of people clearly pursuing things that are just not the most original pursuits and consequently probably not the most authentic pursuits,” he explains. “And that to me is just painfully ironic…There’s a lot of conforming here, and it’s probably been around well before either of our times. You can even think of it socially, with final club culture or whatever else, right?”
This form of career elitism infects the public service sector as well, further complicating the supposed dichotomy between “doing good” and “selling out.” Lobo recounts his experience working at an organization that he describes as seated squarely in the public service sector: it prepares underprivileged students for admission to high-performing schools.
“One of our students in our program was thinking he wants to be a chef,” he says. “But that's not what board members and donors of this organization want to be paying money for. There's sort of this implicit assumption that [students are] going to go off to elite schools and elite professions, rather than just following their passions and what they want to do, which is what I was coming to the work to do.”
Lobo said he witnesses and hopes to challenge a particular pressure for students from marginalized backgrounds to devote themselves to work geared towards public service. “If going back to your community and having some sort of positive social impact is really what's going to fulfill you, great. But if that, to you, feels like it's limiting, in terms of taking advantage of the full range of opportunities that are now available to you, then you don't have to do that.”
After attendees had finished writing answers to Lobo’s questions on colorful Post-It Notes, pasting them to the chart paper, reading others’ responses, and drawing check-marks as silent signs of agreement, Lobo turned off the music. Everyone sat down and listened as Lobo posed questions for discussion. Long pauses and quiet furrowing of brows followed many of these. But eventually, attendees spoke up.
“I know there were a few moments of silence, but I'm pretty comfortable with silence,” Lobo says. “I was looking around and I could tell people were thinking.”
Sections
The most surprising fact about Cambridge Typewriter Company isn’t that it’s in Arlington — it is that business is booming. “Right now, or for a while now, it’s been crazy busy — like I could work seven days a week around the clock and still not catch up,” says Thomas J. Furrier, the owner of Cambridge Typewriter Company.
Though the shop was empty when I visited, I couldn’t help but imagine the clickety clack of hundreds of keys as visitors tried out different models. The shop’s interior resembles a library reading room, though with typewriters instead of books. The bulky machines fill every available space, even covering parts of the floor in a clutter of metal.
“People just come in — sometimes not to buy anything,” Furrier explains. “They love typewriters — to talk about them, try them.”
Furrier started work at the shop in 1980 as one of four typewriter technicians. Furrier recalls that at that time “there were typewriter shops galore in this area.” That all changed at the end of the 1980s, when he began to notice a significant number of closures. Then, in 1990, his boss decided to retire. Furrier decided to buy the business, moving the shop from Cambridge to Arlington to save on rent. “Everyone thought I was crazy buying [it],” he says. But despite the discouraging comments, he remembers, “I just felt like I could do it.”
The late 1990s were not easy for Furrier: The shop almost went out of business twice. In 1999, he was a month away from closing. He remembers telling people, “I’m done, I’m gonna call the landlord.”
But business suddenly started to pick up in the early 2000s. Groups of high school students started to frequent his shop, and he began to feel optimistic. Furrier remembers thinking, “I’m gonna hang in there and see if something happens.” And he was right. “Very quickly I could tell that there was a new direction for young people that was gonna get into typing — it was a vintage comeback type of thing,” he says. By 2009, business was better than ever. “It almost became a mainstream thing.”
Customers under 30, who had grown up with iPhones and laptops, drove business. Furrier attributes Millenial and Generation Z interest to the “sensory feedback” one gets from hitting a typewriter key.
Today, Furrier receives visitors from all over the country. “We had a woman visiting from Northern California. She was here with her husband on business, and it was her main thing to come here — she’s a typewriter fanatic. She came in and spent the entire morning,” Furrier says.
Though hipsters and nostalgics keep the business thriving, there remains a strong contingent of people who never stopped using typewriters.
Among those is author David McCullough, who first brought his typewriter in to be repaired about four years ago. Furrier still remembers the day he first handled McCullough’s typewriter: “I’m carrying the thing, I’m cradling it, I’m walking baby steps. I’m afraid to drop it, you know, kill his mojo, but I got over that.”
Furrier’s customers include Harvard affiliates. Jill Lepore, an American History professor, and Leah Price, an English professor, spent several hours in the shop to purchase typewriters for their class on the history of recording devices. “They spent a couple of hours on the floor going through a pile of about one hundred machines up front and having the best time,” Furrier recalls.
Typewriters of past fame have also found their way into the shop. Furrier used to have two typewriters owned by the poet and winner of the first Pulitzer Prize in Correspondence, Paul Scott Mowrer, but he sold them to aspiring poets. “I specifically wanted to sell them to a young poet and tell them the story of who owned the machine for inspiration,” Furrier says.
Artists are not the only factor bolstering Furrier’s business. “Downtown, a lot of companies still use typewriters,” says Furrier. These aren’t vintage typewriters, and they aren’t always there just for convenience. Law offices never stopped using typewriters. While all hospital forms have been fully digitized, Furrier claims that many legal forms are still typewritten.
Eventually, Furrier accumulated so many stories about typewriters that he began a blog. In over one hundred blog posts (all typewritten, scanned, and then uploaded online), Furrier describes everything from typewriter ribbons to local authors who use his typewriters.
But he refuses the label of writer. “I’m a typewriter technician repairman,” Furrier clarifies with a grin. “I still think of us here as just a local neighborhood repair shop even though we’re a much bigger footprint.”
When I first visited the shop, I was unsure why such heavy and expensive pieces of equipment were so popular. Furrier claims that Tom Hanks once said, “You shouldn’t pay more than $50 for a typewriter in the wild.” Prices in Furrier’s shop begin just below $300 — well above thrift store prices.
But then I began typing on one of the machines, and found myself unable to stop. Each model gives a different amount of resistance. The keys are active, like the strings on a violin: Apply too much pressure, and the key gets stuck, but apply too little and only the faintest blot of ink is left on the demo piece of paper.
“Part of it is just getting back to an old school thing — slowing down, shutting out all the noise from the digital this, that, and everything,” Furrier explains. “A typewriter is just one thing that gets people to slow down, slow their brain down, and relax, and enjoy.”
Sections
It was the 1980s, in the midst of a rightward shift in American politics, and some physicians across the country had a well-kept secret: they wanted more government in the healthcare system, according to David U. Himmelstein, a Harvard Medical School affiliate and a former doctor at the Harvard-affiliated Cambridge Hospital.
Yet according to Himmelstein, many physicians were hesitant to reveal they supported full government financing of healthcare, despite what he saw as widespread support among members of the profession.
“It was not something you wanted to say very loudly in public,” he recalls.
So in 1986, Himmelstein and a colleague, Stephanie J. Woolhandler, formed an advocacy group, Physicians for a National Health Program (PNHP), to support single-payer healthcare.
The reception among outsiders was part derision and part incredulity.
“One reporter, when we were first starting the group, asked, ‘Physicians for a National Health Program, is that a sister organization to Furriers for Animal Rights?’” remembers Himmelstein.
Within a few years, though, hundreds of doctors had joined the group, drawn in part by a manifesto of sorts that the group published in the New England Journal of Medicine, as well as multiple national television appearances by Himmelstein and Woolhandler.
Today, a Harvard Medical School affiliate is again at the helm of the organization, which now boasts a membership of over 20,000 physicians, medical students, and healthcare professionals. And, as single-payer proposals have moved to the forefront of political debates, PNHP’s influence has likely never been greater.
The ‘Nucleus’
As Himmelstein and Woolhandler worked to recruit doctors to their cause in the mid-1980s, they simultaneously began to craft a policy document outlining what a single-payer healthcare system would look like in practice.
That work, in addition to continuing research around medical access and affordability conducted by a seven-member social medicine group at Cambridge Hospital, largely took place under the auspices of Harvard.
“Cambridge Hospital has been really a sort of a nucleus for a lot of the PNHP work,” says Gordon D. Schiff, a former president of the association who is now an associate professor of medicine at the Medical School.
After all, a single-payer bill introduced in the House of Representatives by former Rep. John J. Conyers, Jr. (D-MI) in 2003 was directly modeled off of PNHP’s single-payer proposal, according to Adam W. Gaffney, an instructor at the Medical School and the current president of PNHP. And when Rep. Pramila Jayapal (D-WA) introduced a revised version of the bill in late February on the steps of the Capitol, she invited Gaffney to speak at the event.
Medical School Associate Professor Danny McCormick, who now leads the Cambridge Hospital working group, says that while it may be relatively unusual for medical researchers to weigh in on controversial public policy questions like single-payer, he believes that when doctors see a solution that would “dramatically improve” health outcomes, it behooves them to speak up.
“There’s nobody better to talk about what the policy solutions are than the people who are intimately involved with doing research,” he says. “And then it’s incumbent upon us both as researchers and as clinicians to talk explicitly about policy solutions.”
The connections between PNHP and Harvard go back decades. At the time of PNHP’s formation in 1986, according to its members, Harvard provided an optimal home for the fledgling organization that was advocating for a then-radical proposal.
For one, Massachusetts was in the midst of its own fight over single-payer healthcare. A group of seniors called the Gray Panthers was seeking to place a referendum on the ballot calling upon Massachusetts congresspeople to support national health insurance. PNHP was formed in part to prop up the seniors’ efforts, Himmelstein says.
Cambridge also provided a litany of prominent names ready to line up in support of single-payer, including the psychiatrist Leon Eisenberg, then the chair of the Department of Social Medicine at Harvard Medical School, and renowned primary care physician John Stoeckle.
In the years since, Woolhandler says Cambridge Hospital has been “extremely supportive” of the group’s work, despite its clear partisan tilt.
‘A Long Way to Go’
It was early March 2019 and Gaffney, the newly elected president of PNHP, faced determined opposition.
Fox Business channel had invited Gaffney on the air to discuss single-payer healthcare, and the panel of commentators all seemed to want a chance to confront him.
One critic chipped in with what Gaffney later deemed an “outlandish” question: “Why can’t the free market work [with healthcare]... like it does with auto insurance?” Others raised concerns about the supposedly high price tag of PNHP’s vision of healthcare.
As Gaffney waited to respond to the questions, he smiled, cocked his head, and raised his eyebrows, as if these were all arguments he had heard many times before. Then, at his characteristic rapid speaking pace, he fought back.
The appearance garnered praise from left-wing activists and commentators online, including Vermont Senator and leading presidential candidate Bernie Sanders.
“This Doctor SHUTS DOWN Every Argument Fox News Has Against Medicare for All,” Sanders wrote on his website.
Gaffney says he has long considered himself a progressive. But it was not until he saw firsthand the devastating impact of the current system of medical care on his patients that he decided to make advancing the cause of single-payer into his life’s mission.
“I have seen patients in the intensive care unit with life-threatening complications of illnesses that need not have happened,” Gaffney says. “They could have been averted through care.”
At Cambridge Hospital, which is a teaching affiliate of Harvard Medical School, the School of Public Health, and the School of Dental Medicine, Gaffney says he primarily serves vulnerable individuals, many of whom are on Medicaid or lack insurance altogether. Cambridge Health Alliance — a health system that includes Cambridge Hospital and two other hospitals in Boston and Somerville — is the only public hospital system in the state.
For Gaffney, the scale of the problem — including roughly 30 million Americans uninsured and tens of millions more who have insurance but cannot afford care because of high premiums and deductibles — means that insufficient measures will not suffice. Many Democrats in Congress have opted to support a Medicare buy-in option, rather than mandated government insurance. But such compromises make Gaffney indignant.
“What does that do for the rest of the nation that’s uninsured? What does that do for people who have employer-sponsored coverage and it falls short because their deductibles are so high? What is it going to do for the fact that for-profit corporations are increasingly dominating the healthcare delivery sphere?” he asks.
Support for a full-on single-payer approach appears to be building among prominent Democrats, including multiple presidential contenders. When Conyers introduced the first iteration of his single-payer bill in 2003, it garnered just 25 co-sponsors. In 2017, that same bill had 124 co-sponsors, over half the Democratic caucus.
“I don’t think that we’ve ever been closer in my lifetime,” Gaffney says. “We’ve come further in the last couple of years than anyone thought we were going to.”
But, he concedes, “there’s a long way to go.”
Correction: April 7, 2019
A previous version of this article incorrectly referred to David Himmelstein as a doctor at Cambridge Hospital. In fact, is a former doctor at the hospital. 
Sections
I’m on the third floor of the Harvard Art Museums, staring intently at the black and tan phalluses that pepper an ancient Greek vase decorated with the Return of Hephaistos to Olympos. Suddenly, someone in the room has a visceral reaction: a strained, sustained wail.
Perhaps an odd response to art, except that I’ve entered the room with a cohort of adults, a tour guide… and some babies.
The room we are in contains, as our tour guide explains, the majority of the museum’s antiquity holdings. We’re here on the official tour that was advertised on Eventbrite as the “Sexy Vases Tour for Parents.”
This title, prior to my arrival at the museum, provided me with little tangible sense of the event’s focus. The only preview I had was a brief description explaining that the tour would “welcome hungry babies, crying babies, sleeping babies” and, of course, a number of my own personal questions: Why vases? Why sexy vases? Who decided that parents and ancient Greek eroticism were a natural pairing? How did babies get mixed up in all of this?
The day before the tour I got on the phone with my guide, Renana Kehoe, who doubles as the founder and executive director of Parent Tours. Her company, she explains, “offers tours for parents to attend with their newborn babies at different museums and cultural institutions around the Boston.”
When I asked Kehoe point-blank to explain the unusual impetus behind the sexy vases tour, she responded,“When you’re a new parent, you just really miss talking to adults about adult things.” I wondered, but did not ask, what she meant by “adult things.”
On the day of the tour, Kehoe greets me near the front door with a “Parent Tours” sign and a clipboard. We make small talk until the rest of our tour group shows up — one couple with a stroller and a mother in a baby bjorn. Renana explains to me that two couples had canceled last minute — a common occurrence, she explains, when babies are part of the schedule. Before we embark, Kehoe shows us a picture of her own young son. The significance is clear: Babies will be the centerpiece of our tour, around which the sexy vases merely revolve.
At our first tour stop, Kehoe explains with an air of disbelief that the tour’s Facebook event was taken down for “inappropriate content.” As the tour progresses, I understand her incredulity. Besides the few moments when Kehoe draws our attention to oversized centaur erections, the whole thing does feel more educational than sensual.
Kehoe begins by offering a brief primer in Greek history, explaining to us the differing artistic techniques at play. At each stop, she details the mythic lore that inspired each lewd scene. I learn the differences between black and red figure engraving, the importance of the proportionality of the Greek male nude, and even that the Greeks mixed their wine with water so that they could drink more, and for longer (a tip Kehoe seems to subtly address towards me).
As we move through the third floor, I get to know my fellow tour attendees. The couple is attending with their six-month-old. The father is quick to explain to me — when I ask what drew them to these bawdy urns — that he had been a Latin nerd in high school and loves to learn about “this stuff,” signaling his awareness that attending solely for the centaur erections, as it might appear to him I have, would be uncouth. His wife nods enthusiastically at each tour stop, and her vigor extends to consistently answering Kehoe’s rhetorical questions.
The other woman on the tour is more mysterious, rarely cracking a smile at any of Kehoe’s quips. When her baby starts crying in the face of a wine and water mixing pot, Kehoe smiles energetically, encouraging the mother to let the infant holler on.
The whole event is, to my slight surprise, a wholesome endeavour. We move at a slow pace and discuss the intricacies of engraving on clay rather than the ins and outs of Dionysus’ orgies. I almost forget the context for the tour until we approach our last vase, and the parents include me in their discussion of newborn feeding habits. Here we are, a college student, four parents, and a couple of newborns moving from one PG-13 libation cup to the next. We are adults taking to other adults about, well, adult things.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Student activists unveiled the Wall of Resistance, a public art project that highlights various social justice causes, in the Science Center Plaza Wednesday as part of Palestine Solidarity Committee’s Israeli Apartheid Week.
Students at the College, Harvard School of Public Health, Lesley University, and other area schools built and painted the wall, which students first designed and constructed in 2017. Activists have displayed the Wall of Resistance during Israeli Apartheid Week — which includes speakers and performances designed to raise awareness for what PSC calls Palestinians’ unfair treatment by Israelis — for each of the last two years.
PSC leaders said hope the wall will connect campus affinity and service organizations by using the physical barrier to identify “common struggles” that affect various groups, according to Co-President Christian B. Tabash ’21.
“The purpose of the wall is to connect diverse struggles of different groups through a common theme of resistance to oppression,” he said.
The six-panel wall features designs on “racial discrimination, mass incarceration, immigration and undocumented issues, sex inequality, police brutality, and the occupation of Palestine,” according to a sign posted near the installation.
PSC’s panel depicts a Palestinian woman hugging an olive tree, which symbolizes Palestinians’ efforts to hold onto their livelihoods, according to former PSC President Fatima M. Bishtawi ’17.
Bishtawi said she thinks “the Israeli occupation is known for uprooting those trees and sort of uprooting those sources of Palestinian livelihood.”
“This woman hanging on is sort of symbolic of her own resistance to the occupation, her own testament to her struggle, and her resistance and her attachment to the land,” she said.
Fourteen student organizations co-sponsored the wall this year, including Fuerza Latina, Harvard African Students Association, Harvard College Democrats, Phillips Brooks House Association, Jewish Voice for Peace-Boston, Harvard Kennedy School Palestine Caucus, and Harvard Law School Justice for Palestine.
Act on a Dream Co-President Diego Navarrete ’21 said in an interview before the event that his organization chose to co-sponsor the installation because of the parallels that members see between the Trump administration’s proposed border wall between the United States and Mexico and the Israeli West Bank barrier.
Some Israelis argue the barrier provides protection against what they see as a terrorist threat from the West Bank, while some Palestinians argue the barrier, which they say limits their mobility, creates conditions that mirror apartheid.
“At the end of the day, the oppression that immigrants face is the same oppression that people in Palestine face, and we just wanted to bring attention to that,” Navarrete said.
Many students who spoke on behalf of their organizations said they think their own struggles parallel the issues that Palestinians face.
“We also recognize that our struggles are metaphorically and tangibly connected,” said Maha J. Al-Suwaidi ’19, the vice president of the Society of Arab Students, a co-sponsor of the wall. “Our struggles are yours, and yours are our own.”
Representatives from other groups said they think the wall is an apt symbol.
“Walls are inherently oppressive,” Fuerza Latina Co-President Yasenimary Velazquez Carrasquillo ’21 said. “They serve to separate and divide and tear people apart. They pit groups against each other. Not only that, but they also dehumanize and ostracize people.”
While members of some student groups said they support the wall and view it as a statement of solidarity with Palestine, others have found organizations’ co-sponsorships of the wall “troubling,” according to Harvard Hillel President Rebecca Thau ’20.
“I’ve gotten several messages, actually, from students not knowing that a group they were a part of decided to co-sponsor things,” she said. “Some of those groups have said, ‘We’re not co-sponsoring the whole week; we’re co-sponsoring the wall, which is separate from the week.’”
Thau said that while some students might see a distinction between co-sponsoring the wall and co-sponsoring Israeli Apartheid Week, others may not. She added that while Hillel generally endorses dialogue for peace-building in Israel, some discussions are “outside of the scope of what counts for us as a productive conversation.”
“We generally feel that Israeli Apartheid Week is a series of events that does not characterize the nuance and difficult political situation that is happening in Israel,” Thau said.
In a statement submitted by PSC to the Undergraduate Council Sunday, group members defended their use of the word “apartheid” to describe the Israeli treatment of Palestinians, arguing that the term accurately applies to the political situation in Israel.
The wall installation will remain in the Science Center Plaza until Saturday.
Clarification: April 7, 2019
A previous version of this article referred to Maha Al-Suwaidi as a member of the Society of Arab Students. To clarify, Al-Suwaidi is the vice president of the organization. 
— Staff writer Kevin R. Chen can be reached at kevin.chen@thecrimson.com.
— Staff writer Laura C. Espinoza can be reached at laura.espinoza@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The University has begun its search for Harvard University Health Services Director Paul J. Barreira’s replacement, University Provost Alan M. Garber ’76 and Executive Vice President Katie Lapp announced in an email to Harvard affiliates Wednesday.
Barreira announced in January that he would step down on June 30 after seven years in the position and 15 years at the University. A 12-person search committee comprising professors, administrators, and other Cambridge-based medical professionals will spearhead the search, according to the email.
Barreira said in an interview Monday that the committee has retained a national hiring firm and will likely hire externally.
“They've hired a national search firm, and they're doing a national search for the next director,” Barreira said. “I don't think there's anybody internally who's applying for the position. So it would definitely be an outside person.”
Members of the search committee include Harvard Medical School Faculty Assistant Dean for Students Affairs Sherri-Ann Burnett-Bowie, Medical School Professor Michael E. Chernew, Harvard Business School Executive Dean for Administration Angela Q. Crispi, Medical School Professor Shelly F. Greenfield, Vice President for Human Resources Marilyn Hausammann, Dean of the College Rakesh Khurana, Medical School Professor Barbara J. McNeil, Deputy Provost Peggy Newell, Law School Associate Dean and Dean of Students Marcia Sells, Senior Vice President of Ambulatory and Clinical Services at Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center Sam Skura, MIT Medical Director Cecilia Warpinski Stuopis, and Medical School Instructor Ryan W. Thompson.
Garber and Lapp wrote the next director will work to continue Barreira’s work in providing “high-quality care” across the University.
“Under Paul’s guidance, the HUHS has strengthened its mission to provide compassionate, high-quality care and to support the health and well-being of Harvard’s diverse patient populations,” Garber and Lapp wrote. “The next Executive Director will continue to advance Harvard’s commitment to health and equitable access to care.”
To aid in the search, the University-wide committee will solicit feedback at two meetings open to Harvard affiliates held at the end of the month. Students will also have until May 1 to submit nominations and feedback via email to the committee.
The University has not yet specified when the search will conclude.
Throughout his 15-year tenure at Harvard, Barreira has served as director of Behavioral Health and Academic Counseling at HUHS, overseeing Student Mental Health Services, Alcohol and Other Drug Services, the Office of Sexual Assault Prevention and Response, the Center for Wellness, and the Bureau for Study Counsel. Before being appointed HUHS director in 2012, he served as an associate professor of psychiatry at the Medical School for eight years.
Barreira said he might work part-time on the graduate student mental health survey that HUHS has been conducting over the past year after he steps down.
He also said he plans to spend more time with his family. Barreira said he wants to to visit his daughter, who is expecting a child in June, in Birmingham, Ala., “as frequently and for as long as they'll tolerate us.”
Barreira added that he plans on spending more time reading and being more physically active than he already is.
“What I do is anything athletic that you can imagine. So, right now I run. I'm in the gym every day. In the summer, I like to get on my paddle board and paddle board all over the Cape. Or canoe. Or kayak. And play golf — although I haven't had time to play golf,” Barreira said. “So all those kinds of things I'll end up doing.”
—Staff writer Michelle Kurilla can be reached at michelle.kurilla@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @MichelleKurilla.
—Staff writer Tamar Sarig can be reached at tamar.sarig@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @tamar_sarig.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Campus Christian group Harvard College Faith and Action’s year-long probationary period came to a close March 9, College spokesperson Aaron M. Goldman wrote in an email Tuesday. The group’s co-presidents say it has now returned to its regular status.
Goldman declined to comment further on the details or outcome of the group’s probation, which appears to have had little practical effect on the club’s operations over the past year.
HCFA co-president Eunice A. N. Mwabe ’19 wrote in an email that in the last year, the club has continued its regular programming, which includes events held in Harvard spaces, such as Doxa — a weekly worship gathering that takes place in Yenching Auditorium.
“Over the course of the administrative probation HCFA continued to operate with the privileges of all other independent student organizations. We will continue all normal operations and procedures, including weekly Bible Studies and our weekly large-group meeting on Friday nights,” Mwabe wrote.
College administrators’ decision to place HCFA on probation last spring was almost certainly tied to the group’s decision to remove an assistant bible course leader because she was in a same-sex relationship. Former HCFA presidents Scott Ely ’18 and Molly L. Richmond ’18 said then that HCFA’s “standards for leaders” led to the College’s decision to put the group on probation.
At the time, HCFA’s standards included a section titled “Sexual Purity” which charged the group’s leaders with “tak[ing] active steps to avoid inappropriate situations and physical encounters.”
Mwabe did not directly respond to a question asking whether HCFA changed its internal documents or procedures as a result of being placed on probation by the College. She wrote that HCFA has since changed its internal operations more broadly to match the group’s values.
“We clarified internal policies and structures to best reflect the convictions of our organization,” Mwabe wrote.
College spokesperson Rachael Dane said in February 2018 that HCFA would have to disaffiliate from Christian Union — a national organization that supports Christian groups at all eight Ivy League schools.
On Wednesday, Mwabe also declined to directly answer whether Christian Union, HCFA’s parent organization, continues to provide the group with funding and resources. Mwabe and HCFA’s other co-president Cooper B. Bryan ’19 wrote in a February email that HCFA continued to be “resourced” by Christian Union as the close of the probationary period neared. HCFA receives resources and staff help from Christian Union, according to the national umbrella organization’s website.
During the course of HCFA’s administrative probation, college administrators repeatedly declined to elaborate on the specific terms by which the College asked the organization to abide.
Dean of Students Alexander R. Miller wrote in a Feb. 25 statement that he has had “productive conversations” with Mwabe and Bryan, but did not detail the substance of those conversations or indicate whether they resulted in organizational changes. Mwabe confirmed in February that they attended the meetings with Miller.
—Staff writer Shera S. Avi-Yonah can be reached at shera.avi-yonah@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter at @saviyonah.
—Staff writer Delano R. Franklin can be reached at delano.franklin@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter at @delanofranklin_.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Jelani Nelson, an associate professor of Computer Science at the School of Engineering and Applied Sciences whose research focuses on designing algorithms to process large, high-dimensional datasets, will leave Harvard after this academic year to join the faculty of University of California, Berkeley.
Nelson, who joined the Computer Science faculty in July 2013, wrote in an email to The Crimson that his upcoming move to California was largely motivated by his wife’s “match” to an internal medicine residency program at a hospital in Oakland, Calif.
“Family is of the highest importance to me, so before her interview process began I committed to accepting a position as close as possible to where the [National Residency Matching Program] sent her,” Nelson wrote.
At Harvard, Nelson has taught several advanced Computer Science courses, including Computer Science 224: “Advanced Algorithms,” Computer Science 226: “Sketching Algorithms for Big Data,” and Computer Science 124: “Data Structures and Algorithms.”
Nelson has collaborated with other Computer Science faculty members as a researcher in Harvard’s Theory of Computation group, which aims to address the fundamental questions of computation as it relates to fields like computer science, engineering, and math.
Computer Science professor and fellow TOC group member Boaz Barak described Nelson as a “leader” in the study of algorithms and praised Nelson’s work in balancing accuracy and length when creating “short digests” of large datasets. Barak wrote in an email that while he never worked directly with Nelson on a research project, he spoke with him often and guest lectured for AddisCoder, a free summer program in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia created by Nelson to introduce high schoolers to programming and algorithms.
“He was a central figure in our Theory of Computation group, organizing our theory colloquium and leading many of our initiatives,” Barak wrote. “All of us in the Theory of [Computation] group think the world of Jelani and wish him the best, while still hoping that maybe at some point in the future he will return to Harvard.”
Computer Science Professor Harry R. Lewis ’68, who also works alongside Nelson in the TOC group, described Nelson as a “brilliant scientist and a great colleague” in an email.
“We are super sorry that he is leaving,” Lewis wrote.
Several teaching fellows for CS 124 said that beyond Nelson’s many accomplishments as an algorithmist, he is also a wonderful professor and mentor who always puts his students first.
Bill W. Zhang ’21, who is a CS 124 teaching fellow, said he appreciated Nelson’s commitment to walking students through challenges.
“Jelani really takes the time to sit down with students and ask them questions, guide them, give them the time to respond and think through the points he’s making, as long as it takes for the student to figure out what’s going on,” Zhang said.
“The fact that he’s leaving now leaves a very big hole in the department,” he added.
Kim Nguyen ’21, who invited Nelson to the Freshman Faculty Dinner and Classroom to Table last year, said Nelson’s commanding presence in the classroom belied a very relatable and quirky personality. She recalled a story Nelson shared with her in which he supposedly tried to email Queen Elizabeth to obtain visas for students taking his AddisCoder course.
“When I heard this story, I was just like, ‘First of all, who is this guy trying to guess emails to [United Nations] people? And then second of all, this guy actually cares so much about his students that he’s literally trying to write long emails just for this,’” Nguyen said.
Nelson will join UC Berkeley’s faculty as a professor in the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science. He wrote that although he will miss Harvard, he is “quite excited” for the opportunities at UC Berkeley. In particular, he wrote he is looking forward to working at the Simons Institute for the Theory of Computing, which he described as “an entire 3-story building devoted to hosting semester-long research programs in theoretical computer science.”
“I’m also a huge fan of Berkeley Bowl (my #1 favorite supermarket in the world), and the many Eritrean, Ethiopian, and other great restaurants in the area,” Nelson wrote.
—Staff writer Amy L. Jia can be reached at amy.jia@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @AmyLJia.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Amidst renewed efforts in the nation’s capital to reauthorize the Higher Education Act, University President Lawrence S. Bacow detailed his priorities for any future legislation in an interview last month.
The Higher Education Act, originally passed in 1965, authorizes the federal student financial aid program and includes provisions for funding sources like Pell Grants, the Federal Work Study Program, and loan repayment plans for undergraduate, graduate, and professional students.
Bacow has visited Washington, D.C. five times since the beginning of his presidency in July, lobbying for the reauthorization of the Higher Education Act alongside issues like immigration protections and federal research funding.
Bacow said in a March interview that he has engaged in conversations about the Higher Education Act with members of Congress, in particular with Senator Lamar Alexander (R-Tenn.), who chairs the Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
“We have a friend in Senator Alexander in sort of trying to lead the reauthorization of the Higher Education Act,” Bacow said. “When I say us, I'm talking about all of higher education.”
Alexander, who formerly served as Secretary of Education under President George H.W. Bush, has advocated for simplifying federal aid policies by shortening the Free Application for Federal Student Aid form, reforming student loan repayment, and creating an accountability system to ensure students are repaying their loans on time.
The HELP committee has held hearings on reauthorization twice since the start of the year. As part of its discussions, the committee heard testimonies from experts in higher education about campus sexual assault and simplifying FAFSA.
Senator Patty Murray (D-Wa.) has led Democrats on the issue as the ranking member of the HELP committee, pushing for making federal student aid more accessible as well as allocating more aid toward higher education. Murray has also been outspoken about using the Higher Education Act as an opportunity to fortify sexual harassment prevention measures on campuses.
The Trump administration laid out its own proposals for reauthorization last week, including changes to Pell Grants, the reform of Federal Work Study, limits on Grad PLUS loans, and the simplification of student aid.
University spokesperson Jonathan L. Swain wrote in an emailed statement that the White House proposals are “an important step” in the reauthorization process of the Higher Education Act.
“The University is monitoring this process closely and engaging with members in both the House and Senate as they develop their bills and move forward proposals,” Swain wrote.
Swain also wrote that the University is focusing its lobbying on bolstering federal programs that provide financial assistance to low-income students, specifically citing protection and expansion of the Pell Grant as priorities.
At the College, which touts its no-loan financial aid policy, students are less likely to be affected by changes to federal loan policies than at graduate and professional schools. Swain noted that the University’s advocacy for the Higher Education Act includes graduate and professional students — an area which he deemed to have recently experienced “an erosion of federal support.”
“The Trump Administration proposals continue this trend with new limits on loans, which are the primary source of federal aid available to these students, and by rolling back important loan forgiveness programs that help keep borrowing affordable and encourage public service work,” Swain wrote.
The White House did not respond to a request for comment.
During the 2017-2018 school year, Harvard had 1,254 Pell Grant recipients who received awards totaling $5,601,702 and 1,120 students on Federal Work Study, collectively receiving $2,397,897. The University also had 1,693 students who received Grad PLUS loans, totalling $60,800,828, and 126 students who benefitted from PLUS (Parent) loans, amounting to $3,645,573.
The most recent movement to reauthorize the Higher Education Act came in 2017 when House Republicans proposed an overhaul of the bill. The legislation — dubbed the PROSPER Act — would have reauthorized Pell grants, restructured loan repayment plans, and eliminated Federal Work Study and public service loan forgiveness for graduate and professional students.
Former University President Drew G. Faust criticized the PROSPER Act for its potential to reduce student aid and support for work study. Harvard’s Federal Relations Office lobbied against the bill to representatives in Congress, where the act eventually stalled after passing a House committee 23-17 in Dec. 2017. It did not move to the full House or Senate for a vote before the new Congress took office in January.
—Staff writer Alexandra A. Chaidez can be reached at alexandra.chaidez@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @a_achaidez.
—Staff writer Aidan F. Ryan can be reached at aidan.ryan@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @AidanRyanNH.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Dean of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences Claudine Gay said she is not concerned about President Donald Trump’s recent executive order conditioning federal funds to universities on their free speech policies, calling it “unnecessary” in an interview Wednesday.
Gay said she has not heard concerns from faculty members about the March order, which aims to promote “free inquiry” on college campuses. Experts have said the order is ambiguous in its enforcement mechanism and may not have any practical effect for private universities, who set their own free speech policies.
“I feel that free speech is alive and well on our campus,” Gay said. “We’re deeply committed to that. It’s so core to who we are and to our mission.”
FAS adopted a set of free speech guidelines in 1990 which outline recommendations for protecting campus speakers who express controversial views. The guidelines note that FAS does not “permit censorship of noxious ideas” and lay out several recommended punishments for disrupting speakers.
Though it is not fully clear how Trump will wield the order, Gay said she has “no concern” about losing federal funding because FAS abides by its policies “by the letter.”
“The idea of linking [free speech] to federal research funding seems completely unnecessary, and because it’s something that’s so central to our educational mission that there isn’t a universe in which we wouldn’t be taking steps to protect it and make sure it is alive and well on our campus, which I believe it is,” she said.
Gay also noted that faculty have turned to federal agencies for funding less and less in recent years, increasingly gaining support from “foundations” and “industry” for research projects. Though federal funding remains the largest source of awards overall at roughly 70 percent, the amount of non-federal funding FAS researchers received has increased steadily since 2012.
“I just think that will be a trend that will continue, and potentially could accelerate in a context in which there are declines in federal research support,” Gay said.
Experts have said the executive order — announced at a conference for the Conservative Political Action Committee — appeared to be a partisan maneuver designed specifically to support conservative college students.
A Government Department survey released in early 2019 found that 61 percent of self-identified conservatives in the department reported their work or study was “limited” in some capacity by their political views, compared to nine percent of self-identified liberals.
On Tuesday, Gay said she believes the faculty represent a variety of ideological views. A 2018 survey conducted by The Crimson found that 83 percent of faculty respondents identified themselves as “liberal” or “very liberal.”
“I continue to see our campus as one that not only encourages but embraces robust dialogue where we have the opportunity to be exposed to a broad range of perspectives, frankly on every issue,” she said.
— Staff writer Jonah S. Berger can be reached at jonah.berger@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @jonahberger98.
—Staff writer Molly C. McCafferty can be reached at molly.mccafferty@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter at @mollmccaff.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
New York Times correspondent Peter E. Baker, former United States Representative Barbara J. Comstock (R-Va.), and CNN legal analyst Michael Zeldin debated developments in special counsel Robert Mueller's recently concluded investigation into foreign interference in the 2016 presidential election at the Institute of Politics on Wednesday.
The panel — entitled “Presidential Investigations: What Lies Ahead?” — broke down the potential implications of Mueller’s unreleased report.
Though the document has not yet been made public, U.S. Attorney General William P. Barr summarized Mueller’s report in a four-page letter released publicly on March 24. In the letter, Barr wrote the investigation found no evidence of coordination between the Trump campaign and Russian election interference efforts. Barr added that the special counsel did not come to a conclusion on whether President Donald Trump had obstructed justice.
Comstock, who is also a current IOP Resident Fellow, said she was surprised the special counsel did not make a definitive judgement on the obstruction of justice charge.
“Usually you would make a decision one way or the other,” Comstock said. “That’s the real surprise, is that there was no decision.”
Zeldin, another current IOP Resident Fellow, said he believes that Mueller would have come to a conclusion if he had been able to interview Trump.
“I have a theory and that theory is that Mueller wanted very much to interview the president and the Justice Department resisted that subpoena and then he stood down,” Zeldin said. “The absence of the evidence that he would have gained from that formal testimony is what caused him to hesitate to make the ultimate decision.”
Rather than speculating and waiting on the full special counsel report, Comstock said Congress should open investigations of their own.
“Congress has a very broad role in investigating,” Comstock added. “You could have hearings. There’s a lot that Congress can still do. They can subpoena a lot of this material.”
In response to an audience question about media credibility in light of the Mueller investigation, Baker highlighted the importance of distinguishing between reporters and pundits.
“A lot of people tend to overstate, overgeneralize about the media based on something they might have seen on Sean Hannity or Rachel Maddow who — with all respect to both of them — are commentators, not journalists,” Baker said.
Several attendees said they appreciated Baker’s points about the public perception of the media.
“I thought Baker’s comment about the media not being monolithic was very important,” said Shelley Schussheim, who attended the event.
Andrew W. Liang ’21, a Crimson editor and event attendee, said he was impressed by Baker’s self-scrutiny as a reporter.
“You don’t often see journalists saying journalists should be held accountable,” he said.
Attendee Daniel S. Sullivan said he enjoyed Comstock’s comments about humanizing those involved in the investigation.
“It’s so easy today in the world of public discourse to be critical of folks on a personal level,” Sullivan said. “Comstock made some points that I found encouraging, that you have to evaluate people as human beings.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Graduate School of Arts and Sciences’ new Graduate Student Council board — voted in at the Council’s monthly meeting Wednesday evening — are nearly unanimous in their support for the graduate student union.
Ten graduate students ran uncontested for the executive board positions — which include four new officers, five at-large representatives, and a new GSC advisor — and eight of them spoke favorably of the Harvard Graduate Students Union-United Auto Workers either in their speech or during a question period. One freshman member maintained a neutral stance and current GSC President Blakely O’Connor never explicitly gave her position.
The election marks a departure from previous GSC boards, which have stayed relatively quiet on their stance on the union in recent years. The last time every seat on the GSC board was filled with a supporter of the union was in 2013, when union organizers won every seat — a key step in establishing the legitimacy of the then-fledgling student-workers’ union movement.
Just before the GSC unanimously voted Zachary M. Hayworth the new president, he made his position clear.
“Another thing I think is really important is that the GSC push for a union contract,” Hayworth said. “We can use our leverage to get this drama over and to finalize a contract ASAP.”
Minutes after, nominee for GSC vice president Deanza A. Cook took the stage and promptly supported Hayworth’s position.
“One of the things I really want to focus on as vice president is really trying to get this advocacy situation between the GSC and the union and these other organizations and affinity groups that are lobbying for certain changes more streamlined and synthetic,” Cook said, just before the GSC voted unanimously, but for one abstention, to make her vice president.
Three at-large representative positions remain unfilled, and will most likely be assumed by incoming graduate students next fall.
Hayworth said he is confident the relationship between the GSC and the union will be collaborative.
“It’s a synergistic relationship,” Hayworth said. “But it’s still being refined. We actually have a meeting coming up in a few weeks where we’re going to define exactly what the cooperation is going to look like.”
The open meeting also saw two representatives from the Harvard Prison Divestment Campaign speak to the GSC about their current push to make the University disclose its investment profile.
The GSC approved a motion to vote on a resolution supporting the Prison Divestment Campaign’s push at next month’s meeting.
The Prison Divestment Campaign’s presentation comes amidst calls for Harvard to divest its nearly $40 billion endowment from companies with ties to the prison system.
Hayworth said at the Wednesday meeting that his priorities for his tenure as president include increased cooperation with student affinity groups at GSAS.
“My hope is that the GSC will interact a lot more closely with student groups like the W.E.B. Du Bois Graduate Society, LGBTQ@GSAS, and the Latinx Society to bring those people into GSC meetings,” Hayworth said. “Those are the groups out there on the ground doing coalition building. Also to bring those people to deans’ meetings, as a way to use the dean’s meetings as a way to advance student group agendas.”
The new executive board will be in office during the Dudley House transition to a GSAS student center. Hayworth said he sees this transition as an opportunity to reshape administrators’ perceptions of students' experiences in the school.
“What I think is really important about next year is that this building is going from Dudley House to a GSAS Student Center, which is a really powerful moment to shape how administrators view being a student at GSAS.”
—Staff writer Luke A. Williams can be reached at luke.williams@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @LukeAWilliams22.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
A recent lawsuit accusing former zoology professor Louis Agassiz of using photos of slaves to promote racist ideologies has reignited conversations about his name and legacy, but, according to Harvard staff and faculty, the Agassiz name on campus honors the contributions of his wife and son rather than his own.
The lawsuit — which was filed in March — alleges that Harvard illegally owns and commodifies daguerreotypes depicting slaves from the American South. Tamara Lanier, the plaintiff, is arguing that the two of the people depicted are her ancestors and that the University has refused to recognize her claim to the images. All 15 people — both male and female — are shirtless, and two of the men are stripped entirely nude, according to Ilisa Barbash, curator of visual anthropology at the Peabody Museum, which keeps the photos in its collections.
The suit alleges that Agassiz “commissioned” the photos, but Barbash said there is no evidence to suggest he actually did so. Nonetheless, she said Agassiz did eventually obtain the photos and use them to support his “despicable theory of polygenesis,” which states that different racial groups have different biological origins. This theory was used by defenders of slavery in the 19th century to argue that African and African-American people were inferior to white people.
Harvard spokesperson Rachael Dane declined to comment on further allegations in the lawsuit.
Today, the Agassiz name is affiliated with named professorships, campus buildings, and Harvard museums.
The Museum of Comparative Zoology — which Agassiz founded in 1859 — is sometimes referred to as “the Agassiz Museum,” but James Hanken, the museum director, said it is unclear whether this nickname is a nod to Louis Agassiz or to his son, Alexander Agassiz, Class of 1855, who succeeded his father as director.
“[Alexander is] responsible — because he was so wealthy — for building up the museum and everything. So my own hunch is that the term ‘the Agassiz Museum’ dates from his term,” Hanken said.
Hanken also noted that a large marble slab at the museum entrance bears Alexander Agassiz’s name.
“This makes it more problematic — I mean, there’s a lot of different Agassiz’s,” Hanken added. “I think we owe them the courtesy and the the fairness of treating each individual on their own terms.”
The museum’s current website describes Louis Agassiz as “a great systematist, paleontologist and renowned teacher of natural history” — a fact Lanier specifically mentions in her complaint. The descriptions, however, does not mention his views on race or support of polygenesis.
“We just figured, why get into all the controversies in that just quick overview?” Hanken said. “You know, he also was a scientific creationist, which we don't embrace here, either, but we didn't put that in.”
“He's a great man of many contrasts and paradoxes,” Hanken added. “He did maintain views that are quite reprehensible by today's standards and just flat out wrong, but he also was one of the world’s great naturalists of his day.”
Hanken also said no named professorships given to faculty members recognize Louis Agassiz. Instead, the Agassiz name honors his son.
“In my [email] footer, it says ‘Alexander Agassiz Professor.’ That's the full name. By shorthand, we will refer to, ‘Yeah, he's an Agassiz Professor’ — just among ourselves,” Hanken said. “But everybody knows there's only one kind of Agassiz professor.”
A few blocks away from the museum in the Radcliffe Yard, the Agassiz House also prominently displays the Agassiz family name. But rather than Louis Agassiz, the full name inscribed is that of his wife: Elizabeth Cabot Agassiz, who founded and served as the first president of Radcliffe College.
“It is worth noting that ECA was widowed by the time she founded Radcliffe,” Radcliffe Institute spokesperson Jane F. Huber wrote in an email Wednesday. “The building named for her here at Radcliffe was not constructed until 1904 and, by that time, Louis had been dead more than three decades.”
“The tendency to conflate a woman’s intellectual life with that of her domestic partner (without significant inquiry) is deeply incurious at best,” Huber added.
Barbash said she remains “interested” in the Agassiz name’s legacy and effect on campus.
“I’m interested in the name Agassiz as what that signals to people,” Barbash said. “People have to make choices in how they deal with legacies.”
“We at the Peabody connect the works with the legacy of the person who collected them, and when we go to do right about them, we keep that legacy intact,” Barbash added. “It's important to us that that not be hidden away.”
— Staff writer Juliet E. Isselbacher can be reached at juliet.isselbacher@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @julietissel.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered


The No. 44 Harvard Men’s Tennis team finds itself in good form entering Ivy League play this weekend at Penn. Harvard is coming off of back to back victories versus Boston College and Quinnipiac over the weekend, preserving their perfect records all time versus the two schools, at 11-0 and 4-0 respectively. The team now sits at 13-5 on the season, and enters Ivy League play with some momentum, as it currently is on a three match win streak. Harvard has thrived at home so far this year, only losing one match at the Murr Center, the season opener versus Buffalo in January.
Sophomore Robert Wrzesinski has been having a season to remember for Harvard, as he currently sits at 17-6 in singles and 19-9 in doubles on the year. The Vilnius, Lithuania native has been playing often in the 1 and 2 spot in singles for Harvard, and has been up to the challenge thus far. In doubles, Wrzesinski has also found success, most notably when matched with senior Christopher Morrow, as the pair maintain a 12-2 record when playing together this season. Wrzesinski received a Second Team All-Ivy selection in Doubles last season, and will be undoubtedly looking to match this accomplishment this year.
Freshman Harris Walker has also impressed for the Crimson this season, currently holding a 22-7 season record in singles. The move to collegiate tennis has not fazed the South Salem, New York native, with his most recent contribution being a victory in straight sets versus Boston College in the fourth spot last weekend. In doubles, Walker has remained solid, boasting a 12-2 record for the season heading into Ivy League play. The freshman has maintained undefeated doubles records on the season when paired with senior Michael Peters and freshman Steven Sun, racking up 6-0 and 4-0 records respectively.
On the women’s side, the Harvard Women’s Tennis team has similarly been playing impressively this season, sitting at 13-5 on the year and 1-0 in Ivy League play after sweeping Dartmouth 4-0 last weekend in its conference opener. Harvard is on a hot streak currently, as the win versus Dartmouth marked its fifth consecutive win. The majority of Harvard’s matches have been at home, and it has taken this chance to impress its home fans, racking up a 10-2 home record this season. The team continues Ivy League play this weekend, as it hosts Penn and Princeton at the Murr Center this Saturday and Sunday.
Senior Erica Oosterhout has played well in her final season with Harvard, as she currently holds a 10-7 Singles record. Oosterhout has not only been a solid No. 1 for Harvard, but has racked up wins in Doubles as well, sitting at 15-7 on the season in Doubles play. The Tampa, Fla. native has paired well with junior Natasha Gonzales, as the pair is 8-4 on the season, as well as freshman Rachel Lim, with whom Oosterhout is a perfect 5-0 this year. Oosterhout was a unanimous All-Ivy First Team selection in Singles last season, and will be aiming to match this feat in her final season.
Junior Natasha Gonzales has been solid in the No. 4 spot for the Crimson this season, maintaining a 15-4 singles record and leading the team in Singles wins. The Houston, Texas native also has 15 Doubles wins on the season, as she boasts a 15-7 Doubles record entering the second match of conference play. This record includes an 8-4 tally with Oosterhout, with the pair winning their last three in a row. Gonzales had a strong conference showing last season, finishing the year at 7-1 in Singles versus Ivy League opponents, and is on track to perform impressively again this year, as her 7-5, 6-2 Singles win versus Dartmouth got her Ivy League play off to a perfect start.
— Staff writer Eamon J. McLoughlin can be reached at eamon.mcloughlin@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Harvard women’s golf team had a strong showing at the Harvard Invitational in Winter Garden, Fla. to open up its 2019 spring season. The group placed tied for second in a field of eight teams during this past weekend.
“Having our own tournament is always really special,” senior Michelle Xie said. “It was our first tournament for the spring season so it was a pretty big deal to play well and place second compared to some of the other teams.”
With a cumulative score of 891 (304-292-295) over the three rounds, the Crimson found itself level with Pennsylvania, and trailing only Princeton who topped the leaderboard with a score of 880 (292-293-295). Dartmouth (909) and Navy (909) rounded out the top five.
The Tigers' team success was also reflected on the individual leaderboard. Juniors Annabelle Chang and Maya Walton led the way, placing first and second respectively. The duo shot four-under-par and three-under-par over the three rounds. This included a tournament-low 68 for Walton in the second round.
This win for Princeton is not that surprising when you consider the fact that the Harvard Invitational was already the group’s third competition of the season. On the other hand, the Crimson was just beginning its tournament play. Its first round score of 304 was an indication of the rustiness associated with a long offseason. Once that wore off, the second and third rounds were much different.
“Mainly our goal was to get used to competing again and see what we needed to work on,” freshman Anina Ku said. “As a team I think we’d agree that we did that and are ready to use what we learned.”
The group emphasized that the final scorecard is certainly not all that matters in the grand scheme of things. Harvard wants to display a steady improvement throughout the course of the season.
“Obviously we love to win and we’re pretty results oriented in that way, but we’re also pretty process focused,” Xie said. “Just focusing on what steps I need to take, am I doing them right, have I practiced all the areas that I need to, and if so then I should feel good going into the next round.”
Ku and fellow freshman Elizabeth Wang led the charge for the Crimson. Wang snagged fifth place with a score of 216 (73-70-73) and Ku was tied for ninth overall by going eight-over-par for the tournament.
Ku started off a bit shaky with a 79 in the first round, but quickly righted the ship. The N.J. native improved her score on each round, securing a 73 in the second and 72 in the third.
“I started off pretty rough my first round,” Ku said. “Things didn’t feel right but I knew I was really close. I stayed positive and kept fighting on and suddenly it clicked and the rest of the tournament was pretty smooth sailing. I was really happy with how I hung in there.”
Another solid Harvard performance was turned in by senior Anna Zhou. She displayed a similar turnaround to that of Ku. A 77 first round was quickly erased by scores of 72 and 73 to finish at six-over-par for the competition.
Wang achieved her success by displaying a great deal of consistency. In all three of her rounds she shot 73 or better, and she finished with 13 birdies. This is just a continuation of her strong play from the fall when she led the Crimson with a 71.57 stroke average.
“[Elizabeth] was our leader this tournament and this was her third top-five finish this year which is pretty great,” Ku said. “Definitely such a word worker and knows how to self evaluate and work on each individual part [of her game]... It motivates us to keep pushing forward with an attitude that is similar to hers.”
The team will soon be put to its second test. A matchplay event hosted by Princeton is slated for this upcoming weekend. After that, the Ivy League championships are only two weeks away. This spring season will fly by, and the squad will need to take advantage of every opportunity in order to prepare for that final stage.

— Staff writer Kostas Tingos can be reached at kostas.tingos@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Are you a fan of rain, or do you run indoors and pull up the shuttle schedule at the slightest drizzle? Read on to reveal what your reaction to rain says about you.
The “I Didn’t Know It Would Be Raining”
They’re running late to class, it’s raining, and it’s too late to turn back and grab an umbrella or a respectable pair of shoes. Ultimately, they get soaked and regret their life decisions for the rest of the day. You know this person. You have been this person. We have all been this person. If you’re this person on the regular, though, you need to get your life together and subscribe to Harvard Today to get your daily weather report.
The “I Know It’s Raining, But I Don’t Care”
Not to be confused with the category above, this person knew full well that it would be raining, but now has to deal with their poor decision to ignore the all-mighty Boston weather. They may put on a brave face, but deep down, they regret their choices and secretly would do anything for an umbrella or raincoat, even though they would die before admitting it. If you’re this person, learn to be more in touch with your feelings and admit your mistakes — getting help (in the form of umbrellas or otherwise) is totally fine.
The Garbage Bagger
In a pinch and don’t have access to a more conventional method of rain protection? This person puts on a brave face and embraces creativity, making us wonder if “garbage bags as raincoats” is the newest trend. Whether they’re walking to the quad or running to class, this person may not fully have their life together, but they’re definitely doing their best. If you wear garbage bags instead of using umbrellas, we commend your self-confidence and your perseverance.
The Cute Rain Accessories
Not only is this person prepared for everything that life throws at them, but they are ready to face the rain with their cute rain boots and matching umbrella. While their preparation is admirable, it’s hard not to hate this person just a tiny bit for looking so unphased by the rain while everyone around them struggles. If you’re this person, we have just one question — can we join you under your umbrella? Because you truly seem to have it all together.
The Over-Dramatic One
It’s raining. We get it. But this person wants to make it known to the world that the precipitation has ruined their day and that it should ruin yours too. If you’re this person, you should take a deep breath and learn to roll with the punches.
No matter who you are, your true personality shines through when faced with everyone’s favorite feature of spring. Here’s to hoping that April showers really do bring May flowers.
