News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
“Airball, airball,” was the raucous serenade of the student section, packed to standing room capacity, as a three-pointer from Yale junior forward Jordan Bruner fell well short and wide of the basket.
The crowd — loudly involved from the opening tip — spurred the Harvard men’s basketball team to a commanding, wire-to-wire 65-49 victory over its rivals from New Haven, in front of a sold-out Lavietes Pavilion and nationally televised contest on ESPNU.
Despite the presence of Danny Ainge — the President of Basketball Operations for the Boston Celtics, seven other Celtics front office staff, and various other NBA scouts, a focused Crimson team extended its win streak over the Bulldogs (12-4, 2-1 Ivy) to three games.
Harvard (9-7, 2-1) was the first team to hold Yale to fewer than 50 points, and limited the visitors to a paltry 20-point first half, a more impressive defensive performance against the Bulldogs than even that of No. 2 Duke at Cameron Indoor Stadium. Yale was able to muster 32 points in the first half against the Blue Devils, and a previously season-low 29 at Monmouth. The Bulldogs were unable to penetrate the hosts’ perimeter defense, and ultimately fell before traveling on to Hanover late Friday night.
An impressive team-leading 13-point performance from junior Robert Baker was amongst the standout individual efforts Friday night, as the Crimson relied heavily upon team defense to neutralize Yale standout Miye Oni, to secure victory at home. The Woodstock, Ga., native finished a point shy of a career-high he set in a victory over Saint Joseph’s last season, and knocked down 4-of-5 shots from beyond the arc. Baker, whose flashes of brilliance have begun to appear with increasing frequency was quick to deflect credit to his teammates.
“Just the attention that Justin[Bassey], Juzang, Bryce[Aiken}, Lewis that they all command, there's so much space on the floor,” Baker said. “It's all about just finding open areas and being ready to shoot and knock them down.”
A three-pointer from junior wing Justin Bassey, who tied Baker’s mark of 13 points, gave Harvard a lead 13 seconds into the game - which the hosts would never relinquish. Bassey’s most important contributions, however, came on the defensive side of the ball. The Denver, Colo., native was responsible for the unenviable task of shadowing Oni for 30 minutes.
Oni, a potential NBA draft pick likely responsible for the attendance of Ainge and other NBA personnel, was frustrated throughout Friday night’s contest by Bassey’s unrelenting defense. The Northridge, Calif., native finished with 11 points on a paltry 3-of-15 from the field, including a pedestrian 0-for-6 from three-point territory.
“Rob [Baker], Danilo [Djuricic], and Lewis did a great job for us inside the paint, coming over, stunting, slowing down their drivers like Copeland and Oni,” Bassey said. “Really shrinking the floor, taking away those driving lanes are huge for us. It started there with our communication and just guys giving great second efforts, getting on the glass.”
In an Ivy League season characterized thus far by unexpected results and injuries to key players, Friday night’s steady performance was a welcome change for the Crimson, on the first night of the full Ivy League schedule. While defending league champions Penn fell to 0-3 in conference play with a tight loss at Cornell, Harvard was able to hand the Bulldogs their first Ancient Eight loss, and improve to second in the conference in the process.
A “bench and balance” focused Harvard team relied upon its depth to help spell starters Bryce Aiken and Baker, both of whom played fewer than 24 minutes. By keeping both players relatively fresh, Coach Tommy Amaker can hope to complete the weekend sweep by defeating Brown tomorrow night. As Aiken and Baker sat frequently, sophomore Danilo Djuricic came off the bench to record one of his most impressive efforts of the season.
“He gave us a huge lift at the end of the half with a tip dunk and made timely threes for us to push the lead out again,” Amaker said. “ He led us in offensive rebounds with four...I was very pleased with with his effort and energy and he's capable of having that kind of production and efficiency without playing a ton of minutes.”
Djuricic, who started in several games this season, contributed consistent energy and effort on the glass, garnering seven rebounds, four of which came on the offensive end of the floor. Djuricic finished with an impressive 12 points, knocking down both of his three-pointers, and playing a key role in expanding the the Crimson lead with several tip-ins and effort plays. The Brampton, Ontario., native’s hustle and commitment, despite not being in the starting lineup, is the type of contribution Harvard must rely upon to secure a conference title.
“I'm going to go out there and give it all I have on the court, just to help my team win,” Djuricic said. “That's the main focus - you want to have a championship. So, it doesn't matter if I play 30 minutes or I play 10 minutes, I'm going to go hard for all them out there and give it my all for my team.”
The Lavietes Pavilion crowd was on its feet for much of the game, as the Crimson’s ferocious defense limited Yale to just 4-of-23 from beyond the arc, and only 30 percent from the field for the game. With Oni struggling, the Bulldogs’ Alex Copeland lead the way with 14 points, but even he was visibly irritated by Harvard’s defense and the officiating, as teammates had to restrain Copeland after a questionable charge call. With each Yale foul, and mounting frustration, the volume within Lavietes only increased, as the crowd revelled in knocking the Bulldogs from their perch atop the Ivy League standings.
“I thought it was a great environment for this game and Friday night, certainly for our students and the band, the whole nine yards,” Amaker said. “For our environment and this facility, I was happy to see that we fed off of it.”
As Yale’s desperation heightened, the visitors employed a full-court press against the Crimson. Despite struggling earlier against the press against Mercer at Atlanta’s State Farm Arena, Harvard was able to weather the defensive pressure, in large part due to the steady ball-handling of guards Christian Juzang and Noah Kirkwood. As Aiken sat for much of the second half, Juzang played all 20 minutes, helping shepherd Harvard to the type of dominant victory that could help kick-start an Ancient Eight title bid.
If the Crimson are to reach its first NCAA Tournament since 2015, it must rely upon the sturdy defense on display Friday night. Since giving up over 80 points in an Ivy season-opening loss at Dartmouth, the defensive pressure exhibited by Harvard has been markedly improved.
As the Crimson welcome Brown to Lavietes on Saturday night, Coach Amaker, and all in attendance Friday night, will undoubtedly feel more optimistic about this Harvard team’s prospects of a March run. If the Crimson can play with the same intensity and passion, with or without the Lavietes energy, an Ivy League Championship doesn’t seem so unlikely. With the return of Aiken and an energized defense, it’s easy to get carried away with postseason hopes and expectations.
But in the heart of winter in Cambridge, for one night, it feels appropriate for Harvard to cherish the age-old satisfaction that comes from beating Yale - even as bigger tests loom on the horizon.
— Staff writer Amir Mamdani can be reached at amir.mamdani@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Before taking the ice for its first Beanpot matchup on Monday, the Harvard men’s hockey team had to contend with Ivy foe Dartmouth. The Big Green visited the Bright-Landry Hockey Center in the hopes of derailing the Crimson’s first hot streak of the season — perhaps the hosts would make the mistake of overlooking Dartmouth in light of the upcoming big game.
That seemed like it would be be the story on Friday night, until No. 19 Harvard (11-6-3, 8-5-2 ECAC) fought its way back to overcome the Big Green (8-11-2, 7-6-1) by a score of 4-1. Dartmouth’s strong first period showing could not make up for the Crimson’s late goals, and the visitors left the ice disappointed despite outshooting Harvard, 35-23, in the game.
“I think we owed those guys a game, after the first game of the year,” said senior goaltender Michael Lackey, referring to a frantic opening night at Hanover, N.H. that ended in a 7-6 Big Green overtime win. “...Everyone’s bought in to the team, and we’re confident going into every game.”
Shots on goal were even more lopsided in the first period, when the Big Green put 14 pucks on net to the Crimson’s three. Dartmouth was faster out the gate than the hosts and nearly broke the ice around the five-minute mark, though that attempt was waved off and reviewed to confirm no goal.
The Big Green’s swarming offense forced Lackey to scramble in the paint on several occasions. In the end, it was an unlikely shot that beat him: a floater from senior defenseman Connor Yau that snuck between his pads.
“I thought [Lackey] looked a little bit antsy early on,” head coach Ted Donato said. “[But] it’s not a question of whether you have a bad play or a bad goal, it’s how you respond to it. And he made some big saves to keep it at one.”
The turning point for the Crimson came early on in the middle frame. After outlasting a penalty that carried over from the first period, Harvard mounted the pressure on the Big Green. Rookie forward Baker Shore tossed the puck on net from the left circle; though Dartmouth junior net-minder Adrian Clark stopped his attempt, co-captain Lewis Zerter-Gossage was in the perfect position to bat the biscuit into the back of the net. Just four minutes into the second period, the Crimson had evened up the score.
“When we’re struggling, [Zerter-Gossage] gets a big goal to give everybody a shot of adrenaline and kind of settle the game down,” coach Donato said. “I think that’s what you hope to get out of your captains, a big night when we need it.”
Harvard continued to push, but could not capitalize again that period. When the teams left the ice after 40 minutes, the score was still knotted at one. The Crimson had suffered a different kind of blow, though; sophomore forward Henry Bowlby, who returned after missing last Saturday’s game against SLU, was issued a game misconduct for hitting from behind. The team killed off the ensuing five-minute penalty, but was short a man for the rest of the matchup.
Still, it was with renewed energy that Harvard returned to the ice. Only 2:34 into the final frame, the team found its reward. Senior forward Frédéric Grégoire fired a shot into Clark’s glove, which the net-minder struggled to collect. In a scramble around the blue paint, co-captain Michael Floodstrand was able to push the puck past him, earning the Crimson its first lead of the night. From there, sophomore linemate Jack Donato joined in on the scoring, corralling a loose puck near the slot to shoot it home.
“On different nights you need different guys to step up,” coach Donato said. “I thought that the Floodstrand-Donato-Grégoire line was really good. It’s been a couple games in a row now where they’ve not only showed up on the scoresheet, but they held onto pucks and really helped up get the win tonight.”
An empty-net tally from Zerter-Gossage sealed the deal for the home team. The forward’s clutch two-goal performance adds to his team-best 12 goals. Harvard’s other two notches both came from the fourth line of Floodstrand (1 G, 1 A), Donato (1 G), and Grégoire (2 A). The co-captains made the difference on Friday, scoring the tying and game-winning goals.
“We’re really just trying to get the team turned around,” Zerter-Gossage said. “I think it’s on the older guys especially to really lead the charge. Today we really built well off that.”
After his shaky start, Lackey’s recovery and the Big Green’s high shot volume resulted in a stellar .971 save percentage. The net-minder was especially solid in helping shut down Dartmouth’s power play, which could not convert on its five-minute opportunity.
In fact, special teams played out tonight contrary to the Crimson’s usual style. The nation’s best power play (34.3%) was unable to find twine, despite a 5-on-3 chance, and instead Harvard’s lackluster penalty kill (75%) held sway.
Harvard’s two points boost the team to second place in the ECAC, though it has played two more games than most other squads. Perhaps most important, though, is that the newly-ranked Crimson extended its winning streak to four straight and will carry that momentum with it into the Beanpot. As the ECAC race gets ever closer, Harvard will need confidence and drive on its side.
“We felt as a group that we were kind of due for it,” Zerter-Gossage said. “We had a lot of games that we lost just by a couple bounces early in the year. Since then we’ve cleaned things up, and I think the results are starting to show.”
—Staff writer Stuti Telidevara can be reached at stuti.telidevara@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @StutiTelidevara.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
For the next few weeks, Bostonian hockey fanatics will have Mondays to look forward to, as the annual Beanpot tournament returns to TD Garden. Four Beantown hockey programs — Harvard, BU, BC, and Northeastern — face off in this nearly 70 year old tradition. The Beanpot is played in two rounds over two Mondays, with semifinals on Feb. 4 and the championship and consolation games held on Feb. 11. Fans can expect the competitive spirit of these squads to shine on the big stage, as coaches and players alike set their sights on the iconic trophy.
“It’s really the talk of the campus,” co-captain Lewis Zerter-Gossage said. “Everybody’s asking when the Beanpot is or telling us that they’re coming…. We’re all going to be pretty fired up for it, it’s one of those games that you circle on your schedule.”
Last year the Crimson was relegated to the consolation game; though the team bested Boston College to take third place, the pain of its semifinal heartbreak lingered. In a thrilling double-overtime contest, Harvard lost to BU by a score of 3-2, only a season after trouncing the Terriers en route to the program’s first Beanpot title in 24 years. In 2018 it was Northeastern that emerged triumphant, as the Huskies won their first title since 1988. Each team has won once in the past four years, so there are no more droughts to break, but there’s no doubt that each side will bring its A-game.
“What we’re experiencing in the Beanpot this year is somewhat akin to what’s going on the country,” said Crimson head coach Ted Donato ’91. “I think there’s a lot of parity…. This year’s field in the Beanpot has a ton of talent and teams have a ton of potential. Some have gotten off to better starts than others.”
If it hopes to contend for the cup again, No. 19 Harvard must first defeat the Eagles in its Feb. 4 semifinal matchup. Here is a glance at all three of the Crimson’s Beanpot rivals ahead of the tournament:
BOSTON COLLEGE
Harvard’s first opponent is also the last team it played in a Beanpot matchup. Boston College (9-12-3, 9-4-3 Hockey East) is at second place in its conference, but hasn’t won a single game this season against an out-of-conference foe. The Eagles have not had an easy January either.
The team will be looking to put its 2-5-1 record from that month behind it. A promising turn in that direction began on Friday night, as BC put away conference foe UConn, becoming the only one of the Crimson’s Beanpot rivals to win its weekend game.
But the team has a high goals against per game (2.92), allowing seven goals in three different games this year. These are appealing weak spots for an offense as potent as Harvard’s to exploit. If BC wants to avoid a third consecutive last-place finish in the tournament, it will need stellar play from some of its marquee pieces.
One of these pieces is junior net-minder Joseph Woll. In last year’s consolation game, head coach Jerry York elected to play backup goalie Ryan Edquist, so the Crimson has not faced Woll since a regular season game on Nov. 24, 2017, that ended in a 4-4 tie. Despite his team’s struggles, Woll has maintained solid numbers (8-11-3, 2.32 GAA, .921 SV%). Even if the Eagles’ team defense is underwhelming, the man in the mask could still thwart Harvard come Monday.
Much has been made of the Crimson’s NCAA-best power play (34.3%), but at the Beanpot the team will face some of the sharpest penalty-killing it has seen all season. BC is operating at an efficiency of 82.8 percent in that respect, to say nothing of Woll’s effectiveness at tending pucks.
“Just [being] kind of more versatile, and being able to play against different kinds of kills [is most important],” said freshman forward Casey Dornbach, who mans the wing on Harvard's first power play unit. “We’ve seen quite a few this year. It’s just about us winning our battles and making sure we’re all on the same page.”
The Eagles return some young offensive pieces from last year, familiar names for those who tuned in for the consolation game. Junior forward David Cotton (15–9—24) paces the squad in goals and points, while sophomore forward Logan Hutsko (4–12—16) leads in assists. Hutsko kept last year’s game within reach for BC with a hat trick; his effort was the first Beanpot three-spot by an Eagle in 18 years.
BC’s usual NHL-bound roster also includes freshman Oliver Wahlstrom, once a Harvard commit, who represented Team USA at the IIHF World Junior Championship this December of January. Though the team’s scoring is flagging, it certainly has the talent to pose a challenge.
Woll and his group will have to withstand the Crimson in the early game on Feb. 4 in order to return the Eagles to their winning ways. Since the beginning of the tournament, BC has never finished last three times straight; no doubt the Eagles will be fighting to stave off that possibility by playing in the championship game instead.
BOSTON UNIVERSITY
30-time champions BU are a familiar foe to Harvard — because the two teams skated to a 2-2 tie less than a month ago. The Terriers are also helmed by a familiar face in former Crimson assistant coach Albie O’Connell. Like BC, BU (10-11-3, 8-6-2) is also sitting on an average overall record; unlike the Eagles, the Terriers have enjoyed a comfortable 4-2-1 run in January.
“They could create chances out of nothing,” said Zerter-Gossage, recalling the teams’ recent matchup. “They have a lot of skill and speed up front, and a really mobile and skilled back end as well. I would say they’re similar to what you see from BU...each year, having highly skilled talent. So I don’t think our encounter with them this year told us anything different than what we expected.”
That success isn’t just in the win column. In January, BU also outscored its opponents by a margin of 25-18, and had a stellar penalty-killing rate of 89.3 percent. The latter would match up interestingly against Harvard’s high-flying power play, if the teams should meet in the championship game. Over the year, the Terriers have also amassed the most shorthanded goals in the country, proving that BU is dangerous even when down a player. The only damper on the squad’s parade is a Friday loss heading into the tournament — but then again, that was against No. 2 UMass Amherst.
The Terriers’ offense is led by rookie Joel Farabee (9–14—23) and junior defenseman Dante Fabbro (5–17—22). Close behind are captain Bobo Carpenter (10–8—18) and junior forward Patrick Curry (9–8—17). Farabee, the 14th overall pick in the 2018 NHL Draft, also represented Team USA at World Juniors, and scored against the Crimson in the teams’ January meeting.
Of course, BU owes a share of its recent success to junior goaltender Jake Oettinger. The Dallas Stars prospect has started all but one of the Terriers’ contests. If Oettinger is suffering from fatigue, his numbers (2.72 GAA, .920 SV%) don’t suggest it. Harvard had no problem solving Oettinger in the 2017 championship game, but whether or not the team can manage a repeat performance remains to be seen.
“I don’t think guys are particularly thinking about who’s in net,” said senior goaltender Michael Lackey. “We’re trying to play to our strengths. It doesn’t matter who’s in net — if we’re focused on executing our offense, then we’re going to get good outcomes.”
BU has now appeared in four straight championship matchups, but has won only one of them, led by now-NHLer Jack Eichel in 2015. The Terriers will only be more motivated by how close they’ve come to the trophy. But before they can play for the cup, they must defeat Hockey East rival Northeastern. BU faced the Huskies early on in the season and got the better of them (1-0-1), but Northeastern’s surge in the rankings since makes it a formidable opponent.
NORTHEASTERN
Last but far from least, the No. 12 Huskies are probably favorites this year again, though the tournament is often closely fought. Northeastern (15-8-1, 9-6-1) is fresh off a triumph at TD last season, having picked up its first Beanpot win in 30 years, and is also the highest-ranked participant at the Beanpot this year. Currently in fourth place in their conference, the Huskies also boast a solid goals per game of 3.13, and are the Beanpot opponent that comes closest to the Crimson’s shot volume.
But despite those numbers, Northeastern will come into the tournament with a middling January record (3-4), having been outscored 11-17 last month. That’s good for a goals per game mark of just 1.57. Two of those losses were shutouts, and the team is currently sitting on a three-game losing skid. Perhaps some of the team’s offensive dry streak can be attributed to Northeastern’s potent competition, like UMass Amherst and No. 17 UMass Lowell. The squad also has an underwhelming power play rate for the season, at just 16.8 percent.
If the Huskies hope to improve their numbers come February, they must rely on key contributors like senior forward Brandon Hawkins (7–14—21) and sophomore forward Zach Solow (11–6—17). Top-five scorers like rookie Tyler Madden (8–12—20) and junior defenseman Jeremy Davies (5–14—19) can be expected to chip in as well.
It’s clear that all the Beanpot teams bring skilled ’tenders to the ice, and Northeastern is no exception to this rule. Sophomore net-minder Cayden Primeau is the Huskies’ starter, whose Eberly Award at last year’s Beanpot capped off a phenomenal run (2 GS, 1 GAA, .974 SV%). Primeau sits right at number 20 in the country in terms of save percentage this season (13-7-1, 2.42 GAA, .921 SV%, 3 SO), and his consistency has been a major factor in the Huskies’ success. If Harvard does face Northeastern in the championship game, besting Primeau will be essential to knocking the defending champions from their throne.
“With any good goalie you just need to get traffic to the net,” Zerter-Gossage said. “That always makes their job a lot harder…. I think we’ve seen throughout this season that when we get more traffic to the net, we can break down goalies that are really good at tracking that first puck. That’s something we really need to be focused on.”
The Huskies have won only five Beanpot titles since the tournament’s founding, but they will certainly try to narrow the gap between themselves and 11-time winner the Crimson. The last time the tournament had a repeat winner was in the years 2010 to 2014, when the Eagles took home the trophy five times in a row. Northeastern achieved the feat twice in a row all the way back in 1984-5. Having broken one drought last year, the Huskies will have their sights set on the next one.
“Especially in college hockey, anyone can beat anyone,” Dornbach said. “You’ve got to respect your opponent every night. That’s something Coach stresses a lot…. We keep doing what we’re doing, keep producing, I think we’ll be just fine.”
—Staff writer Stuti Telidevara can be reached at stuti.telidevara@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @StutiTelidevara.
