Sections
Marylène Altieri, library curator, opens the small, manilla-colored paper box one flap at a time. In it sits one of Schlesinger Library’s many copies of The Eskimo Cookbook, a red paper volume produced in 1970 by the Inupiat students of the Shishmaref Day School in Shishmaref, Alaska. According to Altieri, the students were tasked with bringing family recipes to school, where the instructions were transcribed, hand-illustrated, and attributed to each student by name. Altieri flips through the fragile pages, showing me recipes for caribou gravy, blueberry and cranberry jam, walrus stew, and salted herring. She points to a note in Nellie Okpowruk’s recipe for bear feet.
“I love that comment,” she says. “‘Most of the people like bear feet better than the meat.”’
Measuring only four-to-five inches in height, The Eskimo Cookbook is one of the Schlesinger’s more diminutive volumes, but Altieri soon shows me one that’s even smaller. This one is thick and bound so tightly in brown leather that it is difficult to open. It was printed in 1562, only about a hundred years after the printing press was invented in 1450. Though it isn’t the most ancient volume that Schlesinger holds, it is the library’s oldest cookbook.
“The first 50 years after [1450] are considered to be the ‘cradle of printing,’” Altieri says. “So it’s not long after [printing was invented], and they’re already printing cookbooks.”
Altieri is the Curator of Books and Printed Materials at The Schlesinger Library on the History of Women in America, which holds more than 100,000 volumes in its collections. Approximately 20,000 of those volumes are cookbooks or food-related. Its culinary collection includes cookbooks, food history volumes, archival materials like culinary marketing pamphlets, and correspondence and other personal effects of chefs and food writers like Julia Child and her editor Avis DeVoto.
Today, it is considered one of the world’s most outstanding collections of historic cookbooks and food-related materials, and its acquisition and growth closely mirrored the geneses of both the women’s history movement and the food studies movement. The collection spent decades on the fringes of The Schlesinger with little curatorial support, but as food studies grew as a field, so did the collection’s relevance. Though many initially disputed the collection’s academic merits, it now seems emblematic of the way the academy has changed in recent decades; it is a testament to many fields’ fights for legitimacy.
***
Though it would eventually become world-renowned, the culinary collection had humble roots. In the summer of 1960, Widener Library sent almost 2,000 historic cookbooks from their stacks to the Schlesinger –– which, at that point, was named The Women’s Archives. The collection of “American, English, and other foreign cookbooks” dated from 1723 to the present and had been housed in Level D, the deepest level of Widener’s sprawling stacks. The transfer was briefly noted in the Women’s Archives Annual Report from 1961 by library director Barbara M. Solomon, who explained her reasoning for accepting the transfer; given that the library was dedicated to documenting the history of women in America, she believed that cookbooks would provide important insight into women’s daily lives.
The transfer was not without controversy. Solomon spoke about the acquisition at Lady Bird Johnson’s second White House Luncheon for “Lady Doers” on Feb. 19, 1964. Her remarks, printed in The Women’s Archives’ 1964 report, describe a woman in the first row who “[shook] her head most visibly and [said], ‘Cookbooks, indeed. WE weren’t interested in cookbooks!’” Solomon insists that this woman was wrong; the Schlesinger was, in fact, interested in cookbooks.
Widener and its patrons, however, did not seem to be interested. “People could go [to Level D] and use [the cookbooks], but nobody did,” Altieri says. “And Widener decided all on its own without consulting anybody over here to send the collection. They didn't just offer it, they actually packed it and sent it to Schlesinger library.” Barbara L. Haber, former Curator of Books, suggests it transpired differently, that Widener staff discussed the transfer with Solomon.
Widener, however, has little to no record that the transfer ever took place. Widener’s 1961 report mentions moving collections from Level D because the building was full, according to Research Librarian for Virtual Reference Emily Bell. Though some of the collections are named, the cookbooks are not. At the time of the transfer, The Women’s Archives were not part of the Harvard University Library system, so the oversight might have occurred as a function of the books being moved to an entirely different library network. It might also have occurred because the cookbooks weren’t deemed important enough to mention.
***
At the time of the transfer, the Schlesinger Library was small. Women’s history was an emerging scholarly field, and there was little widespread use for a library that focused almost exclusively on the history of American women.
“People thought it was kind of a joke. ‘What's women's history?’ Nobody came. It wasn't viable,” says Haber, “And all of a sudden the second wave women's movement came along and the library was the place to go for anybody wanting material to teach from, to write from, to get book ideas from. It became, overnight almost, a remarkable place for historians of women to come and gather.”
Haber began working at the Schlesinger in 1968 after earning her Master’s Degree in Library Science from Simmons University. During her first job interview with then-director Janet James, she noticed that the shelves in James’ office were full of cookbooks. When she asked why James had not mentioned the cookbooks during their interview, James told her the story of the Widener transfer and admitted that not much was being done with the collection at the time. Haber, who had her own sizeable collection of cookbooks at home, was intrigued.
Through her work acquiring materials for the fledgeling field of women’s studies, Haber was able to discern the foundations of another academic movement: food studies. She then felt able to “strike out and develop that part of the collection” — the cookbooks. She got permission to found an organization called the Radcliffe Culinary Friends. People from the Cambridge area joined for semesterly programs that featured chefs, food historians and writers, and restaurant critics. Membership dues went towards purchasing new materials to add to the collection, though the vast majority of the collection was acquired through donation.
Many of the collection’s foundational historic cookbooks were donated by Marietta M. Greenough, a cookbook author who published under the pseudonym Mary Green and the wife of Harvard professor Chester Greenough. Greenough bequeathed her cookbooks to Widener in her will –– every book she donated contains her bookplate, an illustration of a massive kitchen manned by several cooks, above the text “Marietta Greenough, ex libris.” Another crucial collection came from Julia Child, whose French and American cookbooks make up a significant proportion of the Schlesinger’s holdings. Some other significant donors were Julia Child’s longtime friend and culinary editor Avis DeVoto, historian and writer Barbara Ketcham Wheaton, cookbook writer Narcissa G. Chamberlain and her husband Samuel Chamberlain, and anthropologist Sophie Coe.
“The library did not devote a lot of money to building the collection,” Altieri says. Instead, its growth was piecemeal. “We’re very fortunate to have these [books], as we could never afford to buy them. Culinary books have become incredibly valuable in the antiquarian book dealers market. So some of the books sitting on this table would now cost thousands of dollars to acquire.”
“Barbara Wheaton had a wonderful expression that she used once to describe how our collections grew,” she says. “She said, ‘We stood in the rain with our mouths open.’”
***
As the collection grew larger and started receiving more attention, it also grew more contentious. Like the woman in Barbara Solomon’s story who audibly scoffed at the mention of cookbooks, several of the Schlesinger’s curators felt that the collection should not have been as prominent as it was.
“It got everybody mad at me at the library...They thought it was taking something away from them,” Haber says. “But they didn't understand that it was all part of women’s history, not either-or.” Culinary history, Haber notes, was an expansive field in and of itself, but she felt it “certainly related to the mission of the library.”
While the collection is most directly relevant to the study of women’s history, several of its materials can be used to study other social phenomena as well, including racial and socioeconomic inequality. “The Blue Grass Cookbook” by Minnie C. Fox is a particularly interesting example. Fox, a white Kentucky socialite raised on a plantation, published the book in 1904, less than 50 years after emancipation. All of the book’s recipes were created by African American cooks –– many of whose parents had been slaves, or who had once been slaves themselves.
The book includes photographic portraits of several of the cooks next to the recipes that they created. A few photos name their subjects. On one page, Marcellus stands next to a towering pile of chopped wood. In another, Aunt Frances smiles as she sits with a cast-iron pan of potatoes on her lap, knife still poised above the half-peeled potato in her hands. According to the University of Kentucky Press, which published a reprint in 2015, the Blue Grass Cookbook is the first known work to give credit for Southern hospitality to African American cooks. Yet we don’t know the surnames of any of the cooks in the photos, and many of them are not named at all.
This book, an imperfect representation of African American cooks, illuminates one of the library’s current goals: to bring more underrepresented voices into its collections, and to feature these voices more prominently. Curator Kenvi Phillips has played a significant hand in achieving this goal. She was hired in 2016 as the Schlesinger’s first Curator of Race and Ethnicity and has since worked on acquiring the collections of women like Angela Y. Davis, Dorothy I. Height, and Cheng Imm Tan. Though she has not worked directly with the culinary collection, several of her purchases were added to the collection, and she affirms its importance to the overall goal of the library.
“Food history generally in ethnic and cultural studies is incredibly important. Almost everything can be done with food. Social hierarchy, social interaction, access to ingredients, economic status,” Phillips says.
Even though the culinary collection is much more accepted by today’s generation of Schlesinger curators, it –– and food studies in general –– still deals with criticism from the larger academy. The term “food studies” only came into widespread use in 1996, so it is still a fledgeling discipline. Professor of Romance Languages and Literatures Janet Beizer teaches courses that often deal heavily with food history. She says that others sometimes view her work as non-academic because culinary matters are seen as “the equivalent of the domestic sphere in the world.”
“In fact, women's scholars have often spoken quite defensively to me if I try to talk about food,” she says. “They'll say, ‘Oh, I don't go there. I write books. I don't talk about food.’ Making it into a binary. And, I like to think, ‘I write books. But I also talk about food.’ Food is something we take into our bodies, into our mouths. The psychoanalytic, the anthropological, the literary, the theological components are just manifest. And so I have a hard time accepting intellectual second-ranking of the alimentary. So for me, it's not just food –– it's eating as process.”
In her work, Beizer aims to illustrate the gender bias in food studies while showing that it’s an intellectually viable field. “There’s no binary opposition of the craft of cooking and the art of thinking about food.”
While Beizer’s advocacy for food studies grounds itself in the theoretical significance of the discipline, several of the collection’s holdings make a concrete case for themselves by virtue of time’s passage. While it has always carried cultural importance, the Eskimo Cookbook now carries greater weight beyond the confines of the food studies discipline. Due to climate change, the island of Shishmaref is eroding into the sea — the coastline is disappearing at a rate of up to 10 feet per year. The federal government ordered the town’s residents to evacuate to the mainland several years ago, the town finally voted to move in 2016.
“The permafrost that they're using for some of the recipes in the book isn't even there anymore,” Altieri says. “This is the only published item that has come out of that community. So this cookbook has just become the most precious document about the culture.”
—Staff writer Anna Kate Cannon can be reached at anna.cannon@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @akec_
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Almost 1,300 local school children took a field trip on Wednesday morning to Lavietes Pavilion to watch Harvard women’s basketball play Northeastern on Education Day.
Crowded into the bleachers without elbow room, these four through 14 year olds vibrantly danced along to Bruno Mars’ “Uptown Funk” among other Pop songs, clamored for a moment of fame on the jumbotron, and did the wave. Though Harvard lost to Northeastern 46-44, the game was overwhelmingly a win for the greater Boston area.
Harvard Athletics spokesperson Katherine Peters wrote in an email that the impetus for Education Day was to create a rich, memorable experience for local kids while also providing support for Harvard women’s basketball by filling the arena to capacity for its game against a Boston opponent.
Coach Kathy Delaney-Smith reacted positively to the crowd.
“I loved the sound and the noise. I love [that] all these kids had fun at this venue,” she said.
Delaney-Smith saw Monday’s game as an enactment of her vision for women’s sports to generate equal excitement to men’s.
“I want women's events, whether it's basketball or other sports, to be as fun as men events,” she said. “They're not because the world still is drawn to men events for various incendiary reasons.”
Freshman guard Lola Mullaney said that the kids’ presence on Wednesday was noticeable in comparison to the usual home crowd that watches Harvard women’s basketball.
“They brought a lot of energy, which we tend to not have in our games,” she said. “It was really nice that so many kids came to support us.”
1,456 people attended Wednesday’s game in total. In contrast, members of Harvard women’s basketball, on average, draw a crowd of 558 spectators per game. To watch the women’s male counterparts, 1,205 people file into Lavietes — over half of the support the women receive.
Delaney-Smith said that Wednesday’s prodigious showing convinced her that her team should interact more with the local community. She admitted that, in past years, they have done “probably not enough.”
“It probably would be good to build off of this, because I thought this was great,” she said.
Beyond creating an enjoyable experience for the kids, Education Day provided an opportunity for these young students and athletes to see the intersection between sports and education.
Elon Fyfield, a social studies teacher at Fletcher Maynard Academy — a pre-Kindergarten to fifth grade public school in Cambridge — and the winner of the halftime teacher knockout competition, said that for his students, Wednesday’s event “means everything.”
“[It] gives them an opportunity to see that they can be on a Harvard team in the future,” he said. “They could be on a Northeastern team in the future.”
A Cambridge, Mass. native, Fyfield said that sports enabled him to earn a college degree. He received a scholarship to play Division I volleyball at Indiana.
“Sports meant everything to me,” he said. “Without sports, I wouldn't have earned a scholarship,” he said.
Mullaney fondly remembered when she would attend Rutgers women’s basketball games growing up near her home in New Jersey. She recalled the excitement she felt watching those women play.
Years later, she is now one of the players who kids come to watch. She hasn’t forgotten what it was like to be in their shoes, looking up to the players on the court.
“We know that we're their role models,” she said on behalf of her and her teammates.

— Staff writer Ema Schumer can be reached at ema.schumer@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @emaschumer.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The No. 12/9 Harvard men’s hockey team had only one contest left before its exam break come Saturday. The first half of its season began with impressive success — and a perfect record — that had been derailed just after Thanksgiving. Three straight losses later, the Crimson hosted Colgate, a team that has enjoyed a reasonable run so far, in an opportunity for redemption. A win would bring home two points, of course, but it would also end the first portion of the season on a positive note.
That was not to be, however. Colgate (7-7-4, 5-2-1 ECAC) drew penalties and shut down Harvard’s (6-4-0, 6-2-0) offense all night, winning the game in overtime by a score of 4-3. With the win, the Raiders catapulted up conference standings to take second place, though these two teams are tied in points. The Crimson can only hope that this forthcoming break is enough to right its ship.
“It was a hard-fought game. I give [the Raiders] credit; they battled hard,” Crimson coach Ted Donato ’91 said. “It’s disappointing [to lose] before the break, at home… This one stings, you have a chance to end the pre-Christmas break on a winning note, and we don’t do it.”
The first period had some bursts of pace, though neither team found the back of the net. The Raiders found themselves on the powerplay twice, but to no avail; Colgate has struggled on the man advantage this season, with an efficiency of 6.2 percent coming into Saturday’s clash. Yet another powerplay chance for the visitors came early on in the second, when junior defenseman Benjamin Foley was whistled for boarding.
On this attempt Colgate had good stretches of puck possession, despite a handful of shots that missed the net. That possession eventually paid off, as right at the end of the powerplay a point shot from junior blue-liner Nick Austin beat Harvard rookie net-minder Mitchell Gibson. The tally, only the Raiders’ fifth on the man advantage this season, put the visitors up, 1-0.
“To win in this league, you’ve got to play a full 60 [minutes],” said captain and forward Nathan Krusko. “We didn’t pick up guys in front, we weren’t moving our feet… At the end of the day it’s hard to pick up points here, and...every night’s going to battle a battle, whether you’re playing [ECAC] number one Cornell or Colgate.”
But their lead did not last long. Later in the frame, the Crimson had a powerplay chance of its own. The chance began with an offensive-zone shift that lasted over a minute — but was broken up by a bad bounce. As Harvard regrouped, sophomore defenseman Jack Rathbone fired the puck in from the blue line. Rookie forward Nick Abruzzese collected it at the side of the net, tucking it past Colgate sophomore goaltender Andrew Farrier.
Abruzzese’s tally began a sudden rush of scoring. Soon after, junior forward Jack Donato found stole the puck in the offensive zone, the lone Crimson shirt to two Raiders. While his shot attempt was turned away by Farrier, the puck ricocheted off a defenseman and found the back of the net, giving Harvard its first lead of the night.
Colgate answered with a tally of its own, however. Senior forward Ben Sharf threw the puck across the blue paint to find his linemate, senior Tyler Penner, who chipped it in over Gibson’s pads. The eventful middle period ended with the teams once again knotted up, this time at 2-2.
“We have to be hungrier around the net,” coach Donato said. “[If we] think we’re going to get a lot of pretty goals, it’s just not going to happen, and it’s only going to get tougher and tougher as we come down the stretch. We’re going to have to simplify our offense, get guys to the front of the net, get some rebounds. Right now, we haven’t done a good job of it.
The teams spent the first half of the third trading chances, until Raiders captain and forward Bobby McMann put the visitors ahead again. And again, the Crimson answered, as junior defenseman Reilly Walsh scored from the high slot to tie it up. As time ticked down it was clear this contest would be headed to sudden-death overtime. Just moments before the buzzer sounded, McMann was whistled for holding junior forward Henry Bowlby. Harvard would begin the extra hockey with two minutes of powerplay time.
But Colgate was up to the task, shutting down the Crimson’s man-advantage squad to supporters’ cheers. Harvard could not produce any particularly challenging chances; Farrier tended pucks ably and, with McMann out of the box, it was anybody’s game.
Despite the shift in momentum, the contest’s winner came about in a surprising play. Raiders forward Sharf collected the puck to the net-minder’s right and cut to the middle, swerving around Gibson to backhand the puck home. An attempt that could have been better defended — or defended at all — instead became the dagger.
“I’m just disappointed,” coach Donato said. When you battle as hard as we did and it wasn’t really going our way, but we get a powerplay in overtime...like the rest of the team, [I] was just frustrated and upset that we didn’t get it done.”
Though the Crimson’s ECAC hopes are by no means finished, the four-game losing skid points to several issues that have plagued the team all along — the difference being that to start the season, Harvard managed to win in spite of these problems.
It’s true that the team’s goaltenders have gone from lights-out, nation-leading numbers to ordinary. In the past four losses, senior Cameron Gornet and Gibson have together put up three sub-.900 performances. It’s also true that the losing skid has come against some talented squads. But the Crimson’s problems lie not just with who’s in net, nor with the quality of its opponents.
“I’m certainly not sitting here saying our goaltending is the difference between where we were at when we were winning versus the current losing streak,” coach Donato said. “But I think the real message is, we need to get better, be more consistent in all facets of the game… There’s not really any element of our game where we can say, hey, that’s at a point where we’re going to be able to have success at that level.”
If Harvard wants to return to its winning ways and prove that its early success wasn’t an outlier, it will have to find a solution before the season returns in full swing once again. That opportunity comes with a double-header against Arizona State in late December, in Irvine, Calif., and a return to conference play against Quinnipiac and Princeton in the new year.
“This taste is going to be stuck in our mouths for a while now, which is tough,” Krusko said. “I know we’ve learned a lot of lessons through this [half of the] season that we want to take with us for the rest of the year, but we’ve got a long way to go if we’re going to try and lift any trophies this year.”
—Staff writer Stuti R. Telidevara can be reached at stuti.telidevara@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter at @StutiTelidevara.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
