News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
With the hysteria of shopping week behind the Class of 2019, second-semester seniors have enrolled in courses for the last semester and are preparing to embark on the final undergraduate academic experience. Many have completed or nearly completed both concentration and General Education requirements, positioning students to take advantage of the nearly 3,000 courses offered by the Faculty of Arts & Sciences in the spring of 2019. As most seniors have only four more classes to take, naturally, they will want to make these final courses count.
For students who have taken courses that are continually narrower in focus into a particular discipline, it can be rewarding to take a step back and explore different areas from some of the leading educators. Unfortunately, intermediate- and advanced-level courses with low student-teacher ratios are frequently reserved for concentrators, guarded by applications, and made elusive by comedically unattainable prerequisites for students with little experience in the department. On the other hand, introductory courses have high enrollment and are often filled with first- and second-year students. The lecture-based structure of most large introductory courses limits the individual student voice and lacks intimacy, which is unappealing to many seniors searching for an enriching experience to culminate their undergraduate education.
After learning about the existence of capstone classes for graduating students at other schools through personal conversations, I advocate for the Faculty of Arts and Sciences Registrar to consider offering similar courses to Harvard’s graduating seniors. A capstone is the highest stone in an arch and represents the apex, visible completion, and culmination. In academia, a capstone course is an opportunity to tie together the educational journey. Many educational institutions offer these courses or some derivative. For instance, the Capstone Program at Boston College strives to offer students “a dynamic and meaningful conclusion to their college experience.” Notably, in the Boston College model, the Capstone is not the final course in a major, but rather an opportunity to “focus on personal development — in relationships, society, academics, spirituality, career, and personal skills.” I expect students at Harvard would value tremendously the opportunity to engage if such courses were offered to them. A consistent and valid reason to question the value of liberal arts institutions of higher education — from those involved and from those looking in — is the lack of touch with society and lack of preparation for everyday life. Capstone courses could provide a resolution to this criticism and offer students something desirable for students that the current course listing fundamentally cannot offer.
Moreover, capstone courses could address the canonical shopping week dilemma. Course shopping and enrollment decisions outside of requirements are influenced by a host of factors. Renowned teaching staffs, the opportunity to take a class with classmates outside of a concentration, and high Q-scores are some of the principal factors that drive students to some courses. But for a considerable cohort of students, the quest for the elusive near-guaranteed GPA booster with minimal workload overtakes shopping week. These “gems” quickly gain student-wide reputation fueled by content students who previously took the course. The process leads to inevitably overflowing classrooms and course lotteries for limited enrollment due to teaching staff limitations. For instance, about 300 students shopped Folklore and Mythology 90i: “Fairy Tales and Fantasy Literature” in 2012; the following year, approximately 600 students swarmed to Fong Auditorium to lottery for just 45 spots. A randomized lottery with those odds means that students in the graduating class of 2013 who were accepted to enroll in “Fairy Tales and Fantasy Literature” could rejoice overcoming worse odds (7.5 percent admission rate) than they faced when applying to Harvard assuming they were accepted in 2009, when the admission rate was 9.1 percent. 
To be clear, disparaging “gem” classes is not my intention. I wholeheartedly recognize and appreciate the value of offering students an opportunity to gain exposure to diverse topics they would not have otherwise sought out. Finding courses that are less time-intensive provide a chance for students to balance their schedules and commit the requisite time to more rigorous courses — a practice I unashamedly implemented to balance some pre-medical courses I expected to be especially challenging.
Yet as a graduating senior, I would have cherished the opportunity to take a course with a professor from another discipline and a small group of seniors. Specifically, it would have been rewarding to articulate the meaning and value of our education and to contemplate and discuss what lies ahead for us as individuals, members of smaller communities, and members of a global society. Capstone courses could have a similar course structure as those in the Freshman Seminar Program, which uniquely fostered an environment for first-year students to meet each other and a professor in a somewhat informal setting. Semester- or year-long weekly meetings that bring together a faculty member and 12-15 graduating seniors for seminar-style courses on topics such as career planning, personal finance, leadership, mindfulness, relationships, “adulting,” and more, would provide an much-needed opportunity for students to select a topic of personal value and come together in an intimate academic environment one last time before commencing life after Harvard.
Mark E. Czeisler ’19 is a Neurobiology concentrator in Quincy House.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Last week, RealClearInvestigations published an article citing Winthrop House Faculty Dean Ronald S. Sullivan, Jr. as the lawyer of Economics professor Roland G. Fryer, Jr., whose alleged sexual misconduct has brought the #MeToo movement closer to home for the Harvard community. Asked twice by The Crimson whether he represents Fryer, Sullivan avoided directly answering the question.
The Office of Dispute Resolution opened three investigations on three separate Title IX inquiries into Fryer and, while ODR has issued a report on two of the three complaints, it is still investigating the third sexual harassment complaint against Fryer. In the Jan. 29 article, Sullivan characterized ODR’s investigations as “deeply flawed and deeply unfair.”
Amid the news of Sullivan’s involvement in the investigations surrounding Fryer, the faculty dean’s decision to defend former film executive Harvey Weinstein in his Manhattan sex abuse case is still sending shockwaves across the College and especially within Winthrop House. On Monday night, in response to the debate, Sullivan announced in an email the designation of Winthrop Resident Dean Linda D. M. Chavers as the House’s “point person” for issues relating to sexual assault and harassment. We believe that Sullivan took a necessary step in designating a separate administrator to address the future needs of Winthrop students relating to sexual assault and harassment, as we strongly advocated for this action on Friday. Given the new developments surrounding Fryer, however, we feel that Sullivan’s decision was regrettably reactionary.
Sullivan’s involvement in both of these high-profile cases have come to light not by his own admission, but through news stories that have seemingly left him on the defensive. In the last few weeks, Sullivan has reacted to criticisms instead of proactively demonstrating a socially aware sense of the community he leads. We call on Sullivan to be more straightforward and transparent when informing House affiliates of his choices of representation, especially in areas where cases may harm the relationship between him and his students.
Sullivan increasingly must make clear his priorities to the Winthrop and wider College communities, which greatly depend on him. Is he a faculty dean first, or a defense attorney? We also call on him to thoughtfully consider whether he can continue serving as a leader and mentor to undergraduates while simultaneously taking on controversial public positions with the capacity to alienate many in Winthrop House.
In the days following the news of his decision to represent Weinstein last week, Sullivan explained his motivation for doing so by citing the need to defend unpopular figures and the undeniable right of due process. If Sullivan’s reasons for taking on this case are truly based on principle, then we also call on him — in a gesture of good faith — to donate some portion of his retainer from Weinstein to organizations that support victims of sexual harassment and assault. Sullivan might consider groups such as the transgender anti-violence organization Forge, the National Sexual Violence Resource Center, Safe Horizon, Students Active for Ending Rape (a group focusing on supporting student movements), and a number of others.
As faculty dean, Sullivan has the capacity to provide critical support, guidance, and inspiration to a broad group of undergraduates. Such power should neither be taken lightly nor treated like a second priority. Given his involvement in such high-profile cases in his career, Sullivan must communicate clearly with his students about his role in those proceedings, make a concerted effort to provide other resources that can step in where he may leave gaps, and maintain an ongoing dialogue not merely about the civil ethics of his legal work but also about how that work may impact the emotions and sense of security of his students.
This staff editorial solely represents the majority view of The Crimson Editorial Board. It is the product of discussions at regular Editorial Board meetings. In order to ensure the impartiality of our journalism, Crimson editors who choose to opine and vote at these meetings are not involved in the reporting of articles on similar topics.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Time has always been an enemy of mankind, but it seems to oppose women the hardest. As recently as the past few generations, society has seen an increase in women who are career-oriented, pursuing education for more than a MRS degree (a colloquial term to describe a young woman’s intent to find a spouse while in college), and starting families later. While this new wave for women seems to have become more socially acceptable, the opposition has really just become more subtle.

As an ambitious student in today’s day and age, it seems so easy to plan for a second degree and possibly even a third. The four years of college that most undergraduates experience is a time capsule: It is the beginning of adulthood, and all of your fellow classmates are around the same age and experiencing time similarly, so time-related pressures are virtually nonexistent. However, once the bachelor’s degree milestone has been passed, all bets are off against time.

After graduation, it becomes more difficult for young women to plan the next ten years without worrying about perfectly fitting in the major milestones of marriage and children. I am urged by family and other women around me to consider finishing my years of schooling as quickly as possible to facilitate getting married and having children. With this mindset, gap years seem like a literal waste of time. Taking one or more years off from school to work, travel, volunteer, participate in a fellowship, or relax after four life-changing years of college? It doesn’t seem worth it when I need to rush off to the next life goalpost. This messaging tells me that if I do not carry out my life timeline like my mother, sisters, or female contemporaries, then I am not doing life correctly.

This is reinforced by how we subtly — or not so subtly — shame women who do not align with this acceptable schedule. A woman unmarried in her thirties with no serious prospects is pitied or criticized for focusing on the “wrong things” when she was of a more “marriageable” age, maybe even for being too picky with her standards. God forbid she be past her thirties! Because, of course, a fiercely independent, driven woman intimidates and puts off potential suitors. And if you’re not sitting around and waiting with all of your attention on securing a husband, how will men notice or take you seriously?
Similarly, a woman in the same age group who is happily married, but without children is queried and criticized. Her status as a good wife is called into question because it is selfish and downright unwise to concentrate on finishing school, establishing her career or marriage while her fertility wanes with age. These sentiments imbibe a sense of urgency about womanhood. We are always racing against the clock.

So, how did the incessant ticking begin for women? The idea of the female biological clock does have scientific proof and, therefore, validity behind it. Conversely, in terms of reproductive ability, men do not experience time the same way women do and have less reason to worry if they can conceive a child as they get older. This privilege makes allowances for them. When I talk about the future with most of my male friends, while they may mention that they want a family at some point, the timing of those life goals are often nebulously defined. If anything, their five to ten-year plans center around professional success and financial stability. What’s more is that I never hear men being asked about when they are going to settle down until they are in or around their thirties! This line of questioning typically appears after they have established themselves, portraying marriage and a family as an added benefit as opposed to an absolute requirement for women.

It is clear that men and women are socialized differently, but that is not necessarily what I take issue with. Given that women and men in this day and age both take their education and careers seriously, women deserve the same respect and patience afforded to men. Do not rush us. While we may desire marriage and a family, the reality of planning life around it is, at times, a farce. The reality is that everyone has their own unique path, regardless of gender. We all should be allowed to take our time to enjoy our current season and each subsequent step that makes sense for us. Life is unpredictable, after all.
Ifeoluwa Obayan ’19, a former Crimson Associate Editorial Editor, is a Biomedical Engineering and Social Anthropology joint concentrator in Leverett House. Her column appears on alternate Thursdays.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
It starts because I don’t have a middle name.
As a sixth grader transferring from public to private school, it’s only one of many things I want — a Vineyard Vines shep shirt, a pair of Sperry boat shoes, a ski home in Vail, an actual sense of self — but that missing middle name drives me to the edge. Because the middle name is a crucial component of the monogram.
And they’re all over my new school, these pretty little trios of first-last-middle initials. They’re embroidered onto backpacks, plastered onto Camelbak water bottles, peeling off laptop cases.
Worst of all are the necklaces. Florid, twirling script hangs from every pale neck; plated gold flashes under every popped collar. Just like the girls who wear them, they are shiny, golden, and classy. Each is technically unique in composition but perfectly identical from afar.
Part of my 11-year-old brain registers that this is ridiculous—how wasteful and expensive and strange!—but I look at those pretty girls with their pretty names like Charlotte Laura and Lucy Josephine and still I want, I want, I want.
***
I spend a lot of time window shopping.
We can’t afford much more than hand-me-down polos and khakis, so I drag my feet as I pass the Ralph Lauren and J. Crew window displays on my way to the food court. Later, I’ll sketch from memory the scarves and shoes that I’d buy if I could.
I window shop for a middle name too. I spend so much time on babynames.com that I feel like an expectant mother. Elizabeth, Isabella, Valerie—I try them on in my mouth, in doodled script, in the mirror with my best ‘ello guvnah accent.
None of them fit, probably because they’re so blatantly fake. No one could look at my face and believe my name is Rachel Elizabeth. Rachel Elizabeth is the name called across a field of poppies to the heroine of a romance novel. It’s the polished nametag of a blue-eyed debutante in a lace petticoat. It doesn’t belong to a suburban Chinese girl in borrowed polos and khakis.
***
The hunt ends over lunch.
My mother is speaking, as she often does, about the trials she endured to earn the gleaming, granite-countered kitchen we’re sitting in.
“When your father and I first came to Richmond from China,” she starts, blowing on her congee, “we had nothing but a suitcase and $50.”
This is a familiar story; I know my cues. I do not personally remember the crooked floorboards of Apartment 1118 (“yao yao yao ba”), the crowded townhouse where I learned to crawl. We moved to New Jersey before I turned two, but my mother describes Virginia so often that I can’t help but feel like I remember it.
“We didn’t even have a car, you know. We had to borrow from the neighbors to buy groceries in the winter. It was a tiny Corolla. Stained carpet, very old. They were kind to us.”
I slurp my soup loudly. Smile ruefully. She recalls every cruel taunt my sister endured from her classmates for wearing only secondhand clothing until high school. I shrink into the fluffy, new sweater I’m wearing. I eat more to avoid talking.
“Once, I worked all night at the takeout restaurant for only $20, but when I got home, I couldn’t find the bill. Aiyah, that night I cried so hard. I searched the streets all night. When I finally found it between the couch cushions, I cried from relief. Just for $20.”
She raps the dish in front of me with her chopsticks.
“It was too easy to take advantage of us then. We didn’t know English!” She laughs. “I didn’t even know what to name you. Before I heard of Rachel, I was going to call you Richmond if you were a boy, and Virginia if you were a girl.”
All at once, her voice recedes into the distance. The only voice I can hear in my head is my own, whispering: Rachel Virginia Chen.
Lilting, rounded, its syllables form a soft rhythm that rolls off the tongue. Taste the pecan pie on the porch. Watch the sweet tea melt in the sun. Doesn’t it sound undeniably Southern? Who would question its place in my monogram now?
It is mine, all mine, even if it isn’t on my birth certificate or passport. And, for my 15th birthday, my sister gifts me a necklace of my own: sterling silver, a heart and a key, my monogram on the back in quiet, unassuming print.
***
Years later, a squash tournament takes me back to Richmond, Va. (Yes, I play competitive squash now. I got a monogram and the rest was history.) Before we head home, my parents want to visit yao yao yao ba, the infamous Apartment 1118.
My father pulls up the curb. As I emerge from the dim, cool car into the blinding sunlight, I feel like a living anachronism, like someone has copied and pasted me into my family’s history. The neighborhood is small; the grass is patchy and brown; the paint is peeling off the front door. Nothing has changed since my family lived here except the tenants.
I will myself to imagine yao yao yao ba in all its ugly glory of 20 years past: a beat up, borrowed Corolla where my father has just parked his beloved Benz; a younger incarnation of my mother trudging up the stairs after hours of underpaid work; my sister skipping onto the schoolbus in a fraying sweater that swallows her tiny frame.
My parents look at it affectionately, reminiscently. My father smiles, and a sigh of pride, wonder, relief, and humor escapes. “Wow, Xiaoyan. We made it.”
Guilt washes over me. I am not part of this team, I realize. I joined the underdogs after they won the championship; I get the glory without the suffering.
***
The light in Annenberg is dim, but nonetheless, someone notices the monogram printed on my necklace.
“Oh my God, adorable! Did you go to a prep school too?” There is nothing strange about this. She’s complimenting my jewelry. She’s trying to make conversation in these brutally lonely Opening Days. She might even be dropping a casual flex. But I’m shocked for being recognized as a private school girl so quickly, so easily, when I had worked so hard for this years ago.
This is shaping up to be an uncomfortable conversation (“So is your school, like, a feeder school for Harvard? How many did you send this year?”), but I smile and laugh anyway. We are, after all, just sixth graders at a new school who want things — a classic H sweater, a pair of warm snow boots, a single in Apley Court, a chance to prove ourselves.
I feel my necklace burning into my chest, lighting up the hollow between my collarbones. This girl will not recognize me at the Mail Center next week, even though we share HUDS’ butter chicken tonight.
No, my monogram isn’t just my name, or even my successful assimilation into prep culture when I craved belonging the most. It is the paint chipping off the door frame of yao yao yao ba. It is the tears shed over $20 lost and the cruelty of classmates picking on ill-fitting sweaters. It is a plea to borrow a car in the snow; it is the kindness of neighbors who insist on covering the gas. It is two hard-working American Dreamers and everything it means to them for me, Rachel Virginia Chen, to be here, now, sitting in Annenberg.
—Magazine writer Rachel Chen can be reached at rachel.chen@thecrimson.com.
Sections
As snow howls past the large window panes of Porter Square Books, dozens of young people gather in the back of the shop’s warm interior. They fill the chairs and sit cross-legged on the carpet, waiting for acclaimed spoken word poet and YouTube sensation Phil T. Kaye to perform selections from his new book, “Date & Time”.
A comfortable silence fills the space as Kaye surveys the room, running a hand through his shoulder-length chestnut hair before launching into a story about the sweltering heat in the middle of summer. 
Kaye’s new poetry collection is a poignant tribute to growing up. In the book, he explores a pre-internet childhood, his half-Jewish, half-Japanese heritage, and people he has loved and lost. Kaye is careful with words — he says so himself several times throughout the night. His other favorite self-descriptor is “off-brand Jesus.”
After the performance, FM had the chance to sit down with Kaye to discuss his work. 
FM: What was your first experience with slam poetry?
PTK: The first time I saw spoken word poetry, I was 17 years old. I saw a student get up and perform who was my age, and I remember feeling like, wow, this is an option? This is a possibility? The idea of getting to talk about whatever I wanted to talk about, using all the tools available to me, my body, my voice, was really freeing and really daunting.
FM: This is your first time publishing a collection of written work. What do you see as some of the differences between spoken-word poetry and written poetry?
PTK: The distinctions are becoming blurry and walls are coming down. I think the term ‘spoken word poetry’ has often been used to marginalize writers of color and delegitimize some of their work. To me, when I was first drawn to it, I was drawn to the immediacy of the work. Live poetry made me feel in a way that I wasn’t getting when I was on the page. It is an open question, ‘what is spoken word poetry.’ I don’t know if there’s a good answer.
FM: You have a distinctly gentle style of performance, which is very different from a lot of slam poets. How did your style develop?
PTK: To be able to be in a room and to hold that room in silence, it can be a very powerful thing. Particularly in an age where people are very bombarded. There is an expectation of performance poetry that it has to be really intense, and kind of this barrage feeling. I don’t think there’s a right way to perform, but I’m frankly kind of a quiet person, and a person who likes to think a lot and ponder a lot. So how that translates on stage is [to be] a little quieter, but to still hold the stage.
FM: A lot of “Date & Time” is based on your childhood experiences. What would you say to your 13-year-old self today?
PTK: Thirteen years old, I think I was in seventh grade, which was my toughest year. I didn’t know who I was, didn’t know who my friends were, and I was trying to be friends with people who didn’t really like me very much. It’s a big world out there, and you are going to find your people. And you also are going to find yourself. It’s okay that you haven’t figured it out yet. So I would have been like, take a deep breath, it’s all going to be okay.
FM: In addition to writing and performing poetry, you are one of the founding members of Project Voice, a program that helps expose students to poetry. What do you hope young people are able to take away from writing poetry?
PTK: At its core, I think what is so rich about poetry, particularly spoken word poetry, is the permission to explore the self. Particularly in middle school and high school, that can feel like a radical act. To do it both privately and publicly, and to be heard for being yourself, as messy and mutable as that will probably be. I look back at old poetry of mine and it’s not the way I think now, but that’s part of the process. To me, that’s the biggest hope.
FM: Do you think everyone has the capacity to be creative?
PTK: Absolutely. It depends on how we define creativity, but if we define it as your singular take on your existence, which is something only you can tell us, then absolutely all people can be creative.
—Magazine writer Margaux R.E. Winter can be reached at margaux.winter@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter at @MrewGnu.
Sections
Imagine students hurling red spice chicken and the HUDS “Catch of the Day” from table to table. Proctors and professors scurry around trying to avoid the army of students throwing mashed potatoes. HUDS workers take cover behind trays and countertops to avoid the flying Italian wedding soup, and glorious paintings are splattered with blue Powerade. But could a food fight ever really overtake a dining hall at Harvard?
In fact, Harvard’s most famous food fight took place just over 200 years ago.
In 1818, the freshman and sophomore classes participated in a food fight in Commons Hall, now University Hall, that left nearly all of the University’s crockery destroyed and resulted in the expulsion of all 80 members of the sophomore class.
***
It all started with a piece of buttered bread. Although Robert W. Barnwell, class of 1821, was the initial assailant, his motive remains unclear. Mary Prescott, who summarized witness accounts in a letter to her brother Charles, class of 1821, wrote that she believed the fight was started “in jest.” The Harvard Corporation, in its justification of the students’ eventual expulsion, attributed the fight to student unrest about poor food quality.
Augustus Peirce, a junior at the time, recounted the fight in a satirical poem titled “The Rebelliad.” He wrote of the beginning of the fight:
Nathan threw a piece of bread,
And hit Abijah on the head, 
The wrathful Freshman in a trice, 
Sent Back another bigger slice;
Which being butter’d pretty well,
Made greasy work where’er it fell.
Before long, the freshman and sophomore classes were engaged in an all-out food fight. The open architecture of Commons Hall provided ample space for students to launch food at each other. Potatoes dipped in gravy were an especially coveted projectile given their durability and gooey consistency.
Professors pleaded to former University President John T. Kirkland to stop the madness.
Initially, two students were suspended for the mess, including Barnwell, the inspiration for “Nathan” in “The Rebelliad.” Less than a week after the food fight, the entire sophomore class marched around what they called the “Rebellion Tree,” chanting “never leave your class” as a battle cry for their suspended classmates. John Snelling Popkin, a professor of Greek language, was one of the few professors who tried to settle the unrest at the Rebellion Tree. Soon after, students formed a raucous circle around him, dancing and hollering. More students were suspended that day.
In response, the entire class of 1821 — including Ralph Waldo Emerson, future literary legend — dropped out in protest of what they believed was the tyrannical mistreatment and harsh penalization of their classmates.
Kirkland called a meeting with the Corporation, at which they formally agreed to expel the entire class for their “resistance to the authority of the College.”
Around a week after their expulsion, about 30 members of the class of 1821 — including Emerson — applied for readmittance to the University. They had to pledge to follow University rules and sign “an expression of readiness to submit” from Harvard.
The Rebellion of 1818 was part of a long legacy of unrest at Harvard during the 18th and 19th centuries. Riots for institutional reform — with students protesting everything from inadequate faculty to rotting cabbages — occurred in 1766, 1768, 1780, 1805, 1807, 1823, and 1834.
A year after the 1818 food fight, David W. Gorham, class of 1821, reflected on the rebellion in a letter to his former classmate Charles Prescott. Despite being one of the students eventually readmitted to Harvard, he maintained his belief in the righteousness of the rebellion. He wrote that he felt “a little puff of vanity” as a leader of the movement against Harvard administration, and that he continued to feel “disappointed in several students’ non-committal behavior” toward the cause.
—Magazine writer Scott P. Mahon can be reached at scott.mahon@thecrimson.com.
Sections
It is impossible to write a review of the Harvard Square opening of &pizza and Milk Bar because the combined &pizza/Milk Bar storefront defies all possible criticism. What is left to say when a personal pizza chain that pays their employees to get ampersand tattoos teams up with a bakery that describes itself as “a dessert empire and lifestyle brand” in an act of unbridled gentrification? If a person who described their personality as a “brand” were a trendy restaurant, they would be &pizza/Milk Bar. If the Hillary Clinton tweet, “How does your student loan debt make you feel? Tell us in 3 emojis or less,” was magically converted into a business, it would be &pizza/Milk Bar. If you could bite into the work-worshipping hashtags #RiseAndGrind or #ThankGodItsMonday, it would taste like a pie from &pizza/Milk Bar (yes, they describe their pizzas as pies). But this feels useless to say, because I am certain that the &pizza/Milk Bar gurus would take this as a compliment.
When Martin Luther nailed his 95 theses to the door of the All Saints’ Church in Wittenberg, did he know he would be setting in motion an unstoppable cultural engine that could end only in hypertrends like a self-serious storefront that — let’s be clear — exists to sell pizza and ice cream? Would the frog-like creatures that pulled themselves from the primordial sludge onto the barren land millions of years ago have turned back if they knew that their action was destined to create a “counter-culture pizza brand” that celebrates its “culture of &,” defined helpfully as an “act-unaccordingly” philosophy?
Yet all of this pretension is combined in a storefront that reads &pizza Milk Bar, which is both unappetizing and incoherent. Why are they conflating pizza and milk? Is the title a winking acknowledgement that all commodities are the same — that they can just shove words like “pizza” and “milk” together with no heed to consequence or grammar?
Nevertheless, my harsh and unforgiving editor demanded &pizza/Milk Bar content on her desk ASAP. So, I braved the cold to go to the 11am opening on Saturday. I even showed up 20 minutes early, but I was still behind several hundred people who cared very strongly about one or both of the &pizza/Milk Bar brands. Everyone was chipper. I had a sick feeling that if I were to sing a song from Hamilton, every person around me would join in enthusiastic unison. Behind me in line, someone complained about how boring Europe is while showing vacation photos to her friends. “Never order takeout paella,” she advised, in case her friends found themselves in a similar situation.
A woman in a puffy pink jacket and leather high-heeled boots approached my section of the line, her head crowned in a black beanie that read “milk” in cursive. She asked us what we wanted to try when we made it to the front, and my neighbors gave eager and informed answers of “Cereal Milk™ Soft Serve” and “Crack Pie®” while I looked at my shoes, hoping not to be exposed as a shameful Milk Bar dilettante. You see, Milk Bar is not a simple ice cream store and pastry shop. According to its website, Milk Bar is “known for coloring outside the lines” and employing what they call “an omni-channel approach” — the store is a way of life, not a common calorie trap.
The Milk-branded woman began crushing the ice on the sidewalk under the heels of her leather boots. She told us about the series of Milk Bar cookbooks and a Netflix documentary about Christina Tosi, the charismatic founder of Milk Bar. Everyone had seen it except me. After the Milk-branded woman finished her Milk Bar brand pitch, one of my neighbors asked if the store expected such a large turnout on the first day. “Yes,” answered the Milkwoman flatly as she split off another shard of ice with her heels. She turned, almost insulted by the naivety of the question, and walked ten feet further down the line.
Tosi was discussed in reverent tones by everyone I met in line. A woman I talked to even did a project on Tosi when she studied pastry-making in culinary school. According to Tosi’s website, she is a “culinary trendsetter and sugar genius” who “approaches life with a whimsically innovative mentality and continues to redefine what american [sic] (dessert) culture is and can be in the ever-changing wild world of food.” Tosi also once made it into the New York Post for advising people to carbonate red wine in their Sodastream to approximate an obscure Italian concoction called lambrusco.
The person behind me was still flipping through her vacation photos. “Northern Italian food is really heavy and nauseating to me,” she said helpfully.
When I turned around, I saw a lifted black pickup truck covered in salt and dirt parked on Church Street alongside the massive line. “UNLEASH THE BEAST,” shouted the giant window decal. Three representatives of Monster Energy stepped out of the car, covered head to toe in Monster Energy memorabilia. They began handing out bright purple cans, which contained the “Ultra Violet” flavor of Monster Energy Drink. One of the representatives had bright purple hair, which I have to assume was part of the Monster branding strategy. However, at no point did the people who designed this intricate advertising campaign consider that the venn diagram of &pizza/Milk Bar enthusiasts and Monster Energy drinkers depicted two completely separate circles. The ultraviolet Monsters bounced off of the line like it was slathered in sunscreen.
I took this complete breakdown of reality as my cue to leave. It had been 45 minutes, and I had traveled less than 50 feet. My feet were so frozen they felt hot.
I am sure the food is good.
— Magazine writer Drew C. Pendergrass can be reached at drew.pendergrass@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @pendergrassdrew.
Sections
It’s the absence of sound behind the narrator’s voice that grabs me.
I’m standing in a small room, staring at two desk speakers. The voice emerges clear as day — stoic, intentional, measured. No opening jingle, no pithy advertisement, no cloying tone asking you to play along for 59 more minutes. I’d never listened to a podcast like this before.
“America. Land of the free. That's always been a funny phrase to me. The United States has five percent of the world's population, but 25 percent of the world's prisoners.”
I expect he’ll tell me more about mass incarceration: the problem, the solutions. Instead, he tells a story: His own father was incarcerated for five years and then deported to Colombia. Suddenly, vibrant music plays. When the music subsides, I hear the muted hiss of audio recorded over the phone, and an older voice introduces itself as Juan Diego Melguizo — the narrator’s father.
As the first voice poses questions to the second, sound effects punctuate the dialogue — a record scratch after the elder Melguizo says he was making five to six dollars an hour when their family was growing, ominous piano music as the younger Melguizo poses a question, closing the gap between himself and me, his audience.
“So imagine you're getting paid something as little as $5 an hour for a” — here, an expletive is bleeped out — “job, with few other options for money. And all the while, you have a growing family and you need to make ends meet. Would you take the quick money?"
I’m caught off guard by the two jarring clangs that follow. Quickly, soft string music pulls the story along, gliding over the rhetorical interrogation of a couple moments prior. The narrator’s father describes his own arrest, incarceration, regret, family separation, deportation, and new life.
Anticipatory piano music matches the intention and the intensity of the narrator’s final words. As the story reels toward conclusion, I expect another couple of minutes of audio — at least. The end feels like the exposition of a whole new story.
The narrator reflects: “My choices, my life, will blow the door off the hinges. And I don't know how I'm going to do it, I don't know where I'm going to do it. But I know I'm going to be there for my kids."
I cling to every word.
“So that’s about 10 weeks in,” Matthew C. Malikowski says, breaking the silence that hangs after the audio subsides. I snap to attention, the podcast still echoing in my mind, and realize I’m back in the Loop Lab’s desktop computer-filled media room.
Malikowski is the program manager at the Loop Lab, the 11-month-old nonprofit focused on providing professional audio-video training for underrepresented young people in The Port, a neighborhood of Cambridge. Its ultimate goal is to provide them with the tools they need to enter into the digital and creative economy.
Malikowski is referring to the amount of time the young narrator — whose name, I learn, is Christian X. Melguizo — had been a trainee of the Loop Lab before producing the podcast.
Melguizo says that, as he made the podcast, he found himself surprisingly invested in the stories of those imprisoned. “I feel like that's not really heard, so making a piece that kind of represents everything, not just their incarceration, was important,” he tells me.
Melguizo never imagined writing and editing a podcast episode, let alone one about his father’s deportation. He’s a rapper, so he expected that any kind of career development would mean working to professionalize his music. Then he arrived at the Loop Lab.
***
Christopher C. Hope, a future co-founder of the Loop Lab, first arrived at The Port to intern at the Pentecostal Tabernacle. At the time, he was a Harvard Divinity School student studying for his masters of divinity. His internship tasked him with reaching out to the Cambridge community.
Hope quickly began to form bonds with young people in The Port.


"People internationally and even nationally think about Cambridge, and they often think about wealth, they think about Harvard, they think about MIT, they think about biotech and innovation. They don't necessarily think about the local drug trade, unsolved murders and shootings, and unfortunately The Port neighborhood has become infamous for all of that over the past many years," says Hope.
Indeed, The Port is home to a disproportionate number of the city’s murders and drug offenses. According to Cambridge’s 2016 neighborhood statistical profile report, it has the second highest poverty rate of all Cambridge neighborhoods.
At the same time, these same young people live “blocks away from Kendall Square and a giant wall of glass and steel,” says Malikowski. Data collected from the Cambridge Community Development Department reveals that in Cambridge alone, there are 312 firms described as life sciences, high technology, and clean energy companies. In January of this year, Facebook moved its Boston headquarters to Cambridge.
Hope became dedicated to uplifting the voices of people he encountered in The Port. While in school, he started Hip Hope Nation, a Harvard Radio Broadcasting show dedicated to talking about politics and hip-hop culture. He brought youth from The Port behind the scenes of his show, providing an opportunity for young people to experience music and audio production. These local young adults helped him with the engineering, scriptwriting, and research for his show.
He became well-known in the community. After he graduated from the Divinity School, Lillian Hsu, the director of public art and exhibitions at the Cambridge Arts Council, the city’s public art nonprofit, reached out to Hope about his interest in starting a radio station in The Port. Together, with Moise Michel and Tyrie J. Daniel, they began to build the idea that would become the Loop Lab.
***
On bright summer days in 2017, Hope would camp out with boxes of pizza for hours at a time at Clement Morgan Park in The Port. He would sit with young people on picnic benches and ask a question: If you had a blank check, what would you want to learn from a community program?
He recorded their answers on his phone and took notes. Audio and video production interests emerged consistently in those conversations. He was also surprised to hear that the young people he encountered wanted to know more about financial literacy, maintaining one’s identity in corporate spaces, and conflict resolution.
The desire for jobs connected to the city came up repeatedly, says Hope. At the same time, many voiced frustration. Many he spoke to “feel like they’re being pushed out,” he says.
According to Malikowski, many Port residents cite low employment as a major issue for young people who do not attend college after graduating high school. Their age makes community and youth programs less accessible, and that gap is disenfranchising.
Without the support of college, Hope said there is a persistent question in a rapidly changing city: how to “get a foothold?”
Hope says these informal surveys of the community were integral to the design of the Loop Lab. When thinking about solutions, Hope places faith in “the wisdom of the local folks that live it day to day,” he says.
“I'm a believer that these young adults know the solution to their issues and their challenges. They have the solutions — they are the solutions,” he says.
***
This past October, with funding from a series of grants, the Loop Lab opened its doors.
The lab’s educational, production, and headquarters space is tucked at the end of a dimly-lit hallway on the second floor of an unassuming mixed-use office and residential building. The office is just a 12-minute walk from the gates of Widener.
It’s a warm space; the walls are painted orange and yellow. When I first arrive at the Loop Lab, my eye is drawn toward the vocal booth nestled at one end of the small lobby. Directly in front of me is a colorful Post-It covered poster with the prompt, “What is your dream?”
The lobby splits off into two rooms — the media lab and an alternate office space. As I enter the media lab, I’m encircled by tables, desktop computers, and grey soundproofing panels on the perimeter of the room. It’s small; if I were to imagine trainees sitting at each computer, there might be enough room for three people to stand close together in the remaining space.
It feels, in other words, like a space befitting a nonprofit launching its inaugural program.
Malikowski believes the key to helping young people find employment in the creative economy is “educating the whole person,” combining “hard skills” — things like podcasting, AV installation, camera work, and sound design — with “soft skills” like interviewing and professionalism.
On the first day of the program, the five trainees entered the vocal booth one by one, each clutching a list of open-ended questions about the program and themselves: “‘Why this?’ ‘Why here?’ ‘Why now?’”
Using the audio produced during that session, trainees were then asked to edit a shortened, coherent dialogue clip of their fellow trainees.


According to Malikowski, this anecdote epitomizes the Loop Lab’s holistic philosophy: trainees learn the software skills they need through “the lens of content creation and storytelling.”
Since the program’s inception, trainees have embarked on their own projects at the Loop Lab. Many of the stories are tied to their communities.
Tyrie J. Daniel, a trainee, describes himself as a “foodie.” His favorite project was a podcast called “The Tastes of Cambridge,” where he interviewed owners of restaurants that had been serving the community for more than 10 years.
Daniel says he “had seen that there were a lot of restaurants around that weren't really feeding the population” — in other words, many restaurants were geared toward high-paying customers rather than local residents. So he investigated community anchor stores — ones that existed before the city’s gentrification.
“There's a lot of kids that have stories that are unheard in the city and unheard to people who think they know what Cambridge is about,” says Jeff M. Solomon, a trainee.
Solomon created a pilot episode of a podcast called “Dark Falls,” centered on four high school students who have depression and meet through a school club.
"My mission and my vision is to make content to help people get out of this depression stage of feeling sorry for themselves and beating themselves up because I know how it feels, I've experienced it, I still experience it now,” says Solomon.
"I just want to be able to give those tools to those type of kids so they can be as productive as they can be in society."
***
Some of the trainees say that they hope the program will expand — across the city and in the number of young people served. “It should be an option for a lot of kids coming out of high school who don't know what they want to do," says Melguizo.
Right now, the Loop Lab is required to focus their programming on The Port, a designation the founders used when applying for funding from ArtPlace America. This means all trainees must be tied to The Port neighborhood in some way, following the model of a “live, work, and pray” connection, says Malikowski.
Additionally, all applicants must have a high school diploma or GED equivalency. When looking at possible trainees, Malikowski says he asks, “Are we a good place for someone to land? People who have had serious challenges in educational environments in the past — often we're not equipped, and in that case, we'd like to know a little more so we can help refer people to the proper services or to an organization that can better fit what they need.”
As it grows, the Loop Lab plans to “be better equipped to handle some of the case management style stuff” of those with different difficulties. The group’s limitations in trainees is a product of “growing pains” as it finds more financial support, Malikowski says.
Like any fledgling nonprofit, there are other financial limits to the Loop Lab’s scope. The Lab currently has only two staffers — Hope and Malikowski.
Despite a potentially limited scope, Malikowski defends the Loop Lab’s dedication to high-impact work with the students, which he believes is actually best enabled by their current low head count per cohort design.
Part of that high-impact work comes from connecting with every trainee. Malikowski says that it can be difficult to stay updated with each trainee’s life and ensure sustained engagement when each trainee has a busy life taking care of family or working outside of the program.
As I conduct interviews in one room of the Loop Lab, uproarious laughter from the media lab flows in, punctuating my conversations.


Tevin Charles, a trainee who started a podcast called “Technologically Trapped” about technology and its impact on our lives, says that the Loop Lab has become "a home space for learning and creating."
***
The Loop Lab’s focus is on giving young people the skillset to work in the creative industries that can be a part of the gig economy.
As a result, the Loop Lab is unlike traditional workforce development — it’s not necessarily about working toward a certification and slotting immediately into a nine-to-five desk job. It’s about building creative and audio video skills in trainees so that they may pursue a self-determined and individual, albeit less clear-cut, path.
Improving representation in media is a driving mission for the Loop Lab. They hope to create a market for “diversity media creators,” one that doesn’t currently exist in Cambridge.
“A corporation is not going to very easily go out into the corporate filmmaking community in town and find themselves a partner who is in an organization that is mostly people of color — that's not something that's easy to find in this town,” explains Malikowski.
However, the one-to-one gender ratio they hope to reach has remained elusive in this first cohort. Currently, there are four men and one woman in the cohort. Out of 19 applicants, only three women applied. In their next round of community outreach, Malikowski says he wants to see what factors are driving their gender disparity in applications.
They hope that further engaging the community will build a larger applicant base than the first cohort, one built largely by word-of-mouth recruitment for applications.
***
When Jeff Solomon, a rapper, entered the program, he was focused on his music. After almost five months at Loop Lab, he’s also interested in storytelling through spoken word and instrumental backing.
He says wants to hone his skills so that he’s a go-to creative that people recommend if someone needs music guidance, a video editor, or an audio editor.
Thanks to his time at the Loop Lab, Solomon’s perspective on the future has shifted. For others, their initial vision has been bolstered. Melguizo says he continues to see improvement to his music as the main thing he expects to take away from his time at the Loop Lab.
Daniel isn’t sure where his entrepreneurial instincts will take him, but he says that the Loop Lab has given him skills he’ll be able to use in the future. He says he’s been reminded of all that he can do.
"All my life I've been told 'no, you can't do that; you can't do this.' But when I actually get into the field, I see they're doing things I've actually always wanted to do and have the capability to do, but it's like I've just been pushed out for some reason," he says. Now, he’s fighting his way back in.
***
Change is a defining feature of the Loop Lab.
"Whatever brings you to the door is one thing, but we want to open your horizons and open up your mind to what kinds of possibilities exist for you in the audio video digital content creation space,” says Hope.
To him, the purpose of the Loop Lab is showing creatively-minded people that everything is possible for them and empowering them to act on those possibilities.
“One of the most successful quotes I've heard out of one of our trainees is him saying, 'You know, I came in here wanting to be the best rapper in the world.”
“And now,” Malikowski remembers the trainee saying, “I just want to make good art.”
—Magazine writer Vivekae M. Kim can be reached at vivekae.kim@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @vivahkay.
Sections
Michael K. Bervell ’19 was a freshman at Harvard when he set out to create a board of directors for his nonprofit, Hugs for — like so many other freshman, his efforts were challenged by the chronic busyness of the Harvard student.
“One of the biggest difficulties, of course, was people having time,” he says. “You know, this could be a full time job and we could hire a director. But we chose to keep it student-run because we want students to get the experience.”
To recruit for the project, he emailed 500 other freshmen in his class, received nearly 40 applications, and finally chose three, finalizing the makeup of the newly inaugurated Harvard-specific team. Even so, the selected board of four students never actually met in person.
“After a year of working via Google Drive and chatting on the phone and the classic ‘catching a meal sometime,’ it was just a struggle and the board was disbanded,” Bervell says. The Harvard board faded in, and then quickly out of existence.
Shai M. Dromi, a College Fellow in the Sociology department, has seen his fair share of Harvard students who double as nonprofit founders. He teaches Sociology 1131: “Philanthropy and Nonprofit Organizations” — one of the College’s only courses dedicated to the critical study of nonprofits. One of the biggest challenges, he notes, are the dual demands on students’ time. “I know some students who personally manage nonprofits and are full time students who are doing well on both fronts. The question is what happens when something goes wrong on one side… once that happens, the scales might shift in a way that will impact your ability to perform well as a full-time student.”
Bervell is one of several Harvard undergraduates who founded nonprofits before or during their time in college. He took leadership of his organization in high school and remained seriously involved as a full time college student.
Despite the challenges that student founders face, running an organization from within the gates of Harvard Yard does come with its benefits.
After the 2016 election, Jahnavi S. Rao ‘22 founded New Voters, a 501(c)(3) organization that encourages newly eligible high schoolers to register to vote. In addition to running her nonprofit, she is involved with four performance groups on campus and the Institute of Politics.
Rao notes that attending Harvard has proven itself an invaluable growth opportunity for her organization. “The incredible thing about this school is the people that you meet, whether it be students or industry professionals,” she says. “Being part of the IOP, I've met the most incredible people and have been given such very fundamentally helpful advice.”
Yet, the many difficulties of organizational leadership, especially at such an early stage in life, reliably present themselves. College-aged nonprofit founders face hurdles beyond time management — with less than 22 years of life experience, they grapple with the challenges of defining a philanthropic mission, navigating thorny legal procedures, and organizing projects and employees.


Finding What You Want to Fix
There are currently more than 1.5 million nonprofit organizations registered in the United States, and nearly 80,000 new nonprofits are created every year. About 60 percent operate with a budget under $250,000. Small-scale nonprofits are everywhere, and with the increasing accessibility of technological resources, young people are finding it easier than ever to create their own tax-exempt, federally-recognized organizations. As an institution that seeks out socially-engaged innovators, Harvard attracts more than its fair share of these young philanthropists.
Harvard’s nonprofit scene spans a wide array of charitable causes. Kavya V. Kopparapu ‘22 began her nonprofit Girls Computing League as a series of computer science workshops for girls in the Washington, D.C. area and has expanded to hosting summits about new technologies in the computer science fields. Bervell’s Hugs for features an ambitiously broad mission statement on its website: “to empower students in the United States to share love, hope, and confidence with children in impoverished countries so that they can have the ability to make positive contributions in their own communities.”
Trisha N. Prabhu ‘’’22 created and patented ReThink, an anti-cyberbullying app that detects harmful language and nudges its users to ‘rethink’ the words they are about to send or post. Prabhu is now the CEO of the social venture ReThink, Inc. Though the company is not a nonprofit, she and her team are working on creating ReThink for Good, a nonprofit branch that will focus on providing ReThink-equipped devices for underprivileged high schools.
ReThink’s website features a quote of Prabhu’s, where she issues a call to action: “Together, we will end digital hate – forever.”
Prabhu’s app is far from the first anti-cyberbullying initiative — organizations like The Cybersmile Foundation and STOMP Out Bullying share similar missions. But Prabhu claims that ReThink adopts a preventative approach to cyberbullying, in contrast to other organizations focused on alerting authorities or parents and spreading awareness.
“As important as these issues are, the fact is that 90 percent of teens don’t tell anyone that they’re being cyberbullied. It’s really hard to tackle the issue if we’re putting the burden on the victim instead of attacking it where it really starts, which is with the cyberbully and with individuals who aren’t making responsible decisions online,” she says.
ReThink has been downloaded over 500,000 times, in part due to Prabhu’s appearance on ABC’s “Shark Tank.” She joined the less than one percent of applicants who make it onto the business-focused reality TV show.
“I thought, let me throw in an application, the odds of me getting it are slim anyway so it’s not like I have anything to lose. But then I got a call from a producer. So from there, it snowballed… We aired, and the traffic was amazing. We started to expand in ways that I had never really anticipated.”


The ReThink app has a 3.2 star average rating on the U.S. App Store. While many reviewers are delighted by the app’s mission, others critique its slow performance and lack of autocorrect. One reviewer even urges her to drop the patent so that similar technology can be developed with more functionality, and therefore, a greater social impact.
When asked about the possibility of dropping her patent, Prabhu remains steadfast in her reasoning. She was a 2014 Google Science Fair Global Finalist and was first advised to patent her app when she presented it to a panel of Google researchers, who encouraged her to claim her intellectual property before a larger company took the idea.
She explains that many larger companies are hesitant to even admit the extent to which cyberbullying manifests on their platforms, and she worries that her technology will stagnate if it is picked up by another company. “Maybe we don’t have the most flawless technology, but it’s something that we’re always working on and we always care about the issue.” The iOS app was last updated over a year ago.
She says her real-life experiences with cyberbullying make her more qualified to tackle the problem than members of an older generation who might want to implement her solution without a strong personal knowledge of the problem. “It was an issue that I had experienced a lot because I grew up in a town that was predominately white and I was one of a few women of color, and endured a lot of racial slurs and lots of language against my family and my origins, especially when I was younger,” Prabhu recalls.
First-hand experience of an issue can present insight that otherwise would not be accessible to an organization. Kopparapu came to understand issues of representation in computer science in part through her own experiences attending a STEM-focused high school. “Academically, it was a great learning environment, but there were like five girls in my class of 30,” she says. “This was the most basic advanced CS class, and as I took more CS classes it just got worse from there. I talked to a lot of my friends who would be interested in taking these classes but felt like they were alienated in the class.”
The understanding that personal experience can offer young nonprofit founders does come at the trade-off of significantly less work experience in the nonprofit sector than their older counterparts.
Siri, What Is a Nonprofit?
The legal legwork of establishing a nonprofit is complicated. In most cases, in order for donations to an organization to be considered charitable, it must be a 501(c)(3) organization, and the process of filing for this status was different for every founder we spoke to. Alexandra E. Summa ‘20, founder of Iconic NYC, had her father fill out the paperwork for her. Kopparapu filled out the paperwork herself, but her parents co-signed it because she wasn’t a legal adult at the time of filing. Nadya T. Okamoto ’20-’21 and her co-founder, Cornell student Vincent Forand, were completely in the dark before they started the filing process for their organization PERIOD.
“I didn’t even know what a nonprofit was when I started. I just knew that it was a keyword for doing something good,” Okamoto tells us over the phone. “When we started, we were Googling questions like, ‘What is a nonprofit?’ ‘What is the IRS?’ ‘What is a board of directors?’ I had no idea what this would turn into at all.” PERIOD now has over 300 chapters spread across several countries.
Okamoto recently decided to take a year off from Harvard to work for PERIOD full-time. “After sophomore year, I was just really ready for a break,” she explains.
In preparation for her return to school, she has hired a managing director and other staff to take over some of the administrative roles she has filled in the past.
Other founders have also needed to relinquish some control of their organization as their nonprofit has grown, especially as they direct more time toward school. When Kopparapu began creating Girls Computing League, she reached out for funding and mentoring by cold-emailing women in the technology industry. She received several replies, one of which was from Vice President of Amazon Web Services Teresa Carlson. Kopparapu credits Carlson with helping her learn how to delegate roles to others when she could no longer fill them. “[This] was very difficult for me in the beginning because this organization was like my baby and I wanted a vested interest in every part of it,” she says. “But as it grows larger you have to delegate and put that responsibility onto other people.”
Even though they may not have had extensive knowledge or experience to begin with, many founders have been able to learn on the fly and grow their organization in the process. Okamoto has recently published her first book, titled “Period Power: A Manifesto for the Menstrual Movement”, which she hopes will further her mission of reducing the stigma surrounding menstruation globally. Despite a lack of targeted advertising, more than 300 participants signed up in two days for Girls Computing League's first summit on artificial Intelligence.
The benefits of starting a nonprofit can extend from the public into the personal sphere, as well. Summa was motivated to start Iconic NYC after the end of an internship with the New York City Council. “I realized that I didn’t have this extracurricular in which I can engage in my community the same way, and I kind of missed it,” she says. “So I started thinking and watching local news and what was going on, and I learned about the horse carriage crisis initially, so that inspired me to take action.”


The ‘horse carriage crisis’ – alternatively referred to as the “carriage wars” on Iconic NYC’s website – refers to controversy surrounding proposed legislation by Mayor Bill de Blasio and animal rights activists to get rid of Central Park’s horse drawn carriages. Summa saw the attack on the horse carriages as an attack on New York City’s image, and was determined to help keep the carriages in operation.
She has faced criticism for her work, primarily from animal rights groups. “On one hand you get people who think it’s really awesome that you have a nonprofit that you’ve had since you were 15 years old, but then there’s also the other side that doesn’t really agree with what I’ve done with it,” she says.
Once Mayor de Blasio dropped the legislation to ban the carriages, Iconic NYC shifted its focus to preserving other New York City traditions.
Because it is a highly localized nonprofit, Summa has taken a step back from her work while living in Cambridge. She’s not sure who is currently on the board due to recent organizational reshuffling.
“I’m on the board, I’m pretty sure my aunt’s on the board,” she says. “I think me being on the board and me thinking about it in a more academic context has made me start thinking about it looking ahead. Am I going to go back to New York and continue this? Is this going to be my career? I think college is a strange time in having a high school nonprofit, especially when it’s so geographically oriented, but it’s still in my life, it will always be in my life, and I hope to do something with it soon.”
Bervell has asked himself similar questions while pondering his future career aspirations. He and his older siblings founded Hugs for when he was 11 years old, and he has taken over an increasing number of leadership roles as he has gotten older. “I think a drawback is that it's easy, as you grow older, to feel like you've hit a crossroads, hit a block… you can imagine, running Hugs for for 11 years was very interesting and very engaging, but now I'm looking for ‘what's the next thing I'm hoping to do,’” Bervell says. “Since this has been so successful I'm having this midlife crisis, and I'm only a quarter or a fifth of the way through my life and my career.”
‘Doing Good Better’
Harvard’s nonprofit founders seek to collaborate with already-established giants in their respective fields and fill holes that they believe other nonprofits have overlooked. New Voters’ function is similar to organizations like TurboVote and Inspire U.S., though New Voters focuses exclusively on high schoolers. Girls Computing League began with a similar mission to Girls Who Code, though Kopparapu is shifting the focus towards “very specific, cutting edge parts of computer science and their applications, rather than a general ‘learn how to code’ workshop format,” she says.
With approximately one registered nonprofit for every 217 people in the United States, some mission overlap is inevitable. Garrett W. Walker ‘21, the incoming president of Harvard College Effective Altruism, notes that there’s a danger in spreading donations between groups with a similar goal but varying levels of demonstrated efficiency. So when young people begin nonprofits, they can inadvertently contribute to “scattering the resources more thinly” between organizations, he observes.
The process of creating a sustainable organization is highly time-consuming and resource-intensive. Walker questions the benefits of forming a new organization rather than working with established ones. “I think you can build on existing groups through a sort of 'yes, and' strategy — to try to work within those already extant interventions to make them more efficient or implement them on a larger scale without having to reinvent the wheel every time.”
Most new nonprofits will successfully produce some amount of net good, though efficiency must be considered –– especially in a world where needs are numerous and resources are scarce. The effective altruism movement uses verifiable data to evaluate the relative utility of organizations in order to determine which are most worthy of donations. “I think the one sentence definition would be, “Doing good better,’” Walker says.
Determining how to “do good better” involves deeply considering an organization’s credentials and track record — particularly the degree of impact it makes relative to its budget. These types of questions require large amounts of quantitative data that many student organizations simply can’t provide.
Despite Shai Dromi’s optimism about the level of engagement that he observes in his students, he’s keenly aware of the challenges that fledgling nonprofits face. “Sadly many of them don't succeed in what they try to do. Or they succeed in making some sort of impact, but at very high costs, and possibly not in a sustainable way… Often, actually volunteering your skills or time or effort or even your financial donations to an already set-up organization that can demonstrate that it has an impact, that it's actually achieving realizable goals, and that it's cost-effective – that strategy might be more effective in the long run.”
He adds that working at an already-established nonprofit can lead to being prepared to start a new nonprofit in the future. And, of course, the two are not mutually exclusive — the new nonprofit will likely be more successful if its founder has the on-the-ground experience.
“My sense is sometimes the nonprofit comes before the learning and the actual deep involvement with the issue,” Dromi remarks.
Yet he is quick to add how impressed he is by youth engagement in philanthropy. “Numerous students have had the initiative and the skill and the maturity from a very young age to form a nonprofit, which I think is just mind-blowing when you really think about it,” he says. “Whenever I meet a student who just casually mentions that, I'm overwhelmed really.”
Many of Harvard’s nonprofit founders receive extensive national media coverage and public praise for the good that they appear to create. Yet, at the same time, those we spoke to seem to have some self-awareness about the instability of running a nonprofit as a student.
During our interview, Bervell brings up Okamoto and PERIOD as an example of a student-run nonprofit that has prospered despite the pressures of undergraduate life — though Okamoto is currently taking time off from Harvard.
“Her organization, I think, as opposed to other students who start organizations, has grown faster and faster and faster in college, as opposed to kind of fizzling out.” he says. “I think that's one of the dilemmas and drawbacks of starting young.”
—Magazine writer Anna Kate E. Cannon can be reached at anna.cannon@thecrimson.com Follow her on Twitter @ae_cannon.
—Magazine writer Tyler T. Johnston can be reached at tyler.johnston@thecrimson.com Follow him on Twitter @ty_jn_
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Anti-affirmative action group Students for Fair Admissions — which alleges in an ongoing lawsuit that the College’s admissions process discriminates against Asian-American applicants — has historically garnered much of its funding from two major conservative trusts, according to publicly available filings.
Combined, the two groups, the Searle Freedom Trust and DonorsTrust, contributed nearly three-quarters of the donations SFFA raised in 2016 — the last year for which the groups’ tax records are publicly available.
The Searle Freedom Trust, which donated $500,000 to SFFA in 2016, marked the advocacy group’s largest donor in that year. The organization’s second-largest supporter, DonorsTrust, contributed $250,000 in 2016, according to public records. SFFA raised a total of $1.1 million dollars that year.
SFT and DonorsTrust have helped finance Blum’s advocacy for years. In 2015, they combined to account for nearly half of the donations raised by the Project on Fair Representation, an advocacy group run by Blum “that challenges racial and ethnic classifications and preferences in state and federal courts.”
The Searle Freedom Trust gave $450,000 that year for “litigation programs,” while DonorsTrust contributed $250,000 for “general operations,” out of the roughly $1.5 million dollars the group raised in 2015, according to public tax filings.
DonorsTrust in particular has provided significant financial support to PFR and Blum. PFR was “fully financed” by DonorsTrust from 2006 to 2011, and DonorsTrust coordinated the group’s “administrative side,” Reuters reported in a 2012 article.
DonorsTrust did not respond to multiple requests for comment.
Blum wrote in an emailed statement that he is “grateful” for the support of DonorsTrust and the Searle Freedom Trust.
“Both of those foundations have donated hundreds of millions of dollars to a wide variety of organizations and institutions,” he wrote.
Though Searle Freedom Trust has contributed substantial sums to SFFA, it has chosen not to fund SFFA's lawsuit against Harvard, according to Searle Freedom Trust President and CEO Kimberly O. Dennis.
“All of our support has been directed to the lawsuits challenging UT and UNC,” she wrote in an email, referring to a case that SFFA had previously brought against the University of Texas, Austin and a lawsuit SFFA is currently litigating against the University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill.  “None has supported the Harvard litigation.”
When asked about the Searle Freedom Trust’s lack of financial support for the Harvard case, SFFA President Edward Blum wrote in an email that he is “confident that each donor and member supports the mission of SFFA.”
The Searle Freedom Trust, founded in 1998, supports “work that will lead to a just, prosperous, and free society,” per the group’s website. The organization currently donates approximately $15 million to conservative causes each year, though the fund is required to spend all of its remaining money by 2025, according to rules detailed by founder Daniel C. Searle when he began the organization.
Launched in 1999, DonorsTrust is a “donor advised fund” that is “committed to supporting and promoting the principles of liberty,” per the organization’s website. Individuals must make an initial $10,000 contribution to set up an account, after which they can “recommend” charities that they think the group should donate to.
In a November 2018 post on the organization’s website, DonorsTrust President Lawson Bader wrote the group was “engaged in a lawsuit with Harvard University over admission policies that discriminate against Asian-Americans.”
While he wrote in the post that DonorsTrust is not formally listed as a plaintiff in the suit, he wrote that, because of the fund’s donations, the group’s “DNA floats in the bloodstream of the organizations” that are directly involved, including SFFA.
“If non-profits had parents, then DonorsTrust would act as Mom and Dad to these groups,” he wrote.
While Searle Freedom Trust has not donated to SFFA to support the Harvard suit, the group numbers among DonorsTrust’s top five donors. Dennis, Searle Freedom Trust's president, serves as the chairman of the board of directors for DonorsTrust.
SFFA has not only turned to major donors like Searle Freedom Trust and DonorsTrust to raise money; the group also asks for contributions from smaller organizations and individual donors.
“Since our inception, we have received thousands of donations from individuals throughout the nation,” Blum wrote in an email.
Some of those groups have supported Blum’s efforts to end race-conscious admissions for years. For example, 80-20 National Asian American PAC — “dedicated to winning equal opportunity and justice for all Asian Americans,” per its website — donated $10,000 to SFFA in 2014. The group also submitted an amicus brief in support of Abigail N. Fisher, the plaintiff in the UT case.
SFFA also gains a small portion of its funding from dues paid by members. Though the $10 membership fees were technically mandatory starting on July 30, 2015, only 0.6 percent — 133 out of more than 20,000 — of the group’s members had actually paid their dues as of April 30, 2017, according to filings in the Harvard case submitted by the University’s lawyers. These fees accounted for $1,330.
A tax form detailing funds raised by SFFA during 2017 — which Blum provided to The Crimson — lists $5,530 in revenue from membership dues. The organization raised roughly $1.4 million in total that year, per the form.
—Staff Writer Camille G. Caldera can be reached at camille.caldera@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @camille_caldera.
—Staff Writer Sahar M. Mohammadzadeh can be reached at sahar.mohammadzadeh@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @saharmzadeh.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Cambridge Community Development Department hosted a workshop in the Smith Campus Center to prepare Harvard Square business owners for an oncoming influx of local construction projects on Wednesday afternoon.
The Square has faced an onslaught of closings in recent weeks as large-scale, long-planned construction projects, including the development of a shopping mall on Brattle Street, have entered their first stages.
Melissa A. Miguel, a supervising engineer at the Cambridge Department of Public Works who helped organize the workshop, laid out an approximate timeline for a variety of other upcoming projects in the Square in an interview Wednesday.
Miguel said water main construction and utility work on Eliot Street will begin within the next few weeks. She also said that work on the Harvard Square kiosk and plaza, which is set to begin in late spring, will last from 18-24 months, and that construction on the MBTA, which is set to begin in late June, will last for about six months.
At the meeting, CCDD presented business owners with a folder of pamphlets that laid out steps entrepreneurs could take to prepare their physical stores and their financial assets for the construction projects.
Denise Jillson, executive director of the Harvard Square Business Association, cited the challenges posed by past construction projects in discussing how business owners will prepare for the coming months in an interview Wednesday.
“At the end of the day, when the project is done and it is such a promising and wonderful amenity for Harvard Square, these projects will be awesome. But it will be a challenge to get through,” she said.
During the meeting, Cambridge city officials briefed business owners on potential issues that may arise during the construction period, including hits to the personal finances of business owners and questions of liability for store damage. Officials advised owners to photograph and record their stores.
Several local entrepreneurs expressed concern over whether construction workers would abide by the traffic patterns and parking regulations in the Square.
Pardis Saffari, senior economic development manager for the City of Cambridge, acknowledged in an interview after the meeting that “people’s primary concerns were the impact to access to their business, and access for their customers to get in and out, so in Harvard Square that means making sure the T is open… making sure there’s parking for customers.”
Ned P. Ver Planck of the Dickson Brothers Company, a store on Brattle Street, said he supported the construction projects “if [they] can stay less commercialized.” He, however, added that “the two years, three years of construction is not gonna go well.”
Ultimately, Miguel encouraged entrepreneurs to be proactive in planning for the construction.
“It’s much easier to accommodate things now than when there’s a ten-foot hole in the ground,” Miguel said.
— Staff writer Ellen M. Burstein can be reached at ellen.burstein@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @ellenburstein.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Thirty-eight Harvard Law School student groups signed an open letter calling on the school to continue its support of a pilot federal clerk hiring program.
The letter, organized by the Law School’s American Constitution Society chapter, a progressive legal organization, calls on students and faculty to support “the spirit” of the program and refrain from trying to work around its restrictions on hiring clerks before a certain point in their law school career. The letter indicated that some second-year law students may have found faculty to recommend them to judges for positions ahead of the new timeline.
Starting with students who entered law school in 2017, the program prevents judges of certain federal courts from offering clerkships — prestigious postgraduate opportunities for law students to work for judges — until applicants have completed their second year of legal instruction.
Hannah L. Klain, president of Harvard’s American Constitution Society chapter and one of the primary authors of the letter, said the program is important for increasing diversity in the federal courts.
“Having a really diverse group of clerks is beneficial to the courts, and it is beneficial to the judges,” Klain said. “These clerks help shape the law.”
Before the pilot hiring program was instituted, applications for clerkships could be sent anytime during a student’s degree, which the letter’s authors argue hindered those from disadvantaged backgrounds.
“It is no surprise that since 2005, 85% of Supreme Court clerks have been non-Hispanic white… and only a third have been women,” the open letter reads. “As clerkship application timelines have become front-loaded, students who would benefit from additional time to adjust to law school, or who may lack an insider’s understanding of the competitive process, have been left at a significant, strategic disadvantage.”
The letter argues the continuation of the program is necessary to equalize the playing field in the clerkship hiring process. There are still a number of federal circuits that have not signed up for the program.
“In the interest of creating a more diverse class of clerks, it is imperative that the two-year Pilot is successful,” the letter reads. “The success and expansion of the Plan are the necessary first steps in addressing systemic inequities in access to clerkship opportunities.
Klain said she believes that having the support of Harvard is crucial to ensuring the program is continued.
“Harvard is a really big piece of the puzzle, because it just a huge part of the market,” Klain said.
Klain reiterated the letter’s call for an open a dialogue with administrators about the Law School’s support for the program.
“We want to talk to the administration about how to keep this program on track,” Klain said.
Law School spokesperson Melodie Jackson reiterated the administration’s backing of the program in an emailed statement.
“HLS is a strong supporter of the clerk hiring pilot” Jackson wrote.
Jackson also pointed to a letter Law School Dean John F. Manning ’82 sent to students supporting the program last spring.
“In consultations with the HLS faculty, I have heard strong sentiment for the proposition that if we can help judges succeed in bringing greater order to the process and moving it to a time that will better serve judges and students, we should make every effort to do so,” Manning wrote.
—Staff writer Connor W. K. Brown can be reached at connor.brown@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @ConnorWKBrown.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
UPDATED: Feb. 8, 2019 at 1:16 a.m.
The Student Health Planning Committee is temporarily postponing future meetings with the University until details of the Student Health Insurance Plan have been worked out with the graduate student union, the Graduate Student Council announced at its first monthly meeting of the year Wednesday.
SHPC is a committee formed in 2003 to “review the structure of and benefits provided through the Harvard Student Health Insurance Program,” according to the GSC website. Committee members include graduate students, Harvard University Health Services staff, and a representative of Student Financial Services.
In the coming months, the specific policies of the Student Health Insurance Plan will be negotiated by the Harvard Graduate Student Union-United Automobile Workers bargaining committee and the University, leaving it subject to change following agreement on HGSU-UAW’s first contract. In the meantime, the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences Student Health Planning Committee will no longer be meeting with the University to propose reforms, as any changes to the insurance plan are for now in the hands of the two bargaining teams.
With the ever-increasing presence of HGSU-UAW in GSAS student life and policies, Graduate Student Council executive board members said they are optimistic about their future in working alongside the union.
“Certain aspects of what the Graduate Student Council does, in terms of advocating for graduate students, may change as the ambitions of the graduate student union becomes more clear and their power develops,” GSC Secretary Zach. M. Hayworth said. “We’re open to that conversation.”
GSC President Blakely B. O’Connor said she is sure the roles of HGSU-UAW and the GSC will remain distinct in the future .
“There’s a big distinction in terms of Harvard representing students as employees versus students in a more academic and professional development setting,” she said.
O’Connor and GSC Vice President Diana Zhang also announced at the meeting that they had met with Faculty of Arts and Sciences Dean Claudine Gay to build better lines of communication between FAS and GSAS.
Graduate students have reported that athletic facilities are giving preference to undergraduates, according to O’Connor. Each time a graduate student applied for a time-slot in a gym, the slot was allegedly given to undergraduates and the graduate student was offered early morning time-slots instead.
O’Connor said making this imbalance clear was part of her message to Gay.
“GSAS students are important, and the things we do are important, and our needs should be considered just as important as the College students,” O’Connor said.
O’Connor also said she, Zhang, and Gay have met to discuss GSAS advising in anticipation of GSAS Dean Emma Dench’s new advising project as well as the recent GSAS efforts to bolster the exposure of non-academic employment opportunities.
Forty-six percent of respondents in a fall survey of GSAS students reported not receiving encouragement from their department to explore non-academic careers, according to survey results released in January.
The majority of the hour-long Wednesday meeting focused on a new initiative this spring: a push to increase involvement in student organizations. As part of this initiative, the Council will try to fill all board positions before the summer starts.
Council members also unveiled plans for the first-ever GSAS student organization leader banquet, a celebratory dinner held in the honor of student club leaders at GSAS.
“It’s the first time we are ever having this event, and we are hoping it’s a watershed moment that will make people think it’s attractive to have a graduate student organization,” Hayworth said .
“We would like graduate students to be more entrepreneurial in forming groups which cater to their academic needs,” Hayworth added.
Correction: Feb. 8, 2019
A previous version of this article incorrectly stated that the GSC, working in coordination with HUHS director Paul Barrera, had been told by the University to stop submitting departmental mental health survey reports until the student union had finished negotiating its first contract. In fact, it is the Student Health Planning Committee which chose to stop meeting with the University concerning proposals on the Student Health Insurance Plan. 
—Staff writer Luke A. Williams can be reached at luke.williams@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @LukeAWilliams22.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Graduate students in STEM departments shared stories about sexual harassment in the lab, issues with advisers, and unsafe working conditions at a discussion hosted by the graduate student union Wednesday night.
The event, called “Power in the Lab: A STEM Grad Student Conversation,” focused on power dynamics within research labs. Harvard Graduate Women in Science and Engineering, Chemistry Graduate Student and Postdoc Council, the Physics Graduate Student Council, and the Applied Physics Graduate Student Council — all affiliated with disciplines that had students generally opposed to the union before last April’s election — co-sponsored the two-hour event.
The conversation drew 25 participants, representing 10 distinct fields in STEM and the social sciences, from physics to economics.
Discussion leaders and graduate student union bargaining unit members Jocelyn Fuentes and Cole M. Meisenhelder started the meeting by sharing the Office for Sexual Assault Prevention and Response hotline before arguing that STEM fields are uniquely susceptible to “dysfunctional” power dynamics. They spoke on issues of authorship, fickle research funding, overbearing principal investigators, and a culture of stoicism and isolation.
“A lot of people have managed to get to Harvard by ‘getting along’ in the situation they are put in,” Meinsenhelder said.
He discouraged graduate students in STEM from resigning themselves to what they see as indignities and instead advised attendees to change cultural norms and challenge established Ph.D. advising structures when necessary.
Throughout most of the event, Meisenhelder and Fuentes invited participants to share testimonials in an effort to create a more supportive and open STEM graduate student community.
Several participants said they were forced to accomodate more senior lab members. Participants also took issue with the fact that graduate students’ right to neutral third-party arbitration does not apply to sexual harassment, discrimination, and bullying complaints.
Throughout nine bargaining sessions, the union has repeatedly asked Harvard to replace its current sexual harassment response policy with a neutral third-party arbitration policy, which puts the judgement of the facts and final verdict outside of the University’s control, but often results in necessary meetings between accuser and accused. The University has opposed such a policy and has instead suggested that union representatives be appointed to committees that could recommend changes to the University’s current Title IX policies.
Meisenhelder said the union held the event to address issues that disproportionately affect graduate students in STEM departments — many of whom did not support unionization.
“I think that while the union was a divisive issue in some departments, there was always strong support from members of every department, and we’ve been building with those members throughout,” said Meisenhelder. “We’re always trying to expand our membership, to make everyone as welcome in the union as possible.”
“We have a large number of scientists in the union and we’ve always considered them an important part of the union,” he added. “I think this is an important way of trying to make sure we’re addressing all the needs of our members.”
Earth and Planetary Sciences student Aleyda M. Trevino and Biophysics student Frederick B. Shipley said the event left them with a better impression of the union.
“I think it’s become evident that the union has been working towards considering the rights of minorities that are in problematic situations and getting them more support,” Trevino said.
“This event exactly addresses our union's original campaign issues and my reasons for becoming involved in our union: power dynamics in our lab spaces affect people who are vulnerable due to their immigration status and gender-based harassment,” Shipley said. “Who is going to have the most trouble saying no to their adviser or labmates? A US citizen or someone on a visa?”
In the same vein, Fuentes stressed the importance of events like “Power in the Lab.”
“It’s a community space. The only way you can learn about what’s going on in campus is to have people talk to each other so that people can know what else is going on,” Fuentes said. “That requires people getting together.”
— Staff writer Juliet E. Isselbacher can be reached at juliet.isselbacher@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @julietissel.
—Staff writer Luke A. Williams can be reached at luke.williams@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @LukeAWilliams22.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Administrators responded positively to a memo suggesting Harvard commission an external review of the University’s response to accusations of sexual harassment against Government Professor Emeritus Jorge I. Dominguez, according to a report released Wednesday morning.
The report details progress the Government Department committee responsible for scrutinizing departmental culture has made since August, when it last updated affiliates on its status. The committee’s seven subcommittees have worked on issues including the proposed external review, inclusivity efforts, and departmental response to harassment, according to the report.
The department formed the 15-member group — dubbed the Committee on Climate Change — in March 2018, days after more than 20 women publicly accused Dominguez of incidents of sexual misconduct spanning multiple decades. In the wake of the allegations, the University opened a Title IX investigation into Dominguez, which is ongoing.
Committee members wrote in the progress report that faculty members drafted a memo calling on administrators to sponsor an external review by an independent investigative firm of “Harvard’s collective failure to respond to problems of alleged sexual harassment.”
The subcommittee tasked with evaluating the feasibility of an external review met with administrators and received a “positive response” to the memo, though administrators will not take “public steps” toward sponsoring an external review until the University completes its investigation of Dominguez, according to the report.
Another subcommittee considering possible mechanisms to encourage reporting of misconduct in the future suggested creating an ombudsman or harassment officer — who could be reached through an anonymous tip line — to respond to complaints.
Government Professor Steven R. Levitsky, who chairs the full committee, said he has met with Title IX Officer Nicole M. Merhill multiple times to learn about the possible “parameters” and authority of such a position.
“It was super clear in the Dominguez case that there was just a huge gulf between our community and the Title IX machinery and people didn’t know the procedures, they didn’t really trust the procedures,” he said.
Fifteen of the women who publicly accused Dominguez of sexual harassment wrote a letter to former Faculty of Arts and Sciences Dean Michael D. Smith and other administrators in March 2018 arguing that a Title IX investigation would not lead to a “full and fair” review of the allegations. The women specifically took issue with the fact that participants in a Title IX investigation cannot share information obtained through the course of the probe, and they argued that a fair investigation would require independence from the University.
Levitsky said the establishment of an ombudsman position within the department could specifically help to address “gray areas,” cases that do not rise to the level of severity that would merit a Title IX investigation, but may still be “hurtful.”
“There’s a lot of reporting and communication and responsiveness that could potentially happen that falls short of Title IX and that’s a part that an ombudsperson could potentially play,” he said.
Government Department Chair Jennifer L. Hochschild released the progress report concurrently with the results of a department-wide climate survey conducted by the committee, which showed that roughly a third of female government students felt “limited” in their work or study due to their gender.
Subcommittees have already implemented several of the proposals outlined in the report, Hochschild said in an interview Wednesday.
Last semester, the committee began a new speaker series and held regular social events aimed at “breaking down barriers” between different groups within the department, according to Hochschild. And in January, the department met with experts from the University of Wisconsin’s Center for Improved Mentoring Experiences for a day-long workshop on improving departmental mentorship systems.
Committee members will present their recommendations to the entire Government department faculty in April for a vote on certain proposals; many proposals can be implemented by the subcommittees themselves. The committee will likely wrap up its efforts by early May, coinciding with the release of a final report, according to Hochschild.
She said she would not rule out the possibility of creating a “new, reconstituted” committee this fall to address any further issues, but said she hopes the current iteration will produce tangible improvements in departmental culture and processes.
“The goal is to set in place a variety of structures, procedures, consciousness, training, whatever, this year, which will then be in place into the future,” she said.
Levitsky said he believes the current committee has adequate resources to finish its work, noting that the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences has been “very supportive” in allocating funding for already implemented proposals.
— Staff writer Jonah S. Berger can be reached at jonah.berger@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @jonahberger98.
—Staff writer Molly C. McCafferty can be reached at molly.mccafferty@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter at @mollmccaff.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
In Harvard’s blowout win against Brown last Saturday, the Crimson out-rebounded the Bears 50-38, retrieving 15 of its 39 misses and holding Brown to 11 offensive rebounds on 45 missed shots (24.4%). The dominance on the glass was nothing new for Harvard, as the Crimson is now out-rebounding opponents by 5.3 boards per game this season, a margin that places the team 53rd in college basketball — above the 85th percentile — and second to Penn in the Ivy League.
Since league play started, Harvard has been even better on the glass. The Crimson has retrieved 188 rebounds to opponents’ 138, good for a margin of +12.5 per game. Just two teams in all of women’s basketball — Baylor and Mississippi State — have a rebounding margin better than +12.5 over the course of the season, and they rank No. 1 and No. 7 in the AP poll and have a combined 41-2 record.
Along with Penn and Princeton, the Crimson is one of three Ivy co-favorites this year, and it is easy to point to Harvard’s three standout guards as the main reasons for that. Junior guard Katie Benzan recently scored her 1,000th point for the Crimson (10-7, 3-1 Ivy), and both Benzan and co-captain guards Madeline Raster and Sydney Skinner have hit numerous big, clutch shots in close games this season.
Given the team’s strength on the boards, though, it is important not to overlook the impact of Harvard’s frontcourt. Junior Jeannie Boehm and sophomore Jadyn Bush, two consistent starters in coach Kathy Delaney-Smith’s lineup, come away with a combined 15.6 rebounds per contest.
Bush, a 5’11” forward, leads the team with 8.6 boards per game — and 9.5 per game in league play — despite being a full four or five inches shorter than many power forwards she matches up with.
“Despite being undersized, rebounding is always something that I’ve made a priority in my game,” Bush said, “I think for me it’s just being conscious of that and putting forth such an effort to be a good rebounder consistently has made a difference for me.”
Her efforts have clearly paid off, especially on the offensive glass, where she has made a huge impact throughout the season and particularly in league play. Prorated over the entire season, Bush’s 5.3 offensive rebounds per game in league play would make her the third best offensive rebounder in the country, behind Mississippi State’s 6’7” Teaira McCowan and California’s 6’4” Kristine Anigwe.
“For offensive rebounds it’s all about being able to read your teammates,” Bush said. “It’s an advantage to know when their shots are going to go up, so obviously within the offense knowing the reads and what we’re looking for, working earlier to get positions and to get to the rim has been really helpful for me.”
As much as almost any other part of basketball, rebounding is a team effort. Bush and Boehm are quick to point out that playing next to each other makes pulling down boards much easier.
“Jadyn is one of the best rebounders I’ve ever played with in my whole life,” Boehm said. “She attacks the boards so well and so I think Jadyn’s tenacity and my height is really hard to deal with in terms of our team dominating on the boards.”
Bush agrees that playing next to the 6’3” Boehm is a boon for her personal numbers.
“A lot of the time the reason I’m able to rebound is because Jeannie works hard to box out the center,” Bush said. “For sure her hard work allows me to be a better rebounder.”
Plenty of teams have two strong rebounding forwards, though. Part of what makes the Crimson so hard to deal with is that the guards get in on the action, too. Raster, Skinner, and Benzan are all good for over four rebounds per game, and the two captains have combined to average 11 boards per contest. The guards’ rebounding is part of a concerted team-wide effort to control the glass.
“It’s really rare to find guards that will rebound like the ones we have,” Boehm said. “I think it all really stems from [Coach] Kathy [Delaney-Smith] really emphasizing in practice that it doesn’t matter who you are and everyone has to crash the glass and everyone has to fight for rebounds especially on the offensive end.”
This Harvard team did not always so thoroughly control the glass. During the Crimson’s tough non-conference slate, the team was pummeled by bigger and more athletic teams like Notre Dame and Anigwe’s Cal team, which out-rebounded Harvard 46-25 (and grabbed 23 offensive rebounds to the Crimson’s four) and was still upset by visiting Harvard. Both Crimson forwards emphasized that non-conference play — and particularly the Cal game — transformed Harvard into a better rebounding team.
“Luckily we had such a tough non-conference schedule that those games prepped us well in terms of rebounding and our ability to keep other players off the boards and box out,” Boehm said, “Playing against Kristine Anigwe made it seem like once we got to Ivy League play, it would be a breeze because we’re so used to going up against such tall and athletic players.”
Rebounding will continue to be very important to the Crimson’s chances to break through and win the Ivy League, so it is no surprise that, as Bush said, the coaching staff has made it a priority in practice this year.
“Rebounding is all about effort,” Bush said. “To be a successful rebounding team has come from being cognizant of that part of our game and having an awareness to work hard and rebound. The constant reminders and emphasis by our coaching staff that it is so important.”
— Staff writer Lev Cohen can be reached at lev.cohen@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Ahh, Valentine’s day. A great time to cuddle up to your boo or a socially acceptable time to eat your body weight in chocolate, depending on your relationship with the holiday. But regardless of the current status of your love life, Valentine’s day also marks the day that Datamatch results come out. For the uninitiated, Datamatch is basically Harvard’s Tinder. Designed by the Harvard Computer Society, it’s a matchmaking service, guaranteeing that even the most romantically challenged Harvard students can get a hot date (or at least eat some free food).
There’s no reason not to partake in this Harvard-founded tradition, so you want to take the chance at a winter fling, hop right on over to the Datamatch survey which opens today! In the past, the survey has included questions on everything from your sexiest pick up line to how you’re most likely to mess up a sacred Harvard tradition. The Harvard Computer Society then works the data through an algorithm and comes up with matches, delivered to your email on the morning of February 14. At that point, it’s up to you to Facebook, Instagram and LinkedIn stalk your matches and decide if you want to go on a date. If you both click yes (which you should, if for nothing else then at least for the free food), you’ll get to pick between restaurants in the square for your date. The best part? It’s all funded by Daddy Harvard, so you’re guaranteed to at least score some yummy food. For all of you who have an actual boo, there’s a platonic option, so Datamatch can be a way to meet someone who’s statistically likely to be your new BFF.
Datamatch is a great way to practice non-interview-based social skills, and last year it had roughly 4,300 Harvard participants. Assuming that the the cutie you’ve been eyeing from afar actually signs up for Datamatch, that’s about a 1/4300 chance of getting matched with your actual crush, and a 4299/4300 chance of ending up with some rando you’ve never seen before. But even if your steamy Zinneken's date doesn’t go great, your ex-Datamatch boo can just be one more person you can’t make eye contact with in the dhall. This season of love, go forth and live out your Datamatch dreams — maybe you’ll find your own college rom-com love story after all.
Sections
Picture this: You’re sitting in Smith Campus Center, sipping from a half-cold latte and occasionally nodding your head in order to seem engaged while your date finds a way to casually name-drop every corporation that offered them a position last summer. Does this sound just a little too familiar? We’ve all been there. If after enough time listening to some potential beau humblebrag, you’ve started to wonder if you’re on a date or an interview, this is the quiz for you!
1) How often do they bring up high school?
A) 1-3 times, and every story about high school seems to serve the explicit purpose of proving that they really had friends.
B) 4-6 times, including every club they participated in, summer job they worked, and the score they got on the ACT.
C) Why would they bring up high school?
2) Did they compliment you when you sat down?
A) Yes, and for good reason. You didn’t brave the sub-zero weather in this denim skirt for no recognition!
B) No, but they did stand up and shake your hand pretty aggressively.
C) Yes; they made weirdly assertive eye contact and praised a two-year-old article of yours that they found online.
3) Do you two have any plans for after this?
A) Yes — assuming this part gets less awkward, you plan to grab J.P. Lick’s tonight.
B) No, but he did bring up an art show that’s showcasing his work. Not sure if that was an invite, though.
C) Not right now, but you’ve both made it pretty clear that you don’t have anything going on after this, so you are definitely keeping your options open.
4) How did you two meet?
A) Tinder — they messaged you something super cute, and you decided to give them a chance.
B) He requested to connect with you on LinkedIn and suggested that you two meet for coffee sometime to chat about your work.
C) He reached out to you via your school email after finding your info on the Harvard Facebook.
5) What are they wearing?
A) Jeans and a pullover — cute and casual, but not sloppy.
B) Khakis and a sports jacket, which wouldn’t be awkward if you were wearing something other than your Harvard Athletics sweatshirt.
C) A button down and pants — pretty standard, but still stylish.
Results:
Mostly As - Date. You’re definitely on a date with this person. They might seem a little eager to please, but take that as a compliment! You already know you’re amazing, and it’s about time that you find someone who is this nervous about making a good impression.
Mostly Bs - Interview. Sorry, but there’s a 99 percent chance you have just found yourself in some sort of interview. Take inventory of any clubs you’re a part of: Is there anything this person thinks you could offer them? While this lack of romance may feel disappointing, take heart: As the interviewer, you have the power here. Nothing is stopping you from getting up and leaving right now.
Mostly Cs - Who knows? Okay, this person is hard to read. Maybe they’re looking for romance, maybe they want a new friend, maybe their plans for the summer fell through and they just really need a job. In the end though, does it really matter? This person is clearly interested in you in some capacity, and most dates are just sketchy social interviews, anyway.
Whether you love it or hate it, there’s a good chance you didn’t come to Harvard for the dating scene. If this coffee rendezvous proves unbearable, you can always comfort yourself with the prospect of going back to your dorm room to deconstruct every aspect of the interaction with your roommates. So don’t stress! Sit back, relax, and enjoy the incredibly awkward ride that is Harvard dating.
