News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The things I learn in class at Harvard aren’t so important in the grand scheme of things. Sure, Math 55 is a worthwhile experience — but if you haven’t heard of Sylow p-subgroups and Frobenius reciprocity, I can assure you that you’re not missing out on anything essential to a good life. Or suppose you’ve never learned any computational linguistics — I’m sure there’s still hope for a fruitful education.
But that’s not true, I argue, of philosophy. Can we live deep lives without ever considering why racism and prejudice are wrong, whether God exists, whether death is really the end? These questions matter to every one of us as students, citizens, and human beings — whether we think about them or not. To evade them is to miss out on the most profound and practical truths we can ever hope to know or think about.
That is why, more than any other subject, Harvard should require students to take philosophy. Quantitative reasoning? We studied that in high school. Expository writing? Harvard liked our admissions essays. (And if they didn’t, we must have had some talent that compensated.) Science and history and economics and music have each changed the world, but anyone can live a meaningful life without knowing much about them. This is not true of philosophy, which teaches us to examine the very meaning and importance of our existence.
Furthermore, the methods of philosophy are clearly and directly useful in every other discipline. To borrow from the Harvard College Handbook for Students, philosophy teaches “the ability to think and write clearly, the ability to bring to light unnoticed presuppositions, to explain complex ideas clearly, to tease out connections and implications, to see things in a broader context, to challenge orthodoxy.”
Yet we live in a time when philosophy — along with many of the other humanities — is attacked as fruitless, impractical, soft, and unprofitable. These accusations come even from well-respected thinkers and academics. Take the late physicist Stephen Hawking, who famously said “philosophy is dead.” Or biologist Richard Dawkins, who suggests that a philosopher is someone who “won’t take common sense for an answer.”
Are these criticisms accurate? Is philosophy inferior to science? Is it worth studying? I believe there should be no debate. Not only is philosophy worth studying, it is the only subject that Harvard should require all students to take.
Philosophy lies at the foundation of every other academic discipline, including science. For instance, debates about the proper methods and scope of science lie squarely in the realm of philosophy. Science can’t justify the scientific method without begging the question. Similarly, philosophy informs the study of government, anthropology, theology, and countless other fields of inquiry.
This is why so many of the greatest thinkers of all time, in any subject, have also been philosophers. Albert Einstein once claimed that philosophical insight is “the mark of distinction between a mere artisan or specialist and a real seeker after truth.” For a university whose motto is Veritas, this should be a powerful incentive. Every Harvard student, regardless of concentration, can profit from philosophy.
Perhaps because of this foundational role, philosophy is arguably the oldest academic discipline in the world. Every ancient civilization had schools of philosophy associated with it. From Confucius and Lao Tzu of China to Plato and Aristotle of Greece to Ibn Sina and Al-Ghazali of the Islamic empires, philosophers have commanded the course of intellectual history. To truly understand the progress of human knowledge about the universe, it is absolutely necessary to be familiar with important philosophical developments.
Learning philosophy also helps students think for themselves. Most immediately, philosophy helps students sort through the mass of conflicting claims that come from scholars at the University. For example, Science professor Lisa Randall ’84 has said that “believing in an external deity is an unscientific way of thinking.” Many other prominent Harvard scientists — like Astronomy professor Karin Öberg or Biology and Mathematics professor Martin A. Nowak — are open about their religious beliefs and do not agree with Randall’s assessment. The different messages that students get from teachers at Harvard have a real impact on how they see the world, and it is difficult to evaluate those messages rigorously without some philosophical experience.
Finally, we all think about deep things like religion, life after death, and objective morality. It’s helpful to have those beliefs challenged and bolstered by classroom experience and exposure to more intellectual diversity. This is, unfortunately, not provided by many high schools.
The value of studying philosophy is well-supported and clear. More than any other subject, philosophy addresses the most fundamental and relevant questions for humanity, and in particular for future scholars and academics. Currently, the only requirement that comes close to philosophy is a general education course related to Ethical Reasoning. This is almost inconsequential and fails to stimulate interest or enrollment in more rigorous philosophy classes.
Harvard is known for producing leading thinkers and researchers. In order to continue this legacy, the College must ensure that its students learn the lessons that only a philosophy class can teach. To achieve this, the College must add philosophy to its set of general education requirements for students.
Philip C. LaPorte ’22, a Crimson Editorial editor, lives in Apley Court.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
For the past two years, the English Department has seen an uptick in enrollment numbers for its creative writing program, which offers workshops of up to 12 people on specific areas of creative writing. These workshops, varying in content from “Journalism in the Age of Trump” to “Narrative Science Journalism,” are available to undergraduates by application. Of the 477 students — a record number — who applied to the program this spring, around 60 percent were admitted into one of the also record-high 24 workshops on offer.
Pivotal to this increased capacity has been the program’s expansion to the fourth floor of Lamont Library, just recently renovated to accommodate more creative writing classes. These new spaces foster a needed sense of community and belonging for the creative writing program and its students. While the University's growth of the program is laudable, the competitive application process and the need to submit a writing sample still prevent students with less writing experience — those who stand to benefit the most from the program — from participating.
We believe that creative writing-based classes that emphasize a student's originality of thought, rather than their ability to learn and mimic an established academic style, are invaluable. Harvard preaches the benefits of its liberal arts education, yet its required General Education classes rarely engage students in any kind of creative writing. Increasing the opportunity for students grow in this capacity is essential in the pursuit of a well-rounded liberal arts education. More broadly, this Board has extolled the values of the humanities in the past; the expansion of the creative writing program represents an encouraging move to revitalize the humanities from their recent decline in prominence.
Even beyond their value for the liberal arts, these classes build vital skills for students pursuing careers in fields like journalism, screenwriting, novel writing, and more. Given the modern-day weaponization of rhetoric and the increasingly interdisciplinary bent of academic writing, knowledge of a wide array of writing styles is critical for thriving in different professions.
Unfortunately, only 60 percent of those who apply secure a spot in the program; this statistic leaves room for improvement. The use of writing samples to judge a person’s fitness for the writing program may leave students daunted and perhaps invalidated, while the most polished writers gain access to resources and individualized attention. To combat this danger, the University should continue expanding even further, offering workshops that are specifically targeted to writers at different experience levels. The English Department should continue making positive adjustments to the creative writing program to ensure that its benefits are available to all.
This staff editorial solely represents the majority view of The Crimson Editorial Board. It is the product of discussions at regular Editorial Board meetings. In order to ensure the impartiality of our journalism, Crimson editors who choose to opine and vote at these meetings are not involved in the reporting of articles on similar topics.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
“Representation matters.” This catch phrase has become relevant in various areas of industry from film to finance, academic fields, positions of power, and more. It is a response that defines a rebellion against the default: white, male, and rich. Often times, when young children dream big, those who actually end up fulfilling their dreams have the advantage of seeing examples of people that look like them.

Knowing there is a lack of representation, at times, colors the consciousness of the few privileged underrepresented minorities that end up on a path toward a bright future. It is a weighty thing to make decisions not only for yourself, but with those whom you represent in mind. Growing up as a black girl with an affinity for science and math, the encouragement of my parents and teachers drove me to continue pursuing the subjects. The people cheering you on can only get you to a certain point, though. When the toughest semesters for STEM concentrators inevitably come amid lab, section, and lectures loaded with information, you begin to understand why they are called “weed out” classes. The difference between then and now forced me to reevaluate what it means to be good at and to enjoy what I do.

For many of us, high school was a breeze. We may have had to work hard and put in time studying, but the grades and relative successes came much easier. We may have had a sense of what we did or did not like, but our inclinations were not really put to the test until we reached an institution of higher learning. With the pressure now to maintain a certain GPA and build a resume that launches us to the next step after college, struggling to do well and, at times, failing anyway makes you rethink everything. For those who come from underrepresented backgrounds in certain fields, the existential question becomes who am I doing this for — myself or my people? And is it worth it?

What many of us who are not white, male, and rich discovered when we first displayed some adeptness for these fields is that there were not many people who could relate to our identity. In light of the numerous negative consequences that arise when diversity is missing, this births a sense of duty in us to be the trailblazer that future generations can identify as a familiar face. In actuality, this self-ascribed or even family and community-driven obligation is an unrealistic pressure to place on ourselves as young people “figuring it out.” What you were good at and maybe even what you liked as a nine year old may not hold ten years later, and that is perfectly okay because people change, possibly even more so in the first 20 to 30 years of life.

This does not mean that at the sight of any challenge or resistance, we should take it as a sign. Just because high school was a breeze does not mean college and beyond will have the same level of ease, but I do believe there is a grace given to anyone following their God-ordained purpose. Even in the midst of struggle, it is bearable because deep down you know this is what you are really meant to do and there is something that you love about it that keeps you going. If this resonates with you, by all means, continue to represent, but don’t allow the lack of representation to be yet another source of bondage, keeping you chained to unhappiness.

Please do not misconstrue my message: Representation does matter but not at the expense of individuality. It is not the purpose of every underrepresented minority to flock to fill the ranks of every subject area where we are woefully lacking. Rather, we should all try to figure out what we were placed here on Earth to do and encourage those few pioneers in fields lacking representation to keep paving the way for others who are genuinely meant to be there to follow.
Ifeoluwa T. Obayan ’19, a former Crimson Editorial Comp Director, is a Biomedical Engineering and Social Anthropology joint concentrator in Leverett House. Her column appears on alternate Thursdays.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
My dad and I are crammed in a crowd of approximately 30 other photographers when Butch dons his neon green skull. Reflective plastic jewels and flowers elaborately decorate his Day of the Dead-inspired mask. He’s completely out of place on the boardwalk of the Santa Monica Pier — locals and tourists alike are taken aback by the scene.
Butch pulls the release on a smoke grenade and waves the canister in a slow arc over his head. The act is predictably followed by a wave of clicking. The crowd (myself included) eagerly fires away at the scene, hoping that a spray of exposures will capture at least one perfect moment. With every frame, I freeze less than 1/200 of a second. Bright blue smoke spills from the canister, enshrouding Butch — skull and all — in a thick, morphing cloud.
After about a minute, the smoke grenade sputters to a stop. The ocean breeze sweeps away the now-thinning blue cloud. I look around and easily find my dad in the crowd. His signature baseball cap is flipped backwards so he can look through the viewfinder of his camera. More noticeably, however, he’s the only middle-aged white guy here, probably double the age of the next oldest participant. He’s also one of the only people here shooting with professional-grade gear.
The evening’s event is organized by the owners of the Instagram page StreetMeetLA. The group hosts monthly meetups that attract an amateurish crowd of models and photographers. Like me, most of the participants are 18 to 21 years old and shoot with entry level equipment. But my dad is neither 18 to 21 nor inexperienced — he has been a professional wedding and portrait photographer since before I was born. He’s been to several of these StreetMeetLA events, and tonight he brought me along to show me the ropes of portraiture.
The crowd disperses and I rejoin my dad. He looks over my shoulder as I scroll through the photos I have just taken. Every few frames, he offers a complimentary “Nice shot,” or a critical “That’s out of focus.”
Butch, having removed his skull, makes his way over to us, talking to other photographers along the way. He joins me and my dad, looking at my photos.
“That shot’s sick,” he says. “Could you DM that to me? What’s your Instagram?”
Soon he’s moving on again, but as he’s about to walk away, he turns back to me.
“Hey man, it’s so cool you bring your dad to these things.”
He departs, and my dad and I exchange glances, smiling at the irony of his comment. We laugh about it on the car ride home.
***
“The fire is going to be pretty bright, so you’re gonna have to stop down to compensate for the extra light,” my dad explains.
We’re in the Downtown Arts District, the Los Angeles skyline shimmering in the distance as the sun sets behind us. It’s another StreetMeetLA event, but Butch is replaced by a shirtless fire-breather with tattoos snaking around his midsection. Again, my dad and I find ourselves in a crowd of trigger-happy photographers. We’ve now been to a handful of these meets together, and going to them has become somewhat of a monthly ritual.
“3… 2… 1… ”
The firebreather signals with his fingers before spitting a blazing inferno above our heads. There’s a flurry of clicking, and then the moment is gone. Everyone’s now looking down at their camera screens.
“Yo that shit’s so dope,” one photographer practically squeals.
My dad quietly points out to me that the enthused photographer’s lens cap is on and his flash is useless for the lighting situation. “But that shit’s so dope yo,” he says, trying to mimic the swagger of the hip LA youth. He laughs at his own imitation, and I join him.
***

The phone rings a few times before my mom picks up.
“Is something wrong?” she asks urgently.
“What? No, why wou—”
My mom’s reaction indicates that I probably don’t call enough. She puts me on speaker while the three of us — me, my mom, and my dad — talk about our weeks. They tell me about the family dumpling business, and they share the usual customer stories: barefoot kombucha-drinking hipsters, people demanding gluten-free this or that. It’s all very LA. It’s home, and yet it’s worlds away.
“Have you been taking any photos?” my dad asks.
I tell them that I just got a roll of film developed from the FOP trip I led. My dad and I talk about camera gear for a little, and I can hear my mom playfully hit my dad in attempt to change the topic of conversation — she thinks the gear talk is just encouraging me to spend money. I can imagine the face she’s making, a scrunched smile as she delivers the classic Chinese mom “ai ya!”
I tell them about what I’ve been working on for The Crimson. My dad tells me about some photos he saw in the news recently. We’re on opposite sides of the country, but through photography, we connect in a way that we have not in some time. Photography has replaced the trips to the hardware store, the evening car rides to hockey practices, the collaborative jam sessions at music stores.
I text the link to my latest photo essay to the family group chat. It’s quiet for a moment as they scroll, taking in each image. I can hear the smile in my dad’s voice as he breaks the silence.
“Yo. That shit is so dope.”
Sections
It’s a Friday night, but Fong Auditorium is so packed that people are sitting in the side aisles. Everyone is here to see Andrew Yang, one of the contenders in a crowded field of candidates all vying for the 2020 Democratic primary nomination.
Yang is an entrepreneur who has never held elected office, and his candidacy has been dubbed “longer-than-long-shot” by the New York Times. Sound familiar? As late as September 2015, that same newspaper ran an article on “why Donald Trump is still a long-shot.”
So don’t count out Andrew Yang just yet. If Trump beat the odds in a crowded primary, maybe Yang can too. He’s currently in a statistical tie with Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY); a Feb. 4 Monmouth poll rated both candidates likely to receive 1 percent of Democratic votes.
Yang portrays his outsider quality as more of an asset than a liability. “So many Americans have lost faith in our government to actually solve our problems,” he tells the auditorium. “They were so desperate they would turn to Donald Trump. And they’re looking for a new voice of reason.”
***
“I certainly do not relish being compared to Donald Trump,” Yang says in an interview with Fifteen Minutes, calling such comparisons “unfortunate, because Donald Trump gives real entrepreneurs a bad name, and entrepreneurs like myself regard him as more of a marketing charlatan than a real builder.” As he tells the crowd, “the opposite of Donald Trump is an Asian man who likes math.”
But Yang has focused his campaign on the imminent loss of jobs to technology — especially positions in manufacturing, retail, call centers, and fast food restaurants — in an appeal to voters similar to those targeted by Trump’s campaign.
“Donald Trump’s our president today because he got a lot of the problems right,” he tells the audience. “But his solutions are obviously the exact opposite of what we need: build the wall, freeze time, turn the clock back, and what I’m saying is we need to turn the clock forward.” The keystone of Yang’s platform is instituting a universal basic income policy – $1,000 per month for every American between the ages of 18 and 64 – to provide a safety net as technology eliminates certain jobs.
His warnings of the impending technological revolution are interspersed with moments of levity. He recounts to the audience that during a recent interview, when asked whether he’d always wanted to be president, he replied, “Obviously not. I’m Asian. The list from my parents went like doctor, lawyer, full stop.”
This draws laughs. The faces in the crowd are mostly East Asian; Yang has been invited to talk about “the Asian-American experience” by the Harvard Project for Asian and International Relations, the Asian American Brotherhood, and the Harvard-Radcliffe Chinese Students Association. (The organizers of the Feb. 8 event — Shivam A. Bhatt ’20, Charles X. Hua ’22, and Ryan S. Jiang ’20 — wrotein an emailed statement that their events “are not an official endorsement of any political entity; rather, [they] hope they serve as forums for discussion and education surrounding pertinent social issues.”)
Yang is second-generation Taiwanese-American. “I grew up the scrawny Asian kid who skipped a grade in an all-white neighborhood,” he tells the crowd. “So I always felt like my masculinity was being questioned at all times.” In his own words, he “really Americaned up,” and his Chinese language skills are “terrible.”
But in adulthood, he didn’t feel his Asian-American identity was a roadblock until he hit the campaign trail. “I have never felt diminished in my career professionally, until this past year,” he tells the audience. “Now, not to say that I’m hurting over it, because I’m actually kinda kickin’ ass.”
***
In an interview with FM, Yang outlines a foreign policy platform that would decrease America’s international military presence. He supports withdrawing American troops from Syria — though he is quick to note that he doesn’t approve of the Trump administration’s execution — and he supports a timetable for a drawdown of troops in Afghanistan. He also supports direct negotiation with North Korea and says he wants to improve America’s relationship with China.
“I think China’s being set up as the antagonist by the U.S.,” he says to the crowd. “If we can see China’s rise as complementary, that would be the best hope. That, unfortunately, is not what I think is the American tendency. But if I become president, hopefully I can make it so.”
His platform on the relationship between China and Taiwan is not yet fully developed. “I have a lot of affection for the people of Taiwan,” he tells FM. “I think that right now, the situation that’s worked out well for both sides, where Taiwan helps China’s economic growth over the last number of years — and hopefully people on both sides of the street will be able to enjoy the future together.”
Asked by FM for his position on American arms sales to Taiwan, he replies, “I’d have to look at the policies that are in place, you know, when I’m in power. I have an open mind about the way things are done. So I wouldn’t want to talk about that until I was actually there and could look at the specifics.”
Near the end of the event, the topic of China comes up again. Yang announces to the crowd, “I’m a cult hero in China already. The Chinese government took three days to think about it, and then decided they really liked this — the Asian guy running for president. So they put my face all over Sina, and Weibo, and WeChat, and then the rest of it.”
At this, there’s some rustling in the audience. Yang is referring to Chinese social media platforms, which are closely monitored by the Chinese government through its State Council Information Office.
Yang goes on to tell the crowd a story about a consequence of his WeChat fame — “little old Chinese ladies” appearing to recognize him on the New York City subway.
Later, in a phone interview with FM, Yang says, “I appreciate the fact that people are proud of my candidacy really for any of a number of reasons, and you know, it’s not that I’ve done anything to reach out to folks abroad, but I appreciate their enthusiasm.”
He also emphasizes that “there is no relationship” between him and the Chinese government. “They have not reached out to me at all,” he says.
Is Yang concerned about the parallels between the Chinese government’s support for his campaign and the Russian social media meddling that boosted Trump’s candidacy in 2016?
“Well, you know, I mean, there would be zero equivalency there because it’s not like I’m reaching out to the Chinese government,” he replies. “There’s no one who has a financial interest in my election, and I’ve received zero indication that anyone’s helping me in any way. And, certainly, if I did think that there was some foreign actor that was involved in my campaign, I would notify the proper authorities, because I have zero desire to win the White House in some way that ends up tainting the process for the American people.”
***
On Yang’s campaign website, he writes he is concerned “foreign actors, particularly Russia, intend to do us harm and capitalize on our freedom of information.” In response, he wants to establish an FCC-controlled News and Information Ombudsman that would have the power to “impose fines as necessary” against companies that spread “demonstrably and deliberately false” news.
The same page on the campaign website reads, “We need to start monitoring and punishing bad actors to give the determined journalists a chance to do their work.” Yang’s ombudsman would have the online power to “work with social media companies to identify fraudulent accounts and disable and punish responsible parties.”
In response to concerns that monitoring and fining the media could create a slippery slope, Yang tells FM that he would like to “follow the BBC model, where what you do is you file a complaint about a particular thing, and then there’s like, a tribunal. And so there’d be some checks baked into it, you wouldn’t have some government agency with unfettered authority, you would have a civilian board.”
The BBC complaint system sometimes results in apologies and corrections, according to its website. Financial penalties may be assessed if the complainant appeals to the BBC’s regulator, the Office of Communications (“Ofcom”). The Ofcom website explicitly states that they regulate TV, radio, and on-demand content, but “don’t handle” other forms of media including “newspapers and magazines, or what people write or post on the internet.”
***
After the event, many of the attendees stick around for handshakes and pictures with the candidate, who introduces himself as simply “Andrew.” Half an hour later, some are still waiting their turn.
In the lobby, one woman asks her friend what he thought of Yang. “I think he was very down-to-earth, very humble,” he replies. “I could see him and Kamala Harris getting into a close race.”
Sections
I have had beef with Descartes for years.
Mind-body dualism never sat right with me. I have no personal belief in a metaphysical realm, but I am not so committed to the physical world that I’d rule it out completely.
This Other Place has been described as an astral plane, a higher dimension, a substrate, the spirit realm.
I’ve decided to investigate for myself. I want to transcend — close my eyes here and arrive somewhere else.
Like many, I first heard of Transcendental Meditation (TM), a form of silent mantra meditation, via the filmmaker David Lynch. I read his book “Catching the Big Fish,” which espoused the joys of uncovering what he calls the “ocean of pure consciousness.” It promised a lasting sense of stillness, a receptiveness to unconventional ideas, and a newfound self-awareness.
But he never explained how to do it. So I found a local info session, wrote down the address and headed up Massachusetts Ave.
I arrive at a historic brick and marble facade. Pan up camera one: I read the sign above the door. It’s a Masonic lodge. The doors are locked. I check the sides of the building. No alternate entrances. Just as I’m about to give up, a man in a suit appears between the marble columns. He welcomes me inside. I get the eerie feeling that I’m in an escape room.
“We’ll be meeting in the basement,” he says.
On the way downstairs, I scan for alternate exit routes.
I am shown into a small room with beige walls. Four others have arrived for this talk: a New Age-y white couple, a skeptic who works for a nonprofit, and a man who never stated what his business is, only that he has Clients.
The man in the suit, who informs us he is a Ph.D candidate, gives us a conceptual walkthrough of TM. Using a mantra — a repeated sound — to quiet your “active mind,” you descend into the Substrate. Twice a day, for 20 minutes each, you dive in.
The man insists that TM brings a new relationship to possibilities and people, an uninhibitedness that breaks away from the “script” of discouraging thoughts.
But how do I get there? Still, I feel them skirting around the how of the technique. The focus is entirely on the results, the corroborating research, and the infinite potential that lies inside each of us.
The key to success is all in the mantra, apparently. The sound is crucial and you can’t choose yours — a certified teacher has to find the one that’s right for you. The key to unlocking the infinite well of potential within you is just one phoneme away.
Oh, and a cool $1000 for the training class.
The student discount is still more than last month’s rent. I talk to the couple afterward, who are also troubled by this “financial gatekeeping.” There must be another way.
Turns out Google has a (free) treasure trove of TM mantras. Back home, I anoint myself with lavender oil to open my third eye. I YouTube search “sounds for transcendence.” I put on binaural beats, which I first heard about years ago via a concerned call from my father, who said kids were listening to bleeps and bloops to hallucinate the effects of Drugs. (Actually, a study I read found that using binaural beats decreased need for fentanyl in anesthetics. But I digress.)
I focus on the mantra. As Mr. Ph.D Candidate said, your attention determines what connections are strengthened in your brain. I struggle not to engage with the thoughts that float by.
The image of unfolding, becoming unbounded, is pervasive in Lynch’s book. By detaching from the tangible choices of the everyday world, new life pathways emerge. It may seem counterintuitive, but serenity recedes when you seek it out too aggressively.
The silence is the hardest part. My brain keeps fighting to stay engaged. Focusing on the sound helps me surrender. I’m becoming still.
To reach the “ocean of pure consciousness,” I leave myself and my thoughts behind. So who is the ‘I’ that arrives there?
***
I try to access this realm in another way — through sleep. According to a YouTube guru, the astral plane is where we go every night in dreams. Some say the dead hang out there too. Because we’re not fully conscious, we don’t always remember this place.
I talk to Ross J. Miller, a psychic who uses dream analysis to help his clients confront trauma. Miller says our fears and anxieties are the products of trauma from potentially hundreds of past lives. The key to spiritual enlightenment, or transcendence, is to cleanse oneself of these fears — acknowledge, release, forgive.
Lucid dreaming — when you’re aware that you’re asleep — is a way to face these issues in the subconscious realm. Miller describes a dream wherein he was being chased by a monster and turned around to hug his pursuer. It instantly transformed into a bouquet of roses.
Much like in TM, lucid dreaming requires an assumption of control over one’s mental state, coupled with an openness to the negative emotions that we evade in waking life.
Astral projection, an out-of-body experience that can happen at the onset of a lucid dream, is what I explore next. This dreamworld looks virtually the same as our own. When you leave your sleeping body, your astral self can go anywhere — outside, your cousin’s house, even other planets.
The gateway to reaching this state is hypnagogia, the state between waking and sleeping. To reach this gateway, you must keep your mind awake but allow your body to fall asleep. The psychic YouTubers say it takes focus and discipline.
Once again, there’s a need to be passive. If you fight too hard, you’ll wake yourself up. And you might want to fight it. Sleep paralysis can be alarming. So are the vibrating sensations and ambient sounds that astral travelers report.
I lie on my back and soak in the white noise. Slowly, I sense myself slipping into the in-between state. Every time the vibrations intensify, I notice I’m falling asleep. I jolt awake.
It takes a couple weeks of practice, but eventually I do leave my body and walk past the co-op, where I live, down Sacramento Street. Within what feels like five minutes, the whole affair is done: I lie awake in my bed.
I’ve watched a TED talk or two about how our subjective experiences are just sophisticated hallucinations. Is this Sacramento Street just as real as the one outside my window? Am I ‘there’ even while I’m in this astral realm?
***
To transcend, you release parts of yourself or your experiences that do not serve you. It’s a difficult task, but a worthwhile one.
I don’t know if this newfound portable stillness will make my dreams manifest in the earthly world. But David Lynch said that, through meditation, “you become more and more you.” I want to lean into this paradox to release myself from my fears.
Staring into your mind, the vast construction of your world, can be daunting. But witnessing the well of unweighted possibilities is humbling. It reminds me that no choice I make is divine or dire in itself.
I close my eyes. Somewhere else, a door opens.
—Magazine writer Sophia M. Higgins can be reached at sophia.higgins@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter at @LAVAGXRL666. This is the first installment of her column, Further Realms, which will explore rituals that uncover hidden worlds.
Sections
The tiny candlelit club is packed, and I have a difficult time finding a seat. Excited chatter fills the room as Cambridge residents munch on burgers and wait for the show to start. The chattering turns into cheers as a man dressed in a red Aloha shirt with a matching lei hanging from his neck trudges up to the stage. He wears a friendly smile and props open the stage door to let in some air, lamenting that, even though he’s from Hawaii, he’s hot in the crowded room. He continues to banter with the audience, making a toilet joke that is received with gales of laughter, and then he starts playing. The club goes silent as the audience freezes, mesmerized by the smooth voice emerging from such a gruff man.
This man is the three-time Grammy award winner George Kahumoku Jr. To most, he is Uncle George.
After the show, the rest of the audience files out the door. I have to fight through the crowd; I’m headed in the opposite direction. When I finally reach the stage, Uncle George smiles, wraps me in a big hug, and takes a selfie with me. It’s funny seeing him here, in the freezing cold of a Boston winter. I am used to seeing him in a tank top and muddy boots, pulling up weeds and feeding goats under the hot Hawaiian sun. He looks so out of place in cold, metropolitan Harvard Square.
How, of all places, did Uncle George end up here?
***
The last time I saw Uncle George, I was weeding his taro patch, and I was slightly unhappy with him.
Uncle George lives on a farm high up in the mountains of Maui. The drive up the mountain is terrifying, since there is only room for one car on the road, and the idea of plummeting to your death seems entirely within the range of possibility.
When my family arrived at the farm, we found everything from papayas to breadfruits to chickens to goats. Uncle George had killed six goats just before we arrived.
Through a random string of mutual friends, my family had been invited to spend a day working on Uncle George’s farm. I thought that meant we were going to feed the goats and pick papaya, which we did. But we also spent two hours weeding his taro field, laying mulch, and even spreading manure. I didn’t expect someone who sings such gentle songs to make me sweat so much.
My feelings toward Uncle George’s farm shifted slightly once the meal of ahi ahi, rooster soup, breadfruit, fruit salad, and haupia (coconut pudding) was sitting happily in my stomach. I sat to the left of some playful middle school boys, across from a woman in Alcoholics Anonymous and her sponsor, and to the right of a couple who had just moved to the area from North Carolina. We relaxed in chairs on Uncle’s lanai (porch), strumming on ukuleles like one big mismatched ohana (family).
After five hours on the farm — 7 a.m. to 12 p.m. — Uncle encouraged us to take pictures with his Grammys and then pushed us out the door so he could run to the four gigs he had that afternoon. I thanked him for the wonderful morning and hugged him goodbye. In all honesty, I never expected to see him again.
***
I was sitting in my dorm room a week ago, perusing upcoming events in Cambridge, when I came across the headline “Masters of Hawaiian Music.” It seemed so out of place on the list of local offerings that it almost felt like clickbait. I clicked it, and a picture of Uncle George popped up. I couldn’t believe that this man, so obviously an islander from head to toe, was coming to my northeastern college town. I had to go to the show.
I arrive early to interview the musicians before the show — Uncle is accompanied on his tour by Kawika K. Kahiapo and Nathan K. Aweau. I actually arrive before they do. I sit and do my homework in the empty club, feeling very much like a Type A college student and not at all like a carefree concertgoer. The men arrive and get their sound check out of the way, and then we all head into a back room of the club to chat.
I don’t know anything about Kahiapo or Aweau, so I ask them first about their backgrounds in music. As we discuss their childhoods and influences, Uncle bustles around ordering beers and burgers for the three of them.
Kahiapo tells me his father first taught him to play the ukulele when he was eight years old and slack key guitar when he was 10. His family would have jam sessions in the garage, and that’s where he was inspired to pursue music.
“Those jam sessions was like my schooling — learning the songs, learning the music, learning the chords, learning the vocals.”
The waitress hands Aweau his falafel burger as he explains to me that he started playing Hawaiian music quite a bit later in life. Both of his parents were music teachers, but they tended to play classical and jazz. It wasn’t until adulthood, when Aweau became a bass player for the legendary Don Ho — singer of “Tiny Bubbles”— that he had the chance to dabble in Hawaiian music.
“Don Ho told me, ‘You should try and write a Hawaiian song,’ so I did… and lo and behold, this song won for Song of the Year in Hawaii.”
And that’s how Aweau’s career in the Hawaiian genre began.
Learning about their childhoods gives me a sense of the Hawaiian values that inform the music they make. All three grew up in musical families, and this shaped who they became as adults. Ohana became a recurring theme in our conversation about the essence of Hawaiian music.
“Family is a big deal in Hawaii, especially in the Polynesian culture,” Aweau explains, just before the waitress interrupts us with more food.
***
My interview with Uncle George is casual, like two old friends having a conversation over dinner, with plates flying everywhere.
“To me, Hawaiian music is just part of a culture. In my life, it’s probably only about 10 percent of our culture. The other part of our culture is really living a Hawaiian life, about eating Hawaiian food, doing Hawaiian things… To eat Hawaiian food you gotta grow it. That’s how I think.”
This is why Uncle spends so much time farming, teaching, and sharing music with his local community. He tells me that he performs 20 to 30 times a week and that only two of those shows are paid. The man is busy: He gets up at 2 a.m. every morning.
We’re interrupted by a friend of Uncle’s, who brings him a ziplock bag full of homemade spam musubi — an island favorite that consists of a piece of spam on a bed of rice wrapped in nori (seaweed). My mouth starts to water.
I ask them what it’s like to play on the mainland, what kind of crowds they bring in. How is it that these musicians can pack a room when they are in a place so far their home, their values, and their culture? How does Hawaiian music translate in a place so different from Hawaii?
Kahiapo chimes in: “The real magic is that every club, every venue, every theater, every concert hall that we go to, people are drunk to come because they want the island vibe fix.”
Aweau also has an opinion on why mainlanders are so intrigued by Hawaiian music.
“Hawaiian music fans [are] everywhere... when they can hear the sound of the slack key guitar, or the ukulele, all the Hawaiian lyrics, or even just songs that describe home — the islands — it conjures up all the feeling of sunsets, moonlit nights, coconut beaches, so Hawaiian music is well-received everywhere, whether in Hawaii or on the mainland.”
What I take away from Aweau’s comment is that I am certainly not the only one with a connection to Hawaii here in Harvard Square. The rich culture that Uncle describes is received well on the mainland and abroad because people crave the feelings of ohana and aloha, which they may not feel in their everyday lives — especially not in the cold of Cambridge.
Though I am only an 18-year-old college student, and have never ever tried alcohol, I understand what Kahiapo means when he talks about people being drunk for the “island vibe fix.” As I listen to the men sing later that night, I feel something intoxicating in their voices. Their music helps me leave the stress of my day behind, and it leaves me wanting to hop on a plane and fly to Maui.
Whether people have lived in Hawaii, spent one vacation there, or even just dreamed about a visit, there is something special about the place that sticks with people. When you’re away from Hawaii, you always miss it. That’s why people come to see Uncle George and his fellow musicians. They want a taste of what they are missing.
***
As the men finish their food, I can see that they have their own little ohana on the road. When I ask Aweau who his biggest musical influence is, he points at Kahiapo without hesitation.
“When I think about Hawaii, I actually hear Kawika’s voice... I kinda think that that’s the voice of Hawaii.”
On a cold night in Harvard Square, the residents of Cambridge were able to hear the voice of Hawaii. The world is so small.
—Magazine writer Maya H. McDougall can be reached at maya.mcdougall@thecrimson.com.
Sections
In a Central Square parking lot behind Pandemonium Books and Games, a vibrant floral mural bursts with lotus blossoms and pastel waves. Nearby, on a wall of the Bank of America building, an urban nightscape reminiscent of a Blade Runner set overlooks the bustling crowds of the Square.
These are the works of Lena McCarthy and Percy Fortini-Wright respectively, two of the 10 Boston-based artists who worked on the ongoing Central Square Mural Project, an initiative spearheaded last August by the Central Square Business Association and the Cambridge Arts Council.
The project seeks to preserve Central Square’s individuality against a backdrop of gentrification, according to Michael Monestime, executive director of the CSBA. “Each artist is mindful about Central Square, its past, its present, its future,” Monestime says. “The neighborhood is changing, the property ownership is changing. The neighborhood could lose its authenticity, and we don’t want that to happen.”
Central Square, which the Massachusetts Cultural Council designated as a Cultural District in 2012 for its diversity of restaurants, churches, and entertainment venues, has long been home to an array of murals. Unlike many past mural projects, however, which were commissioned for municipal properties, these new murals are canvassed on private properties.
Jason Weeks, the executive director of the Cambridge Art Council, recalls local residents’ and businesses’ enthusiasm for the project. “We have so many different creative organizations, we have city-generated artwork, but what we lacked was this opportunity to amplify public art in private space.”
The Arts Council and the Central Square Business Association crowdfunded $25,000 from 132 different donors last October, a sum that the Massachusetts state development company MassDevelopment then matched. All 10 murals are projected to be completed this spring.
Central Square artists have not always received the support of large community initiatives for their work. In 1997, Pasqualina Azzarello undertook an independent project to paint her first outdoor mural in Central Square, a tribute to French artist Marc Chagall on Norfolk Street.
“I went on a walk — a very, very long walk — for three days in a row. I made a list of 30 building owners, and I proceeded to call them,” she says. When 29 of her offers were declined, she did not feel discouraged: “I was so young and naive at the time,” she says, and she was happy to receive one “yes.”
Over the course of the month she spent painting, Central Square locals kept stopping her out of curiosity, and Azzarello told them about her work, receiving hundreds of dollars in coins and bills as tips from her supporters. “That was very real money to me,” she says. “I learned public art creates connections. People want to be engaged.”
Azzarello’s mural has since been painted over for the new project, but she does not mourn its loss. As murals fade they are replaced by new ones, and artists often come back to make new art in other parts of the square, an invitation Monestime has extended to Azzarello.
“More and more cities are recognizing the value that public art brings to public spaces,” says Azzarello, now a city arts coordinator in East Hampton, Mass.
The Central Square Mural Project has given a new crop of young artists the opportunity to showcase their work.
Sneha Shrestha, a 2017 graduate of the Harvard Graduate School of Education, has re-energized Main Street and Massachusetts Ave. with gold and purple Sanskrit text that climbs vine-like up the side of a five-story MIT building.
The quote at the center of her painting is from a Nepali poet, who writes about notions of success. In the “melting pot” of the Square, Shrestha said she believes that “[Art] encourages you to have different perspectives and definitions of success.”
Shrestha is a native of Nepal who first came to America for college. She did not have easy access to art as a child, and does not take exposure to art for granted. She opened the first Children’s Art Museum in Nepal, and through her work in the United States, she says that she hopes to express a “cultural aesthetic that is not always apparent in Boston,” thereby “sharing [her] culture in a deeply personal way.”
Monestime explains that all of the artists commissioned for the project are local to the greater Boston Area or have a significant connection to Central Square.
“The first place I ever painted a wall was the graffiti wall in Central Square — even before I painted in Nepal — because I was exposed to street art here,” Shrestha says. “Everything’s come full circle in a lot of ways.”
— Magazine writer Letitia C. Chan can be reached at letitia.chan@thecrimson.com
— Multimedia Chair and magazine writer Kai R. McNamee can be reached at kai.mcnamee@thecrimson.com.
Sections
Almost one hundred years after its initial Bauhaus installation, the Harvard Art Museum hosts a second exhibition, featuring some of the esteemed German art school’s masterpieces. Among the works displayed are Lucia Moholy’s photographs of Bauhaus designs, mounted with the attribution they deserve, but didn’t always receive. Her now-iconic Bauhaus images were taken and used without her consent by the renowned architect Walter A. G. Gropius. Hoping to decipher how her contribution was lost and then recovered, Fifteen Minutes sat down with Robert Wiesenberger, the Harvard Art Museum’s Stefan Engelhorn Curatorial Fellow from 2014 to 2016. His position was extended from one to two years due to the involved nature of the work, which included developing “The Bauhaus” special collection for the Harvard Art Museums website.
FM: I’m really interested to know what the name Lucia Moholy means to you, or maybe came to mean to you throughout the curatorial process.
RW: It’s an incredible story and sort of scandal of the past that I think the museum is working to make right. It points to several of the questions that arise when a collection is formed under conditions of... you know, in a hasty way, and kind of entrusted to others. There were a lot of distortions of authorship that happened. This is probably the most egregious that I know of.
FM: Particularly in terms of her importance to the memory of the Bauhaus — how do you frame that, especially because the architecture is mostly, I assume, viewed through photographs?
RW: The Bauhaus was a very small school in fairly remote cities or towns, and its media campaigns are really what made it known to the world. The representation was so much shaped by [Moholy’s] photographs. So I think it’s hard to separate our understanding of the Bauhaus from the way it was represented through her lens.
FM: Do you think, especially because of the Cold War, the Bauhaus would have reached such a wide audience without her photography?
RW: I don’t know if I can speculate, but I think there were definitely a great number of other photographers. I think hers were some of the really decisive photos, but it was also a time when the ubiquity of portable hand-held cameras among artists was such that everyone was taking pictures of everyone else, so it was a well-documented moment. But there’s no question that her photos were really decisive in our memory of the institution.
FM: Gropius was obviously prolific, but it sounds like he truly worked against and essentially stole from Moholy. Do you think that should change the way we think about his art?
RW: I think it’s an extremely instructive story. He was, in other regards, generally a team player, which is why this is all the more egregious. And his architectural partner Adolf Meyer, who’s been forgotten, was a huge part of Gropius’ design success, and Marcel Breuer, with whom he partnered briefly in Cambridge, was, by all accounts, the one who did the heavy lifting in terms of design. So I think giving credit where it’s due and attribution across the board is a really crucial corrective here, and I think it’s still happening. I think it might also just be a gendered — it is largely a gendered — dynamic. It’s also a dynamic that happens along the hierarchy of what’s valued in the arts — that architecture is valued highest, and its photographic representation is subsidiary, and I think re-reading the history along those lines is really important.


FM: Particularly in thinking about the #MeToo movement now, there’s the question of what we’re supposed to do with “good art created by bad men,” and I’m curious to know what you think about celebrating the work of this genius, while also condemning the man himself. How do we think about his art, if it might have contributed to someone else’s being shut down?
RW: It’s a really important question. To be honest, there are other even more egregious men in this story, especially as you get into questions of support for National Socialism. So Gropius, in relative terms, looks pretty good, which is not an excuse, but it’s just a statement about the times. I think we always need to be open-eyed about this. We need to read the history of an institution with an awareness of power dynamics that are shaped organizationally, that are shaped by gender hierarchies. The Bauhaus was certainly co-educational, but it was also very gendered in its assumptions about what women would do and could do and the kinds of workshops they would be in and so on. We need to be quite clear-eyed about the internal politics of an organization and the gendered politics of an organization.
FM: I’m curious about whether you believe that Gropius’ treatment of Moholy was reprehensible, and how it may have been considered at the time. Obviously, she was severely affected by it, but do you think people around her would have been so caught off-guard, considering the historical moment?
RW: Yes, I think it was pretty unacceptable. I think anyone aware of the situation would have been shocked. But it is a good question. I didn’t get a chance to see what the wall labels say when they show her work. How does history correct itself? You know, how do we acknowledge mistakes? Does it just get revised smoothly?
FM: Do you ever struggle to distinguish the man that Gropius was from his artwork? Or are you still able to separate the two and commend his work and identify that what he did was wrong?
RW: To me, his major success was as a manager, as a networker, as an ideas-person, as opposed to a great architect. I think actually his legacy as an administrator, as a myth-maker, needs to be and has been evaluated in light of this situation and many others. It has changed the way I think about him, but it’s consistent with the power dynamics one sees in a lot of organizations and hierarchies, and so in that sense maybe it shouldn’t surprise us at all to see someone take advantage of someone else’s work, and particularly for a man to do so.
When in a collaborative environment, who gets credited? I do think there are certain things we can be very clear about. For example, the Lucia Moholy photos that say very clearly, that are stamped on the back, “not for reproduction,” you know, “intellectual property not for reproduction,” that’s about as clear as one can be. There’s nothing foggy about that at all.
—Magazine writer Mollie S. Ames can be reached at mollie.ames@thecrimson.com.
Sections
“We were very optimistic about our futures,” remembers Kevin B. Jennings ’85. Jennings sat with a friend in Mather house and, as the end of his sophomore year approached, the two shared their ambitions for the upcoming years. “We had come from small towns and never thought it would be possible to be openly gay.”
Jennings recalls that after chatting for a few minutes, his friend had added, “unless the new disease kills us all.”
“I didn’t know what he was talking about. He pulled out a copy [of] one of the New York gay papers, and showed it to me.” There wasn’t a name or an explanation for what was happening — just a headline about large numbers of young and healthy gay men suddenly developing rare cancers and infections. “We just knew gay men were dying. And dying very suddenly and very horrifically.”
“And it was just terrifying.”
This was how Jennings first found out about human immunodeficiency virus and acquired immune deficiency syndrome, or HIV and AIDS (though they weren’t named at the time).
On July 31, 1981, The New York Times reported that 41 young gay men in New York City and Los Angeles were hospitalized with Kaposi Sarcoma, a rare form of cancer that causes purple skin lesions. It wasn’t until three years later, in 1984, that scientists linked the sudden spate of deaths to a virus — and it wasn’t until a year after that, in 1985, that the existence of the virus was common knowledge. During 1983 alone, when Jennings first learned about the virus, 2,304 people had reportedly died due to HIV-related complications. There was no HIV test and no medicine.
“We were just scared to death and every time you got a cold you thought maybe you had it. You were terrified all the time,” says Jennings.
Peter Gadol ’86 first heard about HIV during his sophomore year, after coming out at age nineteen. “I think that I learned about HIV the same way as a lot of people—a newspaper article.”
“My first experiences with gay pride were also AIDS Walks,” remembers Gadol. “It’s conflated. It’s hard to pull it apart.”
For a generation of gay men at Harvard, this was the backdrop of their college experience. Many students first learned about AIDS as undergraduates and had to metabolize the onset of the epidemic while navigating college.
To cope with both homophobia on Harvard’s campus and fear of the AIDS crisis, gay students in the 1980s and early 1990s created makeshift pockets of support, establishing student groups and seeking out the few supportive faculty members on campus. Without adequate institutional support, gay students were tasked with finding and creating their own advocacy systems, all the while coping with their own fear.
“For a young gay man like me, on some level you just assumed you weren’t going to grow old because you looked around and there were a lot of other young healthy gay men who seemingly were fine and then, a month later, were dead,” remembers Jennings. “No one understood why. No one seemed able to do anything about it. No one seemed to care.”
When Gadol was a junior, he moved into a Mather suite with Jennings and several other friends, including Jake S. Stevens ’86. “I lived with a whole bunch of gay guys, which was unusual at the time,” says Gadol. Their suite was connected by a shared bathroom to a neighboring suite of male students.
One day, the residents of the neighboring suite presented Gadol’s suite with a petition. “They wanted a physical wall to protect themselves from my gay suite,” wrote Stevens in an email. The neighbors, a group of straight men, falsely accused the suite of “doing inappropriate things in the shower.”
“I don’t remember that homophobia being particularly centered on fears of AIDS, but rather a generalized — and at that time very acceptable — distaste for gays and lesbians,” Stevens continues.
The Mather House masters, David J. and Patricia A. Herlihy, rejected the neighboring suite’s request.
Harvard alumni from the 1980s recall a range of administrative responses to homophobia. At best, they were mildly reactive to homophobia. Often, they were indifferent to it. At their worst, they perpetuated it.
In 1981, a University Advisory Committee recommended that the college’s admissions policy ban discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation. This proposal garnered opposition from several voting members. On February 21, 1981, Gay Community News, a local weekly newspaper, reported that Kirkland House Master Evon Z. Vogt Jr. objected to the ban because he suggested that sexual orientation could include rape and bestiality.
As the president of Harvard’s Bisexual, Gay, Lesbian, and Straight Alliance in 1983, Stevens pushed the administration to adopt the policy. “When advocating for protections for gay and lesbian students at a faculty meeting, more than one faculty member stood up to say we were not an appropriate group to have such protections,” remembers Stevens.
In 1985, four years after the committee first considered expanding the non-discrimination policy, the administration finally adopted a more comprehensive admissions policy that included sexual orientation.
But institutional reforms didn’t change the homophobic culture on campus. Lorelee S. Stewart ’87 remembers coming home to her dorm in Winthrop House and finding homophobic notes taped to her suite’s door on multiple occasions. One day, someone slipped into her room and pasted a note reading “die lesbian” on the inside of her bedroom door. “The way Winthrop was set up meant they had to get through a locked door to do that,” says Stewart.
Stewart worried that someone might physically hurt her — the person who threatened her already knew how to sneak into her bedroom. She went to a dean to request a single so that she could have the only key to unlock her door. “He said that he would give me a single but only if I got a doctor’s note saying that this was due to psychological reasons,” she says. Eventually, she moved to the Jordans building in the Quad, then recognized as a small on-campus Harvard co-op.
Stewart had already endured homophobia while seeking Harvard University Health Service resources. HUHS did not respond to requests for comment. Feeling confused about her sexuality as a freshman, she looked for professional guidance in working through a lingering high school relationship. “[The counselor] was asking me questions about ‘Did you kiss this person? Did you touch this person?’ I said ‘no,’ which wasn’t really true, but you get that feeling, you get the feeling that your answer was welcome here or not welcome here,” Stewart says.
“Given how young I was and how confused, I said ‘no.’ And he said, ‘That’s good because that means you’re not a lesbian.’”
Students remember their support network as a collection of individual people and places at Harvard — a makeshift community of clubs, specific houses, professors, and proctors — rather than a cohesive institutional effort.
In the early 1980s, the Gay Straight Alliance and the Radcliffe Lesbian Association merged into one group, GLSA, which became both a prominent social scene and a forum for advocacy.
Adams House was a popular hub for GLSA activities. Robert J. Kiely, master of Adams House from 1973 to 1999, remembers hosting an English class section in Adams dining hall in the late 1970s. After class, a few students stayed behind to chat. The group told Kiely that they were gay and wanted to start a student association recognized by the college. Recognition required a faculty advisor, so they asked Kiely, who happily agreed. The students also needed a meeting space, which multiple other houses had already denied them. Kiely welcomed the students to meet in Adams.
There were a handful of openly gay and lesbian professors and staff members that students remember turning to for advice. But Jennings remembers that “these people played these roles surreptitiously. It wasn’t like the university was actively encouraging them to play these roles, it was like they were doing them almost behind the back of the university.”
In the early 1980s, the Harvard GLSA fought for gay and lesbian visibility on campus. They organized “gay, lesbian, and friend” tables during meals, and they hosted dances in dining halls to fundraise for the club and carve out a queer-centric social scene on campus. They decorated campus kiosks with posters — though Stewart remembers that posters with the words “gay” and “lesbian” were often quickly ripped off.
Thomas B. Watson ’91 founded the Organization for the Advancement of Sexual Minorities, an advocacy group with a mission similar to GLSA’s. The goal of visibility was still pressing in the late 1980s. “At that time, if two guys were caught kissing on campus they might be gay bashed. We put posters of guys kissing all over campus to desensitize people,” says Watson. Other posters showed images of women dominating men and two women kissing, to show “a reversal of traditional roles,” as he remembers.
But, as the number of people who contracted AIDS increased, GLSA dances took on an educational bent, with members passing out information about sexual health and distributing free condoms. Gadol remembers that information about sexual health was often distributed in casual, coded ways. “I remember really clearly this kid from Tufts who was like our age; he had dyed blonde hair and a big white t-shirt… the front, it said ‘relax,’ and on the back it said ‘don’t do it,’ referring to that Frankie Goes To Hollywood song.” The full lyric ends with “when you want to come,” a surreptitious suggestion to practice safe sex.
“That was more of where my interface was,” says Gadol.
In addition to increasing visibility, GLSA established their own avenues of support. Around 1984, Jake Stevens co-founded CONTACT, a peer counseling phone line which still exists today. CONTACT’s founders sought to provide students with a venue to anonymously discuss sex and sexuality with other students. “Although someone could seek counseling through university health services, that was overly medicalized and professionalized,” Stevens says.
And, Stevens adds, HUHS was too public — students could run into classmates or professors, dissuading them from seeking out guidance at all.
Nadja B. Gould, the HUHS mental health counselor who oversaw other peer counseling groups like Room 13 and Response, supervised CONTACT. She trained students who staffed the line to answer questions about sexual health, including HIV testing.
Stewart was also involved and remembers that “it was difficult to make sure that we always had someone answering that phone. We were busy being students. A lot of us were just trying to figure out who we were.”
“In the early days I was at Harvard, AIDS was not in our consciousness yet,” remembers Jennings. “By the time I graduated, it was something that we were very aware of.”
In 1985, the year Jennings graduated, President Ronald Reagan publicly acknowledged AIDS for the first time in response to criticism that he was ignoring the epidemic. In October of that year, Rock Hudson, a strong-jawed leading man of the 1950s, became the first American celebrity to publicly announce an HIV-positive status. The media began focusing on the epidemic that had already caused 12,529 deaths in five years.
That same year, The Crimson reported an HIV-related death for the first time. An MIT graduate student had died suddenly from AIDS-related pneumonia in the fall of 1985. Dr. Warren E. C. Wacker, the Director of HUHS at the time, told The Crimson that the death “likely” would not change Harvard’s current protocol, which then adhered to the CDC’s guidelines for the treatment of infectious diseases. There was no specific University policy for dealing with cases of HIV.
The Crimson reported that Wacker did not “foresee any hysteria about the disease at Harvard.” Wacker told The Crimson that three Harvard affiliates had contracted HIV, and one had died. “We didn’t have a bad reaction to a death at Harvard [of an AIDS patient],” he said.
There wasn’t an FDA-approved medication to treat HIV until the spring of 1987. Zidovudine, or AZT, is a retroviral that delays the replication of the virus. It was a remedy, not a cure, and induced a host of unpleasant side-effects, like bone marrow toxicity, relentless nausea, and severe muscle pain. In lieu of an established preventative medical regimen, healthcare professionals largely just encouraged safe sex practices — a newly coined term that encouraged condom use and discussion of partners’ sexual history.
“I don’t remember any safer sex education; I don’t remember any health services,” says Jennings. “It was like the disease didn’t exist at Harvard.”
Only one of the twelve alumnus interviewed, Leon L. Lai ’91, could recall a specific instance of University-sanctioned sexual health education — a session during his freshman year in 1987. “I think all freshmen had to go to something about safer sex. There was one session. After that, nothing,” he says. “It was like ‘here’s a condom, here’s how to put it on.’”
On top of that, House masters and professors were not equipped to mentor students. Kiely attests (though he couldn’t “swear to it”) that, in his nearly three-decade tenure as Adams House master, he cannot recall receiving information about resources for HIV from the administration.
HUHS did not respond to requests for comment.
HUHS records and public statements from the mid-1980s list a small set of resources available for undergraduates during the period.
After the MIT student’s death, Wacker told The Crimson that HUHS planned an AIDS seminar for later that fall and intended to circulate educational literature about the virus. All official internal memos, policies, and documents from this time are restricted from archival access for at least another decade, but the Harvard University Archives preserve a very thin manila folder with HUHS handouts from the 1980s.
In 1987, HUHS addressed a glossy “Surgeon General’s Report on AIDS” pamphlet to members of the Harvard Community. The booklet greets readers with a photo of the stern-faced Surgeon General. He folds his hands in front of him, and an American flag peeks over his right shoulder.
Beneath the picture, the General writes: “My report will inform you about AIDS, how it is transmitted, the relative risks of infection and how to prevent it. It will help you understand your fears.” The rest of the 34-page pamphlet contains information about transmission, dismissing unfounded fears about casual contact, and presents facts alongside illustrations of the virus that look lifted out of a high-school biology textbook.
An introductory note from HUHS leadership states that “AIDS education and prevention is a major priority at Harvard University Health Services.” It guides readers to a selection of other written material, as well as periodic educational programming.
Three other undated brochures about HIV, produced by the American College Health Association, are also preserved in the manilla folder. The 1985–1986 Official Register of Harvard University state that one ACHA brochure was sent to every member of the college community.
The report outlines Wacker’s other educational efforts, which included speaking to a number of college administrators and staff. He concludes, again, that “it is possible to say that there was no obvious hysteria among either staff or students and that we believe that most of the Harvard community understands the nature of the disease and how to avoid it.”
“There was very much an attitude of Harvard students don’t do naughty things and don’t get naughty diseases,” remembers Jennings. Alumni from the 1980s recall gathering information about the AIDS epidemic from outside sources rather than from the University.
Gadol, Jennings, and Stevens didn’t know any undergrads who were HIV-positive. All three came out in college, as did many of their peers. They were having sex for the first time — often with other virgins. None of the three men needed blood transfusions. They weren’t sharing needles. Only after they graduated college and settled into their adult lives did many of their friends and acquaintances develop HIV.
But the Harvard community included more than just the college. During the 1980s, several Harvard affiliates, including professors, house tutors, and dining hall workers, developed the virus and died suddenly. The circumstances of their deaths were rarely publicly attributed to the virus.
During his junior year, Jennings learned a former teaching fellow had suddenly died. Jennings says that his friend, another teaching fellow, confirmed that the teacher had died of AIDS.
Similarly, Gadol remembers learning about HIV on campus through informal conversations. “When I came back from summer, 1984, and was starting my junior year I remember hearing about a tutor in Adams House who had died, and that was sort of the first time I heard anything and was connecting things myself. Or realizing this was closer to home than not,” he says. `
There was a service for the Adams House tutor in Memorial Church. “There was no mention of AIDS,” remembers Kiely, who was close with the tutor.
The pervasive belief that AIDS only existed outside Harvard Yard prompted Stephen W. Gutwillig ’86 to plan a fundraising event during his senior year.
“I was not, at that point, personally touched except to the extent that it was scary. It felt like we were in a kind of bubble that needed to be confronted and addressed,” he says. “No one wanted to talk about or be confronted with organized queer students, let alone have to talk about AIDS and AIDS transmission.”
So he decided to organize an event that would “normalize response and discussion” about HIV and AIDS on campus.
Gutwillig wasn’t sure how to begin planning a big event so he relied on a medley of friends’ help. He had access to the Loeb Theater through his involvement with the Harvard-Radcliffe Dramatic Club, which also meant access to the American Repertory Theater offices. “We sort of chose to not ask permission but hope for forgiveness and sort of rifled through the rolodex. We got agents and some stars contact info through there,” he says. He called dozens of celebrities.
In 1986, Gutwillig was dating Gadol, who was president of the Harvard Advocate. Gadol organized the festival’s literary component, securing Allen Ginsberg for a reading. Using the ART office’s contacts, Gutwillig contacted and invited Joanne Kennedy (Ted Kennedy’s ex-wife turned Boston socialite), Kathy Bates (then best-known for starring in an off-Broadway production of “The Normal Heart”, one of the first plays about the AIDS crisis), singer Judy Collins, actress Colleen Dewhurst, and a handful of other celebrities to attend.
“As people made suggestions and wanted to be a part of it, it kind of got a life of its own. Before we knew it, it was a week-long festival,” says Gutwillig.
After the event was largely planned, Gutwillig convinced several people and student organizations to co-sponsor the event, including university president Derek C. Bok. In the 1985-1986 Official Register of Harvard University, HUHS listed the Festival of Life as one of their educational efforts.
“We ultimately didn’t need the administration to pay any attention,” says Gutwillig, “but we ultimately did get President Bok to provide a welcome letter.”
The event started on Feb. 17 in Loeb Drama Center with an event entitled “Women United for AIDS Research and Care.” The rest of the week had five or six events a day, including a student film festival, a jazz nightclub, and a series of educational events. On the evening of Feb. 20, Ginsberg sat atop a Persian rug surrounded by candles and read some selections of his work in Sanders Theater.
The week has mostly faded in Gadol’s memory but he clearly recalls taking tickets at one of the week’s dances. “I just remember this intense feeling of both connection and separation,” he says. “It still wasn’t my world, but my world was becoming that world.”
“There weren’t many people at the protest, but it was beautifully done,” remembers Watson. “I remember smoke.”
Members of the AIDS Coalition to Unleash Power, or ACT UP, poured fake blood on the sidewalk and chanted "We're here to show defiance for what Harvard calls 'good science'!" outside Harvard Medical School on the first day of classes. It was the fall of 1988 and, by the end of that year, the number of deaths due to HIV-related complications totaled 61,816. The activists wanted the medical establishment to realize their research wasn’t an abstract biological question but a daily reality for thousands of people.
That year, Harvard started to develop a larger infrastructure to deal with the AIDS crisis.
On May 5, 1988, President Bok announced the creation of the AIDS Institute at the Chan School of Public Health. Created and led by Dr. Harvey V. Fineberg ’67, the Institute aimed to focus on clinical research and, eventually, work towards developing a cure.
1988 also saw the emergence of more campus-focused resources. Gould, a psychologist at HUHS and the supervisor for CONTACT, created a support group for people dealing with HIV. The group was a space to communally process personal experiences with and emotions about HIV. There was no formal process for starting the group — Gould only had to ask Wacker, the Director of HUHS, and find a room for meetings.
The group started with just three or four people but grew to as many as fifteen attendees. Gould says the group was largely graduate students and Harvard staff. People came to talk about friends or family with HIV or their own experience with the virus. They met for an hour and a half in the middle of the day, during most people’s lunch breaks, in a small office in HUHS. Gould made sure the room was windowless so the group could be private.
Because the group was intimate, Gould didn’t feel comfortable advertising meetings around campus. “My experience was that most people heard about it through their friends or they were part of some gay organization on campus,” she says.
HUHS’ mental health resources developed alongside its physical health resources. In March of 1993, HUHS physician Peter Zuromskis ’66 helped create the Harvard AIDS Clinic, a medical clinic with services specifically for people with HIV. The clinic was run out of HUHS and had no set schedule. “There were no specific day,” says Zuromskis. “I was there five days a week and so we would expedite access whenever people needed to be treated.”
Zuromskis remembers providing medical support for about 20 patients with HIV, both undergraduates and graduate students. He wanted to protect the anonymity of the patients, and did not keep a record. Like Gould, he relied on word of mouth to advertise the clinic. Zuromskis thought it was “the quickest way to get the information out,” but he also spoke at a few student venues to spread the word.
This decentralization of HIV resources also meant it was hard to discern what was available on campus.
In 1990, Paul B. Franklin, a second-year art history Ph.D. student, was selected as a new resident tutor in Winthrop House. As the “Bisexual, Gay, and Lesbian issues” tutor, he was part of a recently-established program across six houses to provide resources to gay, lesbian, and bi students.
“I’m lucky that I had professional advice to offer to these youngsters,” says Franklin. “Harvard made tiny baby steps in our direction, and I was incredibly thankful for that and happy. That said, it was not an easy place to be gay, and it was an even more difficult place for someone to be HIV-positive.”
Franklin recalls one introductory training session for “Bisexual, Gay, and Lesbian issues” tutors, but does not remember any University-sanctioned training that dealt specifically with HIV.
“I remember being very hesitant to send students to Health Services,” says Franklin. When students came to Franklin with concerns about their sexual health, he would send them to Cambridge Health Clinic, which provided anonymous HIV testing, as well as other clinics in the Boston area. HUHS offered confidential HIV testing in 1990, but it did not offer anonymous testing until 1996.
Confidential medical tests appear on medical records while anonymous tests do not. “All medical testing is supposed to be confidential,” explains Denise McWilliams, a Boston-based lawyer who handled multiple HIV-discrimination cases in the 1980s. “But confidential testing means your insurance company knows about it.”
This possibility deterred many from taking the test.
Lai remembers a common rationale against getting tested: “If you have an incurable disease, which, from ’87 to ’91, there was no treatment, and if you got the disease, and people found out, you could be some kid, like Ryan White [hemophiliac who contracted HIV through a blood transfusion] who’s like 10, 11 years old, has never hurt anybody in his life, has never had sex with anybody in his life, and, still, these crazy street people will fire bomb your house, throw bricks at you, throw you out of the school, throw paint at you, threaten to kill you. If you have a diagnosis of HIV, there’s no protection against pre-existing conditions. You would lose all your health insurance,” he says.
“So why would you get tested?”
The Harvard AIDS Initiative dealt with the virus on a cellular level, the AIDS Clinic sought to alleviate physical symptoms, and the HUHS Support Group helped those affected cope with acute grief. Despite these institutional support structures, many resources still seemed to exist underground — and they granted little respite from the day-to-day, lingering fear of the virus and the persistent presence of homophobia.
Throughout the 1990s, Harvard slowly started to meet students’ demands for a more centralized set of resources, thanks in part to the urging of AIDS Education and Outreach, an early-1990s student group. Still, there was a decade’s worth of college students whose understanding of their sexual identity was inextricable from the epidemic.
Around 1990, members of BGLSA used funds from a dance to buy pink triangle pins. ACT UP, one of the most prominent AIDS activism groups during the crisis, adopted the upright pink triangle as their logo. Activists put triangles on black posters. Under the triangles, they proclaimed “SILENCE = DEATH” in bolded white letters.
Lai remembers handing out the pins to students on campus. “Initially, the idea was if you wore the pink triangle, you would be part of the community. We would recognize each other.” Lai says the pins eventually became “hip” — even his straight friends started wearing the pins. “It made you feel good. It made you feel like okay, I’m safe here.”
Soon after GLSA started handing out the pink triangle buttons, the members of a conservative magazine called Peninsula started handing out their own pins: blue squares, the antithesis of the pink triangle.
“Of course there’s always a spoiler,” Lai says.
There were no consequences for the Peninsula members.
“Being raised by Harvard in the eighties was like being raised by wolves. Not mean wolves, but kind of you were on your own,” says Lai. “But I wasn’t furious at them for it.”
Twelve hours later, after digging up and sitting with his undergraduate memories, Lai emailed a clarification: “When I said how I responded or felt about the administration’s attitudes towards things, that is with a lot of time and retrospection... I wasn't stupid, but I had still hoped for something better from people that I looked up to and that I expected to have a stronger moral core.”
Even though the virus affected alumni more immediately once they left Harvard, they first heard about and contended with the epidemic as undergraduates. The resources that were — and weren’t — available shaped their first experiences with the crisis.
“What if your roommate, one of your best friends, and your first partner all died from a disease which didn’t even exist as far as you know when you’re a freshman?” says Jennings. “That’s what happened to me. I think of them all the time — whenever I’m at Harvard, whenever I’m at a reunion, I think of these guys who were killed in their very early adult lives by HIV.”
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Facebook CEO and co-founder Mark Zuckerberg ’06 took part in a discussion about data security and targeted advertising at Harvard Law School on Feb. 11.
The discussion, led by Law School Professor Jonathan L. Zittrain, was for students in his course HLS 2433: "Internet & Society: The Technologies and Politics of Control, and Techtopia," a research and teaching initiative for Harvard students and faculty focused on technology issues.
Zittrain said Zuckerberg’s level of personal control over Facebook policies made him a good candidate for the conversation.
“A change to Facebook's acceptable use policy has immediate and far-reaching effects on speech that previously weren't possible through a single private party,” Zittrain wrote in an email. “Mark is the ultimate decision maker for the company in a way that most CEOs are not.”
Zittrain started the discussion asking about “information fiduciaries,” a new arrangement that improves how internet companies handle sensitive data and prioritize users’ interests on their sites, according to a press release about the event.
“The idea of us having a fiduciary relationship with the people who use our services is intuitive,” Zuckerberg said at the talk. “Where this gets interesting is who gets to decide in the legal sense, or in the policy sense, of what’s in people’s best interest.”
The two hour talk also included a discussion of targeted advertising, a practice that has brought Facebook scrutiny in recent years. Zittrain raised the possibility of giving users “a score of how much I’ve earned for Facebook this year,” which could lead to the development of an “informed conversation about an ad-free Facebook subscription model.”
“Are we going to let people pay to have different controls on data use than other people?” Zuckerberg asked in response. “And my answer to that is a hard no.”
Zuckerberg instead suggested a soon-to-be-released tool he called “Clear History” which will give users control over certain data that Facebook uses for targeted advertising.
Zittrain wrote that he was impressed with Zuckerberg’s affirmation of consumer loyalty following data breaches on the website in recent years.
“I was pleased to see him affirm on the record the ideal — however much it's honored in the breach — of Facebook owing a duty of loyalty to its consumers,” Zittrain wrote.
The event was the first of a series of discussions hosted by Techtopia, which Zittrain co-founded.
“I think it's vital for us to bring together students interested in these issues across far-flung departments, centers, and methodologies.” Zittrain wrote.
—Staff writer Connor W. K. Brown can be reached at connor.brown@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @ConnorWKBrown.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
A local man filed a lawsuit against Mr. Bartley’s Burger Cottage and Harvard, which owns the restaurant’s building, earlier this month, alleging that the restaurant violates the Americans with Disabilities Act.
The plaintiff in the case, Andres Ramon Melo, uses a wheelchair for mobility reasons and visited Bartley’s “individually and for personal reasons, and also as a ‘tester’,” according to the complaint, which he filed in federal court Feb. 6. Melo alleges that the restaurant facilities are inaccessible to those using wheelchairs, thus putting the restaurant in violation of the ADA.
Passed by Congress in 1990, the ADA is a federal law meant to provide a clear national standard with enforceable policies to ensure that people with disabilities “have the same opportunities as everyone else to participate in the mainstream of American life,” per the ADA website.
Melo states in the complaint that he encountered several “barriers to access” when visiting Bartley’s. Those barriers allegedly included a raised threshold with no ramp or similar way of access and inaccessible counters and public restrooms. When Melo “engaged and tested” those barriers, he “suffered legal harm and legal injury and will continue to suffer such harm and injury” as long as the building violates the ADA, the complaint states.
The complaint includes a list of nine specific violations that Melo found in the restaurant as well as references to the applicable sections of the ADA. He notes that the list is not comprehensive and asks that Bartley’s be inspected “to determine all of the discriminatory acts violating the ADA,” according to the filing.
The complaint alleges that Bartley’s and Harvard are discriminating against individuals with disabilities by “denying access to, and full and equal enjoyment of the goods, services, facilities, privileges, advantages and/or accommodations of the Facility.”
The current owner of Bartley’s, Bill Bartley, declined to comment.
Harvard spokesperson Brigid O’Rourke wrote in an emailed statement that the University, working in conjunction with experts, could identify “some readily achievable improvements.”
“Harvard is working toward renewing the lease to Mr. Bartley’s Burger Cottage, an iconic Harvard Square business,” O’Rourke wrote. “It is widely recognized that older buildings, particularly those in urban environments such as this one, can present unique challenges for accessibility, but Harvard anticipates that with the assistance of appropriate experts, some readily achievable improvements can be identified.”
Melo is requesting that the court issue a permanent injunction ordering Harvard and Bartley’s to “remove the physical barriers to access” and alter the building so that it complies with ADA regulations. He is also demanding that the defendants pay for his legal costs.
The lawsuit against Bartley’s and Harvard is not Melo’s first attempt to litigate against businesses for alleged violations of the ADA. He often serves as a “tester,” visiting public spaces that allegedly have “illegal barriers to access,” according to the complaint. He then photographs and documents the location while assessing the “extent to which there are illegal barriers to access.”
Melo has been the plaintiff in “dozens” of federal suits at the U.S. District Court of Massachusetts over the past decade, according to his attorney, Edward N. Garno. Melo currently has nine open cases in Massachusetts including the Bartley’s suit, five of which were filed Tuesday.
“He’s an advocate for disabled communities,” Garno said in an interview.
Melo is also represented by attorney Todd W. Shulby of Weston, Fla., who did not respond to multiple requests for comment.
Melo plans to return to Bartley’s in the future to ensure that changes have been made and that the building owners are complying with the regulations stated in the ADA, according to court documents.
–Brie K. Buchanan can be reached at brie.buchanan@thecrimson.com
–Peter E. O’Keefe can be reached at peter.o’keefe@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @CrimsonOKeefe
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Three years ago, when two of Harvard’s unions proposed a merger, talks with the University fell through. Now, the unions – one the largest union at Harvard, and the other one of the smallest – are preparing to reopen their case.
The Harvard University Security, Parking, and Museum Guards Union, which has about 80 members, hopes to merge with the 5,200-member Harvard Union of Clerical and Technical Workers before HUSPMGU’s contract runs out in 2020, HUSPMGU President Curt E. Rheault said.
When the two unions first tried to merge in 2016, more than 90 percent of HUSPMGU’s members supported the move. The two unions then approached Harvard with the merger proposal as HUSPMGU’s contract was being re-negotiated that spring.
At the time, the University raised legal questions about the proposal and, with HUCTW’s contract negotiations coming up, the merger was put on the “back burner,” Rheault said.
Now, Rheault wants to restart those talks, saying the issues that affected the union in 2016 are just as salient today. He said HUSPMGU workers would benefit from being part of a stronger union as they would have more resources.
“We're a small union,” Rheault said. “We're the lowest paid union, actually, at the University.”
Beyond strengthening members’ representation, Rheault also pointed to the improved career development prospects and “upward mobility” that the merger could bring to HUSPMGU’s membership.
“There are good and bad and different things. But at the end of the day, we're just a small unit that wishes to be part of a big unit that's going to help us out a lot more than our resources can afford,” he said.
In response to the 2016 proposal, Harvard Director of Labor Relations Paul R. Curran responded with a letter that raised legal questions about the merger. Curran cited a provision in National Labor Relations Act that precludes employees classified as “guards” from being in a union with non-guards.
Legal experts, however, said that this provision would not preclude HUCTW and HUSPMGU from merging.
University of Oregon Professor Gordon Lafer, who formerly served as a senior labor policy advisor for the U.S. House of Representatives Committee on Education and Labor, wrote in an email that the legal provision limiting guards’ membership dates back to a time when the role of security guards was to act as “company police.”
“Partly the thought was they might be policing picket lines and strikes and therefore management would want to make sure they weren't in the same union as the people they might be policing in a strike,” Lafer wrote. “But at most universities, ‘security guards’ are mostly doing things like monitoring parking lots and art museums.”
In spite of that, the University is not legally obligated to recognize the merger of the two unions, Lafer wrote.
“This is due to the particular case of security guards – labor law (written in the 1930s) assumes that security guards are different from other types of employees and therefore it won't require an employer to recognize a union that has everyone together,” he wrote.
“They can certainly say ‘we don't legally have to, and we don't want to.’ But it's not accurate to say ‘we're prohibited by law from doing this,’” Lafer wrote, referring to the University’s 2016 position that such a merger is prohibited by the National Labor Relations Act.
Even if Harvard were to allow the union merger, William B. Gould IV, former chairman of the National Labor Relations Board, said the school could choose not to bargain with the group. If that were to happen, the merged unions would be unable to petition the NLRB to compel Harvard to bargain with them.
Samuel Estreicher, director of the Center for Labor and Employment Law at New York University, also said that though the merger would be legal, the new union would not have rights enforceable by the NLRB because labor laws limit that body’s recognition of unions with guard and non-guard members.
But that might not be necessary, according to Estreicher.
“If the union is strong, they could go out on strike and compel Harvard to bargain,” he said.
Rheault thinks the merger effort will face three main challenges: legal questions, concerns about how the merger might affect Harvard operations, and financial impacts on the University.
He said he is open to a gradual implementation of the merger to reduce the burden on the University.
“Does it happen over two years, three years, what is it so that the Harvard operations have time to adjust and plan for that?” he said.
Rheault said HUSPMGU reached out to HUCTW two weeks ago and the two sides plan to sit down “soon.”
“We're constantly in touch with the HUSPMGU leadership and still actively interested in trying to find a way to combine our unions and have them be one unified thing,” HUCTW organizer Bill Jaeger said.
The University has yet to hear a formal proposal from the two unions.
“The University has not received a formal request from the union along these lines, and with that is not in a position to comment,” University spokesperson Jonathan L. Swain wrote in an emailed statement.
—Staff writer James S. Bikales can be reached at james.bikales@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @jamepdx.
—Staff writer Ruoqi Zhang can be reached at ruoqi.zhang@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @RuoqiZhang3.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The College is reviewing its “amnesty policy” in response to a fall report on the April 2018 forcible arrest of a black undergraduate, Dean of the College Rakesh Khurana said in an interview Friday.
The College’s amnesty policy — first implemented in 2007 and renewed in 2012 — grants intoxicated students under 21 exemption from University punishment in certain cases. Khurana said Friday the Dean of Students Office is working with the College to conduct the review in response to concerns that the policy’s current wording is confusing to undergraduates.
Under the current iteration of the amnesty policy, students who approach Harvard employees to seek help for themselves or for intoxicated friends will not be punished for underage drinking.
The policy has limits, though. It does not cover other illegal actions students commit while drunk, nor does it prevent local or state authorities from arresting students.
On Friday, Khurana praised the fall report’s findings and said the College plans to make many “fine-grained” changes to how it runs events like Yardfest, the College’s annual spring concert. University administrators issued the report to evaluate its response in the wake of last year’s arrest. The April 13 confrontation sparked allegations of police brutality from some students and made national headlines.
The report found that University resources, including Harvard police and Harvard University Health Services, were stretched thin at last year’s Yardfest, which saw more than five times the number of medical transports that occurred the year before. All transports were for intoxication or overdoses. University President Lawrence S. Bacow wrote in the fall that two local emergency rooms became so “overloaded” that they refused to accept several intoxicated students that night.
“I think it really pointed out a number of areas that we want to strengthen from the College's perspective. We are responding in very fine-grained detail to things about how we manage the large-scale events,” Khurana said. “I think some of that was evidence in the Harvard-Yale game, but that was sort of off-campus. But I think in Yardfest, we will see those practices put in place.”
Khurana focused on the amnesty policy in particular, citing questions over the behavior it “encourages” among undergraduates.
“We're doing a review of what students refer to as the amnesty policy and to try to understand, make sure it's more clear and clarified about what it does do, what it encourages, and also where there's confusion, to remove that confusion,” he said.
Khurana added that administrators are considering both changes to the language of the policy and the way it is presented to students.
“We also learned that the nomenclature itself is confusing,” Khurana said. “There's a lot of opportunities to improve that communication.”
He said the College will also change Yardfest entry policies and reconsider information sent out in advance of the concert.
“We are also, and continue to do, a great deal of work on understanding the way that we work and the questions that exist among our students around a number of College policies,” Khurana said.
Former University President Drew G. Faust established the committee — chaired by Harvard Law School professor Annette Gordon-Reed — that issued the report on the arrest in November. That report came months after Cambridge police officers forcibly arrested the undergraduate and charged him on four counts.
Prosecutors later dropped the charges in May following protests from other undergraduates and local officials.
In addition to addressing issues of underage drinking and its burden on local hospitals, the report also made recommendations for other College programs concerning mental health. Riley and other University administrators suggested that House and Yard staff undergo training for “multi-cultural competency in mental health support.”
Correction: Feb. 28, 2019
A previous version of this article incorrectly stated that HUPD Chief of Police Francis "Bud" D. Riley issued the report on the arrest. In fact, former University President Drew G. Faust established the committee that issued the report. 
—Staff writer Shera S. Avi-Yonah can be reached at shera.avi-yonah@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter at @saviyonah.
—Staff writer Delano R. Franklin can be reached at delano.franklin@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter at @delanofranklin_.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard Management Company, the University’s investment arm, invests more heavily in technology companies than the other four largest university endowments in the country, according to the most recent U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
Nearly 83 percent of Harvard’s declared securities investments are in four large technology firms: Microsoft, Apple, Facebook, and Alphabet, Google’s parent company, according to its 2018 fourth-quarter filings, which were released earlier this month.
In comparison, just a year ago, SEC filings indicate that Harvard did not directly invest in tech stocks at all.
The other top four university endowments — Yale University, Princeton University, Stanford University, and the University of Texas system — invest far less in information technology. Out of these four, Princeton invests the most in technology stocks, with just under 5 percent of its securities holdings in technology stocks, according to its SEC filings from the same period. Technology stocks comprise less than 1 percent of all securities for Yale and Stanford.
Stocks held through exchange-traded funds, while reported to the SEC, are not included in these breakdowns. The rest of Harvard’s holdings that are not in tech are largely in exchange-traded funds.
Harvard is also an outlier when it comes to investments in one particular D.C.-based real estate firm. Princeton, Yale, and MIT all hold substantial stakes in the firm, JBG Smith Properties, and Princeton’s stake in JBG Smith represents 93 percent of the university’s total securities. Harvard, on the other hand, had no direct holdings in JBG Smith as of the end of 2018.
Technology stocks have done well so far this year compared to the overall stock market. The S&P 500’s information technology index has increased 12.1 percent since the beginning of the year, whereas the overall S&P 500 is up just 10.9 percent.
The SEC requires investment managers — like HMC — with more than $100 million under management to disclose securities holdings annually. Managers are not required to report mutual fund holdings, but they must include their exchange-traded funds.
The $475 million Harvard reported in securities last quarter make up a relatively small portion of the University’s overall endowment, which is valued at around $39.2 billion. Private equity and real estate investments, at 20 percent and 14.5 percent of the endowment respectively, were the largest sectors of the endowment last year.
Harvard’s endowment, the largest university endowment in the world, has seen weaker returns than its Ivy League peers in recent years. Last year, only Columbia’s investment returns trailed Harvard’s. The exclusive group of university endowments that exceed $500,000 per student is bracing for a new 1.4 percent federal tax on endowment returns that will be levied for the first time this fiscal year.
—Staff writer Luke W. Vrotsos can be reached at luke.vrotsos@thecrimson.com.
—Staff writer Cindy H. Zhang can be reached at cindy.zhang@thecrimson.com.​​​​
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Political dissidents and human rights activists shared personal stories about their work at the College Freedom Forum held Wednesday evening in a Science Center auditorium.
The event, organized by the Human Rights Foundation alongside the Harvard International Relations Council, brought experts together to educate on global human rights issues.
The speakers at Wednesday’s forum included Turkish dissident and NBA player Enes Kanter, Somali social activist Leyla Hussein, Venezuelan violinist Wuilly Arteaga, Harvard professor Steven A. Pinker, and Chinese human rights activist Ti-Anna Wang. The theme of Wednesday’s forum was grassroots activism, according to IRC president Eliza R. Ennis ’19.
Pinker, the author of two books on human rights, introduced the event by expressing admiration for HRF’s nonpartisan work for advancing democracy and human rights.
Turkish national Kanter, who video conferenced into the forum, spoke about his experience as a dissident of the Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, according to Human Rights Foundation Special Advisor Nasser Weddady. Turkish prosecutors issued a warrant for his arrest last month.
Kanter’s participation in the College Freedom Forum drew the ire of the Turkish consulate, which had planned to protest Kanter’s talk, according to Weddady.
“We got some information that there was some organization orchestrated from the Turkish consulate against Enes Kanter because the Erdogan government is trying to silence one of its critics,” Weddady said in an interview after the event.
The Turkish Consulate in Boston did not immediately respond to comment Wednesday night.
Weddady also said President Erdogan disregarded Turkish citizens’ right to protest.
“It’s an authoritarian regime and unfortunately they’re trying to extend their oppression on American soil. And the irony is of course that they’re free to protest — we welcome it — because here in America we respect these rights unlike under Erdogan’s rule,” he said.
Inside the auditorium, however, there was no evidence of a protest. Several Harvard police officers were present at the Science Center and stood guard at the forum.
Wang spoke about her advocacy for the release of her father, a Chinese political prisoner who has been behind bars for the past 17 years.
Meanwhile, Abdalaziz Alhamza, a Syrian journalist, spoke about the power of individuals to affect wide scale change through documentation.
Alhamza said he uploaded a video from a protest in Raqqa amid the 2011 Arab Spring onto Facebook. The video instantly went viral and disseminated on international television.
“I knew that I can bring change with my phone. In that second, I believed in citizen journalism,” he said in an interview after the event.
Alhamza defined citizen journalism as “the ability to record the truth in conditions when people can’t talk about it or the media can’t reach it.”
Venezuelan violinist and pro-democracy activist Arteaga communicated to the audience through a translator that he was arrested in Venezuela in 2017 for playing his violin at a pro-democracy protest. He also played the violin at the forum.
While imprisoned, Arteaga said he was violently tortured for singing. Today, Arteaga lives in New York, where he plays the violin underground in the subways.
—Staff writer Jenna X. Bao can be reached at jenna.bao@thecrimson.com.
—Staff writer Ema R. Schumer can be reached at ema.schumer@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @emaschumer.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The College’s Office of Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion and the Harvard Foundation for Intercultural and Race Relations will join to form a single office, Dean of the College Rakesh Khurana and Dean of Students Katherine G. O’Dair announced in an email to College affiliates Thursday.
In the same email, Khurana and O’Dair wrote that the Dean of Students Office will begin its search for an Associate Dean for Inclusion and Belonging, a position that has remained vacant since September, in the coming weeks. Shortly after former Associate Dean for Diversity and Inclusion Roland S. Davis stepped down for “personal reasons,” O’Dair emailed College affiliates stating that Khurana would establish a working group of students, faculty, and staff, who would provide input on the dean search.
O’Dair also wrote that the group would review the Office’s mission.
The new dean will oversee the merger after the group selects Davis’s replacement — he left Harvard one year after taking the job.
The Thursday email stated the merger is an outgrowth of the working group’s discussions, citing the overlapping missions of the two offices.
“By bringing the work of both organizations into one office, we will be able to create an office that has full responsibility to strengthen our commitment to inclusion and belonging on campus,” the email reads.
In addition to the Harvard Foundation, the new associate dean will oversee the four other divisions of the EDI Office — the Office of BGLTQ Student Life, the Office of Diversity Education and Support, the College’s Title IX Office, and the Women’s Center. The Title IX Office reported directly to O’Dair following Davis’s departure, while Alexander R. Miller, the associate dean of student engagement, has overseen the other three divisions.
The divisions of the EDI Office supervise a number of on-campus initiatives involving peer education and support for women, BGLTQ students, and students of color. The Office of Diversity Education and Support oversees the Diversity Peer Educators — a group of student facilitators who conduct outreach and host events on behalf of the EDI Office.
The Harvard Foundation, which offers cultural programming, has been without a director since the 2017 death of its founder, Harvard Medical School Professor S. Allen Counter. After Davis’s departure, O’Dair wrote that Associate Dean of the College Joan Rouse would continue as the interim director of the Foundation.
Khurana and O’Dair wrote Thursday that the consolidated group will bring all of the College’s diversity-related programming under one umbrella.
“This new organization will bring significant student voice to programs and initiatives through strengthened support for student intern and peer educator programs, with the goal of fulfilling the important role of helping all Harvard College students live and learn in a dynamic and diverse campus environment,” they wrote.
—Staff writer Shera S. Avi-Yonah can be reached at shera.avi-yonah@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter at @saviyonah.
—Staff writer Delano R. Franklin can be reached at delano.franklin@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter at @delanofranklin_.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
After a strong start to the Eastern College Athletic Conference (ECAC) Championship, the Harvard men’s tennis team lost a 4-3 nailbiter to Penn in the finals.

At the ECAC Championship, featuring seven of the eight Ivy League schools (minus Columbia), Harvard started the weekend against Brown. Brown came out swinging early, racking up a quick victory in doubles against senior Christopher Morrow and sophomore Lane Leschly. Freshman Brian Shi and sophomore Robert Wrzesinski were quick to strike back in doubles, though, evening the score before the Crimson dropped the final singles point.

Nonetheless, Brown couldn’t manage to hold the momentum heading into singles as Harvard earned two victories on the backs of freshmen Steven Sun and Brian Shi. Freshman Harry Walker sealed the match with a singles victory to give the Crimson a 4-2 victory, extending Harvard’s dominance over Brown to 82-7 all-time.

“We fought hard against Brown after a slow start in doubles,” Walker said. “Brian and Steven played very well right out of the gate and won handily.”
The Crimson then met Princeton in the semifinals. After dropping the first match behind Morrow and Leschly, doubles pairs senior Andy Zhou and junior Logan Weber and Shi and Wrzesinski respectively won their doubles matches 6-4 and 7-6(5).

Once again, the Crimson’s dominant singles play from freshmen help carried the team into the finals, as Sun and Wrzesinski notched wins against Princeton before Walker once again finished off the match with a 6-4, 6-3 singles victory. The victory pulled Harvard ahead 55-46 all time against the Tigers.

The Crimson were riding a particular high after the match, as Walker explained, “We made a great doubles adjustment against Princeton and had better energy than any other match this season.”

More than ready for the finals, the hot-handed Harvard team advanced to a finals round matchup against equally hot Penn, who had just upset first-seeded Dartmouth in the semifinals. Unlike the past matches, this time Harvard drew first blood with a doubles victory.
The euphoria wouldn’t last too long, as Penn swept straight-sets victories against Zhou, Wrzesinski, and Walker to pull ahead to 3-1, putting Harvard on the brink of elimination.

Hanging by a thread, Sun and Shi continued their weekend heroics in singles winning their matches 5-7, 6-3, 6-1 and 4-6, 6-4, 6-2 respectively to even the match at 3-3. Harvard’s tournament hopes came down to the final point, which it dropped 6-4, 6-7, 6-3 to ultimately hand Penn the ECAC Championship.

Sun’s win against Penn extended his singles record on the season to 6-3 and 7-4 overall and more impressively continued his unbeaten singles streak for the spring.

Following the match, Walker remained positive. “Even though we started strong against Penn in the finals by winning the doubles point, we came up a little short in singles…[w]e all fought as hard as we could and did an amazing job supporting each other on court,” Walker said. “It really just came down to few missed opportunities and execution errors against Penn, but we know exactly what to work on for next time when we play them in April.”

Looking ahead, the Crimson return to the Murr Center on Sunday, February 24 to face off against Memphis.

March has the team traveling to San Diego for the San Diego Spring Classic. They will then finish out the rest of the season against remaining Ivy League opponents in April and May.
-Staff writer Shuvom N. Sadhuka can be reached at shuvom.sadhuka@thecrimson.com
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
When blasting music while you walk across campus (whether you opt for AirPods or plebian earbuds), having the right playlist is everything. This playlist will have you strutting across campus with so much confidence you’ll need your own sidewalk.
Meant to Be // Bebe Rexha
Strut Level: 1/5
The first step to mastering your strut is getting rid of the tension. Close your eyes and let yourself believe that there’s truly no “need to go​ nowhere fast, let's enjoy right here where we at.”
Monaco // MKTO
Strut Level: 2/5
Whether you have a special someone or not, this song will make you feel like you are the most sought-after human in all the land. Nothing amps up the strut game like feeling like someone is willing to “go wherever you go,” even if it means “chasing you through the streets of Monaco”...not really sure where Monaco is but it sounds very idyllic and strut-worthy.
No Brainer // DJ Khaled
Strut Level: 3/5
If DJ Khaled and Justin Bieber both tell you that you “stick out of the crowd,” then you best believe you stick out of the crowd. In a sea of Harvard students and tourists, you’re special and it’s time you start acting like it.
IDGAF // Dua Lipa
Strut Level: 4/5
Is this song about making a man regret ever doing you dirty? Maybe. Can this song be about how that L you took in that class really doesn’t matter to you? Yes. Regardless of what this song actually means, you’re above it all and people better stay a solid foot and a half away from you.
Queen // Loren Gray
Strut Level: 5/5
Get ready to own the sidewalk once you start blasting this song. This song might not get people to actually “bow down on [their] knees,” but keep channeling that royal strut, and it’s only a matter of time.
Why trek across campus when you can strut? Who knows, maybe you’ll even visit your Quad friends, strutting the whole way.
