News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard’s graduate student union will end its strike Dec. 31 and return to work in the new year without a contract, the union's bargaining committee announced in an email to members Monday afternoon.
Though the union and University have yet to reach an agreement, the two sides enter 2020 weathered by the longest graduate student strike in recent history. The parties will meet for their next bargaining session on Jan. 7, joined by federal mediators.
During the nearly four-week-long strike, union and University representatives met for just one three-hour-long negotiating session. During that meeting, they came to six tentative agreements, though none concerned the core issues behind the union’s strike: compensation, healthcare, and an independent third-party grievance procedure for adjudicating sexual harassment and discrimination complaints. Following the session, the University proposed — and the union accepted — an offer to engage the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service.
The strike will officially conclude at 11:59 p.m. on Dec. 31, according to the bargaining committee’s email. In its email, the committee wrote that the strike had laid a “new foundation to finish negotiations.”
“In response to our strike, the administration—for the first time ever—announced that they intend to reach a contract by the end of January,” the email read. “We now expect the administration to put all their energy into reaching a fair agreement.”
The University has not formally committed to a timeline for reaching a contract, though it has repeatedly noted its commitment to ongoing bargaining with Harvard Graduate Students Union-United Automobile Workers. University spokesperson Jonathan L. Swain reiterated that sentiment in an emailed statement Monday.
“The University is pleased HGSU-UAW accepted our invitation for mediation. We remain committed to addressing concerns raised during these ongoing negotiations,” he wrote.
Prior to the strike, HGSU-UAW and the University had met for 28 negotiating sessions since bargaining began in Oct. 2018. Though the two sides had reached 12 tentative agreements in those sessions, none related to the core issues identified by the union. Citing intractable disagreements with administrators, union members overwhelmingly approved a strike in late October.
When a Dec. 3 strike deadline set by the union passed without an agreement, union members headed to the picket line. They withheld their teaching responsibilities — including holding office hours, grading assignments, and proctoring final exams — and halted paid research not included in their academic programs throughout the College’s reading and finals periods.
Instead, striking union members and their supporters held rallies at Harvard’s Cambridge and Longwood campuses. Protesters also picketed in front of loading docks and delivery entrances across Harvard, seeking to block deliveries.
After many students returned home for winter break, the union encouraged its members to participate in a “virtual picket line” by contacting administrators. For the final three weeks of the strike, union members who performed an average of four hours of strike duties per week became eligible to receive benefits from the United Automobile Workers’s strike fund.
In its email Monday, the bargaining committee criticized the University’s handling of the strike, writing that Harvard administrators had shown their “true priorities.”
“They decided to threaten student workers instead of agreeing to protections against workplace abuse; they decided to spend money on police details instead of healthcare; and they decided to sacrifice educational quality by canceling exams and moving to Scantrons, instead of agreeing to fair pay,” the bargaining committee members wrote.
Swain declined to comment on the union’s allegations.
During the strike, several academic departments across the University emailed graduate student teaching staff asking whether they were participating, sparking backlash from the union. University administrators also asked some hiring managers to confirm with prospective teaching staff whether they plan to begin teaching on time next semester — a move legal experts said may have violated labor law.
Harvard also accumulated significant costs over the course of the strike. Cambridge Police Department billed Harvard around $185,000 in security fees associated with the first two weeks of the strike, a figure that does not include potential costs related to Harvard University Police’s presence.
Over the course of picketing, union members and their allies also repeatedly criticized administrators for failing to schedule a bargaining session until two weeks into the strike.
The union garnered the support of dozens of faculty, politicians, and members of Congress, as well as unions in Boston and worldwide. The union’s backers held protests in four cities across the nation to pressure Harvard Corporation members in conjunction with the one bargaining session held during the strike.
“For nearly a month, we’ve demonstrated our power as workers essential to the university’s teaching and research mission,” the bargaining committee wrote in Monday’s email. “Over the course of our strike, we’ve shown the university administration that Harvard works because we do.”
—Staff writer Camille G. Caldera contributed reporting.
—Staff writer James S. Bikales can be reached at james.bikales@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @jamepdx.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Former Harvard and current Miami Dolphins quarterback Ryan Fitzpatrick ‘05 returned to Massachusetts in heroic fashion, leading his squad to a shocking upset victory over the New England Patriots, ruining the latter’s chances at a first-round bye in the NFL Playoffs. The Harvard alum was 28 of 41 for 320 yards with a touchdown and no interceptions, and added a touchdown on the ground en route to a 27-24 win.
Tom Brady and the Patriots aimed to clinch a first-round bye as the second seed in the AFC Playoffs, needing only a victory over Miami at home. Despite being 17-point favorites, New England was bested by the Dolphins thanks to a five-yard touchdown pass from Fitzpatrick with 24 seconds left in the contest. Down four points with 3:53 remaining in the game, Fitzpatrick took over the offense from his own 25 needing a touchdown to win. Nearly 90 seconds and 75 yards later, the Dolphins had the lead.
In the twilight of the 2010s, Fitzpatrick helped Miami break multiple streaks that stretched back into the previous decade. The Dolphins had not beaten the Patriots in Foxborough since September 21, 2008, and had not beaten Tom Brady on the road since December 10, 2006. The win also forces the Patriots to play in the Wild Card round of the postseason, breaking a remarkable streak of first-round byes for New England that extends back to 2009.
In helping lead Miami to defy recent trends, Fitzpatrick made history of his own. The 37-year old quarterback became the oldest player to lead his team in rushing yards and touchdowns for the season. This mark was achieved with only 243 yards and four touchdowns, thanks to a carousel of running backs for the Dolphins throughout the season. The former Crimson topped elite company, taking the record from the previous oldest player to lead his team in rushing yards and touchdowns, Hall of Fame running back Marcus Allen. The next two players on the list, Emmitt Smith and John Riggins, are also Hall of Fame running backs.
The Dolphins entered the season with extremely low expectations, as offseason moves led many to believe that the team was planning on “tanking” the 2019 season in order to secure a strong draft position in 2020 and rebuild next year. At the beginning of the season, when Fitzpatrick was named quarterback, the veteran would clearly not have rolled over despite the team’s bleak outlook.
Following a slow start and a brief benching, Fitzpatrick finished the season in strong fashion. The Dolphins started the season an abysmal 0-7 but rebounded from the cellar, finishing the 2019 campaign 5-4 with Fitzpatrick at the helm. Over this stretch of games, Fitzpatrick averaged 291 yards through the air, throwing for under 200 yards only once in a 16-12 win over the Colts. Despite missing a few games, the veteran gunslinger finished the season with an impressive 3,529 yards, 20 touchdowns, and 13 interceptions.
Fitzpatrick, who turned 37 just before Thanksgiving, signed a two-year contract worth $11 million last offseason. With the Dolphins unsure about their quarterback situation for next season, the 2004 Ivy League Player of the Year is sure to be a valuable veteran presence in a young locker room. This season, however, Fitzpatrick proved that, even in his 14th campaign, he is still just as valuable to his team on the field.
—Staff writer Joseph W. Minatel can be reached at joseph.minatel@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Over the past decade, major changes have taken place at Harvard, and The Crimson's photographers have been on the scene to document them, from the return of ROTC to campus to strikes led by dining hall and graduate student workers calling for higher wages. The Crimson's Multimedia staff reflects on some of the most important stories of the past decade told through photos.
Navy Secretary Ray E. Mabus (seated, left) and former University President Drew G. Faust (seated, right) signed an agreement in March 2011 to re-establish Naval ROTC at Harvard after nearly 40 years of absence due to Harvard's non-discrimination policy.
In May 2012, Quincy House Deans – then called House Masters – Lee and Deborah J. Gehrke, Deans Evelyn M. Hammonds and Michael D. Smith, students, and alumni gathered in Quincy courtyard to celebrate the groundbreaking at Old Quincy, initiating the 2012-2013 renovations. Administrators described Old Quincy as the “test project” for renovations to come in Leverett House’s McKinlock Hall, Dunster House, Winthrop House, Lowell House, and Adams House.
On April 15, 2013 over 100 Harvard administrators, staff, and students made their way across the river to participate in and watch the Boston Marathon. Two bombs went off near the finish line, around 2:50 p.m., killing three people, including Krystle Campbell, a former Harvard Business School employee. Over the next several days, a manhunt ensured, leading to the closure of the University on April 19. After a day under lockdown and heightened alert, members of the Harvard community were relieved when, at 8:45 p.m., officials captured suspect Dzhokhar A. Tsarnaev just outside the designated search area in a Watertown backyard. Administrators cancelled Visitas, the annual admitted students weekend, which they had originally scheduled for that weekend. During and after the week of the marathon, members of the Harvard community attended and held vigils on campus and in Boston to commemorate the over 250 injuries and three fatalities.
In July 2014, Harvard College’s leadership changed over as Rakesh Khurana moved into University Hall after he was named Interim Dean Donald H. Pfister’s replacement in January. In his first term as dean, Khurana prioritized student engagement and spoke at length about the College’s mission.
The decisions of two separate grand juries not to indict two white police officers who killed unarmed black men in Ferguson, Mo., and Staten Island, N.Y., in 2014 prompted outcry and protests across the nation. Harvard students took to Boston and Cambridge streets in late November to protest of the Ferguson decision, holding rallies and die-ins.
A bomb threat shook Harvard’s campus in November 2015, prompting the evacuation of four buildings in and around Harvard Yard before a five-hour police search proved the threat unfounded.
Students joined “Hear Her Harvard,” a movement opposing sanctions against members of unrecognized single-gender organizations including final clubs and sororities in spring 2016. In May of that year, administrators announced a policy — which began with the Class of 2021 — barring members of single-gender final clubs, sororities, and fraternities from holding leadership positions in recognized student organizations, becoming varsity captains, or receiving College endorsement for prestigious fellowships.
A historic strike by Harvard’s dining hall workers roiled campus for more than three weeks in Oct. 2016 as the employees sought to establish a “minimum guaranteed salary” of $35,000 per year and prevent increases in health care costs. Harvard’s dining hall workers first took to picket lines Oct. 6, and — supported by their union UNITE HERE Local 26 — maintained the lines for 22 days. The strike marked the first time since 1983 that Harvard’s campus had seen a HUDS walkout, and the first time in history that dining hall workers left their posts during the academic year.
Cambridge police officers arrest Rev. Jonathan L. Walton, professor and minister in the Memorial Church, for standing in the middle of Mass. Ave. as part of a protest in Sept. 2017. Walton, along with roughly 20 other Boston-area professors, stood in the street to protest the repeal of DACA.
On Oct. 5, 2018, Lawrence S. Bacow was inaugurated as Harvard's 29th president. In 2017, former University President Drew Glipin Faust announced the end of her decade-long presidency. The search for Faust’s successor — characterized by clandestine meetings and secret negotiations — lasted seven months and culminated with Bacow’s selection. Bacow, a Corporation member at the time, was a member of the search committee until he stepped down to be considered as a candidate.
On Oct. 15, 2018, a high-stakes and high-profile lawsuit alleging Harvard's admissions process unlawfully discriminates against Asian American applicants went to trial. Harvard had been locked in a legal battle with plaintiff Students for Fair Admissions for over five years, capturing national attention and bringing to light details of the College’s admissions process. The three week-long trial saw top administrators and students making the trek to Boston to testify. On Oct. 1, 2019, federal judge Allison D. Burroughs ruled in favor of the University. SFFA has since appealed the ruling.
Harvard affiliates advocating for divestment from fossil fuel companies and the prison system spent 2019 organizing demonstrations to urge the University to abandon its decades-long stance against their cause. University President Lawrence S. Bacow has maintained previous Harvard presidents’ policy against divestment. The precedent — first publicly stated by former University President Derek C. Bok — argues that Harvard’s nearly $40 billion endowment should not be an instrument for social change.
Tensions between Harvard and its graduate student union escalated in 2019 as the two sides attempted to negotiate the union’s first contract, culminating when the union went on strike in December. Harvard Graduate Students Union-United Automobile Workers began bargaining with the University after voting to unionized in April 2018. After spending months holding rallies, broadcasting a slew of advertisements on national television, and occupying University Hall in May, union organizers concluded that, despite their efforts to put pressure on the University, negotiations had reached an impasse. The strike went on for four weeks until bargaining committee members announced it would end on Dec. 31.
Sections
Hasty Pudding Man of the Year Milo Ventimiglia accepted the company's Pudding Pot in February, following the theatrical company's traditional roast.
Bryce Dallas Howard braved frigid temperatures as she waved to onlookers during the Hasty Pudding's Woman of the Year parade. The actress, producer, and director was joined by members of the Hasty Pudding Theatricals dressed in colorful outfits as they danced through the streets. This year saw the Pudding's 171st production, the first time in the show's nearly 200-year history that Hasty Pudding Theatricals accepted female students into its formerly all-male cast.
New England Patriots fans gathered in Boston Common to celebrate the team's sixth Super Bowl victory.
Journalist and activist Janet Mock received the Harvard Foundation's 2019 Artist of the Year award from Cultural Rhythms director Hakeem O. I. Angulu '20.
Students handed out letters containing housing assignments on the steps of University Hall before they stormed freshman dorm rooms.
Hundreds of students packed into Tercentenary Theatre in April to watch Kiiara and Bazzi perform at Yardfest, the College’s annual spring outdoor concert.
Looking back on her time in East Germany during the Cold War and its aftermath, German Chancellor Angela Merkel assured members of the Class of 2019 about the constancy of change in her address during the afternoon exercises of the 368th Commencement.
University President Lawrence S. Bacow spoke at the 2019 Freshman Convocation in September.
The banks of the Charles River were packed as multitudes of spectators flocked to the water to witness The Head of the Charles, an annual rowing spectacle. The 55th rendition of the regatta brought with it crisp days packed with competitive races as legions of boats sliced through the water down the five kilometer course.
In a double-overtime thriller, Yale defeated Harvard in the 136th rendition of The Game, 50-43.
The annual football game between Harvard and Yale was interrupted and delayed after a protest began on the field during the last three minutes of half-time. Hundreds of protesters flooded onto the field to call on Harvard and Yale to divest their endowments from fossil fuels and Puerto Rican debt. The protest lasted approximately 30 minutes, and delayed gameplay by 48 minutes. Police arrested and charged several protesters with disorderly conduct.
Tensions between Harvard and its graduate student union escalated this year as the two sides attempted to reach a contract agreement. The union eventually went on strike for 27 days, picketing in Harvard Yard and Longwood.
Student and alumni activists intensified calls for the University to create a formal ethnic studies program at Harvard this year, marking the latest campaign in a nearly five-decade push.
