News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Last Friday, Harvard students crossed the river and enjoyed Harvard football’s first home game of the year, with our Crimson beating Brown University handily. Ahead of the game, Harvard Athletics’ Assistant Director of Multimedia and Production posted a video on Instagram to get students and fans excited for the game. The video is indeed exciting – featuring close-up video of the players, fast cuts between shots, and footage from Harvard football’s history, but underneath the images plays a soundtrack that is ill-fitting at best.
Almost the entirety of the 50-second video uses the track “Electric Pow Wow Drum” by A Tribe Called Red, a soundtrack that gradually intensifies with traditional drumming. Given Harvard’s own history with Native American nations, this is extremely inappropriate, and the video should be taken down immediately.
Harvard’s disrespect for Native Americans and their nations goes back to a few years after the founding of the College, when in 1655, the Indian College was established. This initiative was borne out of financial necessity and cooperation with local churches, in a deal that meant increased revenue for the College if it would admit and house Natives in an effort to anglicize and assimilate them. Through this, Harvard played an active role in the colonization of Native Americans that would lead to land grabs, the deaths of hundreds of thousands of Natives, and the social death of entire tribes.
Despite the existence of the Indian College, some might say that Harvard’s role in Native colonization is greatly overstated. If it is, those same people would have to turn a blind eye to the symbol the College used to represent itself – the Pilgrim.
The Pilgrim, an icon associated with the genocide of millions of Native Americans, was used as both a noun and an adjective associated with the school, and its official mascot, John Harvard, is still depicted in Harvard Yard wearing the traditional dress of an English pilgrim. Remnants of this term still exist through the Harvard Pilgrim Health Care, a Harvard-affiliated non-profit health services company which dates back to 1969. Harvard is not alone in this respect: Dartmouth had an Indian as its mascot until 1969.
The school’s transgressions on this topic are not limited to extracurricular matters. Nineteenth and 20th century archaeologists like Alfred V. Kidder were sent out on Harvard’s behalf to seize Native artifacts and even to bring back burial remains, such as the Pueblo bodies Harvard kept in its possession until the 1990s. Today’s guidelines would never allow for such expeditions, of course, but the study of archaeology on our campus is still taught by a cadre of professors that includes only a handful of Native American scholars.
Progress on this issue has been slow, to say the least. Though some might tout that the University has made strides to hire tenure-track Native faculty members in recent decades, we cannot ignore that the endowment still has investments tied to indigenous genocide in Brazil and burial site destruction in Australia.
We live on stolen Wampanoag land and it is incumbent on each and every one of us to acknowledge and recognize this. This is not done when we appropriate indigenous art to promote our school or our athletics department. In light of this school’s history, it’s insensitive and unbelievable that a member of its staff would post a video that appropriates Native culture for the promotion of something as trivial as football.
The video is even more unseemly when you consider the intentions and activism of the musical artists behind the song. A Tribe Called Red, a First Nations electronic group that seeks to dispel the idea that Natives are remnants of the past by adding traditional drumming to modern electronic music, has itself asked its fans not to appropriate Native culture and art when they attend their shows and has backed civil rights lawsuits that challenge instances of appropriation. This staff member’s use of this song is an open act of appropriation, disrespecting Native culture and the artists themselves. The video, which includes images of Spartan warriors and fighter jets, perpetuates what A Tribe Called Red is fighting against: the view and stereotype of Native Americans as bloodthirsty, war-like fighters.
Perhaps Harvard is unaware of this video. If so, we hope Harvard encourages its employee to take down the video and to replace the background music with something more respectful and appropriate. Harvard must also more closely monitor how its image is portrayed to the outside world. This incident demonstrates the need Harvard has to better educate its students, faculty and staff on our troubled past, because though this particular instance might seem small to some, it can deeply affect and perpetuate insecurities and issues of identity within Harvard’s Native community.
Patrick C. Barham Quesada ’21, a Crimson Editorial editor, is a Government concentrator in Pforzheimer House. James L. Walkingstick ’21 is a Social Anthropology concentrator in Pforzheimer House.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
These days, it’s all about quick takes. Opinions are formed and expressed all across campus at a fever pitch, especially in an environment as newsworthy as Harvard. Each time a new, even mildly controversial article appears, an equal and opposite Twitter thread or group chat emerges almost instantaneously, quick to critique and condemn. While sometimes the topic in question appears to lend itself to a simple judgement, too often students are quick to rush to opine without knowing all the facts. Opinions are made on the basis of a single headline without even thinking about the larger story and editorial decisions behind them. It is nothing less than a cancel culture, hell-bent on swallowing ledes and handing down verdicts without appeal.
Part of this is because of our campus. The many ambitious students — otherwise known as future “citizen-leaders” — who form our community tend to come down hard on an issue, often to display the depths of their knowledge, perspective, or subjectivity. This is not to say that these opinions are not valuable on our campus. (It would be blasphemous for us to even think so, and write it in an opinion piece, no less.) This desire also isn’t absolute: It does not happen with every student, or on every issue. But it’s important to see what this opinion-based pressure implies: a lack of objectivity within our campus.
It’s sad to say, but it’s nearly impossible to be objective at Harvard. All too often, it seems many students don’t often consider the values of being objective and neutral in reading an article or considering an opinion. There are many possible reasons for this. We might feel pressure to make our opinions performative to conform to expectations. We may fear tone-policing or wish to avoid the shame of holding an unpopular or marginalized opinion. Perhaps most likely — and most dangerously — we’re simply unwilling to engage with the time-consuming process of reviewing all the facts of a given story and subsequently coming up with a well-thought-out opinion.
The effects of this constant pressure to be subjective are troubling. Stories abound of our peers fearing others’ reactions to their viewpoints, or buckling to pressure for fear that they be judged or critiqued. Stories of an echo-chamber reverberate, and promise to suffocate.
When we feel a knee-jerk reaction to stand with or for a cause, we lack the important step of approaching incidents with the objectivity they need. There is certainly value in being able to quickly read an article, dissect it, analyze its claims, and weigh its pros and cons. But we feel most students don’t do this. Instead of looking at something with an open mind, we tend to rush to the nearest possible conclusion that fits our preexisting conception of what our world is, or should be.
This is risky, because it skips so many critical steps in between for the sake of immediate gratification of having said something. Fact-checking, dialogue, and debate are incredibly important; these tenets of sound opinion-making cannot be cast aside in favor of superficial and trendy soundbites. News stories, facts, and events must be approached with objectivity and an eye for the facts for us to then construct our opinion on. Calling things out to call them out undermines the severity of such charges. When we speculate on values and intentions, when we say something is racist, sexist, prejudiced, or bigoted, these words must be deeply considered. The cost of these statements are too high to make, especially if they are made on the basis of quickly skimming an article.
Harvard in some ways recognizes this critical attention to opinion-making falling out of favor. The Dean of Students’ Office recently rolled out a policy for extracurricular organizations at the College, requiring a moderator to be present when hosting “controversial speakers.” These moderators are even given the power to shut down events under certain circumstances. Yet, even these policies are fashioned from the wrong intention. These policies prioritize damage control over dialogue; image over ideals; and convey a lack of trust for students here to figure out for themselves the best way to disagree and form their opinions.
Is this lack of trust wrong? We hope so.
This University’s values show a desire to challenge its students, to help them grow and learn in the light of higher education. But it doesn’t seem that’s the case with this new policy. Instead of allowing students to form environments where the opportunity for substantive debate is at least possible, this moderation policy almost certainly will stifle that.
We firmly believe in the importance of holding debate and forming opinions, however controversial or marginal they may be. But as counterintuitive as it may be, the only way to form a nuanced, subjective view is to embrace a sense of objectivity.
Of course, this isn’t the easiest metric for one to hold themselves to. But we believe it’s more important than ever, especially in an age of “fake news” and “cancel culture,” for our world’s future “citizen-leaders” to hold themselves to task and look at the facts, openly and honestly, before rushing to judgement. Otherwise, we will only cancel out more and more until there’s little left.
Jessenia N. Class ’20, a Crimson Editorial Chair, is a Cognitive Neuroscience and Evolutionary Psychology concentrator in Quincy House. Robert Miranda ’20, a Crimson Editorial Chair, is an English concentrator in Pforzheimer House. Their column appears on alternate Thursdays.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
University President Lawrence S. Bacow recently apologized in an email to staff members for his recent comments at an Alumni Affairs and Development staff meeting last week, in which he analogized Harvard’s inability to control its donors to the prohibition of slavery by the 13th Amendment to the United States Constitution.
While Bacow’s comments have not been released verbatim, his admitted usage of the 13th Amendment to explain that Harvard's schools cannot "own" their alumni has received widespread coverage, and rightly so. Harvard’s presidency is a powerful position with wide-reaching influence, and such insensitive analogies are certainly not to be expected. We condemn Bacow’s comments, which demonstrate a sense of racial thoughtlessness, and are unmoved and unimpressed by his apology.
We do not believe this comment was made with racist intentions, but we do believe it has racial impacts. Regardless of how Bacow meant his comments to be understood, the history of slavery in America should not be used as a casual rhetorical device. The fact that he would think to use it as such is baffling. It goes without saying that slavery was one of the U.S.’s most brutal and egregious sins.
But beyond the base horrors of slavery itself, the political institution of slavery must be understood as the starting point for race relations between black and white Americans in the U.S. From this position of complete subjugation in society, the experiences of black Americans in the U.S. have improved and evolved, but we cannot neglect the historical connection between slavery and current racial inequalities. The history of slavery still lives with us, and Bacow’s unprompted, offhand, and off-color analogy demonstrate a lack of respect for this fact.
It’s improper for anyone to make comments of this nature, but we are particularly disappointed that they come from our university president, given his obligation to represent all of Harvard. That obligation requires constant reflection on how one’s words will be interpreted by those watching Harvard. This analogy does not demonstrate that reflection, it does not represent the University well, and it does not reflect the beliefs of its current students and other Harvard affiliates who, through rigorous study here, seek to become the “citizens and citizen-leaders of the world.” We should expect better of those future leaders, as we expect better of Bacow today.
Of particular concern to us is the extent to which we find Bacow’s current apology insufficient. He apologized not for the comment itself, but merely for the offence that his audience took with it. His stated regret for causing offence is not a constructive response, and cannot be considered acceptable in the context of such a problematic public statement from the University’s highest officer.
If Bacow sincerely wishes to meaningfully understand why people found his comments distasteful and to learn from the experience we implore him to do more than just issue a lackluster email apologizing for his audience’s emotions.
To start, he could earnestly attempt to grapple with Harvard’s storied history with racism, including past presidents owning slaves and professors perpetuating racially-based theories. As Bacow inherits and builds upon this history, he should work to address this past in a constructive way. Instead, his bizarre comments about slavery do nothing but stymie reparative efforts.
Former University presidents, notably Drew G. Faust, have taken up the noble work of grappling with Harvard’s complicated racial past, and working to reconcile it with a more equitable future. Bacow would do well to recognize the power of his words, speak responsibly, and to follow that example.
This staff editorial solely represents the majority view of The Crimson Editorial Board. It is the product of discussions at regular Editorial Board meetings. In order to ensure the impartiality of our journalism, Crimson editors who choose to opine and vote at these meetings are not involved in the reporting of articles on similar topics.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
“No running, no hoarding of pumpkins, please do not pick up pumpkins by their stems…” a sign commands at the entrance to the MIT’s Kresge Oval yard. A child loops two fingers precariously through the vines of a miniature pumpkin and runs over to their mother.
This isn’t your typical pumpkin patch — an 85 dollar price tag hangs off of the child’s apple-sized discovery. Contrary to the muddy gourds one expects from a usual pumpkin patch, this sale reveals a menagerie of pristine glass pumpkins sparkling in the sunlight. Hues of blood red, sea green, and deep midnight blue stripe and speckle the different pumpkins. No two look alike.
You can find these intricately designed gourds at the annual MIT Great Glass Pumpkin Patch. Every September, the MIT Glass Lab sells more than 2,000 hand-blown glass pumpkins crafted by affiliated students and faculty members who work year-round to create the glass works. The pumpkins, priced between $35 and $335, provide the primary revenue that funds the Glass Lab.
Blowing glass is an opportunity for MIT students and faculty to indulge their creative impulses. As Professor Peter B. Houk, Artistic Director of the W. David Kingery Ceramics and Glass Lab, says, “What fascinates me is the intersection of artistic and engineering science approaches taken [in the design of the pumpkins].”
Professor Houk, who has led the Glass Lab since 1997, is intrigued by the variety of people who visit the sale. “At the beginning, we thought it would just be MIT, but the Boston community is really involved,” he says. At this year’s sale, a couple from Arkansas reportedly made an appearance. “It’s interesting to watch people come and engage — some of them even hoard [pumpkins],” he says with a chuckle.
Two freshman girls look conflicted next to a speckled orange pumpkin, a sky-blue pumpkin, and a pumpkin colored Granny Smith apple green. “We can’t decide,” one girl laments, looking around with frustration at what she deemed the “elite Bostonians” — those who can afford to buy multiple pieces. “I think the black spots detract from the look, it makes it look like the pumpkins have fungus,” her friend says. They decide to buy the cheapest one — the $60 orange pumpkin.
Dr. Whitney Cornforth, a Glass Lab instructor, explains that the steep prices reflect the time and experience necessary to make each piece. “Some of the more expensive ones are not necessarily the largest, but they have really interesting color patterns which are very time-intensive to make,” he points out.
Despite these lofty price tags, Cambridge and Boston residents are enthusiastic about the decorative pumpkins. “I haven’t seen any other teal pumpkins, so we have to have this one,” an elderly man declares to his wife. His wife is already carrying five glass gourds and attracting the nervous glare of an employee, who soon rushes over with a basket. The pumpkins are hollow, surprisingly light, and very fragile.
Another couple argues over how to divide the pumpkins between their respective Woburn and Somerville residences. “I have to position them strategically in the house so that my cats can’t jump on them,” the woman explains to me. “We stumbled across this event on Facebook a couple years ago, but we have come every year since. It’s truly unusual, and the pumpkins are just so unique and gorgeous.”
—Magazine writer Maya S. Bhagat can be reached at maya.bhagat@thecrimson.com.
Sections
When read a withering criticism lodged in his most recent book, where he describes universities as reproducing a “disembodied universalist white order,” Robert F. Reid-Pharr –– a leading scholar in African-American studies and Harvard’s first tenured professor in the Studies of Women, Gender, and Sexuality –– smirks.
“I meant it more sweetly!” he insists with a grin.
At the center of Reid-Pharr’s relationship to Harvard lies the following contradiction: a gay, black man from a working-class background who produces uncompromisingly radical scholarship on race, gender, and sexuality at an elite institution that, he says, is “built on the bodies of people of color, women, sexual minorities, working class and poor people.”
And this zeal doesn’t abate when Reid-Pharr leaves campus — he believes human oppression underwrites society. It is as persistently present on his walk to his local Whole Foods as it was during his childhood in North Carolina.
“The question for me,” he says, “is about thriving, regardless.”
In 1987, Reid-Pharr arrived at Yale to pursue a Master’s in African-American Studies, subsequently earning a Ph.D. in American Studies in 1994. When he arrived in New Haven, he had never met somebody who had attended an independent university. His classmates all seemed to be experts on Michel Foucault, and he had no idea who that was. “I didn’t understand the way people dressed and the way that they carried themselves,” he says. “I didn’t understand people’s backgrounds. I just was a fish out of water.” He says he was fortunate to have professors and mentors who recognized his potential and guided him through Yale’s foreign landscape.
The mentorship he received at Yale drives Reid-Pharr’s current teaching philosophy. “I hope that what is attractive to students about me — sometimes, I can be a pain in the butt, too — but I hope it’s that I'm not trying to get people to cut off parts of themselves in order to be around me,” he says. He leans forward in his chair, mouth curling into a smile as he adds, “I want to be shocked by what people do. I want to be an old fart who is just surprised at what these kids are doing these days.”
Reid-Pharr’s studies initially revolved around 19th century America. However, he entered the profession in the mid-1990s, at the height of the AIDS and crack epidemics — a period that reoriented his scholarship from its prior focus to more contemporary topics.
“I lost dozens of friends, and of all types. Dozens, dozens of people, men and women, young, brilliant people.” His imperative became to produce scholarship “useful in the direct struggle against not only AIDS-phobia, but homophobia, women-hating, anti-black racism, anti-Latino racism, anti-people of color racism,” he says.
He began a collection of essays he decided to call Black Gay Man. The audacity of the title alone invited his colleagues’ censure. Because it was a massive professional risk, Reid-Pharr initially concealed the project from other faculty, often hiding alone in his office to write.
The collection, published in 2001, weaves autobiography and criticism into a meditation on being gay, black, and male, as well as commentary on the state of American society at large. The prose, eschewing the turgidity of many academic works, was praised for its beauty, reflective of Reid-Pharr’s deep investment in aesthetics. For him, cultural production allows people to understand that their humanity is “so much broader and so much grander than the things that oppress us.” Thus, he strives to write “in a way that actually feeds the soul.”
The risks — both in subject and in style — paid off. “After having published a book called ‘Black Gay Man,’ it changed what I was allowed to do,” he says. “It changed what I allowed myself to do.” The well-received collection freed him to embark on a wide range of research projects and presented career pathways that eventually led him to his appointment at Harvard, where he was officially tenured in 2018.
Harvard, which Reid-Pharr expected to be “super, super conservative,” has been a pleasant surprise, he says. As he transitioned into his new position last year, he found himself repeatedly telling a close friend, “People are being surprisingly nice to me.” Reid-Pharr says his friend responded: “Well, maybe it’s not a surprise, maybe they’re just nice.”
At this point in the story, Reid-Pharr swivels in his chair and grows sarcastic: “I thought, ‘What? That’s crazy talk!’”
At the end of the day, it is Reid-Pharr’s students who drive him to pursue his craft. “That’s why I get up in the morning, and sort of rush to class so that I won’t be late, and I’m sweating when I'm getting there,” he says. “I need to impress the students, just because I’m impressed by [them]. I work hard at it because I want to get myself to that standard of what they’re trying to do in their lives.”
It was in this spirit of thriving, and helping those of marginalized races, genders, and sexualities thrive as well, that Reid-Pharr agreed to participate when Harvard called and asked him to be in a promotional video only a few weeks after settling onto campus. When I first mention the video, he leans forward, palms pressed to his forehead with eyes wide, and exclaims, “I know! I’m in it! Oh. My. God.” His voice, ordinarily smooth, staggers, as if — a year later — the call is still surreal.
“The contradiction of it sometimes takes my breath away,” he says of being in the video. “I can’t fix all of that, but I certainly can try to use the resources of this institution to move forward things that I think are absolutely important for our species.” He agreed to be featured for the proverbial high school seniors to show them that, “If that guy can be there, I could be there, too.”
—Magazine writer Matteo N. Wong can be reached at matteo.wong@thecrimson.com.
Sections
It was all a lie — and yet, I had come to believe it so fervently, so desperately.
Here’s how the memory goes: It’s late December 2001, and with the boost that my car seat provides, I can see out the window and into the train station parking lot. This late on a Friday night, it’s mostly deserted. I take in the soft glow of the Christmas lights draped over trees, see their reflections glint in the stale, graying snow. A carpet of road salt crunches beneath our tires as the car turns, pulls parallel to the train platform. Any minute now, a headlight will pierce the darkness, and a train will rumble toward the platform; my father will disembark, excited to see me and my mom.
But in the minutes before the train arrives, I swear I remember seeing them: Three or four cars, scattered across the empty lot, their hoods dusted by an undisturbed sheet of snow.
Strange, four-year-old me thinks. It had last snowed on Monday: The cars must have been sedentary for at least a week.
“Why?” I ask my mother, gesturing towards them.
I can’t recall exactly what she says. But I remember her smile fading; I remember seeing confusion, then recognition, and finally anguish creep across her face. Somehow, she explains to her overly inquisitive toddler that the cars haven’t been moved for months.
On a Tuesday morning in September, the cars’ drivers had parked in their usual spots and commuted to work like usual. It was that day— Sept 11, another vivid memory, perhaps my earliest — and the owners of the cars did not return. In the weeks that followed, their loved ones had been unable to bring themselves to collect the cars from the train station. Doing this, my mother explains, would mean acknowledging that the drivers were gone, forever.
So there the cars sat, glistening under the Christmas lights, the blankets of snow on their hoods disturbed only by the gentle cuts of a breeze.
Every day, my mom tells me, she thanks God that my father and my brother came home from the city that day.
The train arrives. My dad steps off, spots us, smiles and waves like he always does. We collect him and drive home.
Sept. 11 left a wound in my small Connecticut community. We were a town of commuters: Everyone knew someone who had died in the towers. Everyone knew who those cars belonged to.
When we arrive back home that night, I curl up on the couch with Gra — the nickname my siblings and I had ascribed to our grandmother on my father’s side, the Japanese side of our family — as the evening news begins.
“How was the train station?” she asks, resting one knitting needle against the other.
As she transforms the spools of thick yarn into a sweater, I recount what my mom told me. I stare up into her deep brown eyes, ringed with soft wrinkles, watching the curls of her dark hair bounce in time with the clicking of her needles. I ask Gra what all of this means, why, while watching the news together (coverage of the unfolding war in Afghanistan), she so often shakes her head in sadness.
She pauses, placing the needles, yarn, and blossoming sweater on the table.
“This is a time of great pain in our country, Andrew,” she says, “and with pain comes fear.” She sees that I am confused, and explains that when she was a girl, America had experienced a different attack, and that she and other people who looked like her, who looked like us, had been forced from their homes and relocated into camps. She and her family were taken far away, to a desolate place in Wyoming called Heart Mountain, and held for the duration of the Second World War.
I couldn’t imagine anyone ever thinking Gra, who brought freshly-knitted sweaters of thick, itchy yarn for us when she and my grandpa visited, was a threat. I tell her this. A smile graces her lips, then fades. “People don’t think when they’re scared,” she says.
Before picking back up her needles, she makes me promise that I will never allow what happened to her to happen to anyone else, even if I’m scared. I nod my head vigorously, solemnly, pretending to understand the conversation’s gravity.
That sequence — train station, cars, my grandmother and her knitting needles — always felt so vivid, so real.
**
Growing up in homogeneous, suburban Connecticut, it was the memory of that conversation with Gra that gave meaning to being Japanese-American. I didn’t speak Japanese and couldn’t handle chopsticks with much dexterity; beyond my family, I didn’t even know any other people of Japanese-American ancestry — but I had inherited a special story. Gra had charged my siblings and me with a mission, a purpose: I had made a promise.
I did whatever I could to fulfill my vow to Gra, to do what I thought would ensure that America never repeated 1942’s injustices. I commuted to high school in New York, catching a train every morning before the sun rose. I worked hard in my classes. I applied to Harvard.
Before college, I accepted a scholarship to study Arabic for a year in Rabat, Morocco. I had become old enough to understand Gra’s parallels between the experiences of Japanese-Americans then and Arabs and Muslims now; learning Arabic felt like a natural next step.
Only when I arrived at Harvard did I learn that I had internalized a false memory. While comping The Crimson, I wrote a story about the abandoned cars in the parking lot and their influence on my choices. But when I sent it to my mom and dad, they were confused: There had been no cars left at the train station months after Sept. 11; Gra had rarely, if ever, spoken of Heart Mountain before her death in 2003, let alone with me, her toddler grandson. She had left behind no morally clarifying call to action.
**
When the wifi in the Istanbul apartment cuts out — as it does, frequently — my gaze drifts from my family members, frozen in place on my phone screen, to the flock of seagulls suspended outside the apartment’s window. If I reach my arm beyond the balcony, perhaps I could touch them: Though the seagulls beat their wings, diving and swooping forwards, they are always buffeted back to the same place, just beyond my reach, held in stasis by the Bosporus winds. In my most curious moments, I wonder what would happen if they simply gave in to the wind, folded their wings. Surely the breeze would whisk them down the Bosporus, all the way over the Marmara, the Mediterranean, the Atlantic, maybe even the Long Island Sound. Perhaps it would deposit them in the small Connecticut town I call home.
My phone buzzes. The Facetime call has failed. I glance downwards and reinitiate connection.
“You’re back! It’s pretty desolate here, Andrew — beautiful, but desolate,” my dad says, continuing from where he was cutoff. I had seen pictures of Heart Mountain, the rolling plains and blue horizon interrupted only by the slab of granite that gives the place its name. He’s right: It’s beautiful. “Hard to imagine Gra here though,” he adds. I had also seen pictures of the barbed wire, guard towers, and barracks that stood in the same place.
This summer, I found myself in a curious situation: My parents and two of my older siblings had traveled to Heart Mountain for a “pilgrimage” organized for the descendants of those interned there, while I was in Istanbul, working as an Arabic translator and reporting on the refugee crisis.
Two years had elapsed since I learned that my conversation with Gra had never taken place.
Coming to terms with that revelation — I haven’t completely, not yet — means realizing that perhaps I had never known Gra at all, and now, years after her death, I never will. I will never know what she thought of internment or its parallels to the modern day. I had never made the promise that for so long animated my choices.
Yet when my family visited Heart Mountain together for the first time this summer, I went to Turkey instead, knowing that I would miss the trip, miss seeing the place where she had been interned. My family didn’t expect to learn anything groundbreaking from the pilgrimage — but I felt like I was actively turning my back on “the truth,” whatever that was, chasing instead after this false memory, this ephemeral, impossible promise.
What would happen, I would wonder, watching the seagulls, if I ended the pursuit that had taken me to New York, Rabat, Harvard, and finally Istanbul, if I folded my wings and allowed the breeze to carry me far, far down the Bosporus?
Maybe I would wind up home. But I would never skip inside, mom and dad in tow, never again curl up with Gra on the couch. Never would I be able to ask her the questions that so desperately demanded answers.
I have long outgrown every sweater she ever knit for me. But I’m not sure I’ll ever outgrow the pledge I genuinely believed I had made to her.
I haven’t folded my wings yet. The seagulls struggle against the wind, and so do I.
I will fulfill the promise I made, if not to Gra, then in her honor.
The Christmas lights, the cars; the fear, the pain, the call-to-action: It was, after all, all a lie. But every day I choose to believe in it; every day I choose to trust the truths enshrined within it, to fight fervently, desperately for the future I imagine Gra would have wanted.
Sections
When Ruth Colker ’78 walked into Harvard’s second-year calculus class in the fall of 1974, she was the only woman in the room. A freshman at the time, she was proud of herself for testing out of a year of calculus. She was also excited to take an upper-level course — she had always loved math and “computation and thinking spatially,” she says.
The reality of gender inequity was nothing new to Colker. A softball player in high school, she had spent the past few years advocating for equal treatment of women athletes and worked on Title IX advocacy with the National Organization for Women. Before she left for college, her father bought her a copy of “Our Bodies, Ourselves,” the manifesto written by a women’s collective in Boston. “When I got to college, I was pretty comfortable in where I stood as a feminist,” Colker says.
This is all to say that Colker was not the type of person to let being the only woman in the room intimidate her. But when she met with her math professor to go over a concept she didn’t understand, he told her “that there were no women concentrating in math at Harvard, and he didn’t expect that I would change that,” Colker remembers. “It didn’t occur to me at that point that I should complain to someone about his attitude.” She stopped taking math classes after that year.
At around the same time, Colker was taking a class on women’s history. “I didn’t know anything about [women’s history]. They didn’t teach that in high school, at least in those days,” she says. “So I really enjoyed it. It was eye-opening.” She wanted to do further work in the field, but Harvard didn’t have a women’s studies concentration. Colker put together a petition for a special concentration that would allow her to use math and statistics to do “empirical work about women’s condition in society.” The special concentration was rejected, Colker was told, because “women’s studies didn’t have a methodology.”
She concentrated in Social Studies instead, since it was interdisciplinary and allowed for flexibility in choosing a thesis topic. She went on to write a thesis that used math and statistics to analyze three different strains of feminist thought: “radical feminist theory, liberal feminist theory, and socialist feminism.”
One reader gave her a magna cum laude plus, the other a cum laude. Since there was a discrepancy of more than a letter grade, a third reader was brought in. “That person said in his review that he began reading it thinking the topic wasn’t worthy of discussion, and he finished reading it still not convinced the topic was worthy of discussion,” Colker says. “He recommended a non-honors grade.”
Colker met with her advisor to discuss the grading inconsistency and lack of institutional support. “The response was that I had already been admitted to Harvard Law School,” she recalls, “so why did I care?” Eventually, a fourth reader was brought in, but Colker says she was too exhausted by the whole process to look at the grade.
In 1981, Colker was asked to donate her thesis to a women’s studies library that students were curating to convince Harvard to create a women’s studies concentration. By then, both students and the University had an increased understanding of the field as legitimate and deserving of attention. Students were working on grassroots activism, both to fill in the gaps of their education and to try to create women’s studies courses for future students. Harvard responded with committees, open forums, and requests for patience.
Before Colker recounts her story to me on the phone, she asks, “What year did they actually create the major?”
I tell her that it was 1986. Harvard would be the last Ivy League university to create a program in women’s studies.
“Wow.” A pause. “That much later. Okay.”
At the end of our conversation, Colker — who is now a law professor at Ohio State University — tells me that she feels the negative reception of her interest in women’s studies was reflective of the place of women on Harvard’s campus more broadly.
“But hopefully they’ve corrected their ways and made up for the past,” Colker says. “If they ever have a celebration of women’s studies at Harvard or something like that, maybe I should attend.” She laughs a little bit at the possibility.
In 1974 or 1975 — she can’t quite remember which — Judith A. Kates, then an instructor in Comparative Literature, offered a course called “The Women’s Tradition in Literature.” In the past, she had offered courses on Renaissance literature, which usually drew 15 to 20 interested students during the first week of classes. Since this new class required advanced reading ability in French, she wasn’t expecting the turnout to be much higher.
On its first day, more than 100 students tried to pack into a small seminar room in Boylston Hall to hear about the course.
Kates had to cut down the numbers, since it was intended to be a seminar. The classroom had two large tables in the middle of the room, and Kates recalls that her students didn’t want to sit around the tables, because they thought it established distance and formality. They moved “these huge tables” to the side of the room, one on top of the other. “And they were able to arrange the chairs in a circle format,” she says, “so that… the space would help engender more of an egalitarian atmosphere.”
“People in the department — men — kept talking about the ‘Amazons’ who were taking my class. Women warriors,” Kates says. “There was a subtle sense that people felt that they were being invaded.” She remembers being frequently asked if she had any male students. “Nobody ever asked whether it was problematic if a class were all men.”
The early 1970s “was just the beginning of the understanding of gender as an analytic category,” she says. This type of analysis was happening at other universities across the country: Women’s studies programs cropped up initially at state universities and schools on the west coast, the first in 1970 at San Diego State College and the second in 1971 at Wichita State University. The first interdisciplinary journal in women’s studies, Feminist Studies, began printing in 1972. But Kates remembers her course proposal as the “first time” gender was used to analyze literature at Harvard.
The reaction she remembers from the department head: “I don’t understand what that means.” She had to persuade him that gender was a valid and worthwhile analytic category.
Students who were on campus at the time also remember a handful of other courses that engaged with women and gender. Several students that I spoke with remembered a General Education course on American women’s history — the same one that piqued Ruth Colker’s interest in women’s studies. Many particularly remembered Susan Ware, the course’s teaching assistant.
Ware recalls that the course led to a positive feedback loop of demand: many students who took the class wanted to pursue further women’s studies coursework but found that there was none.
“By today's standards, it was such a conventional class,” says Colker. “It was the story about white women, essentially, no sensitivity at all to class or race or sexual orientation issues. But at the time, that was the only class available. So it was eye-opening.”
Several students also remembered a course on women’s biology that was taught by Ruth Hubbard ’44, the first tenured woman professor in biology. But other than that, the offerings were few.
The Divinity School had established a women’s studies program in 1973, and Lauren K. Gibbs ’77 remembers taking classes there as an undergraduate to incorporate women into her education somehow. “I took courses at the Divinity School, on women’s church history and all sorts of stuff like that. I mean, it was so stupid,” she says and laughs. “There I am taking courses on women’s church history, and I’m Jewish.”
Ware recalls that student activism was essential in ensuring that the women’s history Gen Ed was offered — specifically, activism spearheaded by the Radcliffe Union of Students. RUS served as the Radcliffe student government when Radcliffe was a separate college, and after Harvard integrated men and women students, RUS became an advocacy group for more robust women’s studies offerings, among other issues. In the late 1970s, RUS formed a student Committee on Women’s Studies, and in 1977, the Committee submitted a petition with over 1100 signatures to then-Dean of the College Henry Rosovsky asking the College to consider the creation of a women’s studies concentration. Rosovsky told students to wait for the fall.
Meanwhile, RUS’s Committee on Women’s Studies decided to self-educate. In the spring of 1977, it held a series of dinner-based colloquia to educate students about women’s studies research that their peers were conducting independent of institutional support.
Emily M. Schneider ’80 remembers giving a talk about her thesis on a Puerto Rican poet, Julia de Burgos, whose work had been largely forgotten. Schneider went on to earn a Ph.D. in literature and returned to Harvard as a History and Literature lecturer in the 1980s.
She remembers that in the 1970s, women’s studies was as much about getting women into curricula as it was about using gender and sexuality as analytic categories.
“Now, you might see more of an emphasis on cutting-edge research when you look at issues such as gender,” she says. “But at the time, we really just wanted to bring back into the picture women who had been there all along, and who were rendered invisible by this attitude of denigrating what they had done.”
At this time, Gibbs recalls that “mostly white women” were involved with the movement for women’s studies. She thought these colloquia were particularly important because they served as a venue for women’s studies activists to have conversations with activists advocating for other academic disciplines, such as African and African American Studies and ethnic studies. The African and Afro-American Studies department was established in 1969, largely because of student activism.
Candice S. Cason ’77 was quoted in a 1977 Crimson article about women’s studies saying she wanted to promote women’s studies activists working together with AAAS concentrators. In a recent interview, Cason recalls that she was active on RUS’s Women’s Studies committee for a year. When asked if there were any other women of color on the committee, she answers, “I don’t remember any. I hate to say that. But I don’t remember that there were any other women of color there.”
“I found the Committee on Women’s Studies to be a difficult experience,” she says. “And it had to do with power, and whose voice got to be heard and whose wasn’t.”
Rosovsky followed through on his promise, and Harvard created a Faculty Committee on Women’s Studies in the fall of 1977. Its mission was to decide whether the field called “women’s studies” deserved to be considered for a concentration. Kates — the instructor of the women writers comparative literature course — was the coordinator of the Faculty Committee, and Edward L. Keenan ’57, a professor of Russian history, served as the chair.
In 1979, the Committee stated that it opposed the creation of a concentration. Keenan said to students in an open forum with Committee members that women’s studies had no methodology, “no way of discovering facts” — that it was essentially just history, or literature, or biology, but from the perspective of women.
Kates recalls the Committee’s meetings as being respectful and “collegial,” but she also says she felt progress was slow. “Sometimes people’s assumptions about what they thought they knew about the position of women or some aspect of women’s history would emerge, and it got a little — what shall we say? — there was a little edge there, in conversations when somebody needed to be educated,” she says.
In 1980, in response to growing demand, Harvard added a women’s studies section to the back of its course catalog. At the time, Elisabeth M. Einaudi ’83 was a sophomore and the president of the Radcliffe Union of Students. At first, Einaudi was excited. Then she looked more closely at the classes. “I thought, ‘Hold on one second.’ They listed any course that they thought might and could be related to women,” she says. Only one or two courses were “genuinely related to gender and women’s studies.”
Einaudi contacted each instructor of the 25 or so courses that were listed and asked, “Do you know that your course is listed as a women’s studies course? Do you think that your course should be listed as a women’s studies course?” She published their answers in a pamphlet and distributed the pamphlets in undergraduate dining halls.
“People were mortified,” she says. She remembers that, within a year, a new women’s history course was created and the Faculty Committee on Women’s Studies increased its activity. Students’ expectations of the field were changing: Like Einaudi, students expected to engage with how gender shaped and changed the ways disciplines were understood, not just take courses with the word “woman” in their syllabi.
In addition to pressuring the administration to take the Faculty Committee more seriously, students on RUS ramped up their initiatives to create their own spaces on campus to study women and gender. By this time, in the early 1980s, other Ivy League universities had recently established women’s studies departments and majors.
Elizabeth Young ’85-’86 — who was president of RUS and is now a professor of English at Mt. Holyoke College — remembers she had to seek out faculty members that helped her pursue her academic interests in women’s studies because of the lack of institutional support. They were all junior faculty, and all eventually moved on to other institutions.
RUS curated its own course catalogs of women’s studies offerings, based on interviews with professors and students who had taken the courses. They wrote letters to departments, asking them to incorporate women and gender into their offerings. They held an annual lecture series in the spring that brought scholars of women’s studies to campus to give talks.
RUS students also organized a feminist reading group. Toba E. Spitzer ’85-’86, a former member of RUS, invited me to her home to look over some documents that she saved from her time as a student. One of these was the group’s reading list, typewritten and titled, “INTRODUCING THE OFFICIAL, UNBELIEVABLY TENTATIVE AND DISORGANIZED BIBLIOGRAPHY FOR THE FEMINIST THEORY STUDY GROUP, TO BE USED WITH A SYMPATHETIC AND CREATIVE GRAIN OF SALT.” It features Simone de Beauvoir, Adrienne Rich, and bell hooks, among many others. Spitzer saved sign-in lists from the reading group’s meetings, which spilled onto the backs of lined sheets of paper.
While undergraduates, Spitzer and Young both served as student representatives to the Faculty Committee on Women’s Studies. After one of the Faculty Committee’s meetings in 1983, Barbara E. Johnson — a recently-tenured professor of English and AAAS — turned to Spitzer and asked her what she had thought of the meeting.
“I literally almost had a heart attack,” Spitzer says. “Because this was the first time at Harvard any professor had spoken to me or noticed me or asked my opinion. I couldn’t even believe a Harvard professor would ask my opinion. I mean, that’s how bad it was, I was in shock, I didn’t even know what to say.” She laughs.
Spitzer says that when she started college in 1981, the Faculty Committee did not seem to have much power in the eyes of students. “The way that Harvard dealt with things they didn’t want to deal with was just to create a committee and let everything die there. It was really clear to us that [the Committee] didn’t have any power and wasn’t going anywhere,” Spitzer says.
But as student activism ramped up, it seemed to her that the University began to take the Faculty Committee more seriously. A number of students, including Young and Spitzer, recall the Committee’s power increased with the introduction of tenured women faculty on the Committee, particularly Johnson, comparative literature professor Susan R. Suleiman, and English professor Marjorie Garber.
Suleiman, shortly after receiving tenure, became chair of the Faculty Committee. She recalls that as soon as she became chair, she took steps to increase the group’s legitimacy: a phone number, a listing in the directory, office space, and a part-time administrative assistant.
In 1985 — by which point Harvard was the only Ivy League university without women’s studies — the Faculty Committee began to work on a women’s studies concentration proposal that would require faculty approval. “My memories of that time are absolutely marvelous,” Suleiman says. “It was almost a magical year, because everybody was working together in a very concentrated way.” She recalls “lobbying” faculty who might be allies for the concentration during lunches, and working with the Committee to ensure the concentration had a “firm academic basis.”
At the November 1986 faculty meeting, Suleiman presented the proposal to the faculty. She remembers the room was “bursting to the seams.” After Suleiman spoke, other members of the faculty committee also spoke in favor of the concentration.
Government professor Harvey C. Mansfield ’53 then took the floor to deliver a now-infamous speech against the proposal.
According to a modified excerpt of the Faculty Meeting minutes that appears on Mansfield’s website, he said that “the appearance of this proposal on the Faculty floor marked a foolish and almost pitiful surrender to feminism.” He accused women’s studies of “bias,” and said that it was “not really a subject.” He reminded the faculty that “This was Harvard, with standards to maintain.”
The vote to approve the women’s studies concentration was almost unanimous. The only dissenting vote was Mansfield.
Although some faculty found Mansfield’s remarks extreme, his comments were not necessarily isolated. When I spoke with Mansfield, he said he thinks a few more people — “old people, old men” — would have voted no with him had it not been for his speech and “the passion of it, the radicalism of it.” When asked if he still agrees with everything he said in the speech, Mansfield laughs and says, “Probably not.”
Accusations of bias, like Mansfield’s, had long plagued women’s studies. Kates — the first coordinator of the Faculty Committee — recalls that in the 1970s, “Many people perceived [women’s studies] as essentially political, as an academic-looking frosting on what was really an ideological and political movement.” Mansfield’s claim that it was not an academic discipline echoes Committee chair Edward Keenan’s 1979 claim about a lack of methodology. In an op-ed published in The Crimson a few weeks after the faculty meeting, Saied Kashani ’86 echoed many of Mansfield’s claims, writing that the only reason Harvard approved women’s studies was “political expediency.”
Mansfield is still critical of gender studies scholarship, for the same reasons that he cited in his 1986 speech. He says he believed, in 1987, that women’s studies was “founded on a doctrine, namely feminism, and that it would not be academic or scholarly, mainly, but political and one-sided.” Today, he says he still believes that gender and sexuality studies programs are biased and do not make room for conservative voices.
But he concedes that he thinks the “doctrine” he fought against in his 1987 speech has succeeded.
“They prevailed,” he says, referring to women. “They have convinced men to make room for them.”
The approval of a concentration did not translate to automatic and immediate institutional support for women’s studies. Semesterly newsletters from the early years of the concentration document continued difficulties in establishing its place at Harvard.
Part of the introduction of a May 1990 newsletter on women’s studies reads, “the University has determined not to let Women’s Studies hire its own full-time faculty members.” Later on, it continues, “As things improve within the concentration, they still look somewhat grim on the outside. Harvard does not seem able (willing) to staff its departments with women in lifetime positions who can offer continuing academic support to the program.”
WGS and Romance Languages and Literatures Professor Alice Jardine says WGS received little administrative support during its earliest years. “It was a struggle. It was frustrating. It was hard. But it was also inspiring and meaningful, and thoroughly on the right side of history,” she says. “But it was hard.”
In 2003, the department’s name was changed from Women’s Studies to Studies of Women, Gender, and Sexuality. “The reality was that students had always worked in sexuality studies through Women’s Studies, and students had always worked on men and people who are not women through Women’s Studies,” says WGS and AAAS Professor Robin Bernstein, the current chair of WGS. “We changed the name in order to communicate that reality better to students.”
By 2003, many peer institutions had renamed their Women’s Studies departments to Gender and Sexuality Studies in response to the changes the field had seen in the last decade. Jardine recalls that there was discussion about dropping “women” from the program’s name at Harvard, too. “We just decided to keep it as a very, very important historical marker of a debate,” she says. “I don’t think in 2003, we could have imagined that in 2019, the world would be pushing back against the progress that women had made.”
Today, WGS continues to take steps to increase its offerings. “Demand for our classes has exceeded our ability to supply seats and classes. Classes are bursting,” Bernstein says. “We turn away students every single semester. And this is one of the reasons that WGS at Harvard is expanding.” The WGS committee is currently conducting a search for a tenured full professor.
In 2017, Durba Mitra became the first professor appointed fully in WGS, rather than appointed jointly with other departments. Robert F. Reid-Pharr followed in 2018. Afsaneh Najmabadi, who has been a professor in WGS since 2001, says Mitra and Pharr have helped to increase WGS’s offerings about the intersection of race and ethnicity with gender and sexuality.
Reid-Pharr describes his primary research interests as “gender, sexuality, and race, particularly around African and African American culture.” He received his undergraduate degree from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill in 1987, and he recalls that the “institutionalization of gender and sexuality studies” that was happening as he was an undergraduate was part of what led him to pursue academia. “It took a while for the concept of intersectionality to become as widespread as it is,” he says. He recalls the language “really developing” during his graduate studies in the early 1990s.
He describes what he sees as a direct connection between WGS and ethnic studies.“The movement, in terms of the institutionalization of African American Studies, definitely paralleled the development of women's studies programs and what are [now] thought of as Women, Gender and Sexuality Studies programs.”
Susan Ware — the teaching assistant for the first women’s history course Harvard offered back in the early 1970s — says she views the early years of women’s studies not only as a scholar at the time, but now as a historian. “As a historian, I think it is important for people to know the history of… programs, and that it is possible to make Harvard change, in ways that are really important and positive,” she says.
“When I think about [that time], what I'm remembering more is the excitement of it, and I think I've kind of repressed all the frustration.” She laughs. “But it was — it is never easy, getting Harvard to do things that it hasn’t done before.”
—Magazine writer Nina Pasquini can be reached at nina.pasquini@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @nhpasquini.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard Square smoke shops are facing steep commercial consequences following the implementation of a new ban on the sale of vaping products in Massachusetts late last month.
Governor Charlie Baker ’79 announced Sept. 24 that Massachusetts is facing a public health emergency and will institute a four-month ban on the sale of tobacco and marijuana vaping products.
In recent months, states around the country have seen a sharp uptick in the number of reported vaping-related illnesses, particularly among young adults. Alabama saw a death from a vaping illness on Wednesday, bringing the nationwide toll to 17 individuals. The Center for Disease Control announced last week that more than 800 cases of vaping illnesses have been reported in the United States.
A report from the Mayo Clinic published Wednesday in the New England Journal of Medicine found that young adults suffering from vaping-related illnesses have exhibited lung damage characteristic of chemical burns.
Massachusetts is the fourth state to institute a ban on the sale of vapes and vaping-related products.
Jeremy Hardy, an employee at Boston Smoke Shop in Harvard Square, says that he believes the ban does not appropriately address pressing public health concerns like cigarettes.
“I think the ban is absurd,” Hardy said. “They say it’s for health reasons, but I have a ton of cigarettes over there. We know those kill tons of people every day.”
A spokesperson for Baker’s office did not respond to multiple requests for comment.
David E. Bershad, one of the owners of local vape product chain Vape Daddy’s, said his business model has suffered under the new ban.
“We have nothing to sell,” Bershad said. “Ninety-five percent of what we sold was vaping-related, specific to nicotine.”
Prior to the ban, Bershad and his co-owner oversaw four locations of Vape Daddy’s across the greater Boston area. Just a week after the ban was implemented, Bershad and his co-owner have already had to close three of their four vape shops. Their Framingham, Mass. location is the only one that remains.
“We’re not going to wait out the ban, we’re just going to close,” Bershad said. “Who can survive four months without selling anything? I’m sitting on $80,000 worth of inventory that I paid for that I can’t sell.”
Boston Smoke Shop has faced similar issues with continuing to meet the demands of its patrons.
“Vaping products are just short of 50 percent of what we sell,” Hardy said. “People would come in here and buy things along with their vape stuff, and now they are just not coming in at all.”
Peter L. Laskin ’23 said he thinks the ban is an appropriate measure until researchers can identify the health risks associated with vaping.
“There hasn’t been a lot of research on the long-term effects, and given that there is a concern now about health effects, I think it’s a reasonable thing to do,” said Laskin.
Chet A. Ellis ’23 said that despite the risks associated with vaping, he is worried that individuals who have used vaping products to beat cigarette addictions will fall back on their previous habits in the wake of the ban.
“Now that they don’t have access to vaping, they have to go back to more scientifically-proven harmful methods to get their nicotine fix,” said Ellis.
— Staff writer Ellen M. Burstein can be reached at ellen.burstein@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @ellenburstein.
— Staff writer Sydnie M. Cobb can be reached at sydnie.cobb@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @cobbsydnie.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard will significantly expand paid family and medical leave benefits for eligible employees beginning in January 2021, in accordance with Massachusetts’s Paid Family and Medical Leave Act, which went into effect Tuesday.
Under the law, if Harvard administers its own benefits in a manner at least as generous as those in the legislation, it will be exempt from contributing to a statewide fund to finance paid leave packages.
University spokesperson Jonathan L. Swain wrote in an email that Harvard has been provisionally approved for an exemption based on its proposed expansion of benefits. The University will negotiate with its unions to finalize the particulars of the plan, Swain said.
Harvard Union of Clerical and Technical Workers Director Bill Jaeger called the new law “very impressive” and said it will require “new programming” from the University to fulfill its paid family leave mandate.
“HUCTW members have sort of a limited ability to take paid leave to care for sick loved ones, but what. . .the new state law is introducing is more significant than that, it's more generous than that,” Jaeger said.
Employees covered by Harvard’s new paid leave benefits can take a maximum of 26 weeks of paid medical or family leave in a benefit year, according to a memo distributed to employees Monday.
Within the 26-week limit, recipients can take up to 20 weeks of paid medical leave when a serious health condition leads to an inability to complete their tasks. Employees can also take up to 12 weeks of paid family leave for scenarios including caring for a family member facing a serious health condition, or bonding with a newborn or adopted child, the memo said. Each of these limits aligns with the new state law.
Employees taking paid leave can receive a weekly maximum payment of $850, according to the notice.
According to the law, which Governor Charlie Baker ’79 signed into law in June 2018, if an employer offers a paid leave package that is “at least as generous” as the one stipulated by the law, it is eligible for an exemption to contributing to the fund.
Swain added that Harvard already provides family leave to some of its employees, but the proposed changes would expand that benefit.
Harvard currently allows its non-unionized regular employees to accrue one sick day for each completed working month, and provides 12 weeks of unpaid family leave under the federal Family and Medical Leave Act.
While Jaeger praised the new program, he said medical leave benefits in particular were already relatively good for his union’s members. The paid medical leave program that HUCTW won in its first contract negotiations in 1989 already provides an “important backstop” similar to what the new law calls for, Jaeger said.
“It doesn't perfectly match the new state program, but it's quite close,” he said.
—Staff writer James S. Bikales can be reached at james.bikales@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @jamepdx.
—Staff writer Ruoqi Zhang can be reached at ruoqi.zhang@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @RuoqiZhang3.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Faculty of Arts and Sciences’ review of the athletics department is unrelated to the recent firing of former head fencing coach Peter Brand, FAS Dean Claudine Gay said in an interview Wednesday.
Rather, the review — which is “totally launched and completely underway” — was prompted by the centennial of the Athletics Department’s founding in 1926, according to Gay. A committee comprising top administrators including Dean of the College Rakesh Khurana and Athletics Director Robert L. Scalise is overseeing the review, which is examining the “student-athlete experience,” the culture of individual athletics programs, and the structure and operations of the department as a whole, Gay said.
“[The centennial] has been a really salient milestone in my mind, in the minds of many of the leaders in Athletics,” she said. “It’s about seeing it as an opportunity for us to step back and begin to set our aspirations for the next century in a way that builds on what I think is broadly considered, and rightfully so, a century of successes.”
Harvard Athletics has suffered a series of scandals in the past few years. Most recently, Harvard dismissed Brand in July after an independent inquiry into the 2016 sale of his Needham, Mass. home to the father of a fencing recruit found that he had violated Harvard’s conflict of interest policy.
In April, the Boston Globe reported Brand sold the house to Jie Zhao — the father of current and former Harvard fencers — for $300,000 above its assessed value. One of Zhao’s two sons gained admission to Harvard shortly after the purchase, while Zhao’s other son graduated from the College in 2018.
Though University President Lawrence S. Bacow said in April that the investigation into Brand included University-level input, Gay said Wednesday that the decision to terminate Brand ultimately rested with the Athletics Department, though she was also consulted.
“The Athletics Department concluded that Peter Brand should not be a coach anymore, and I've supported that,” she said.
Other teams within the department — which includes 42 varsity teams, the most of any NCAA Division I school — have faced their own scandals. Last fall, head diving coach Chris Heaton resigned following allegations of sexual misconduct. In 2016, the Office of the General Counsel reviewed the men’s soccer team and the men’s cross-country team after The Crimson reported that members of both teams separately circulated spreadsheets with sexually explicit comments about members of the women’s soccer and cross-country teams.
The new review will encompass “every set of constituencies in the athletics orbit,” according to Gay, including students, coaches, faculty, and faculty deans, among others. Almost 1,200 undergraduates — roughly 20 percent of the student body — are on Harvard’s varsity sports teams.
The committee overseeing the review will use a mix of focus groups, interviews, and surveys to gather its data.
Harvard’s review comes as other schools across the country grapple with the fallout of a nationwide college admissions scandal that has thrust athletic recruitment into the national spotlight. Yale, Stanford, and the University of Southern California are conducting audits and implementing more stringent oversight of their athletics departments after an FBI investigation revealed dozens of parents had helped their children fraudulently gain admission by manipulating schools’ athletic recruitment systems.
Harvard has not been implicated in that scandal, and Gay said that its review will not touch upon the College’s admissions and recruitment practices.
—Staff writer Jonah S. Berger can be reached at jonah.berger@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @jonahberger98.
—Staff writer Molly C. McCafferty can be reached at molly.mccafferty@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @mollmccaff.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
A lawsuit filed against Mr. Bartley’s Burger Cottage and Harvard for allegedly violating the Americans with Disabilities Act was dismissed earlier this fall.
The plaintiff in the case, Andres R. Melo, filed the initial complaint in federal court in February 2019.
Melo uses a wheelchair for mobility purposes and argued that the restaurant — and Harvard, which owns the building — discriminated against him by “denying access to, and full and equal enjoyment of the goods, services, facilities, privileges, advantages and/or accommodations of the Facility.”
The complaint pointed out several alleged violations of the ADA within the restaurant, including an inaccessible front step at the entrance, no ramp or wheelchair lift to assist with access, and at least 5 percent of tables being non-compliant. The nine specific alleged ADA violations described in the complaint were also noted not to be “all-inclusive.”
On Aug. 9, Melo submitted a “notice of settlement” that requested the court dismiss the case without prejudice, meaning that either party held the right to reopen the case within 30 days, according to the notice.
The same day, Magistrate Judge Donald L. Cabell ordered the case to be dismissed without costs or prejudice to either party.
Melo filed for “stipulation of dismissal with prejudice” on Sept. 3. Approval of the dismissal with prejudice permanently closed the case and removed the option to reopen the case.
According to the document filed on Sept. 3, each party is required to “bear their own attorney’s fees, litigation expenses and costs, except as agreed to by the Parties in the settlement agreement.” The provisions of the settlement were not disclosed.
Melo is represented by attorney Edward N. Garno of Lowell, Mass. and attorney Todd W. Shulby of Weston, Fla. Garno and Shulby did not respond to multiple requests for comment.
Janet E. Faulkner, counsel for Mr. Bartley’s Burger Cottage, declined to comment on the settlement.
University spokesperson Brigid O’Rourke wrote in an emailed case on behalf of Margaret C. LePage — Harvard’s attorney in the case — that the University is “pleased” with the resolution.
“Harvard is pleased to have recently reached a resolution to the litigation that satisfied all parties,” O’Rourke wrote.
–Brie K. Buchanan can be reached at brie.buchanan@thecrimson.com
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Half of the respondents to a survey on graduate students’ perceptions of their economic security reported that they are “often” or “always” worried about “financial issues.”
The survey — administered by the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences Student Council, formerly known as the Graduate Student Council — received 331 responses out of 4521 total GSAS students. The GSC presented the survey results Wednesday night at its monthly meeting, during which it also voted to consider publicly endorsing the graduate student union’s strike authorization vote.
Advisor to the GSC’s Executive Board Blakely B. O’Connor said that the survey’s response rate of 7.3 percent is “five or six times higher” than past surveys and that the distribution of respondents is representative of the larger graduate student population.
They survey found that disparities in perceived economic security exist between graduate students from different academic divisions. Seventy-five percent of respondents in the humanities reported that they are “often” or “always” worried about their finances, while nearly 30 percent of respondents in the sciences reported feeling the same. Just over half of SEAS students and just over half of social sciences students answered “often” or “always.”
The survey also revealed differences in perceived economic security based on the number of years spent in a graduate program. Less than 50 percent of respondents in their first and second years — G1s and G2s — said they worried about financial issues “often” or “always.” For G3 and G4 respondents, this figure increased to nearly 50 percent, and for G5 and G6 respondents, over 50 percent.
Furthermore, over 80 percent of respondents entering their seventh and eighth year at GSAS answered “often” or “always,” while 100 percent of students over their eighth year answered likewise.
“I really felt some of the emotion that was coming through in different people’s responses,” O’Connor said. “While it might be obvious that your financial security decreases as you get into those higher g-years, there’s a small number of people that are very, very worried and anxious about their current financial situation and have mounting insecurity about their future job outlook.”
The survey also asked students to indicate areas in which they feel most financially secure. The most popular answers were food, housing, and daily expenses, which each garnered more than 40 responses.
When asked what areas cause the most financial stress, more than 50 students answered rent, over 40 answered savings, and nearly 40 answered healthcare.
The survey also found that nearly 55 percent of respondents do not have a “dedicated, tax-sheltered” retirement savings plan.
O’Connor said the GSC plans to tailor their spring event series on financial wellness to address students’ most pressing needs. She also said the GSC will bring the data to GSAS deans to discuss possible remedies.
Two representatives from the Harvard Graduate Students’ Union-United Automobile Workers also spoke at the meeting and presented a proposal to the GSC to consider issuing a public statement in support of the union’s strike authorization vote.
The union first announced its intention to hold the vote in a July letter to University President Lawrence S. Bacow that had more than 300 signatures at the time. The letter cited frustration with the state of contract negotiations, which began nearly a year ago.
Graduate student union representatives Sarah E. Loomis and Erik Baker called on the GSC to reaffirm its April statement of support over the “No Carve Out” issue, a debate over whether the contract’s sexual harassment policy will allow for third party investigators.
“We’re coming back to the GSC to say, you know, you called on the University to do the right thing on this important piece of the contract fight in the spring,” Baker said. “They have very publicly and adamantly refused to do the right thing. So, will you come back now and endorse this next piece of our ongoing fight here?”
The GSC voted to consider the union’s proposal. They then approved to vote on issuing a statement next month.
The GSC also voted Wednesday to change the language in its by-laws to gender-neutral expressions where necessary and to allocate $18,000 to more than 15 GSAS student affinity groups.
—Staff Writer Luke A. Williams can be reached at luke.williams@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter at @LukeAWilliams22.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Federal judge Allison D. Burroughs ruled Tuesday that Harvard College’s race-conscious admissions process does not intentionally discriminate against Asian American applicants. Her opinion — contained in a 130-page document — outlines the facts and legal conclusions of the case between the University and anti-affirmative action group Students for Fair Admissions.
Burroughs decided in Harvard’s favor on all four counts against it and concluded that its admissions process is legally sound.
SFFA, the plaintiff, has argued that the College uses applicants’ “personal scores” and other admissions criteria to systematically disadvantage Asian Americans applicants. It also alleges that the University has not adequately explored race-neutral alternatives to increase diversity within the student body. Harvard has repeatedly denied those allegations.
The nearly five-year-long legal battle preceding Tuesday’s ruling has brought national attention to Harvard’s admissions policies. Previously secret information about the College’s admissions process has emerged, and dozens of outsiders have weighed in on the fight over affirmative action. The three-week trial in October 2018 saw students and top officials alike take the stand as the nation watched.
Though some Harvard affiliates are celebrating the decision, SFFA President Edward J. Blum wrote in an email Wednesday that he will likely file an appeal next week — a move that experts say could drag the case out for several more years.
Burroughs’s opinion contains fact-finding and legal arguments that will feature prominently in any appeals process — and could serve as a guide for future affirmative action cases. Already, SFFA remains engaged in a lawsuit against the University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, and has re-filed a complaint against the University of Texas, Austin that was previously dismissed. The group is also searching for students who believe they were rejected by the University of Wisconsin, Madison as a result of their race.
Below, The Crimson annotates the opinion’s key findings and conclusions.
Burroughs found that evidence presented in the lawsuit did not prove that Harvard policies are intentionally discriminatory. She wrote that she was convinced by the testimony of Harvard admissions officers, who said that their evaluations of applicants were not discriminatory.
SFFA lawyers subjected Dean of Admissions and Financial Aid William R. Fitzsimmons ’67 and Director of Admissions Marlyn E. McGrath ’70 to hours of intense questioning. The two defended the College’s policies and answered detailed questions about the way the College uses race in making admissions decisions.
“We do not endorse — we abhor — stereotypical comments,” Fitzsimmons said in his deeply personal testimony. “This is not a part of our process. This is not who I am and not who we are.”
In her opinion, Burroughs homed in on SFFA’s argument that Harvard disadvantages many Asian American students by evaluating them with negative subjective descriptors like “bland,” “quiet,” and “not exciting.” Though she acknowledged stereotypes faced by many Asian Americans, Burroughs found that SFFA did not prove that Harvard ever described students with words like “quiet” simply because they were Asian American.
Burroughs ruled that there are no viable race-neutral alternatives that the College could use to achieve a similarly diverse student population. Throughout the trial, attorneys and expert witnesses argued over a number of potential alternatives — including providing a “tip” to applicants from disadvantaged geographic regions or offering a form of socioeconomic affirmative action.
SFFA repeatedly alleged that Harvard never fully explored race-neutral alternatives in its admissions process. Harvard in turn pointed to two committees formed in 2014 and 2017 with the explicit purpose of considering such alternatives. Those committees found that it is necessary to consider race, and Burroughs wrote that she thought the University had sufficiently considered the alternatives.
Burroughs ruled that none of the alternatives SFFA suggested were viable since they had “come at significant costs” like a decline in the “expected strength” of incoming classes and a one-third reduction in the number of African American students in incoming classes.
Statistical evidence was a major component of both sides’ arguments, and Burroughs spent more than 30 pages of her opinion parsing Harvard and SFFA’s models and analyses. Both parties hired economics professors as expert witnesses to determine whether Harvard’s admissions process disadvantages Asian Americans.
Harvard’s expert — professor David E. Card of the University of California, Berkeley — found that Harvard does not statistically discriminate against Asian Americans. SFFA’s expert, Duke University professor Peter S. Arcidiacono, came to the opposite conclusion.
Burroughs wrote that each expert developed a “viable econometric model,” but that she preferred a modified version of Card’s regression model. Her modified version includes interactions between variables for race and socioeconomic status. The model suggests that being Asian American is not associated with a statistically significant lower chance of admission.
SFFA alleged that Harvard’s admissions policies violate Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, which prohibits discrimination on the basis of race in federally funded institutions. Though the complaint did not argue that Harvard’s policies are unconstitutional, Burroughs drew heavily from U.S. Supreme Court opinions that upheld affirmative action policies under the 14th Amendment. She wrote that those cases “guide” the relevance of Title VI in the admissions lawsuit.
Burroughs frequently referenced the 2016 Fisher II case, which held that UT Austin’s race-conscious, “holistic” admissions policy is constitutional. In that case, the University of Texas, a public institution, was bound by the 14th Amendment. Though Harvard College is a private institution, it receives federal funding and is therefore subject to Title VI.
Burroughs also extensively cited the landmark 1978 Bakke case, as well as the 2003 Grutter and Gratz cases — representing more than four decades of precedent affirming that the government has a compelling interest in promoting diversity in higher education.
The Supreme Court specifically held up Harvard’s admissions policies as an ideal example of an affirmative action program in the Bakke case.
Though she ruled that the College’s practices are lawful, Burroughs contended that the admissions process is “imperfect” and suggested a number of changes. She recommended that admissions officers participate in implicit bias trainings, maintain clear guidelines on the use of race, and monitor any race-related statistical disparities.
She said the task of considering race in admissions is a “a particularly delicate job” to execute lawfully.
Burroughs conceded, though, that so long as race-conscious admissions policies exist, they “will always penalize to some extent the groups that are not being advantaged by the process” — though she said such a penalty is justified by an interest in diversity.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
I’m not one for pretense. Let’s get to the picks.
DARTMOUTH AT PENN
If there is a problem with Ivy League football, it’s that it simply isn’t exactly the type of thing people who go to Ivy League schools tend to care about. Few students show up to the (professional, college, high school, intramural flag, lawn) football games and when they do rarely venture a glance from their phone to the field in front of them. Penn seems to be immune from the disorder.
Two weeks ago, a Philadelphia Eagles fan was televised just before a commercial break disagreeing with a call on the field. The video of the fan on Twitter garnered over a thousand retweets and more than seven thousand likes. The fan, as it turns out, is the University of Pennsylvania dean of admission, Eric Furda. The video was picked up by local newspapers and then, Stephen Colbert. While we’ll never know what the dean was saying (read a lip-reading analysis here) we can be absolutely sure, the Penn administration really cares about football.
But sometimes passion isn’t enough. The Eagles dropped the contest to the Detroit Lions on Sunday. Penn is going to lose to Dartmouth on Friday — just don’t tell Dean Furda.
Dartmouth by 24
COLUMBIA AT PRINCETON
Sure the University of Pennsylvania administration looks good right now, but no one looks better than Columbia’s administration. Why? They disbanded the university’s band, replacing them with a high school group. Not even Boston winters are that cold.
I’ve never had more respect for a university administration in my life.
Yeah, Princeton is probably the best team in the Ivy League. Yeah they’ve got a great shot at winning the division. Yeah, you could probably replace the Columbia team with a high school one to the same effect as replacing the band. Some things, however, can’t be quantified on paper. Swagger is one of those things. Columbia — at least the administration — has swagger.
Columbia by 1
HOWARD AT HARVARD
This has already been dubbed the battle for the real HU, and not without reason. The Harvard University and Howard University football programs have been intertwined since the start, despite never actually meeting on the gridiron. Legend has it, when the Howard program began in 1893, it was under the direction of English professor Charles Cook. The uniforms? They borrowed those from Harvard.
Now, on Saturday, the two teams will meet in regulation for the first time in football history. The two conferences — the Ivy League and the Mid-Eastern Athletic Conference Football — hardly cross paths, so it’s difficult to guess at the comparative strength of schedules. Thus far, Howard seems to be struggling, having dropped four of its opening five games. Though, that’s three games more than Harvard has played.
Additionally, Howard’s star quarterback, Caylin Newton, has entered the transfer portal after opting not to play in last week’s contest. Yes that last name is Newton, as in the younger brother of the 2010 Heisman Trophy winner and professional quarterback Cam Newton. Howard’s now starting a true freshman in Quinton Williams.

On the contrary, Harvard’s quarterback woes that typically plague the beginning of the season have disappeared in junior Jake Smith’s maturation. The third-year is straight slingin’, and broke two personal records as many games, one for yards and one for touchdowns.
Forget real, I’ve got my money on the original HU.
Harvard by 21
RHODE ISLAND AT BROWN
Perhaps, like me, you forgot that Rhode Island was large enough to have more than one city. Perhaps, like me, you forgot that Rhode Island had the resources to supply two Division I programs. You would be forgiven for forgetting all of the above. The state’s two teams, after all, are not good.
However, the nation’s smallest state does indeed host intrastate rivalry dubbed the Governor’s Cup. While the “rivalry” likely boasts the lowest attendance of any rivalry game in the nation, it does in fact exist.
Over the course of the last century and then some, Brown and the University of Rhode Island have met 103 times to duke it out for the Governor’s Cup. Brown, surprisingly, leads the series 73-28-2. I fully expect the Bears to continue to lead the series for the next 46 years, until Rhode Island’s 46th consecutive win, or the inevitable disbandment of all Ivy League football programs.
Rhode Island by 6
FORDHAM AT YALE
I hate Yale.
Fordham by 3
GEORGETOWN AT CORNELL
This might legally qualify as heresy but I actually think Georgetown might have a good football program for probably the first time ever. The Hoya’s lost their first game of the season to Davidson — the college of Steph Curry so that probably translates at least a little to adeptness at football — and has since massacred opponents, out scoring them 136-13.
Cornell doesn’t seem terrible either and has the added benefit of hosting the contest. No one can travel to the desolate wasteland sometimes called Ithaca, N.Y., without being negatively affected in some way.
If the game is played anywhere but Ithaca, Georgetown wins by 21.
Georgetown by 7
—Staff writer Cade Palmer can be reached at cade.palmer@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @THC_CadePalmer.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
As the calendar turns to October, Harvard Women’s Volleyball will look to rebound from an uneven start to the season. After winning two of its first three matches, the squad dropped its next seven games and finished September with a 2-8 record.
Harvard began the season at the Harvard Invitational, with a tough loss at the hands of Colgate University sandwiched in between strong victories over Sacred Heart University and the University of Rhode Island. After falling behind two sets two one against Sacred Heart, Harvard rolled through the fourth set by a score of 25-12 and used the momentum to pull through in the fifth set, 15-13. Senior middle blocker Sope Adeleye led the charge with a career-best 14 kills. Adeleye only committed three errors during the match, which was good for a sterling .478 kill rate.
Despite fighting its way back in the third set to force a fourth against Colgate, Harvard was unable to complete the comeback and ultimately fell three sets to one. Although the squad received strong all-around performances from several of its starters — junior co-captain Evelyn Gray registered a career-high 14 kills and .276 hitting percentage, and Adeleye recorded an impressive seven blocks — the team put up a miniscule .183 kill percentage and committed 22 attacking errors en route to the loss. The squad managed to rebound in the next match, however, with a 3-1 victory over Rhode Island to close out the invitational. Gray put up an impressive 13 kills, while Adeleye and senior outside hitter Grace Roberts Burbank each contributed strong performances with 12 kills apiece.
Unfortunately, Harvard was unable to turn the momentum from its successful weekend into a winning streak. The team lost its next three matches at the Thunderdome classic in San Diego, California. Harvard dropped its first two matches in straight sets against La Salle University and the University of San Diego, and managed to win just one set against UC Santa Barbara before falling 3-1. Despite the losses, the weekend was highlighted by strong performances by some of the squad’s younger players — first-year setter/hitter Ashley Wang and sophomore setter/outside hitter Bella Almanza combined to dish out 92 assists across the three games.
“[Wang and Almanza] are directing the offense, and they're doing a fantastic job,” said Burbank.”I'm excited for them to keep it up and keep coming into their own as young players. I think it's exciting that they're already having this much success, and I know that there's only more to come for them.”
The following week, Harvard continued its skid with three tough losses, two of which came in the New England Challenge. The team lost a heartbreaker against Boston College to open the event; after forcing a decisive fifth set, the squad came up just short and dropped the final set 18-20. The squad was unable to recuperate from the gut wrenching loss in time for the match against Northeastern, which it dropped three sets to one.
To close out nonconference action at home, Harvard dropped a match against Syracuse three sets to one. Junior outside hitter Mindie Mabry continued her strong offensive season by leading the team in kills for the third straight match and hitting a strong .435. It was not enough, and Harvard’s losing streak stretched to six.
Harvard’s most recent match, which took place against Dartmouth last weekend, was a closely-contested thriller that came down to the final set. Dartmouth stormed back from a two-game deficit and took advantage of a fatigued Harvard squad, sealing the victory with a 15-6 win in the fifth set. Sophomore right side attacker Jaimie Rao turned in a sparkling performance on offense, recording a career-high 19 kills and 20 points — but it was not enough to propel Harvard to a victory in its first Ivy League matchup of the season.
“It's been a hard preseason.” said Burbank. “I think our team has learned a lot through adversity and I think we're well equipped to move into this first half of Ivy League's
and have some good experience playing some good teams under our belt”.
Harvard continues Ivy League play when it takes on the Yale and Brown squads in away matches this weekend. In October, the team will also face off against Columbia, Cornell, Princeton, and UPenn. Harvard will close out the month with a rematch against Dartmouth.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
