News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
President Donald Trump’s former chief economic advisor and nine other prominent political figures will join the Harvard Kennedy School's Institute of Politics’ spring cohort of fellows, the IOP announced Thursday.
Gary D. Cohn, the former chief operating officer and president of Goldman Sachs who later served as director of the National Economic Council in the Trump Administration between January 2017 and March 2018, will join this semester's cohort, along with former Senator Heidi K. Heitkamp (D-ND) and former Tallahassee Mayor Andrew D. Gillum. The class also includes former United States representatives Barbara J. Comstock (R, VA-10) and Carlos L. Curbelo (R, FL-26), CNN Legal Analyst Michael Zeldin, former U.S. Ambassador-at-Large for Global Women’s Issues Catherine M. Russell, and BGLTQ activist Aisha C. Moodie-Mills.
Former New Orleans Mayor Mitchell J. Landrieu and former Philadelphia Mayor Michael A. Nuttera round out the group. They will return to the IOP as visiting fellows to continue their fall 2018 study group entitled Politics, Potholes and Public Service.
Katherine A. Krolicki '20, student co-chair of the Fellows and Study Group at the IOP, said Cohn’s bipartisan background brings an interesting perspective to the IOP Fellows Program.
“He’s a Democrat, and he worked in the Trump administration,” Krolicki said. “That ability to work for someone with the opposite ideals of you politically is something that we encourage in the IOP.”
Cohn is partnering with Heitkamp to lead a joint study group titled "The Real State of the Union." Study groups are weekly discussions organized and led by IOP Fellows.
Longtime friends Cohn and Heitkamp conceived their joint study group to explore the state of the economy from multiple perspectives, according to IOP spokesperson Kelsey A. Donohue.
“They believe that having perspectives from both the executive and legislative branches of government will provide a unique and enriching student experience,” Donohue wrote in an emailed statement.
Heitkamp joins the fellows program on the heels of an unsuccessful senatorial race last November. Former representatives Comstock and Curbelo also lost their races last year.
Gillum, who lost his Florida gubernatorial bid in November, said he is excited about spending time with students while on campus.
“This is a unique opportunity for myself and other fellows to spend time supporting the next generation of political leaders,” Gillum said. “Whether it’s in my study group or during office hours, I hope, in some small way, I help inspire these students to pursue their own careers in public service.”
Elijah C. DeVaughn Jr. ’21, who co-chairs the Fellows and Study Group with Krolicki, said Gillum stood out to him personally.
“He’s just an astounding fellow to have at the Institute of Politics, and someone who’s really exciting for me as an African-American male — I see myself in him,” DeVaughn said.
IOP Director Mark D. Gearan ’78 said he is looking forward to having fellows with experience in contemporary political issues at the IOP.
“I’m particularly excited about this cohort of fellows because I think they will engage in conversations with all of us in and around some of the central issues — electoral politics, the economy, LGBTQ and advocacy, voting rights, legal analysis, and climate change,” Gearan said.
DeVaughn said the class was selected with a vision of multiplicity — “of having people of not only different political proclivities, but also of different races, of different genders, of different kinds of expertise.”
The six resident fellows — Comstock, Curbelo, Gillum, Moodie-Mills, Russell, and Zeldin — will stay on campus for the full academic term. Cohn, Heitkamp, Landrieu, and Nutter will be visiting fellows and will have more condensed schedules.
— Staff writer Jania J. Tumey can be reached at jania.tumey@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
ITHACA, N.Y. — The stage was set on Friday night: the Harvard men’s hockey team tripped to Upstate New York to battle Ivy League rival No. 15/14 Cornell in the 2000th game in Big Red history. Fresh off a victory over then-No. 6 Quinnipiac, the Crimson (7-6-3, 4-5-2 ECAC) had a chance to claim the season series against Cornell (10-5-1, 6-2-1) and quite possibly reenter the USCHO rankings for the first time since late 2017 in the process.
Harvard, however, failed to seize the opportunity in front of it. The Crimson fell to the Big Red, 2-0, as untimely penalties and a failure to establish a net-front presence hindered the visitors’ ability to crack the code of sophomore goaltender Matt Galajda.
“You just got the sense that…the goals were going to be guys getting beat at the front of the net,” Harvard coach Ted Donato ’91 said. “We have to be willing to pay the price in a very physical game like that to get to the front of the net. We have to be able to play physical without taking penalties.”
Four minutes into the final frame, with the Crimson playing visibly frustrated after ceding two goals the period prior, Harvard defenseman Adam Baughman cross-checked Big Red freshman Max Andreev. The senior’s hit sent the forward crashing into the boards on all fours, and the officials assessed Baughman a five-minute major penalty and game misconduct.
Andreev, injured on the play, is unlikely to return to the Cornell lineup in the near future.
With Baughman tossed from the game and the Crimson down two goals yet facing a long non-releasable penalty, the outlook was bleak. Of course, as the ice began tilting in the hosts’ favor, the raucous Lynah crowd only grew more imposing.
“We take a penalty that makes it real tough for us to come back, killing off a five-minute major in the third,” coach Donato said.
These significant headwinds made it difficult for Harvard to get back in the game. The Crimson icemen, who mid-way through the contest led in shots, ultimately finished the tilt at a 30-25 disadvantage as they struggled to carry a solid first-period performance through to the remaining 40 minutes.
Given the Big Red’s tight-checking style, it proved particularly difficult to come back against a lockdown team and net-minder. Between the pipes for Cornell, Galajda posted 25 saves en route to his 10th career shutout and second in four appearances against the Crimson.
“We tried as hard as we could in the first, and once they got that bounce and they started playing a bit of a defensive style…it’s hard really to penetrate them,” said Harvard co-captain Lewis Zerter-Gossage. “Once they get that first goal, it’s really hard to play catch-up hockey, especially against a team like this.”
Coming off a scoreless first period, the Big Red had built a two-goal lead by the next intermission. Cornell cracked open the scoring two minutes into the middle frame. Sophomore forward Brenden Locke punched a puck past backstop Michael Lackey, sending the hometown crowd into an uproar. Locke’s linemate and fellow sophomore, Morgan Barron, corralled the puck after a successful forecheck and fed it to Locke for the strike.
“Once they scored, it changed the momentum for them,” Zerter-Gossage said. “Any time something goes in their favor, their fans really get into it, and having a young team maybe it’s pretty hard to manage that. But it’s up to the older guys and the leaders to step in, and we didn’t really do that today.”
While Barron set up the first Big Red tally — the eventual game-winner — he potted the second one himself. With three minutes remaining in the stanza, Harvard freshman Wyllum Deveaux was sent to the sin bin for hitting with head contact. Six seconds into his penalty, Barron picked up a rebound off Lackey’s pad and swept it home.
The first period saw no goals but still featured the intensity and animosity that Lynah fans have grown to expect between the two Ancient Eight foes. After 20 minutes, Harvard led in shots, 11-9, and had tilted the ice ever so slightly in its favor, threatening Galajda on multiple occasions.
On the other end of the ice, Lackey saw pucks well and held firm, logging his team’s sixth first-period clean sheet of the season. The senior finished with solid numbers (2 GA, .933 SV%) despite the loss and continues to look confident in net for the Crimson. Lackey’s play will be a large determinant of Harvard’s ability to make a run late in the season.
Another prominent feature of coach Donato’s squad — its powerplay — was not quite as sharp on Friday evening. The shutout defeat marks the end of a three-game stint with a man-up goal, as the Crimson failed to strike on either of its two attempts against Cornell. Harvard’s powerplay remains the most effective in the NCAA at a 34.5 percent clip.
“They do a good job of blocking shots,” said coach Donato of the Big Red. “We’ve got to find a way to get shots through. We have to win some battles so we can get second and third opportunities…. The usual things, you just have to fundamentally do some of the basic things.”
The Crimson must move on from a disappointing defeat at the always rowdy Lynah Rink. It visits Colgate on Saturday afternoon in a vital opportunity to nab two ECAC points.
—Staff writer Spencer R. Morris can be reached at spencer.morris@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @SMorrisTHC.
