News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Imagine you are the conductor of the New York Philharmonic. Your musicians switch up their instruments at will, and they come and go throughout the piece. Can you create a beautiful performance out of this cacophony? You’re going to need a really big baton.
While no self-respecting musician would entertain this hypothetical, the analog lies at the core of legislators, engineers, and researchers in the transportation industry. Managing the rhythm and meter of how urban residents commute through their city is much like a conductor managing what seems to be a chaotic ensemble. One particularly personal problem in transportation that you and I will soon have to deal with is the move of the School of Engineering and Applied Sciences to the new Allston campus. By fall 2020, many a quadling will be burdened with the following question: How are we going to commute nearly four miles roundtrip between dorms and classes?
We are not the first to think of this difficult and interesting engineering problem. In anticipation of the Allston move, SEAS is creating 570 bike parking spots, a bike sharing hub, an “enhanced” campus shuttle system, and a long-term vision of a commuter rail station. But these won’t be enough. I don’t know about you, but when it gets below freezing and icy outside — a condition for a good portion of the academic year — I wouldn’t be very gung-ho about taking the four-mile trek by bike just to get to class. With bikes out of the picture, shuttles will inevitably get overcrowded: Thanks to Harvard’s block schedule, most students with a 9 a.m. class will shoot for the 8:45 a.m. bus, not the 8:30 a.m. And if you can’t get a spot on the bus, are you out of luck?
Luckily for us, industry and academia also have a whole suite of proposed solutions. The Massachusetts Institute of Technology developed the Persuasive Electric Vehicle, an eccentric miniature car-bike hybrid that can be hailed from ride-share apps and ridden in the bike lane. On our side of Cambridge, Harvard’s Human Powered Vehicle Team and a team of 45 students in ENG-SCI 96: “Engineering Problem Solving and Design Project” have also taken a stab at the problem. And, of course, you can take my personal favorite mode of transport and ride a last-mile electric vehicle, like Boosted’s electric skateboard or Harvard student-run mobility company Scoob’s electric scooters. Many think the answer to our transportation woes must lie in some precarious balance of scooters, bikes, buses, and trains.
But in my opinion, the solution begins with rethinking our perspective: this isn’t just an engineering problem. It’s a socio-technical one, where the social challenges are just as important as and deeply intertwined with the engineering challenges.
While the initial solutions seem fairly reasonable, I don't expect SEAS to get it right the first time around. The Allston transportation problem is so hard to solve, let alone define, because we students don’t even yet know what is best for us in this new upcoming commuting culture. What is important is that we take a people-centered approach to problem-solving. We must define the success of Allston transportation not solely on whether the bike racks are built and the buses are on time, but largely on whether students are satisfied with how they commute. Only then can we take the right steps forward to converge on the best solution for us.
The engineer in me admittedly gets excited by all the new gadgets we can throw at the problem of transportation more broadly — compact vehicles, high-speed monorails, and even jet suits, to name a few. However, gadgets alone don’t solve problems. I’ve taken the time to get equally informed on and excited by the “why”: why solve transportation?
First, to solve transportation is to create a more sustainable future. When we need to get to another part of town quickly, how do we change the narrative so that we don’t immediately reach for the Uber app? What new affordances are we given to design cities when the central facet of commuter culture is no longer the gasoline engine?
Next, to solve transportation is to increase our collective productivity. The opportunity cost of effective human hours lost while stuck in traffic is astounding. If we do it right, many urban dwellers have a shot at reclaiming hours or even days of wasted time back.
Finally, to solve transportation is to change the way we feel about life in a city. Too many of us spend too much time in this limbo-state of dissatisfaction and constant urgency while commuting. I dream of a future where this part of our lives becomes just a little less monotonous, making us just a little happier on the average day.
Transportation is just one area where human-centered design and problem-obsession can give us huge societal return. But the ethos is replicable. As the conductor of your own busy life — a life of relationships, career-building, family, and, of course, transportation — I invite you to think deeply about how you direct your musical composition. How do we optimize our lives to balance efficiency, sustainability, and pleasure?
Mohib A. Jafri ’21 is an Electrical Engineering concentrator in Quincy House. His column appears on alternate Thursdays. 
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The results are in.
Last spring, roughly 44 percent of all Harvard affiliates — which includes University faculty, students, and staff — participated in Harvard’s first University-wide Pulse Survey on Inclusion and Belonging. The survey found that 52 percent of respondents agree or strongly agree that they feel they belong at Harvard.
However, when you break down respondent attitudes demographically, the results are bleak. More than 30 percent of genderqueer and nonbinary respondents, Muslim respondents, Middle Eastern respondents, black or African American respondents, and bisexual respondents did not even “somewhat agree” that they belong at Harvard.
The fact that more than half of University affiliates feel they belong on campus is obviously a good thing. However, the demographic disparity and the alienation of marginalized groups that this statistic conceals are hugely troubling. It is sad and unacceptable that these groups disproportionately feel as if they don’t belong on our campus.
We also find the University’s practice of aggregating the responses of certain minority groups in its executive summary concerning. The University justifies this as a part of its effort “to ensure confidential and precise results.” However, we worry that this practice reflects the larger issue of how some of these specific groups tend to feel ignored on campus. The fact that individuals lumped into the aggregated race/ethnicity, gender identity, and sexual orientation categories reported lower than average levels of belonging only reinforces this unfortunate impression.
Harvard has announced steps it is taking in response to the Pulse Survey’s results. These include creating the Diversity, Inclusion and Belonging Leadership Council and hiring a chief diversity and inclusion officer, among other interventions. Though we view these developments as positive and necessary, we are surprised that Harvard is only now taking steps to convene a University-wide inclusion and belonging council.
Moreover, the University must continue to work to build out its “One Harvard” model. Developing better relationships between Harvard’s different schools, pursuant to the One Harvard vision, can foster better collaboration on issues of diversity and inclusion, and has the potential to disseminate best practices and winning strategies across the University. We hope that these collaborations birth interventions that can make it easier for students, staff, and faculty alike to navigate what can already be an isolating space.
All that said, while we appreciate that the University is now taking steps to create institutional platforms to advocate for diversity and inclusion and belonging, we’re concerned that centralizing those institutions will not do enough to address the problem at hand. An ethos that pervades every facet of Harvard’s administration, where all concerns are addressed with those needs in mind, needs to be systemic rather than limited to a few centralized offices. While those offices might do some good, as long as their mission is isolated, they won’t do enough.
More must be done. Our classmates and other Harvard affiliates have good ideas on this front. We reiterate our support for some of the suggestions offered by survey respondents as described in the executive summary, such as the belief that establishing a multicultural center would help foster more inclusion and belonging at Harvard.
All staff, students, and faculty deserve to feel as if they belong at Harvard. Now that the University’s pulse has been checked, we hope a robust program of treatment will follow.
This staff editorial solely represents the majority view of The Crimson Editorial Board. It is the product of discussions at regular Editorial Board meetings. In order to ensure the impartiality of our journalism, Crimson editors who choose to opine and vote at these meetings are not involved in the reporting of articles on similar topics.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Recently, a co-worker pointed me to a news piece about a dispute between Harvard’s activist circuit and The Crimson after the paper contacted U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement for comment on a story (I won’t get into the lengthy background). After reading up, I have to say, some of what I’ve come across breaks my heart.
In a recent essay from these pages, a student suggests that impartial reporting is a fruitless endeavor because speech is always couched within grander “systems of power” (a numbingly Foucauldian phrase). A recent petition from Harvard College Act on a Dream argued that The Crimson’s decision to request comment from ICE on the recent student protest was tantamount to calling in a tip. In a follow-up statement expressing support, the Harvard Prison Divestment Campaign lambasted The Crimson’s commitment to “getting both sides of the story” for ignoring a “severe power discrepancy.”
It’s like Bob Dylan once said, “the times they are a-changin’.” The students of Harvard College are finally conversant in Foucault’s economics of power and are taking it to bat. The civil liberties of old — free speech and a free press chief among them — seem in this instance to be the obstacles to justice rather than the vehicles for it.
Here, I give some credit to Act on a Dream, which clarified its views on the First Amendment after all the confusion. Some of their essay gives reason for cautious optimism. They rightly frame their defense of immigrant students as a stand for the free speech of dissenters, no matter their nationality. They also probe an important conversation in journalistic ethics. How do we protect the identities of our most vulnerable interlocutors?
Still, the tendency of today leans more toward hunting for power imbalances than taking up the time-tested instruments of liberal criticism.
With that approach, I fear that we forget that past liberals faced similar circumstances to our own. When a garrison of redcoats fired their rifles into the crowd outside the Boston Custom House in 1770, the soldiers responsible received a fair trial with legal defense by John Adams. When the moment care, the court heard their case — never mind the power imbalance between the British army and the American colonists.
One wonders whether such a scene is thinkable today. I pose the question as an opponent of deportation on personal and moral grounds. My own grandparents emigrated from Cuba as young adults, and my mother was routinely ridiculed for it as a child. She became accustomed to the epithet “illegal alien” and would bear the weight of otherness for much of her life. That she was in fact an American citizen tells the whole story: where they said “illegal,” they meant “not white.”
Politically, there are good reasons to be skeptical of deportation. As I’ve suggested before in these pages, it is mostly impossible to assure freedom to citizens without extending it also to non-citizens. I’m thinking here of Abraham Lincoln’s adage, that “in giving freedom to the slave, we assure freedom to the free.”
Even where an undocumented person is a criminal, deportation is hard to justify. When America sent Los Angeles’s Salvadoran gangs back to their home country in the 1980s, it wreaked havoc on that country’s criminal justice system — so much so, that 30 years later, El Salvador sent tens of thousands of its own back to America as refugees.
One need not support deportation to take pause at the responses of some of its critics. As imperfect as our system is, its press freedoms are unparalleled, and we ought to preserve that in the face of growing global censorship. Not to say we can’t have a conversation on responsible reporting, but we can’t very well ask the reporters to stop seeking comments from all sides. There’s nothing subtle or convincing to a reader about quieting a relevant party.
We too often forget the four-word warning of the Spanish poet Miguel de Unamuno to the fascists: “venceréis, pero no convenceréis” — “You will win, but you will not persuade.” Unamuno understood that whatever right-wing regime arose from the Spanish Civil War could only last as long as its capacity to repress rational thought — a testament to freedom’s origins in the thinking mind.
I worry that by foreclosing on conventional journalistic wisdom like interviewing all sides in a story, we expose ourselves to a far more pernicious danger than the chance of a one-time snitch or even the brief, suspicious gaze of the state. We concede the theater of public opinion, in which immigration activists have a world to win through the old channels of argument.
If we lose that, we may still win the moment, but we will never persuade.
Henry N. Brooks ’19, a former Crimson columnist, is a graduate of Currier House. 
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
The evening began with a cocktail hour. As waiters circulated hors d’oeuvres, Taylor and dozens of other students, all financial aid recipients, mingled with Harvard donors, some billionaires and others descendants of the namesakes of campus buildings. The students had been invited to the annual “Celebration of Scholarships,” which brings together financial aid recipients and donors.
After cocktails, dividers were swept aside to reveal the rest of Annenberg, beautified with dimmed lighting, fine tablecloths, and silverware for each course — including braised ribs, pasta with mushroom sauce for vegetarians, and berry tart for dessert. “I definitely felt out of place,” Ali M. Nasser ’20 says. “I didn’t even know which fork to use for the salad.”
For some students, the opulent environment and the dinner’s nature — bringing together lower-income students and extremely wealthy donors — brought the inherent power imbalance into high relief.
“I’m on full scholarship, so knowing I’m talking to people who are wealthy enough to just donate enough money to get the scholarship named after them, and knowing that they know my socioeconomic status, it makes the whole thing uncomfortable,” Charlie recalls. Taylor and Charlie are pseudonyms; these undergraduate students spoke anonymously due to the private nature of financial aid.
The “Celebration of Scholarships” dinner has been held each spring since its creation in 2006. The event “celebrates students and the donor support that has a transformative effect on their Harvard experience,” Christopher M. Hennessy, a Harvard spokesperson, wrote in an emailed statement.
Indeed, philanthropy plays a key role in the College’s financial aid program. Approximately two-thirds of Harvard College scholarships comes from donations, and the Financial Aid Office provides more than 2,600 individual endowment funds — scholarships paid by specific donors — according to Hennessy. The Financial Aid Office is fully responsible for matching students and funds.
Fundraising requires donor stewardship, which can take the form of thank you notes and meetings between students and donors, such as at the Celebration of Scholarships. “The donors love to see all these different Harvard undergraduates who’ve gotten their money,” says Patricia Albjerg Graham, a professor emerita at the Graduate School of Education who studies the history of education and previously served as Dean of the Harvard Graduate School of Education.
“From the donors’ point of view, having a big dinner like this is a Harvard event,” Graham adds. “They tell all their friends...‘I went to Harvard and I met the one who we’re supporting and he [or] she is just delightful.’” And, Graham adds, events such as the Celebration of Scholarships dinner encourage more donations.
Some, such as Maureen Tang ’20, enjoyed the opportunity to meet and thank their donors. “I think for me, personally, it was really cool knowing that the people making my higher education possible were real people,” she says.
Others, though not opposed to philanthropy, took issue with the dinner’s framing and execution.
“The attitude was very much like, ‘Oh, look how much we’ve helped these poor kids get out of their shitty poor neighborhoods where they weren’t safe,’” Charlie says. “‘And imagine where they would be if they didn’t have all these great Harvard opportunities they’re being offered.’ Which is really reductive to a lot of the communities first-gen and low-income students come from.” Harvard spokespeople declined to provide further comment on specific criticisms.
First generation and lower-income students benefit enormously from financial aid; they are also the only students asked to attend the Celebration of Scholarships and navigate the potentially uncomfortable social situations within. To celebrate “scholarships” is ambiguous — does the dinner celebrate beneficiaries, or benefactors? There should be a way, some students expressed, to do both; to reconcile the importance of attracting donors to Harvard with the needs and perspectives of the students whom their donations are meant to help.
Thomas J. Schneider ’73, who has donated to Harvard financial aid since the early nineties, first attended the Celebration of Scholarships several years ago. “It was just a great opportunity to get to know [my donees],” he says of the dinner. “There was some sharing of their stories, and also getting to hear what they were doing at Harvard, and, you know, thinking back to my own experience.”
From a modest family in western Michigan, Schneider attended Harvard on a nearly full scholarship. This act of generosity left a deep impact, and he wanted to give back.
Schneider describes the dinner as “a brilliant stroke” of fundraising — meeting donees is like “putting your name on a building” because it personalizes the donor’s gift, he says. Many donors, who were also previously on financial aid as undergraduates, are able to identify with the recipients of their scholarships, and are thus motivated to give more. Schneider says that in part because of interactions with students at the dinner, he decided to endow a scholarship at the Law School.
Though Harvard started working to become more financially accessible after World War II, it has been over the past 20 years, Graham explains, that financial aid has significantly expanded. The undergraduate student body is still disproportionately wealthy, but is a far cry from the Harvard of the early 1900s dominated by graduates of a few preparatory schools.
Philanthropy is central to making a Harvard education more accessible. “Philanthropy has helped Harvard grow the budget for financial aid from $53M in 1999 to over $200M today, and has made it possible for Harvard to increase the average award from $16,766 in 1999 to $55,750 in 2019,” Hennessy wrote.
The Celebration of Scholarships, as Graham and Schneider noted, plays a key role in facilitating student-donor meetings, which encourage donations. The dinner “is an opportunity for all who attend to learn about the many ways financial aid has a significant and lasting impact on students and the critical importance of the continued support of financial aid,” Hennessy wrote.
A robust financial aid program is undoubtedly good. “Now there’s a significant fraction of students whose families do not have the funds to support them, but students who can do well at Harvard,” Graham says. “The trick is, how do we help those students feel they are just as much a part of Harvard as the youngster whose father is the chairman of the Board and was educated at St. Paul’s after having gone to Trinity in New York?”
Schneider, when he attended Harvard, arrived “with nothing” and made friends from elite preparatory schools. “So I’m pretty relaxed in those environments and meeting the students [at the dinner],” he says.
“But there are people at the dinner who donated that, yeah, they’re not exactly the most relaxed, laid-back people,” he continues. “And if I were a student and I were eating with them, I would feel a little uncomfortable. I could definitely understand that.” The environment of the dinner, Schneider believes, depends on the individual donors involved.
The Celebration of Scholarships dinner, however, is not only made up of individuals; it is organized by an institution. The Harvard Gazette, which is published by Harvard Public Affairs and Communications, has covered the dinner nearly every year since 2014. The Gazette’s coverage emphasizes speeches that thank donors for supporting financial aid, such as former FAS Dean Michael D. Smith’s comment in 2014, “We owe a debt of gratitude to our extremely generous alumni,” or current FAS Dean Claudine Gay’s remark in 2019, addressing donors, that “This is what you make possible.”
Every year, student speakers at the dinner share their experiences struggling against adversity — including extreme poverty and oppressive regimes — prior to attending Harvard. And, every year, the Gazette’s coverage opens by highlighting one of these students’ hardships.
“The Gazette, which is partly public relations, because it goes to Harvard people, it wants to tell the most interesting stories,” Graham says. “And if the youngster has suffered extraordinarily as a child, and is now fit for Harvard, that’s a much better story.”
Nasser was one of those student speakers, and he was featured in the Gazette’s 2019 coverage of the dinner. He explained that his speech expressed how “Harvard has expanded my horizon, and it’s all thanks to everything that they were doing, the financial aid was doing.”
After his speech, in which he discussed the ongoing humanitarian crisis in Yemen, where he was born, several donors approached him and asked if there was any way they could help. “These people really want to help and honestly, this is crazy,” he recalls.
He did experience, however, a moment of discomfort. “It just seemed like they’re saying, ‘Oh you poor child, I’m going to help you,’” Nasser recounts. “It was only for a split second I thought that, but then I got over it and I was like, ‘they’re trying to do good’” — the event, he says, was overall a very positive experience.
Many of the administrators and benefactors who speak at the event highlight the transformative nature of financial aid. In Gazette articles, donors are quoted saying they are excited to see how financial aid helps lower-income students transform the world, “going back to states or countries of disrepair, hoping to solve big problems.”
Charlie perceived this framing — “Harvard is the reason you are successful, or rather the money Harvard was able to give you” — as belittling. “[It] kind of takes out the individual agency of the student, and also kind of says, ‘The communities you came from are bad or deficient,’ which isn’t true,” they say. “There might be systemic issues and exploitation surrounding those communities, but they’re not bad or deficient.”
Taylor felt the paternalism more overtly when witnessing students of color express gratitude to a room of mostly white, wealthy donors. “It had this interesting dynamic of these very rich, very powerful, very white donors patting themselves on the back for helping these poor people of color better their situations,” they recall. “[Their philanthropy] is a good thing, but I think going about it in such a way that highlights every person of color they helped, I feel like there wasn’t a lot of self-awareness.”
Student speakers at the 2019 Celebration of Scholarships received an email early in the spring semester from Harvard Alumni Affairs and Development asking if they’d like to speak at the dinner. Nasser and Jackie Y. Ho ’19, another speaker, both said they were contacted based on the content of thank you letters they had previously written to their donors. After an interview, they were officially chosen to speak. Both Nasser and Ho said they were very grateful, and they were happy to share their stories.
For donor Sangu J. Delle ’10, student speakers’ “stories have been very powerful,” and are part of what keeps him donating money and time as a fundraising volunteer to the University. “Those dinners are really a celebration of the students, a celebration of the program,” he says. “A wonderful program that allowed me to attend Harvard — the program that is the reason I'm giving back to Harvard.”
Mikael W. Tessema ’20 attended the dinner both his freshman and junior years. His first time going, he remembers feeling confused as to why he, personally, deserved to be there.
“I was like, ‘Why the hell am I in this room?’’’ Tessema recalls. “We don’t give academic scholarships at Harvard admissions. So, why am I even here?” Part-way through the dinner, it dawned on him: “[The dinner] was specifically for fundraising and donors, it really didn’t have anything to do with anything I’ve done,” he says. “I don’t think I put that together until, like, well into the dinner my freshman year.”
When he attended his junior year, aware of the dinner’s fundraising purpose, the evening was entirely enjoyable, he says. “I actually am very grateful to my donors,” he says. “I mean, yeah, would I rather not have to perform it? Yeah, I don’t think I’d want to perform my empathy all the time, on command. But I can’t say I’m not grateful, because I am, I wouldn’t be able to do any of this without them.”
Tessema enjoyed meeting other students and his donor, hearing “juicy” details from Harvard insiders, and having the opportunity to express thanks.
Though the dinner was, in part, an opportunity for students and their individual donors to meet — students were emailed an invitation saying “the donor is planning to attend” — neither Taylor, Charlie, nor Nasser’s donor attended.
“He had a little name tag at the table and everything,” Charlie says of their donor. “So clearly he just had the social capital or whatever to decide last minute that he wasn’t going to come to this, which is also uncomfortable.” The celebration, despite personalizing fundraising, still seemed to celebrate scholarships, and their recipients, in semi-abstract terms, at times detached from the actual students present.
“As a whole it was very much centered around solely being self-congratulatory,” Taylor says. “Just sort of very happy and very content with what [donors] had done.”
Charlie believes that the dinner’s intentions were good, but its execution was lacking — which to them was indicative of how Harvard, despite pushing to recruit more socioeconomically diverse students since the launching of the Financial Aid Initiative in 2004, has been slow to accommodate those students once they are on campus.
“We’re bringing all these first-gen, low-income students to Harvard, which is good, but there’s been a lot of focus on that,” Charlie says. “And very little focus on giving those students the best resources to succeed once they’re here.”
The Celebration of Scholarships is not the only venue in which students can meet donors. Sam, who also spoke anonymously, attended a luncheon at the Harvard Faculty Club organized by their donor with 30 to 40 students last spring, they say. “Every aspect of it was just fancier than what I am accustomed to,” they say. “So I was always kind of at a loss for how to behave.” Dean of Admissions William R. Fitzsimmons ’67 and other top Harvard administrators were present.
Before sitting in smaller groups with members of the donor’s family, Sam and other students introduced themselves in a circle. Along with name, year, and concentration, they say they felt an implicit expectation to thank the donor, and most students did.
“We were somehow, like, indebted to him and had this obligation to be there to show how grateful we were,” they say. “Which is just additional emotional labor that students from different backgrounds don’t have to deal with.”
Morgan was invited to the same luncheon, though they came away with a more positive experience. They had attended the lunch their freshman year, when the format was different — one large group instead of small tables. “I felt so much gratitude, but I felt weirdly a little bit objectified,” they recall. The large, somewhat impersonal setting, they say, made it impossible to fully express gratitude or connect with the donor. Morgan is also a pseudonym.
“Naturally in this situation, I’m being used as a prop to talk about the impact of the donation,” Morgan says. “But I’m a consenting prop in that, and I also feel like it is really necessary for students to express to donors — so that they keep donating — just how important that donation was.”
For Morgan, the group format during their sophomore year worked much better, because they were able to connect more directly with the donor’s family members. They felt that execution, not the luncheon itself, had been the problem.
Nearly every student, regardless of whether they enjoyed the Celebration of Scholarships or meeting their donor, expressed discomfort at the class dynamics reinforced by meeting wealthy donors in opulent, sometimes impersonal settings — unsure of how to speak, how to eat, or how to carry themselves, and unsure of whether people of their background and from their community belonged. A better way to meet donors, some have suggested, would be in more personal and intimate settings, chosen by students.
“If you’re asked by somebody, and what you think of as the Harvard administration, to go to a dinner — for the very reasons you don’t want to go, it’s hard for you to say no,” Graham says. Hennessy emphasized in his email that attendance at these student-donor meetings is entirely optional.
Giving students the choice to set up a meeting with their donors, Graham continues, might make them more comfortable. “Some of these young people might be very pleased to be taken out for a steak dinner. But some of them would rather say, ‘I’d like tea in my dorm.’” When Graham was the Dean of the Graduate School of Education, she regularly facilitated such one-on-one meetings; she admits that, for the college, which has many more students, this may pose a logistical challenge.
Morgan, though they enjoyed the second luncheon, also sees room for improvement.
“What’s the purpose of the event?” they ask. “The purpose of the event is to express gratitude towards donors who donated to students from low and moderate income families. So why do you have students from low and moderate income families super dressed up in a really nice setting eating expensive, nice food? Instead, what if the donors came and they did a service event with a group of students who are mutually passionate about a similar social issue?” Or attend a concert, sports game, or meet in any space the student values or regularly inhabits, they add. It was speaking with and thanking their donor that Morgan, Ho, Tang, and Tessema primarily enjoyed — not the formality of a luxurious meal.
“No one is above going to a class with a student, going to a student’s game,” Morgan continues. “If they’re going to invest tens of thousands of dollars every year, and hundreds of thousands of dollars over the course of four years, to the student’s education, I think it makes a lot of sense for that donor to engage with that student in a much more genuine context.”
And fundraising, they believe, would also benefit from more personal engagement. “Showing is much more powerful than just telling, so I think from the University perspective, it would garner a lot more financial support,” Morgan says.
At the Celebration of Scholarships, students are asked to briefly enter the donors’ world, and all the disorienting power dynamics that come with it. A celebration of students, Morgan suggests, would be a win-win, though it would require asking benefactors to, rather than meeting donees under the high chandeliers in Annenberg, immerse themselves in the worlds of their beneficiaries.
— Magazine writer Matteo Wong can be reached at matteo.wong@thecrimson.com. 
Sections
At first glance, the room could easily be mistaken for a stereotypical office space. The walls are bland; the room’s 32 cubicles are aligned in neat, angular rows; the overhead lights emit a dull glow.
A peek inside one of the cubicles, however, transforms the room from a mundane suite into a playground lifted straight from the mind of a mad scientist.
Welcome to the Harvard Decision Science Laboratory. Each cubicle is a fully-equipped command room. A camera sits behind the desk, closely monitoring the actions and reactions of the seated individual. A drawer underneath the desktop contains a docking station for biophysical nodes — gauges that are connected to the individual to accumulate response data. Two computer monitors within the cubicle aggregate and assess this information, while also feeding video footage to a large touchscreen monitor at the very front of the room. This sleek screen controls air temperature, lighting levels, and even the room’s physical arrangement — parts of the space can be blocked off at any time by a series of mechanized sliding partitions.
Founded in 2008 by psychologist and Harvard Kennedy School Professor Jennifer Lerner, the lab is an innovative research hub for all things related to the human mind. From behavioral economics to neuroscience, the space hosts a plethora of high-tech experiments aimed at unpacking the human brain, all conducted under highly controlled conditions.
Charlotte Ruhl ’22, a research assistant and psychology concentrator, describes how the Harvard Decision Science Lab’s structure is unique: “Your typical lab is structured so that you have one principal investigator, and you study one thing, like infant brain development or adolescent depression. But our lab takes in studies from literally all over.”
The lab receives proposals for studies from the Harvard Kennedy School, the Medical School, and the Law School; other universities like Boston University and Stanford; and even institutions abroad. The researchers at the Decision Science Lab then use the lab’s resources to conduct the studies they receive.
One core reason that researchers from different schools, universities, and countries use the Harvard Decision Science Lab rather than conduct the studies themselves is because of the lab’s access to new technologies. Ruhl highlights parts of the lab’s cutting-edge research: in one study, participants build robots with an augmented reality headset; in another, participants solve mazes with eye-tracking glasses.
Additionally, the expertise and experience of the lab managers set the lab apart. Wyatt W. Hurt ’21, the head research assistant, explains that the lab allows for “cross pollination” of ideas. “If we see a study from Harvard Business School and another person from the [Government] department comes, we can say, ‘Maybe you can use their method.’ We’re always able to facilitate collaboration because we are involved in all the projects.”
Research assistants like Ruhl end up with a considerable amount of responsibility in the studies. Ruhl was drawn to decision science because she “was trying to steer away from the more clinical aspects of psychology and get more involved in the social side,” she says. Decision science also made sense on a personal level for Ruhl, who describes herself as a “really indecisive person.”
Alkistis Iliopoulou, the director of the lab, shares Ruhl’s positive perception of the field of decision science. According to Iliopouplou, decision science is “needed to be able to decode people, and understand patterns, and design the right theories that apply to every human being. There are applications for policy, business, education, public health.”
Iliopoulou, a behavioral economist and Kennedy School graduate, joined the lab two years ago. When she arrived, she was tasked with revamping the lab so it could maintain its relevance in an era when microstudies can be completed using online platforms offered by companies like Amazon instead of in physical laboratories. Iliopoulou set out to implement new approaches to lab logistics, and it has worked: With a study pool of over 17,000 applicants — about 10,000 of them active at any one time — the Decision Science Lab is the largest and most diverse behavioral-studies space in the United States.
It’s also one of the most efficient. When Iliopoulou first arrived, she was told that the maximum number of study subjects a lab could recruit in a few months was 250. “A few months ago, we had a study reach over 1,000 [people] in a month,” she says. “That’s unreal for lab standards.”
In part, the lab’s vibrant study pool and effective protocol account for its favorability among a wide swath of researchers.
While some universities have labs that are segregated by discipline, Iliopoulou tells us that the lab “serves any type of researcher, at any level — could be undergraduate students, extension school. The lab belongs under the Kennedy school, but serves all of Havard, and other schools as well, and organizations outside [of Harvard].” Even the Federal Reserve of Boston has engaged with the lab in the past to study how individuals respond psychologically to interest rate hikes.
But for Hurt, remembering to treat every test subject as a human being is far more important than big-name partnerships.
“I think some labs view people just as participants,” Hurt says. “The money is certainly a part of it, but people are also excited to support the research community. People are enjoying themselves, and laughing. Even people from Cambridge and Boston, they value serving this community. We treat them like they’re people.”
Iliopoulou describes how administrators have even stopped by the lab to serve as study participants. According to her, all it takes is one study, and individuals from all walks of life, “from a homeless person to a professional who just finished work across the street,” can enter the lab on a whim and leave more informed about, and engaged with decision science than ever before.
Sections
Growing up, Jennifer G. Winters did not dream of discovering solar systems, let alone studying astronomy. Raised in a musical family, she went to the University of Tennessee and pursued Piano and Musicology Studies before dropping out during her senior year. After years of odd jobs and traveling, she returned to school and graduated with a BS in Music Management at Georgia State University.
At Georgia State, she took a class that would change her life.
“I took an introductory astronomy class, and so the professor in that class ended up being my adviser,” she says. She vividly remembers a trip to Chile she took with that professor, Todd J. Henry, where she stayed on a mountain in “the middle of nowhere,” just looking through telescopes in the darkness. Even though she’d been interested in the night sky since she was young, she had never thought she could make a career “staring at the stars” until then.
That class ignited a passion that eventually culminated in her earning a Masters in Physics, a Ph.D. in Astronomy, and now, recognition for her discovery of three stars with an Earth-sized planet in their orbit.
After obtaining her doctoral degree, Winters was hand-picked by David B. Charbonneau, a professor of astronomy at Harvard, to do work at the Harvard Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics. Winters’s main research interest is looking at nearby low-mass stars, especially those which have “gravitationally bound companions.”
She gesticulates in the air to indicate celestial bodies as she talks about solar systems that have “two stars, three stars, or four or five stars” — the study of which comprises her academic work.
Her biggest breakthrough came in July of this year, when she published a paper in the Astronomical Journal outlining her discovery of an Earth-sized planet orbiting three stars.
Discovering a planet isn’t a celebratory feeling, exactly. Winters describes it as more of a deep, satisfying exhale after three months of challenging work.
“It was a really steep learning curve,” she says. Because she typically studies low-mass stars, Winters didn’t have much experience with planets, and on top of that, the software that she and her team used took five days to run a single calculation.
She was in charge of an international group of 42 other scientists who contributed to the paper. “So I had to herd everybody together and be like, I need this and I need this, I need this,” she says. “But it was really gratifying to get the good feedback that I had from everybody.”
The discovery of LTT 1445Ab — the admittedly unwieldy name of the newly identified planet — will allow astronomers to study its atmosphere when it passes in front of its stars. When the planet is backlit, scientists can discern what the atmosphere is made up of and, ultimately, whether the planet is habitable.
“We really want to find more planets like this. We’re not sure if there will be another one as accessible.” The probability of finding another planet like this, that passes in front of its star in astronomers’ line of sight, is one in thirty. “If that holds true, then we may not find another one that’s this close, that's this good,” she says.
Unfortunately for Star Wars fans, Winter predicts that LTT 1445Ab will not have the binary sunsets of Tatooine from “Star Wars” but rather one huge sun up close and two tiny suns barely visible to the eye far away.
Even when she isn’t discovering planets or doing research, Winters never stops thinking about the sky. One of her cats is, fittingly, named Stella. She loves to spend her time outside where she can see the sky clearly. In another life, she says she would have probably become interested in forestry and become a park ranger.
When reflecting on her connection to the Earth and the sky, she emphasizes how important it is to keep looking up. “Life is what we want to study. We want to find other life in any form,” she says. Discovering possibly habitable planets like LTT 1445Ab is the first step to finding out whether life exists elsewhere in the universe.
Winters is convinced. “There has to be.”
Sections
Harvard arose from incompetence. In 1639, only twelve months after offering its first classes and three years after its creation, Harvard closed its doors to students for a year. The fledgling institution had no president, no central building, no administrative structure, no students, and little money. The Harvard Corporation, formed in 1650, is now the oldest corporation in the Western Hemisphere; during the decade prior to its creation, however, it was unclear whether the institution that it governed would survive at all.
In 1637, the political leaders and Puritan ministers of Cambridge appointed Nathaniel Eaton to be Harvard’s first “professor” — though today he would be considered president. Under Eaton, Harvard’s first administration reflected the gender roles one might expect of a 17th century Protestant family: Eaton was responsible for finances, construction of the first college building, and teaching, while his wife, Elizabeth Eaton, oversaw students’ meals and directed servants.
Eaton’s tenure was a debacle. He not only mismanaged finances but embezzled money from the school. He made little progress on the construction he was explicitly instructed to oversee. His wife paid scant attention to her own responsibilities, confessing that students, due to her neglect, were served “mackerel, brought to them with their guts in it, and goat’s dung in their hasty pudding,” according to The History of New England from 1630 to 1649 by John Winthrop, the first governor of the Massachusetts Bay and the namesake of Winthrop House.
Unbeknownst to those who had founded Harvard a few years earlier, Eaton regularly exercised corporal punishment on his students and servants. In the summer of 1639, Eaton beat a servant, Nathaniel Birscoe, with a cudgel a yard in length more than 200 times over a span of two hours. The pair was eventually discovered by a local minister, and in the hearing that ensued to settle the score, several Harvard students testified to having received dozens of beatings from Eaton.
When Eaton received his sentence on Sept. 9, 1639— a hefty fine and removal from his position as head of Harvard — Eaton was unapologetic. He “turned away with a discontented look” and declared, “if sentence is to be passed, then it is of no end to speak,” according to The History of New England. With terrorized students, uncertain funding, and no leader, Harvard shut down for a year.
That Harvard exists today is largely thanks to the work of Henry Dunster, who was appointed president in 1640. His appointment and 14-year tenure as president — unlike Eaton’s term — were fortuitous. Dunster had no experience leading colleges, wasn’t of notable or wealthy lineage, and wasn’t a published scholar; it’s unclear why he was chosen for the position. At most English colleges at the time, the “President” ranked below the “Master,” who was head of the college — Dunster may not have been intended to steer Harvard at all.
Under Dunster’s tenure, which spanned from 1640 to 1654, Harvard flourished. He reopened Harvard’s doors, brought back many students from the class of 1642, and established a new curriculum, personally teaching all of the classes. Under his oversight, construction recommenced, and Harvard’s first official building was ready for its earliest Commencement ceremony in 1642. The governing structure he helped establish still exists today largely in the same form — as does Harvard’s first Veritas seal, designed at a meeting in 1643.
One of Dunster’s most important contributions was bringing about financial stability. He carefully accounted the money owed to Harvard by the Massachusetts Colony and petitioned the Massachusetts Court on multiple occasions to pay in full. In 1642, the document establishing Harvard’s Board of Overseers also gave the College all proceeds from the Charlestown Ferry, an important revenue source.
Of course, Harvard’s financial successes at the time stemmed in part from its deep ties to global capital and empire. The Charlestown Ferry connected several counties in Massachusetts and was crucial for commercial interests of economies rooted in slavery — white families in Middlesex County, for instance, depended on enslaved people for agricultural and domestic labor. Most of Harvard’s early donors either directly profited from the Atlantic slave trade or did so indirectly: Much of Massachusetts’ economy was conditioned on supplying plantations in the West Indies. Many were also involved with the establishment of American colonies, and the accompanying genocide of indigenous peoples. Israel Stoughton, for instance, who donated 300 acres to Harvard in 1650, led a 1637 war against the Pequot people.
With increasing numbers of students and increasing revenue, Harvard needed a governing structure, which Dunster helped create. In 1642, a General Court in Boston formed the Board of Overseers to run the school. On May 31, 1650, the President and Fellows of Harvard College – better known as the Harvard Corporation — was created to manage donations, money, and land. The Corporation’s goal was not explicitly profit, but rather, as outlined in the charter, to advance “the education of the English and Indian youth of this country in knowledge and godliness.”
Dunster, despite his integral role in creating an institution dedicated to “godliness,” was finally ousted over a religious dispute. He began to believe that baptising infants contradicted the Bible, and both refused to have one of his children baptised and interrupted a public baptism. In a devout Puritan colony, this caused an uproar, and he resigned on Oct. 24, 1654. Today’s Harvard exists partly by accident — thanks to a man who was perhaps not the first choice at the outset of his tenure and indeed was entirely rejected at its end.
Sections
The jaws of the Kronosaurus skeleton — each of them longer than a human is tall — hang agape in a menacing bite, practically taunting any visitor who dares to approach its glass case in the Harvard Museum of Natural History. With a skeleton as long as the room that houses it, the marine reptile’s incredible size and stature contribute to its seemingly ominous character, but the discrete structures mounting the fossil to the wall are also key: The fossil, thought to be the most complete Kronosaurus skeleton mounted anywhere in the world, appears to be floating, as if it were a fresh catch off the coast of Australia — a 100-million-year-old live specimen, still paddling.
***
In 1931, the Harvard Museum of Comparative Zoology sent a six-person team to Australia to study native wildlife and obtain fossil specimens. Although the expedition yielded hundreds of mammals, amphibians, and insect specimens, their most notable discovery — the fossil of a Kronosaurus — was a complete accident. Graduate student William E. Schevill, class of 1927 decided to stay in Australia while the rest of the expedition team headed stateside. While touring archaeological areas in Queensland, Schevill met Australian rancher R. W. H. Thomas, who directed him to an unusual discovery in a field on his property. There, embedded in outcroppings of exposed limestone nodules, a few fossilized somethings jutted out. When unearthed, they would constitute the most complete skeleton of a Kronosaurus ever discovered.
The task of freeing the skeleton from its sedimentary case was arduous. The nodules, weighing more than four tons, were dynamited from the ground and shipped back to Harvard for preparation. Some Australian naturalists were none too happy with the undertaking, which one paleontologist referred to as “Yankee paleo-imperialism.” Even after the painstaking excavation process, a lack of money, manpower, and museum space caused long delays back at the Museum of Contemporary Zoology. It took eight years of meticulous preparations for the fossil to be exhibited — and even then, only the mounted skull debuted at first.
Despite the slow progress, the Kronosaurus was a hit. Media outlets kept frequent tabs on the restoration effort, so much so that MCZ curators assembled a scrapbook of Kronosaurus newspaper headlines.
A decade later, when the restoration process came to a standstill, MCZ Director Alfred S. Romer joked with philanthropist and sea serpent enthusiast Godfrey L. Cabot, class of 1882 over restoration costs. Romer vainly suggested that the Kronosaurus might cost “Oh, about $10,000.” To Romer’s surprise, a check signed by Cabot would appear shortly thereafter on his desk. The rest of the bones, which had remained encased in limestone, were then delicately excavated to reveal the full skeleton.
Almost 30 years after its discovery, the fully mounted skeleton was finally unveiled on June 10, 1958. The mounting technology used by preparators Arnold D. Lewis and James A. Jensen was revolutionary in comparison to other skeletal mounts. Because it was designed to have no visible supports, the Kronosaurus appeared to be hovering in space.
This novel engineering feat comes with an unusual corollary: “We don't have a good record of how many bones in the mount are real,” Curatorial Associate Jessica D. Cundiff says. Because the skeleton of the Kronosaurus is not entirely complete, some of the missing bones were cast out of plaster to create the complete skeleton. And, since the entirety of the Kronosaurus was painted over to keep up physical appearances, “you can’t really tell what’s bone and what’s plaster,” Cundiff says. This ambiguity spurred rumors that Lewis and Jensen may have accidentally added extra vertebrae, which would imply that the museum’s current reconstruction is too long. This confusion has resulted in the fossil’s affectionate nickname: the “plasterosaurus.”
“We probably won't really ever know exactly unless we took it off of exhibit,” Cundiff adds, “but that would never happen because it’s such an important specimen, and it’s so big.”
Today, the Kronosaurus looms large, serving as the museum’s current logo and a reminder of the MCZ’s largest and most successful collecting expedition. James Hanken, the museum’s director, says that in addition to being an incredible marine predator, the Kronosaurus represents the museum’s “distinguished scientific tradition.”
“It’s certainly really loved,” Cundiff says.
Sections
“We should apologize because I think this interview will be quite boring as we’re a little boring,” says Lauren Kaminsky, laughing brightly. Without missing a beat, Steven Biel chuckles and sinks deep into his armchair: “Of course, when two historians teach together, there is no discourse.”
Yet over the course of our conversation, their story — how they individually pursued their passion for history and literature and, eventually, came to work together as colleagues and close friends — is anything but boring.
Kaminsky is the current director of studies for the Committee on Degrees in History and Literature and a lecturer on Hist and Lit. Biel is the executive director of the Humanities Center at Harvard and a senior lecturer on Hist and Lit.
In true academic fashion, the two first met during a job interview; Biel, who was the director of studies for Hist and Lit at the time, interviewed Kaminsky for the position in 2014. History and Literature is Harvard’s oldest concentration, and after teaching at New York University, Kaminsky was excited by the possibility of working in a department unique to Harvard.
“There’s nothing else like it in the world,” Kaminsky says. “It’s a program of study that prioritizes student interests and gives students the kind of training they need to design their own research projects and pursue them as a senior thesis.”
History and Literature brings together scholars from diverse fields to engage in intellectual discourse — exemplified perfectly by Kaminsky’s and Biel’s co-taught seminars. In the past, Kaminsky and Biel have co-taught “World War One in Fiction, Film, Poetry, and Memoir.” This fall, their seminar is HIST-LIT 90DV: “Red Scares”.
Kaminsky is a Russian historian by training, and Biel is an American historian. In building the “Red Scares” syllabus, they were able to approach the conflict from both sides of the Atlantic. “[Biel] was suggesting a lot of these really incredible documents and films and memoirs, and so on, about the fear of communists,” Kaminsky says. “I was bringing the actual communists.”
Biel explains that the pair offered the course this semester as a way to renew his “interest in things that I thought I might know.” Teaching the course with Kaminsky provides him the opportunity to develop a more nuanced view of Red Scares throughout history by focusing on the Russian perspective.
Beyond differences in their research interests, the two have a complementary teaching dynamic. Kaminsky describes Biel as the “rock.” He sits at one end of the table, anchoring the discussion, while she paces around the room, energized by it.
“A lot of running a seminar is improvisational… But every time it really is a lesson in just how much intimacy and trust it takes to complete a seminar together,” Kaminsky says.
The two work particularly well with each other because they can recognize and appreciate the unique talents the other brings. Kaminsky calls Biel an “unbelievably good writer, and an even better editor.” Biel describes Kaminsky as “incredibly wise about not only the subject matter, but about what makes a class and a program work well.”
When asked to share future seminar ideas, Kaminsky asks, “Who knows how long will we be teaching Red Scares, Steven?”
“I would like to continue to teach it together next fall,” admits Biel.
Kaminsky leaps up and exclaims, “Yes! It’s on the record and in The Crimson.”
Sections
Before classes started, when the days were warmer and slower and campus felt more like camp than college, my friends and I had a picnic on the Charles River. We sat by the Weeks Bridge and ate loaves of bread, spreadable cheeses, and strawberries. One person brought a speaker and another brought an inflatable, solar-powered lantern so we could stay out past sunset. It felt like a dream of college: red bricks, cheap sugary wine, somewhat intellectual conversation, and nearby bells ringing out the hour.
The sun set on the other side of the river and the air got chilly. My friend Olivia ran back to her room in Lowell to get us blankets and sweaters and sweatshirts. She came back a few minutes later, carrying a confusion of cotton items. She dumped the pile in the middle of our circle, and we all fished for the sweater or sweatshirt we wanted. One of the items in the center of the pile was a Harvard sweatshirt.
No one wanted to wear it. We threw it around the circle like we were playing a game of hot potato, chucking it from one person to the next, shrieking “You wear it!” “No, you wear it!” Everyone wanted to wear Olivia’s other sweatshirts, which were faded and looked vintage, or her fisherman sweaters. To wear the Harvard sweatshirt would mean being the odd one out. Someone — the rotten egg, I suppose — finally ended up with the sweatshirt. She put it on with a look of defeat and distaste.
Most of my friends and I came to college from metropolitan areas and take pains to present as such: chunky dress shoes, high-waisted pants with big pleats, wool sweaters, whimsical blouses, well-worn tote bags. A Harvard sweatshirt isn’t part of that look. My ex-not-quite-boyfriend criticized me about a number of things and one of them is my college friend group. He points out that my friends are also from cities in the Northeast and this, he says, means I’m only attracted to people who came to Harvard with my level of cultural capital.
He isn’t totally wrong. For me and most of my friends, Harvard was never a far-off reality, but rather, adjacent to our lives growing up. For me, it was literally adjacent: I lived two minutes away from Pfoho. For a lot of my friends, Harvard was adjacent via prep school or well-funded public high school and legacy status. Like some of my other friends, I’m here at Harvard on heaps of financial aid. Still, I grew up with an intimate familiarity of this place and the attitudes and the information that can get you far inside of it — the cultural capital my ex was talking about. Cultural capital affords you many things, and one of them is the ability to treat going to Harvard as no big deal, as another box you checked off the list. You can be blasé about it. You can dismiss it with an air of coolness. You can toss it aside or toss it around a circle like a playground ball.
I played the game of tossing around the Harvard sweatshirt. It was silly, but there was something more happening. I played this game because there is, as I’ve noticed in the social spaces I belong to, a certain conception of students who wear Harvard gear. It’s the image of the starry-eyed student who walks into Annenberg and spins around like a small-town girl with big city dreams, who is simply excited to be here. To express such enthusiasm, my friends and I tell ourselves, would be gauche. All of my friends were acting the same way, so I can only assume that this particular flavor of snobbery is endemic. I was with my cool friends; we were having a cool picnic, listening to cool music, talking about the cool things we did over the summer. I wanted to wear a cool French workwear jacket. I did not want to wear a Harvard sweatshirt.
The actual things that people consider cool change with time and place (Birkenstocks may be cool at the Harvard Outing Club, but not at The Fox; vaping might seem cool to you, but not to your mom), but the governing logic behind why we think about things as cool is pretty constant. In their 2004 book “The Rebel Sell,” philosophy scholars Joseph Heath and Andrew Potter argue that cool exists only in comparison with things considered less cool. Coolness is created out of a need not for conformity but for status and distinction. Coolness is about detachment from the norm, about distancing yourself from the masses.
In an article for the magazine Philosophy Now, Thorsten Botz-Bornstein proposes that coolness is about moderation. “The cool person stays close to real life without getting absorbed by it,” he says. Following the masses is as uncool as being overly eccentric. Wearing a Harvard sweatshirt would be uncool, an embarrassingly earnest embrace of the norm. It would be conformity to the point of complete absorption. Throwing a Harvard sweatshirt in a bonfire and cursing the Powers That Be would be, well, crazy. But showing that you don’t want to wear a Harvard sweatshirt even while part of the institution , and displaying a healthy amount of aversion — that is cool.
After the picnic, I walked back to my dorm alone. I reflected on the evening and shivered with embarrassment when I thought about us chucking around the Harvard sweatshirt with haughtiness and abandon. I hoped no one had seen us: loud and obnoxious Harvard students, blaring music, throwing a Harvard sweatshirt on the ground, turning up our noses at it.
Coolness is always supported by a level of success and affiliation — reminding me of the way comps function on this campus. When someone gets cut from a comp and then gripes about the organization that cut them, we regard them as insecure or spiteful. When someone makes a comp and then proceeds to act aloof about the organization, to not care that they’re part of it, we regard them as cool. If you haven’t made the comp, if you haven’t surpassed the threshold, there’s not much that you can do besides look up at that threshold and feel small. Once you’ve surpassed the threshold, you have freedom: You can embrace it and parade it around with insignias and Instagram posts, or you can look down on it and cast it aside. The latter option puts you above the other members already deemed special, because you’re unfazed by something that they’re so earnest about. Detachment supplies distinction, as it did with me, my friends, and the Harvard sweatshirt. We felt cool and smug in our dismissal of what some people don’t have and what some people are excited to have.
My friends don’t fully agree with me. They think the reason for not wanting to wear a Harvard sweatshirt is much simpler: Why advertise your cultural capital? They recall this guy we once saw at a coffeeshop in the Square. He looked like Armie Hammer, tall and broad-shouldered with hair full of pomade. He was sitting at a table in the back, wearing loafers and a Princeton sweater. My friends and I all agreed he was obnoxious, the kind of person who really wants — no, needs — you to know that they spent four years walking down cobblestone pathways into ivy-covered buildings. We thought he truly believed in the exceptionalism and specialness that the sweater connoted. He believed that what the sweater was communicating somehow elevated him above others. Why would we want to be like that guy?
I’m not saying that we should frolic around campus in Harvard gear and clutch our Harvard brethren with glee. I’m certainly not saying that the institution of Harvard is without fault — there are good reasons to turn up our noses at Harvard as an institution, renounce it or cast it in the mud, though there are certainly more meaningful ways of doing that than simply a cavalier refusal of a Harvard sweatshirt. Many of my friends are doing some of that meaningful work, actively trying to fix this place. I’m also not saying we should count our lucky stars that we go here. I’m just saying that, on that night during the picnic, having the option to wear the Harvard sweatshirt or throw it in the muddy grass was a pretty rarefied position to be in precisely because there was choice involved. In order to distance yourself from something, you must have been adjacent to it in the first place.
I own a Harvard sweatshirt but I rarely wear it. It’s still stiff, barely worn-in, and a little too big. But throughout the winter of my senior year of high school, I wore it constantly. I danced around my bathroom in my underwear and Harvard hoodie, feeling giddy and collegiate and sexy. Now, it just sits at the bottom of my dresser. I’ve tried on the sweatshirt a few times this year, thinking about wearing it to class or to Carpe in Adams. I leave it on for a minute or two, but I always end up taking it off.
—Magazine writer Paul G. Sullivan can be reached at paul.sullivan@thecrimson.com. Follow him on twitter @neuroticgayboy.
Sections
With toes tucked under crossed legs, two women sit effortlessly upright on deep blue cushions meant for “restorative yoga,” small islands of color on an otherwise bare wooden floor.
They are Annie P. Hoffman and Billie Jo Joy, co-founders and co-managers of Art & Soul, a Cambridge yoga studio that aims to unite the somatic with the spiritual. Hoffman owns the business and the building. She and Joy are dedicated yogis with decades of experience, but their previous experience with pottery and theater bring a flexible creativity to their studio.
Joy explains that her background in theater and improvisational comedy, as well as influence from friends in the visual arts, inspired her to create a supportive space for clients to explore yoga, dance, and acting. “We thought maybe we could have a space that was for the internal contemplative arts and the expressive arts. So Art & Soul was born with that idea,” she says.
But before this philosophy gave way to Art & Soul, Hoffman had made use of the same space in a different way, with a different business partner. From 1984 to 2001, Hoffman and Carole Ann Fer co-owned Clayground, a pottery studio that the Cambridge Women’s Commission refers to as a “socialistic pottery business.”
“Making something handmade was a personal expression of wanting to be close to the earth,” says Hoffman. The pair first began making pottery together in Fer’s basement, crafting pots and mugs with their own hands when it seemed to them like the rest of the world bent toward mass-production.
“We had a little wagon. We took it out to [Faneuil Hall]. We sold our pots on the street. And, you know, we did pretty well,” says Hoffman.
They began renting a small storefront next door to the present-day Art & Soul in 1976. By 1984, they purchased Art & Soul’s current corner building for only $58,000. They are proud that it was renovated with “women’s hands.”
“Women were going into the trades,” says Hoffman. “My girlfriend at the time did the electricity. She just got her electrician’s license. You know, I was using a sledgehammer for the first time, and it was great. It was really great.”
A community for women laid the literal foundation of Clayground, establishing a core feminist groundwork that remained integral to what would later become Art & Soul after Fer moved up to Maine. By then, Hoffman wanted a change of pace from wedging clay and sweeping dust, so she decided to focus on yoga.
At the same time, Joy –– with whom Hoffman became friends through a local Iyengar yoga community –– was directing Harvard’s first production of “The Vagina Monologues,” a show dedicated to the personal narratives of women navigating their sexuality.
Joy’s arrival as a co-founder only fortified Clayground’s feminist-focused philosophy. She describes feminism as“the air I breathe.”
But Hoffman and Joy’s “feminist agenda” is not only about empowering women. They also hope to broaden the accessibility of their practice to people of all genders, races, and class backgrounds.
They understand well the prevailing, commercial depiction of yoga: the image of thin, young, white women — not men — who can afford the steep prices of yoga classes and equipment. They consciously encourage male participation in their sessions, and Joy’s recent yoga retreat to Italy provided two scholarship opportunities.
Their particular “feminist agenda” makes them wary of the ways in which their studio could fall into the traps of peddling “the fast food of yoga” — as Joy refers to it, “McYoga.” They strive to embody what they perceive as the “soul” of yoga, which includes staying true to the roots of the Cambridge landscape.
Hoffman often reflects on Cambridge developers’ profit-centered motivations and the city’s resulting gentrification. These considerations have a profound influence on how Hoffman behaves as a landlord to the other tenants of the Art & Soul building. “The way that I've run this building as a landlord is to keep the rents pretty much as they were and to just run at cost,” says Hoffman.
As Cambridge’s terrain continues to transform, Hoffman and Joy remain grounded in the space and ideology they’ve cultivated for decades. “I'm not planning on selling the building,” Hoffman says firmly. “I feel like I've been able to come into this neighborhood and establish the space in which first pottery, and then yoga and the arts, have been available and accessible.”
Correction: February 11, 2020
A previous version of this article stated that Annie P. Hoffman and Billie Jo Joy were co-owners of Art & Soul. In fact, Hoffman owns the business and the building.
Sections
It’s raining outside when we sit down with Psychology Professor Jason P. Mitchell, but inside his office, the colorful wall art, retro furniture, and pictures of his two young children make the space feel warm.
Through the large, rain-streaked window, we can make out a terrace of William James Hall, but Mitchell says he rarely has access to the balcony. In 2014, an alumnus of the College jumped to his death from the terrace, and it has been regularly closed off ever since.
Mitchell notes that since 2012, rates of depression and anxiety have increased nationwide by roughly 35 and 40 percent respectively. For Mitchell, combatting the tragic consequences of the reported spike in mental illness on college campuses was a key motivation behind his new course, GenEd 1154: “The Science of Happiness.”
“If you had heard that there was a 45 percent increase in sports concussions or something, we would all be having meetings about how [we can] protect our students,” Mitchell says. “One thing I thought I could do was to teach a course on what the social sciences have to say about happiness and how to live a happier life.”
The course represents a relatively recent area of psychology that focuses on positivity and wellbeing. Traditionally, classes in this realm have focused on psychopathology, the scientific study of mental disorders.
When the similar “Science of Wellbeing” was offered at Yale in 2018, it was the university’s most popular course, with a whopping enrollment of 1,200 students. Laurie P. Santos, one of Mitchell’s close friends and colleagues from graduate school, taught the course and encouraged Mitchell to bring a similar class to Harvard.
Using her materials as a “springboard,” Mitchell spent the summer as a “hermit” while he developed his own version of the course, which emphasizes specific exercises and habits that might improve students’ wellbeing. Homework for the class might include journaling or performing a random act of kindness. An occasional emailed chocolate chip cookie recipe interrupts the flood of rubrics and deadlines.
Social neuroscience — not positive psychology — is Mitchell’s area of expertise. As a result, preparing for the course required a good deal of research, something that may “sound strange,” he acknowledges. “You don’t think professors need to learn stuff. But I definitely feel as though I have.”
Mitchell has received feedback from students who say the course has impacted their perspectives on their own lives.
“The biggest personal change I’ve seen is my relationship to my work,” says Rebecca V. Buehler ’23, a student in the class. “A lot of people, including myself... feel guilty for socializing or taking care of ourselves if it stands in the way of our productivity. It turns out that happier people are actually shown to be more successful,” she says, something that has led her to reevaluate how to balance her time.
Mitchell reflects that the reaction from students has made the course particularly meaningful to him. He says that he’s been able to be vulnerable in front of his 200 students, sharing his own struggles to achieve happiness. While working toward tenure, for example, Mitchell says he became obsessed by the idea that happiness would come when he achieved that goal. “That never happened,” he says. “It always felt like there was another ring to grab, another hurdle to jump over.”
In class, he frequently refers to intrinsic motivations — the things humans do simply because they like doing them. Following this principle, since his first psychology course in high school, Mitchell’s love of psychology itself has been his primary motivation for teaching and pursuing research.
But there is a danger in rewarding people for doing the things they love. “If you take something that someone is interested in doing, and you start rewarding them for doing that thing, then you take the rewards away; they’re not interested in doing those things anymore,” Mitchell says.
The seven years Mitchell spent working toward tenure proved fruitful, but since then, he has found himself less motivated to do research. “This was a thing I really loved,” he says. “Somewhere in this process that love of it has drained away.”
This year, he’s trying to get it back. Part of that process lies in teaching Science of Happiness. Being vulnerable in front of his students has been difficult, but also fulfilling, as it has allowed him to reflect on his own life while his students reflect on theirs.
Mitchell is going on sabbatical next year, possibly to Kyoto for the year with his wife and two kids. He hopes that spending time abroad will help put him “in a different headspace.”
“Some students take gap years,” he says, and next year will be his. “I think that’s probably a good thing, for trying to recover some intrinsic love of learning.”
Sections
A grinning joker scrambles up the staircase. A strawberry, a Christmas tree, and a soccer player find their seats in the pews of Memorial Church. With a single chord, played at precisely 11 p.m., the sanctuary grows silent. The show begins, and a student, one of a rotating cast of members of the Harvard Organ Society, starts playing an enormous collection of metal pipes encased in wood: one of Harvard’s three enormous organs.
Tonight is the Harvard Organ Society’s Halloween concert. They normally play for a different crowd at a much more reasonable hour.
Earlier that day, I had watched as an older crowd shuffled into Adolphus Busch Hall. Together, we waited expectantly for an unseen performer. As the multilayered organ music suddenly filled the hall, I was struck by the power of a single instrument to produce such a range of sound of such incredible depth. The movement in the hall ceased and the rows of audience members grew as motionless as the Renaissance statues surrounding us.
“It's a really wonderful break in the day, to hear it and to be in this space,” says Kate Judd, an older woman sitting next to me. She lives in Cambridge and often frequents these lunchtime recitals. The event is one of the Harvard Organ Society’s weekly midday performances that features student performers or visiting musicians. While the Society’s students are often found on the organ bench practicing or performing, their Harvard peers don’t usually frequent the audience on the ground floor. However, once a year, the annual Halloween recital draws an eclectic crowd of costumed students.
The lights are dimmed and green. Pixelated projections of ghosts swoop around Appleton Chapel. Two students dressed in red monk’s robes stand out among a larger costumed group from Boston College.
One of the monks explains that he is passionate about sacred music’s “beautiful way of moving like the soul.” He trekked to Cambridge solely for this concert, and pulled his friends along with him. Other undergraduates say that they came to support their organ-playing friends.
“This is my third year coming in around,” Ethan S. Whang ‘21 tells me matter-of-factly. “I'm going to make it a fourth next year.”
While the lunchtime audience, per instruction, held their applause until the end of the recital, this late-night crowd claps after every performance, and student-listeners shout gleefully as their friends’ take their seat on the bench to perform. At the Organ Society’s earlier event, in their regular venue, the performer plays from a balcony above the crowd, hidden. But, in Memorial Church’s Sanctuary, the audience sees each organist’s fingers fly energetically across the keyboard. They engage their whole bodies, twisting themselves to compress the pedals. Large metallic columns dwarf the frame of each performer. The instrument is a behemoth, an alien combination of a few pianos and an oversized typewriter.
Paul H. Georgoulis ’21, a junior who played Bach’s “‘Little Fugue in G Minor” for the audience, tells me that he is dressed as a sexy gorilla-cowgirl. Georgoulis is a pianist by training, but after finding that the pianos on campus were overplayed and overbooked, he changed keys and shifted to the organ.
“There were three world class instruments here on campus that I could practically just walk in and practice on whenever I wanted to,” Georgoulis says.
The opportunity was too good to pass up. Learning the new instrument also drew him into a larger community of organ players and enthusiasts. While the society has had fluctuating membership sizes over the years, Georgoulis speaks positively of the role of the Society.
“Organ is of course a pretty solitary instrument,” he says. “So the only time we really see each other is in club meetings and that kind of thing, but it's a nice community of organists, that all like to love and support each other and get together every once in a while and play for each other like recitals like tonight.”
The Halloween event is the society’s biggest event of the year. Members play a program of spooky music that the audience members will enjoy and perhaps recognize.
While the dramatic organ music might be considered stereotypical for the season, Georgoulis defends the set for the beloved event: “It's a bit of a cliche, but like, it's cliche for a reason,” he says. “It's fun.” Georgoulis hopes that this event will change people’s minds about the organ, an instrument normally associated with churches and choirs.
“It's a lot more fun and a lot more wild than you would expect. You can really like, let it rip on that instrument,” he says enthusiastically. The students here dressed in costumes, irreverently tearing open candy wrappers in the middle of the performance and excitedly cheering after every song, certainly seem to see ー and enjoy ー the organ’s wild side.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
UPDATED: Nov. 6, 2019 at 11:49
Harvard Business School Dean Nitin Nohria announced that he would step down from his post at the end of the academic year in an email to Business School affiliates Wednesday.
“Ten years gave us a good run to make progress on our Five I priorities,” Nohria wrote, referencing the school’s strategic plan of innovation, intellectual ambition, internalization, inclusion, and integration.
“A decade for HBS’s tenth dean seems an appropriate duration for this chapter in the School’s history,” he added.
Nohria will officially step down on June 30, 2020, 10 years after he became the dean of the Business School in 2010. He wrote that he plans to go on sabbatical for a year after he withdraws from his post.
Prior to becoming dean, Nohria spent 22 years as a Business School professor. He held a wide range of faculty appointments at the school, including serving as the co-chair of the school’s Leadership Initiative.
Nohria was also widely considered a front-runner of the University’s presidential search in 2018. He ultimately lost the position to current University President Lawrence S. Bacow.
Over the course of his tenure, Nohria worked to advance women’s equity at the Business School after a 2013 New York Times investigation found that female students faced sexism in social gatherings and were less likely to participate in class discussions.
In 2014, Nohria announced a pledge to double the number of female protagonists in business school case studies by 2019. Before his announcement, only 9 to 10 percent of protagonists — the primary decision-makers in the case studies evaluated by Business School students — were women.
The Business School also revised its grading policies, installing notetakers into every class to record students’ participation in order to ensure that female students received equivalent credit during class discussions.
Under Nohria’s leadership, the Business School also launched Harvard Business School Online — formerly known as HBX — which offers online business courses for students and professionals.
Nohria also oversaw the Business School’s second-ever capital campaign, which concluded in 2018 with the record-breaking University campaign. The Business School ultimately raised nearly $1.4 billion. Revenue from the capital campaign was used to support financial aid programs, faculty development, and additions and renovations to Business School properties including Klarman Hall, which opened in 2018.
Bacow also thanked Nohria for his leadership at the Business School in an email Wednesday.
“He has led HBS with vision and wisdom, a canny sense of organizational dynamics, a humane concern for others, and a relish for innovation. He has affirmed HBS’s longstanding commitment to educating leaders who will make a difference in the world, while pursuing that mission in imaginative new ways,” Bacow wrote.
Bacow added that he and University Provost Alan M. Garber ’76 will soon launch a search for Nohria’s successor.
— Staff writer Ellen M. Burstein can be reached at ellen.burstein@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @ellenburstein.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
A faculty search committee has compiled a long list of candidates for the Faculty of Arts and Sciences’ ongoing ethnic studies faculty search, FAS Dean Claudine Gay said Tuesday.
Gay announced in June that FAS plans to hire three or four new faculty members this academic year who specialize in Asian American, Latinx, and Muslim American studies.
The search committee is currently paring down the list and will eventually invite a number of candidates to campus to give public lectures and meet with faculty and students. Gay said that, as is the case in many faculty searches, students will have opportunities to interact with the candidates.
“In most of the searches, there are opportunities for anyone who attended the lecture to share written feedback with the search committee, and that will be the case in this search,” Gay said.
“This could be intellectually quite a galvanizing moment and educational opportunity, frankly, for the whole campus.”
Gay said the committee includes faculty from both social sciences and humanities. In addition to Romance Language and Literature professor Mayra R. Rivera and Sociology professor Mary C. Waters, who co-chair the committee, members include Government professor Ryan D. Enos, Romance Languages and Literature professor Lorgia García Peña, English professor Ju Yon Kim, and assistant professor of Psychology Katie A. McLoughlin.
The committee is not prioritizing prospective hires from certain fields, or necessarily seeking to balance the new appointments evenly between the Social Sciences and Humanities divisions, Gay said.
“It's an open search with respect to rank and particular academic discipline,” she said. “What we're optimizing for are folks who can expand our curriculum, our teaching, advising, and research capacity on issues related to ethnicity, indigeneity, and migration.”
In the past, Gay has said hiring such faculty could be the first step towards establishing a formalized ethnic studies program. Asked whether she would support creating an ethnic studies program in the future, Gay said it would ultimately be up to the faculty to create such a program.
“I support my faculty,” she said.
In October 2018, Gay said she did have the ability to create a program, but she would only do so in consultation with faculty.
“I have the structural authority to create an ethnic studies program like tomorrow, but I’m not going to be the one teaching it and advising the students in it, because I’m sitting in this office,” Gay said.
Since early in her tenure, Gay has placed particular emphasis on ethnic studies hiring. After taking office in fall 2018, she said was actively recruiting faculty who study race and ethnicity. In Feb. 2019, after the loss of two tenure-track professors specializing in Asian American studies, Gay said she would recruit three professors who study ethnicity.
Students and alumni have been pressing for a formalized ethnic studies program for the past four decades and have renewed efforts in recent years, protesting on campus and sending multiple letters to University administrators calling for such a program.
—Staff writer Jonah S. Berger can be reached at jonah.berger@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @jonahberger98.
—Staff writer Molly C. McCafferty can be reached at molly.mccafferty@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @mollmccaff.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Harvard College Palestine Solidarity Committee distributed a pledge over house and student group email lists last week urging undergraduates to boycott Israel Trek, a free spring break trip to Israel and the West Bank.
Emails promoting the pledge argue that the student-run trip is biased in favor of Israel and does not present attendees with an accurate picture of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. Separate emails promoting Israel Trek point out that the trip includes conversations with both Israeli and Palestinian leaders.
“In the West Bank and Gaza, there is a brutal occupation of Palestinians,” the PSC’s petition reads. “By going on this trip, you will be complicit in the whitewashing of these human rights violations against the Palestinians.”
The petition calls Israel Trek a "largely pro-Israel trip" that is funded by "pro-Israel organizations."
PSC co-presidents Hossam M. Mabed ’21 and Christian B. Tabash ’21 declined to comment further on the organization’s efforts to oppose Israel Trek.
Tabash did not respond to an additional question asking how many undergraduates signed the PSC pledge. More than 400 students applied for spots on Israel Trek this year, according to Adam Nahari ’20, who has co-led the Israel Trek for the past three years.
Israeli Deputy Consul General Daniel Agranov wrote in an emailed statement that he cannot comment on "misleading inflammatory statements.”
“Israel extends an invitation to anyone who wishes to visit our country and see for themselves. Israel being 71 years old has proved to be a thriving and vibrant democracy,” the statement reads. “Israel is and always has been willing to negotiate, in order to do so we must engage in a process of deep understanding of each other’s narrative.”
A group of Israeli undergraduates first led Israel Trek during the 2013-2014 academic year. Leaders aim to “delve into questions regarding the unique and nuanced realities at the core of Israel’s geopolitical landscape, including the relationship between religion and state and the peace process with the Palestinians,” according to emails promoting the 2019 iteration of Israel Trek.
Nahari said the trip intends to educate participants about many aspects of Israel, including geopolitical issues.
“I think it’s important to understand that this is an educational trip and our goal is to introduce participants to Israeli culture and society and art and music and the geopolitical situation,” he said. “So the conflict is just a part of that. It’s definitely not about pro- or anti-Israel.”
The PSC’s pledge criticizes the trip’s past invitations to speakers like right-wing Israeli legislator Naftali Bennett. Nahari wrote in an emailed statement that, though past trip participants have met with Bennett, they have also heard from left-wing Israeli Arab politician Ayman Odeh. He also wrote that participants travel through both Israel and the West Bank.
“Our Trek not only explores Israeli cities including Jerusalem in all its ethnic and religious complexity but also crosses the Green Line to visit and to hear directly from Palestinian leaders in their home towns and institutions,” he wrote.
Israel Trek leader Eleanor H. Blum ’20 said that participants often return with more questions about Israelis and Palestinians than answers.
“I think they accept sort of by the end of it, ‘Wow, there’s a reason that that this conflict is ongoing and so complicated because there are so many valid and yet conflicting truths and experiences,’” she said.
Students founded the Harvard chapter of the PSC to promote calls for Palestinian statehood. The group regularly holds advocacy events on campus, including Israeli Apartheid Week in April, which seeks to bring awareness to adversities Palestinians face.
—Staff writer Shera S. Avi-Yonah can be reached at shera.avi-yonah@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter at @saviyonah.
—Staff writer Delano R. Franklin can be reached at delano.franklin@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter at @delanofranklin_.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Visiting Ash Center Democracy Fellow Yascha Mounk discussed the weaknesses of liberal democracy and the challenges populism pose during an event Wednesday afternoon at the Ash Center for Democratic Governance and Innovation.
Archon Fung, professor of citizenship and self-government at the Harvard Kennedy School, moderated the event.
Mounk is currently an associate professor of practice at Johns Hopkins University and host of the podcast “The Good Fight.” His most recent book, “The People vs. Democracy: Why Our Freedom Is in Danger and How to Save It,” focuses on how populist leaders contribute to eroding citizens’ trust in their government.
During the discussion, Mounk shared his insights on how protests and populism will affect the future of democracy. He said populist leaders are “a danger to liberal democracy” because they claim to exclusively represent the people.
“The right definition, I think, of what a populist is, is not ideological. There are far-right populists and also left-wing populists. It is not necessarily what particular outgroup they hate,” Mounk said. “It is that they’re saying, ‘I and I alone truly represent the people. And anybody who disagrees with me is, by virtue of that, illegitimate.’”
This method of discrediting o political opponents can give rise to authoritarian regimes, Mounk said. When these authoritarian regimes ignore democratic institutions, this leads to “the downward spiral of populist legitimacy,” he added.
Mounk gave examples of this downward spiral that sparked mass protests in Hong Kong, Venezuela, Russia, and Bolivia. He categorized these demonstrations into three types: “protests of discontent with existing liberal democratic institutions,” “protests of discontent with rising populist dictatorships,” and “pro-democratic protests in an autocratic context.”
Fung also joined Mounk in the discussion, applying Mounk’s views to the political climate in the United States. He also challenged the views Mounk presented during the event.
“I guess I think you’re being too hard on populism and too soft on liberal democracy,” Fung said.
“In Europe, populism is a bad word, because it generated some forms of world historical tragedies, but in the American tradition populism is actually quite a good thing,” Fung added.
Mounk also said that the fusion of populist political purposes and nationalist views is particularly dangerous. He said populists’ claims that they will “stand up for the real people, like you and me” draws heavily from nationalism.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
More than half of respondents to a graduate student survey on discrimination and harassment reported they have experienced discrimination at the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, members said Wednesday.
The council presented the results at its monthly open meeting Tuesday, where it also voted to support the graduate student union’s right to strike and the GSAS Latinx Student Association’s call for further administrative response to a recent interaction between Harvard University police and undergraduate students of color.
Of the 4,521 students enrolled at GSAS, 497 responded to the survey, which was administered by the GSC in October.
Across every class year and every academic division of GSAS, at least 50 percent of respondents to the survey reported experiencing microaggressions at the school. Students in the Social Sciences division and at the School of Engineering and Applied Sciences reported microaggressions at the highest rates.
Nearly 50 percent of students in their seventh or eigth year at GSAS reported experiencing more than 10 incidents of “overt discrimination or harrassment” during their time at the school, while more than 80 percent of students in their fifth and sixth years reported experiencing “overt discrimination or harrassment” at least once.
In a section of the survey that asked students to provide written responses, multiple respondents reported discontent with the services Harvard provides for addressing both mental health issues and incidents of sexual misconduct. GSAS Diversity and Inclusion Fellow Xavier J. du Maine presented the fill-in data, pointing out responses that were critical of the University.
“Student experiences with Title IX are largely very negative,” du Maine said. “Students report that the University’s Title IX Office is really protecting predators and the University’s image as opposed to actually protecting students.”
University spokesperson Jonathan L. Swain declined to comment on the student feedback.
GSC executive board member Alexis Turner concluded the survey presentation by announcing that the GSC will partner with former Harvard University Health Services Director Paul J. Barreira and the Office of Institutional Research to further address discrimination and mental health concerns among graduate students. Barreira’s team at OIR has collected more than 3,000 graduate student responses on its own mental health survey, according to Turner.
“The major problem is actually loneliness,” Turner said. “We’re reading this as actually having a very significant overlap with Diversity and Inclusion issues. Plus, [Barreira] also found a very strong representation between being an underrepresented minority — a person of color, LGBTQ, first generation — and these issues, so we’ll be partnering with his team on finding ways to address this.”
After presenting the survey results, the GSC unanimously voted to support the Harvard Graduate Students Union-United Automobile Workers' right to strike, declaring in a resolution that the GSC “urges Harvard faculty, staff, and undergraduates to respect the right of HGSU-UAW members to participate in strike actions.”
The GSC also considered a proposal to support the Latinx Student Association’s call for the Faculty of Arts and Sciences to publicly release its report on a recent incident in which an HUPD officer confronted undergraduate students of color in Harvard Yard.
The students were attempting to install a Spanish class art-exhibition on a fence in the Yard when the officer questioned their actions and asked to see their IDs, according to the report. The students’ professor soon arrived, and after a back-and-forth with the officer and multiple University officials, the students were permitted to hang their project. The report found police did not have “malicious intent” during the interaction.
GSC executive board member Michael Ortiz decried the incident at the meeting.
“This performance has been happening since 2015 in the same class. This is not an exceptional moment,” Ortiz said. “This is a very clear and egregious example of harassment of students that are expressing their identity and developing knowledge and scholarship within the confines of the University.”
Except for three abstentions, the GSC unanimously resolved to support the LSA’s calls for FAS to release the report and begin “rebuilding the relationship between students and the Harvard Police Department.”
“We’re hoping that your support will give us the ability to go up to the Deans and say ‘Hey, this is an important thing. You can’t just sweep it under the rug,’” Ortiz said.
Swain declined to comment on the LSA’s calls, pointing to earlier statements from University officials on the Oct. 24 incident.
Gay wrote in an email to faculty in the wake of the report that she accepts all of its recommendations.
“As much as I value the things we learned from this, I still wish it had never happened,” Gay wrote. “It’s clear that this was very hard on the people involved, most particularly the faculty and students in the course.”
—Staff Writer Luke A. Williams can be reached at luke.williams@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter at @LukeAWilliams22.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Graduate students, professors, and whale enthusiasts gathered to hear Brown University Professor Bathsheba Demuth discuss the history and ethics of humanity’s relationship with whales Wednesday at the Center for Government and International Studies.
Demuth, an environmental historian, spoke to a packed audience in the Belfer Room on the history and moral consequences of whaling in capitalist, socialist, and indigenous societies.
“One way of reading the history of humans and whales for the last 2,000 years is a history in which whales have actually intimated the way in which they wish to be consumed,” Demuth said.
“The whales themselves have offered an argument for the kind of relationship that they would prefer: it is a relationship where humans remain dependent on whales, and it’s also a relationship in which there is true and recognized interdependence,” she added.
Demuth, who studies the environmental history of the Russian and North American Arctic, began her presentation with a discussion of the importance of whales in the oceanic ecosystem. She said, for example, that environments with certain types of whales are "more alive" than those without them.
She also compared the relationship between people and whales among different populations, including the Yupik people — an indigenous group in the Arctic region. She said the group has a long, complex relationship with the swimming mammals.
“Within this kind of lush and animate universe, whales were understood as being kind of a particular kind of person with a particular character to their souls,” she said. “They [whales] had their own social world of laws and would leave their country each spring to come past St. Lawrence Island, and perhaps, in doing so, they would consent to be hunted by the people who lived there.”
Demuth also compared the relationship between whales and humans in capitalist society, focusing on the connection between whaling and consumption.
“We must consume something,” she said. “What is left for us to do is figure out not how not to consume, but how to actually consume well.”
The event, entitled “Do Whales Judge Us? Interspecies History and Ethics,” drew Harvard affiliates from across the University.
Reverend Cody J. Sanders — an American Baptist Chaplain at Harvard — said he was interested in the event because of its focus on human relationships.
“I was drawn mostly by the topic in relationship to kind of my own emerging sense of what it means to have a relationship kind of beyond human relationships to the more-than-human world,” Sanders said.
Chloé-Rose Colombero ’20, who also attended Demuth’s talk, said she wished the event had been longer.
“It would have been so cool to hear her talk more,” Colombero said. “I think that my biggest takeaways are that this is really energizing work that I hope more people can do because...we can’t exist in a way we can’t imagine.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Attorneys for Harvard and single-gender social organizations presented opposing views of Harvard’s contentious social group sanctions in state court on Wednesday afternoon — but Suffolk County Superior Court Justice Linda E. Giles is not expected to provide any indication as to how the litigation will proceed forward for several months.
The parties and their supporters — including past and present Harvard undergraduates and former dean of the College Harry R. Lewis ’68 — convened in a wood-paneled courtroom to debate whether or not the plaintiffs’ discrimination claims merit judgment by the court. Giles asked specific questions to each side and requested that the counsel expand upon points highlighted in previously filed briefs — gathering perspective for a decision-making process that will involve “a lot of studying.”
“Obviously a very important case, involves a number of very interesting and not easy issues,” Giles said. “I will definitely be studying this at great length when I have more time.”
Wednesday’s hearing is the latest development in an ongoing state lawsuit — filed in December 2018 — alleging the College’s social group policy constitutes sex-based discrimination under Massachusetts law. In August, United States District Judge Nathaniel M. Gorton ruled that a parallel federal suit will be moving forward with a subset of the original plaintiffs, partly overturning Harvard’s motion to dismiss that case.
Plaintiffs in the state case are the international parent group of sorority Alpha Phi, Harvard’s newly reinstated chapter of Alpha Phi, and a management company for chapters of sorority Delta Gamma.
The sanctions — which took effect with the Class of 2021 — bar members of single-sex Greek groups and final clubs from obtaining College endorsement for prestigious fellowships like the Rhodes, leading on-campus extracurricular organizations, and captaining athletic teams.
Emma Quinn-Judge, the lead attorney for the plaintiffs, and Harvard attorney Roberto M. Braceras argued on behalf of their clients during the hour-long discussion. Quinn-Judge alleged Harvard is interfering with fraternities’ and sororities’ contractual relationships with their parent organizations, which violates Massachusetts state law.
“Harvard specifically told local chapters if they wanted to remain in existence and become recognized student groups, they would have to meet a number of requirements,” Quinn-Judge said. “And one of those requirements was that they separate from their national organizations.”
In his response, Braceras said the social group policy must have a “certain or near certain effect of resulting in interference,” claiming that the plaintiffs did not prove that the sanctions prevented single-gender groups from functioning.
“Harvard wants to promote its policy of, its values of non-discrimination. The fact again is, the impact of this on most fraternities and final clubs, they continue to exist,” Braceras said. “It’s true, some sororities do not. But that is neither the near or certain impact of that policy.”
Quinn-Judge also brought up the plaintiffs’ claim that the sanctions constitute sex-based discrimination because they treat men and women differently.
“A direct disparate treatment claim is that Harvard is saying to women, you can’t associate in a group with other women, because you are a woman,” Quinn-Judge said. “You can also flip that and it becomes an associational claim, where Harvard is saying you can’t join this group as a woman, because it is all women. If it were all men, you could join this group and that would be fine.”
Braceras said that the social group policy applies equally to all students at the College.
“The policy doesn’t even apply to sororities, doesn’t apply to fraternities, doesn’t apply to final clubs. It applies to students. It applies to all of the students, and they’re free to make their choices,” Braceras said.
As in past filings debating the claims, the attorneys also argued on Wednesday about whether the plaintiffs in the state lawsuit have standing to sue — particularly if organizations are justified in speaking on behalf of their membership.
Quinn-Judge wrote in an email that she expects Giles to make a decision on Harvard’s motion to dismiss the state suit in a few months. If the case moves forward, it will move into discovery — a fact-finding period that could include review of internal administrative documents and lengthy depositions from the Harvard officials responsible for formulating and implementing the sanctions.
Beyond the courtroom, opponents of the sanctions policy are taking multiple paths to fight back against the penalties. Single-gender social groups in Cambridge are currently bankrolling a lobbying effort in Washington, D.C. and the House Committee on Education and Labor approved a reauthorization of the Higher Education Act that includes a provision that would imperil Harvard’s ability to enforce the College’s social group policies.
—Staff writer Sanjana L. Narayanan can be reached at sanjana.narayanan@thecrimson.com.
—Staff writer Samuel W. Zwickel can be reached at samuel.zwickel@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @samuel_zwickel.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Former Harvard undergraduate Damilare Sonoiki ’13 filed a lawsuit against the University Oct. 21 alleging that the College unfairly withheld and ultimately denied him his degree after three fellow students accused him of sexual assault.
Sonoiki was set to graduate in May 2013. Two days before Commencement, however, two women formally filed formal sexual misconduct complaints against him.
Sonoiki still spoke as the Harvard Orator on Class Day and walked at graduation. Still, he was denied a degree because he was involved in a pending review of the complaints. Several days later, the third woman filed an additional complaint against Sonoiki.
On Nov. 19, 2013, the Administrative Board found Sonoki responsible for the accusations, required him to withdraw from the College, and recommended his dismissal to the Faculty Council, according to his legal complaint. On Dec. 10, 2014, the Council dismissed Sonoki. He never received his undergraduate degree.
Sonoiki contends that the Ad Board and Faculty Council decisions were “void” because Harvard no longer had any jurisdiction over him after his scheduled graduation date.
College spokesperson Rachael Dane wrote in an emailed statement that while Harvard does not comment on pending litigation nor discuss the details of individual students’ circumstances, it is the College’s longstanding policy that a student cannot graduate if they are involved in a pending disciplinary matter.
“Harvard College is deeply committed to providing a supportive and inclusive environment for members of our community and will not tolerate sexual misconduct including rape and other forms of sexual assault,” Dane wrote.
Sonoiki's complaint further alleges that the Ad Board process was “opaque,” “convoluted,” and “devoid of basic fairness.” Among other grievances, he claims that Harvard denied him “adequate notice” of the charges against him, the opportunity to be advised by an attorney of his choosing, and the right to question or confront witnesses against him.
In the legal filings, Sonoiki requests at least $300,000 for damages and a reversal of the Ad Board’s decision. He also requests the conference of his College degree.
Susan C. Stone, one of Sonoiki’s lawyers, added in an interview that the Ad Board denied Sonoiki permission to be present during the adjudication proceedings and that his Ad Board-appointed representative — his resident dean — was unable to serve as a confidential resource.
Board representatives have access to their student’s case information, may attend interviews with them, and provide general advice and support. They do not “advocate” for the student they’re representing, but rather act as a liaison and ensure the student’s perspective is “clearly presented,” according to the Ad Board’s website.
Lawyers may not serve as students’ personal advisers and cannot participate in formal proceedings, however, students may seek legal counsel before making any written or oral statements to the College and consult with an attorney anytime throughout the process.
Stone contends that these policies and the process by which Sonoiki’s case was handled were unfair.
“Today, by all standards, this does not pass the muster of fairness,” Stone said.
When Sonoiki was a student, the Ad Board oversaw both the investigation and decision-making processes associated with sexual misconduct complaints. Today, Harvard maintains both a University Title IX Office to provide education and resources on Harvard’s gender and sex-based misconduct policies, and the Office for Dispute Resolution to adjudicate formal complaints.
The Ad Board, however, remains responsible for taking disciplinary action based on the outcome of ODR investigations.
In his legal complaint, Sonoiki accuses Harvard of utilizing an adjudicatory process “riddled” with implicit and explicit racial bias. During the 2012-2013 academic year, none of the Ad Board’s 30 members were black men, according to the filing.
The complaint alleges that the lack of black male members “compromised” the board’s ability to prevent racial bias or have a representative voice on the panel.
Sonoiki described experiencing “mental turmoil” and “shame” in the aftermath of the accusations and Harvard’s decision to dismiss him from the College and deny him his degree.
“It puts you in a place of, I want to say, desperation,” he said in an interview earlier this week.
The court documents describe Sonoiki — a Nigerian immigrant — as a “rising star” and a “pillar of the Harvard community.” During his time at the College, he served as the president of the Harvard Black Men’s Forum and wrote for The Crimson and the Harvard Lampoon.
Sonoiki also wrote in his complaint that, in May 2013, Harvard Business School accepted him into its deferred admissions MBA program, but was ultimately precluded from attending because he did not have an undergraduate degree.
After college, Sonoiki worked as a junior analyst at Goldman Sachs for several years until 2015, when he began writing for the television shows “The Simpsons” and “Black-ish.”
In 2018, Sonoiki pleaded guilty to charges of insider trading for giving NFL football player Mychal Kendricks illegal tips about upcoming mergers between Goldman Sachs clients while he was employed there.
Stone said she anticipates Sonoiki will face a “smear campaign” because of his insider trading conviction, but that this past case does not invalidate his claims in the current lawsuit.
“It's easy to say that Damilare doesn't deserve justice in light of the situation that he was involved in with the insider trading,” Stone said. “But he made a mistake, he took responsibility for that mistake. That has no bearing on Harvard taking responsibility for the mistakes that they made in denying him a fair process.”
Clarification: Dec. 2, 2019
A previous version of this article stated that Damilare Sonoiki was denied a degree because he was involved in a pending investigation at the time. To clarify, the Ad Board was reviewing the complaints to determine whether an official investigation is needed. 
—Staff Writer Juliet E. Isselbacher can be reached at juliet.isselbacher@thecrimson.com.
—Staff Writer Amanda Y. Su can be reached at amanda.su@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @amandaysu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
At its best, Ivy League football is Harvard and Yale duking it out for an Ancient Eight title at The Game in November. At its worst, Ivy League football is anything else. Welcome to literally the worst case scenario: Princeton and Dartmouth battling for a crown in the Bronx’s abomination also known as Yankee Stadium.
What’s next? Brown winning a conference game?
YALE AT BROWN
Brown has an impressive record, boasting exactly one win. This, lest you forget, is a very difficult thing to do in a league filled with such formidable opponents as Penn, Cornell, and Columbia. In professional football, the Miami Dolphins are actively trying to have the worst season they possibly can and even they have one win — against professionals! Brown has replicated the feat in the Ancient Eight, and for that, I must respect them.
The question becomes, are the Bears up to the task of losing their seventh straight game. Lots of people are saying they’re not. Seven straight losses is a tall order, I know, but if anyone is up for the task, it’s Brown.
Three nail-biters have almost downed the team but the players have stood strong, determined to ensure their streak is not broken by the ever unfortunate victory. Against the University of Rhode Island, the only other major university in the state because there’s simply not space for another, Brown lost by three. The last two weeks of play feature a loss of momentum for the Bears as the team has come startlingly close to actually winning, with two-point losses to Cornell and Penn. I don’t expect things to get so close this weekend.
While Yale resembles a certain substance that tends to also be brown, and it’s students have a proclivity to engage the unnatural disposal of such substance, it will likely be the lesser of two terribles this weekend.
Yale by 14.
HARVARD AT COLUMBIA
I wanted to like Columbia this season. I really did. Things started out great as I unironically declared Columbia the thought leader of the Ivy League when the administration banned the band. Not only did the university silence the band, it replaced it. In the most baller move in the history of upper level administrative action, the institution replaced the band with one from a local high school.
Like all good things, this too ended far before its time. The band was reinstated in mid-October. Which just speaks to the lack of backbone on behalf of Columbia. Unfortunately for the Lions, backbone is pretty necessary in the game of football. One week after the reinstatement of the so-called band, the team was downed by 35 points at the hands of Dartmouth. The week after, a loss by the exact same amount came by the hands of Yale.
Perhaps there is a positive correlation between band attendance and victory. It’s worth noting that the only game in which the Harvard band did not attend this season, Harvard beat Holy Cross.
While the Crimson band will likely be in attendance on Saturday, it’s no cause for concern. Columbia is pretty bad, per usual.
Harvard by 21.
PRINCETON VS. DARTMOUTH
Barring a disaster by both teams’, this is the Ivy League Championship game. In preparation for the spectre, the game has been scheduled at the Yankee Stadium. Last year’s contest showcased a defensive grudge match in which Princeton prevailed, 14-9.
For the first time in my three-year career as writer on this beat, I’m going to pick against Princeton. Dartmouth is good. Dartmouth is very good. Their defense is only rivaled by Harvard’s. Princeton’s dynamic offense has proven it can be stopped and Dartmouth’s has proven it can score in 54 seconds with no time outs and on a Hail Mary.
The venue fits the occasion. Dartmouth is crowned the Ivy League Champion this weekend.
Dartmouth by 3.
CORNELL AT PENN
Brown is the worst team in the Ivy League. Even a Yale student could do the math and figure that out. But on the contrary, Penn is also very bad. The Quakers lost to a two-win Columbia team, 44-6. Penn beat Brown by only two points, sparing themselves the embarrassment of being the Bears’ only division win this season.
Not only is Penn terrible, but I expect the Cornell players to be in jubilant spirits. If you spend all your time in Ithaca, N.Y., I’m sure even Philadelphia looks a stellar city.
Both teams are 1-3 in the Ancient Eight, so this contest is shaping up to be the battle to stay away from seventh place. I expect Cornell’s draining offense to take a toll on Penn. So long as the Big Red can avoid errant toast tosses (weirdos) things should be smooth sailing.
Cornell by 7.
—Staff writer Cade Palmer can be reached at cade.palmer@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The last time the Harvard women’s volleyball team set out against its Ivy League foe Yale, it left without much to celebrate after losing in straight sets. On Saturday, just one month later, the Crimson found itself on the other side — the underdogs ousted Yale 3-1 in a dominant upset in front of its home crowd.
To add to the matchup’s atmosphere, the Malkin Athletic Center was roaring with excitement as it was not only Freshman Parents Weekend but also the volleyball team’s Alumni Weekend.
“Having all of our alumni in town cheering us on and having a packed crowd for Parents Weekend made it pretty special to get to feel everything come together in that kind of an environment,” said senior captain Maclaine Fields. “We were definitely feeding off of it.”
Harvard (5-14, 3-7 Ivy League) set the tone in the first set for what would be a grueling back-and-forth matchup. The frame began with strong play for both the Crimson and the Bulldogs, but as time passed, Yale began to show why it was the favorites going in. But the Crimson was not to be overpowered so quickly. Clawing its way back in a drawn-out set, Harvard clenched the necessary two-point lead on its 30th victorious point of the match.
The Crimson followed up its gritty play with a successful 25-20 second set, this time leading throughout the frame. Junior Mindie Mabry, who ended with 20 kills for the night, dominated the play in the second set, coming in clutch by ending multiple critical rallies with what proved to be many untouchable spikes.
Yale refused to let the match end in straight sets, stealing the third to stay alive. However, it could not sustain the momentum it had earned.
In the fourth set, Harvard was forced to regather its composure in order to solidify its victory. The score was often tied, but the Crimson handled the pressure after eventually pulling away and locking up the match with a 25-20 score for the final set. Weaknesses that have plagued Harvard in previous matches this season were not on display this time for Yale to exploit.
“It was one of the first times when everyone had such a good game, and it truly was a real team effort,” Fields said. “Seeing so many people step up at the right times and at the same time was pretty special. The season has definitely been rough so far, but we’ve felt like we have had the right pieces to be a great team and it was frustrating in past games this season when it wasn’t coming together.”
The first-years were part of the pieces that fall into place. First-years Katie Vorhies and Ashley Wang had 14 and 12 kills on the day, respectively. Classmate Ava Lung, who stands at six feet tall, had a dominant presence at the net with 11 blocks.
With four Ivy League matches left to play, the hope for Harvard is to carry this momentum that they had been searching for all season.
“We’ve known we can be good and we were happy to finally show it,” Fields said. “Now that we’ve made out statement by taking down the top team in the league, the goal is to win-out with the rest of our matches.”
Harvard will travel to play Penn this Friday and Princeton this Saturday. The weekend after will be the end of its season, with its two final contests against Cornell and Columbia set to be played at home.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
This weekend, the no. 18/15 Harvard men’s hockey team will take on its first full slate of weekend games, hosting Princeton and no. 15 Quinnipiac. Last year the Crimson faced these same two teams in its second week of play and earned only one point; now, the squad will look to avoid that disappointing result and extend its momentum from last week’s win against Dartmouth.
While the obvious challenge lies with the ranked Bobcats (4-3-0, 0-0 ECAC) on Saturday, the Tigers (1-0-1, 0-0) are hardly easy competition. Both visiting teams have tested themselves against non-conference foes. Harvard (1-0-0, 1-0) will need to ensure that head-start doesn’t put it at a disadvantage.
“Having beat Dartmouth we definitely want to keep that ball rolling and take down Princeton and Quinnipiac this weekend,” said forward and captain Nathan Krusko. “We know it’s going to be a huge test for us...so we want to come out with a huge push early on and just kind of ride the wave.”
The Crimson is focused on putting last week’s up-and-down win behind it and settling into a more controlled, defensive game. In other words, the team hopes not to concede three straight goals in five minutes. Sophomore forward Casey Dornbach (3 A), junior forward Jack Badini (3 A), and sophomore defenseman Jack Rathbone (2 G) will need to show up again. More promising outings from rookies like defenseman Henry Thrun (1–1—2), and forwards Nick Abbruzzese (1–2—3) and John Farinacci (1–1—2) couldn’t hurt either.
On the other hand, junior defenseman Reilly Walsh, who was second in team scoring last season, could make more of a mark this weekend after a quiet night against the Big Green. A boost in Walsh’s production could come with a strong showing on the power play too — the junior paced his squad in man-advantage goals last year.
“Coach has made it a point of emphasis that [scoring seven goals is] not the norm and we’re going to really have to work to score against Princeton and Quinnipiac this weekend,” Krusko said. “So, just getting in the dirty areas, making sure we capitalize [on] our chances when we get them, and staying positive through the entire game.”
Whether or not Harvard will choose to make a change in net remains to be seen. Senior Cameron Gornet (3 GA, .936 SV%) earned the start last Friday, but the team has another option in freshman Mitchell Gibson.
“There’s a benefit to having that position have some competition,” head coach Ted Donato ’91 said. “Cam, I think, had some ups and downs in the game, but I really liked the way he pulled it together in the third, and...he deserved that first game. ...The reality is, we want to play, on each and every night, who we think gives us the best chance to win.”
Princeton, much like the Crimson, entered this season knowing it would have to make up for the key pieces it lost in the offseason. Forward Ryan Kuffner and defenseman and captain Josh Teves have both graduated, while forward Max Véronneau chose to sign a professional contract after his junior year. But the Tigers may have shut down doubters in their opening weekend trip to then-no. 16 St. Cloud State, winning once and then skating to a tie to knock the Huskies out of the national rankings.
“Certainly they lost a lot of guys that were key players for them last year,” coach Donato said. “But that...isn’t that much different than a lot of other teams. I’m sure they are playing with a chip on their shoulder and something to prove.”
This feat was accomplished thanks to the 10 goals Princeton put up in those two games, three of which came on the man advantage. Forwards like senior Jackson Cressey (2–4—8) and sophomore Corey Andonovski (4–1—8) lead the way for the Tigers; Andonovski is second in league-wide goal-scoring while having played six fewer games than the tally leader. The second-year was instrumental to the tie result against St. Cloud State, netting a hat trick that included two power play goals, one of which was the final, game-tying score. Though two games against the same team isn’t the best sample size, Princeton’s man-up squad is clicking at 33.3 percent.
“In terms of the penalty kill...at the end of the day defense comes down to hard work,” sophomore forward Jack Drury said. “So I think starting with our leadership, with Krusko and kind of trickling down, we just need everyone to be working hard in the d-zone.”
Splitting starts last weekend were junior Ryan Ferland (3 GA, .912 SV%) and freshman Aidan Porter (5 GA, .833 SV%). Ferland has been the Tigers’ go-to net-minder for his college career, and propelled the team to an ECAC Tournament championship his freshman year. One weakness that Harvard can look to exploit is the fact that Princeton conceded nearly as many goals as it scored last weekend. On the other hand, the Crimson can’t necessarily count on putting up a seven-spot every night either.
“We’re focused on Friday night,” coach Donato said. “...It’s very difficult to have a great home weekend if you can’t win the first one, so we expect a good, confident Princeton team, and we know we’re going to have to elevate our game.”
Come Saturday, Quinnipiac arrives at Bright-Landry as the team to beat, though the Bobcats lost some steam after last weekend’s sweep at the hands of Arizona State. The team has had its share of offseason losses primarily on the blue line, in captain and Hobey Baker finalist Chase Priskie, and Brandon Fortunato. But Quinnipiac has come into this season swinging, having been ranked since the start of NCAA play.
The Bobcats' player to watch will be junior forward Odeen Tufto, who led his team in points last season (15–27—42) and currently leads the ECAC in assists (9). Tufto has been held goalless so far, but it is only a matter of time before a player of his caliber finds the back of the net.
Other talented weapons in Quinnipiac’s arsenal are sophomore forwards Wyatt Bongiovanni (4–2—6) and Peter DiLiberatore (1–5—6), along with sophomore defenseman Ethan de Jong (3–2—5). But the Bobcats have goal-scorers across its roster that Harvard will have to be wary of.
“They have our attention, that’s for sure,” coach Donato said. “We’ll have to be really good, especially against a team that’s had some games and kind of worked out some things to sharpen their game… We’re going to have to get there a lot quicker in order to have success.”
Junior Keith Petruzzelli will probably be the masked man the Crimson must best, having started most games last season and all but one contests this year. The goaltender’s numbers (2.73 GAA, .899 SV%) might not be the most impressive, but Petruzzelli can certainly take control of a game. His save percentage is also skewed by the fact that Quinnipiac tends to suppress shots, possessing a SOG margin per game of +4.14, good for second in the ECAC.
The Bobcats’ soft spot, however, is in special teams. Not only do they possess a low man-advantage conversion rate (11.1%), they also allow opponents to convert at a decent clip of 18.5 percent. If Harvard can get its own power play going this weekend, it can pose an even greater challenge to the visitors from Hamden, Conn.
The Crimson plans to take things one game at a time instead of getting carried away by the big picture. However, with four crucial points at stake, the team has a lot to play for this weekend, and fans can look forward to seeing how the young, speedy squad might rise to the occasion.
“I think we’re excited to get into back-to-back games, finally,” coach Donato said. “But for us, there’s a lot to prove, and it should be a good test for us.”
—Staff writer Stuti Telidevara can be reached at stuti.telidevara@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @StutiTelidevara.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
This shouldn’t even be considered a hot take: Cabot Café — or CabCaf, as it is affectionately called — is clearly an awesome Harvard café. Located in Cabot’s E entryway, it accepts BoardPlus; serves Hot Pockets, pastries, drinks with fun names (Chai Love Lucy, anyone?); and has a superior Spotify playlist — what else could you ask for? But wait, there’s more: It’s open until 1 a.m. Yeah, you heard that right — you can get your non-watered-down-dhall-coffee caffeine fix after midnight. These should be selling points enough, but here are a few other reasons why you should stop sleeping on Cabot Café:
Comfy and Varied Seating 
Cabot Café has armchairs, couches, individual tables, and group tables for whatever study vibe you’ve got going on: curling up in a chair with a book, taking up all the real estate for those nights where literally every class has something due, or suffering through a pset with your fellow STEM concentrators.
Atmosphere
The lighting is warm, with some fairy lights and student-submitted art hung up, as well as a new chalkboard where people can write positive messages. It’s not a quiet-only space, so while you’ll find people studying, it’s also a lovely place to go to just sit and catch up with your Quadling friends. Plus, if there’s a song you really want to listen to, the baristas take requests!
Community
Cabot residents never stop gushing about how much they love the House’s community. Sitting in Cabot Café, you’ll experience firsthand the legendary strength and warmth of the Cabot community. Cabot Café is a community gathering space — Queer Cabot, for example, hosts several events here every semester. Cabot Café also has several board games for when you want to just relax for some friendly Catan competition or a game of gin rummy.
Access to Brain Break
Stop by the dhall to get some bread before settling down in Cabot Café with your specialty drink, like a Matcha Do About Nothing or Queen Bee Frappe.
MILK. TEA.
You heard it here first: This year Cabot Café is serving milk jelly tea! That alone is reason enough to hop on the shuttle.
Honestly, we’re shocked Quadlings ever go to the river houses to study when Cabot Café exists. That should make you river residents feel extra special. Stop by Cabot Café sometime, and have the transformative experience for yourself. We hope we won’t regret revealing this hidden gem to you.
