News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
A discussion has emerged at colleges across the nation about how to grade students during a global pandemic. At Harvard, a group of students is advocating for the “Double A” grading model. (Not a surprise. What Harvard student wouldn’t want a semester of guaranteed As?)
Many students, both at Harvard and beyond, point to the first-generation and low-income communities as uniquely vulnerable to grading inequities exacerbated by the fact that students are no longer on campus and no longer have access to the same resources.
As a member of the FGLI community myself, I fundamentally disagree with the arguments that have been made in favor of any sort of universal grading policy. While I don’t normally care about grades and believe they threaten the important role of intellectual curiosity in the classroom, I feel compelled to write this piece because so much of the dialogue I’ve heard surrounding grades and the FGLI community has not originated from the FGLI community itself.
In addition, I’m concerned that a very small group of students connected to the Undergraduate Council appears to be advocating on behalf of the majority of students in favor of universal grading, whereas the majority of students I’ve talked to are perfectly content with the status quo and feel upset about this misrepresentation. In fact, I’ve heard that the UC’s internal processes were not totally transparent about the “Double A” advocacy campaign, and the subsequent UC survey sent out to the entire student body about grading preferences for the spring semester seemed to assume that students wanted some sort of advocacy on their behalf for a change to the current regulations. And during the final edit of this piece, the UC called an “Emergency Meeting” to endorse a grading policy for the College, yet the only two proposals up for discussion were both in favor of universal systems despite the fact that in the survey that they themselves conducted, more students expressed preference for an opt-in pass-fail policy than a mandatory pass-fail policy.
Building flexibility into a grading structure in a time of global crisis and mandating universality are two very different things. For example, flexibility might look like a small relaxation of the policies that restrict students’ ability to count pass-fail courses toward concentration requirements in an “Opt-in system” as University of Pennsylvania, Cornell, Duke, and so many other schools have instituted. Allowing students flexibility seems logical and compassionate.
However, “universal” grading policies appear on the surface to be treating all students equally, whereas in reality, they do the opposite because everyone is in a different stage of their college careers. Some students are taking a relatively manageable course load this semester that they anticipate will provide a boost to their GPAs; others are loading up on difficult concentration or pre-med requirements. Some students must maintain certain GPAs for their outside scholarships and would have to alter their course load next semester if they can’t receive letter grades this spring.
Consider the FGLI pre-med student who struggled in their classes during freshman year and is on track to earn their first A at Harvard — in Organic Chemistry, of all classes. Consider the FGLI student who works two jobs at Harvard, and now finally, with the reimbursement of half of the student term-time work expectation, has time to focus on their classes while at home on equal footing with their classmates.
Consider any student — FGLI or not — who wants to maintain a high level of intellectual engagement in their classes, but knows that with mandatory pass-fail grading or the “Double A Model,” other students just won’t stay as engaged in the material alongside them during discussion sections and seminars. Of course, intellectual engagement and letter grades should not be mutually exclusive. In fact, I would hope that Harvard students would be just as engaged in their classes if they weren’t receiving grades for the term. But as much as I hope that’s true, I would be too much of an optimist to believe that.
We have been placed into a set of circumstances that leaves us with so little personal agency. Many of us cannot leave our houses; we cannot see our friends; we cannot live where we had planned to live this spring. Commencement has been postponed; summer opportunities are in limbo; the performances that matter most to us are called off. This is not Harvard’s fault. But in these circumstances that leave us with so little agency, I hope that we get to take control of the decisions that we still have some power over.
Let’s put faith in our incredible professors — so many of whom have already expressed their deep commitment to our continued education and their understanding of the difficult circumstances we find ourselves in — to grade our work with kindness and generosity.
Universal grading systems undermine what matters most — our continued commitment to our academics and to our classmates — at a time where intellectual engagement has never been more important. Right now there is nothing that we need more than a reminder of what connects us all, our shared pursuit of knowledge.
There is no hope left for us when we throw in the towel and say, “we’re done trying.” And that hope, the hope that learning inspires, is all that we have right now. Unfortunately, that hope vanishes the minute grading becomes universal.
At a time when the production of knowledge has come to a nearly full stop — labs are scaling back experiments, the libraries are shuttered indefinitely, and field research is halted as a result of travel restrictions — let’s not slow the transmission of knowledge as well. Let’s not forget the fundamental reason we are Harvard students. Let’s instead find comfort in the transcendent magic of education. In order to achieve this, we absolutely cannot adopt a universal grading system, an unrecoverable mistake that would simultaneously forever dilute a Harvard education and exacerbate the very problems it claims to fix.
Orlee G.S. Marini-Rapoport ’23, a Crimson Editorial editor, lives in Greenough Hall.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
As we now finish our semester at home, I think it’s valuable to revisit the decision that University President Lawrence S. Bacow made two weeks ago, asking us to stay home following spring break.
In the days that followed, more of us criticized him and the Harvard administration than perhaps might have with the gift of hindsight. We decried the 5-day eviction notice; the initial confusion regarding subsidies for low-income students; the $500 one-way plane tickets that needed to be bought 48 hours before a flight; the seeming absence of consideration for international students. In the most important respect, however, President Bacow made the right decision, and it was a hard one.
Imagine you’re Larry Bacow for a moment, and the date is March 10. To situate ourselves, we can recall the timeline of what was being said about the coronavirus in the preceding weeks and days.
February 17: Dr. Anthony Fauci, a respected immunologist leading the national response to the epidemic, states that the risk for Americans of contracting the coronavirus is “just minuscule.”
March 5: The Center for Disease Control and Prevention’s public health guidance is still simply to “wash your hands.” The World Health Organization emphasizes that you should “cough into your elbow,” in a town hall a day later.
March 6: Dr. Fauci goes on national television and maintains that social distancing is not necessary, outside of the Seattle area, stating that “the overall risk in the country of being infected is low.”
March 9: After a weekend of cases, the CDC Director continues to maintain that “the risk to the American public does remain low.”
By March 9, you can see that no peer higher education institutions (with the exception of those located directly in outbreak areas) have announced a closure of campus for the rest of the semester.
The decision facing you is enormous from an institutional perspective. As the Editorial Board recalled, a former Harvard Dean of Students once remarked, “Harvard University will close only for an act of God, such as the end of the world.” There is essentially zero existing precedent, going back at least a hundred years, for a closure of more than a couple days.
Given the information available, few of us would have decided on the morning of March 10 to make the announcement to close Harvard’s campus and so abruptly at that.
Former British Prime Minister Winston Churchill told us that “it is always wise to look ahead, but difficult to look further than you can see.” In the hour of action, President Bacow looked ahead and saw what even many national health officials did not see.
In the days that followed, public health experts came out in support of Bacow’s decision. As Marc Lipsitch of the School of Public Health observed to The Crimson afterward, “we were some days or weeks away from having a really big problem on our hands, and the only thing we can do to slow it down is to … be in places other than dorms.” Kenneth McIntosh ’58 of Harvard Medical School agreed that it was “better to do something that makes epidemiologic sense at this point than to wait.” Every additional day, in hindsight, would have brought increasing risks.
These risks would have been dangerous for Harvard professors — a recent profile pegged the average age of the tenured Faculty of Arts and Sciences faculty at 56, with 25 percent over the age of 65 — and for students with pre-existing conditions. Reducing the density on campus was, quite literally, a matter of life and death.
Harvard turned out to be one of the leaders in making the decision. MIT announced hours later. A week later, the entire Ivy League had followed suit, as had universities across the country.
So what about the criticism? In a perfect world, the administration would not have initially issued guidance telling students to stay on campus for spring break; many took this as a directive to cancel their plane tickets home, which they later had to rebook.
But it’s important to remember how fast things changed. When he realized the first decision was wrong, Bacow rightly and quickly reversed course. He recognized that two wrong decisions didn’t make a right. We should be very glad that he didn’t give us the option of moving out at the end of spring break — which would have come when Massachusetts was nearing 1,000 confirmed cases and beginning a stay-at-home advisory. The five-day eviction notice, in the end, served a purpose: to get people off of campus and away from the danger of dormitory-based transmission, as quickly as possible.
The late Zell Miller, the former Georgia governor, liked to tell a story about his relationship with Jimmy Carter, the U.S. president-turned-humanitarian. Miller, who did not adhere to party lines as rigidly as Carter would have liked, once joked that half the personal notes he’d received from Carter “are giving me hell and half are bragging on me.” But, he said, “I figure I’m doing OK batting 0.500 with Jimmy Carter.”
In half the decisions that Bacow faced in this extraordinary episode, he may have made mistakes — just as we might have in the same position. But those mistakes (several of which were later corrected) came on logistics and nothing more. On the half that really mattered — the decisions about how best to protect Harvard and the lives of its faculty and students — he overwhelmingly rose to the occasion. For that, we all owe him a debt of gratitude. After all, it’s not easy batting 0.500 with God.
Andrew W. Liang ’21, a Crimson Editorial editor, is a Social Studies concentrator in Adams House. His column appears on alternate Thursdays.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
For an hour, members of the Harvard College Association for U.S.-China Relations conducted business as usual, clicking through slides of beaming highschoolers and fluorescent city skylines at a March 3 information session promoting the organization’s Harvard Summit for Young Leaders in China.
Then, a question stopped the presenters in their tracks.
Was any of this still possible, a student in the audience asked, given the outbreak of COVID-19 in China?
Each summer, HSYLC sends 100 a hundred Harvard undergraduates to Beijing, Shanghai, and Hangzhou to lead classes and activities for more than 1000 Chinese students. Well-established in China, HSYLC received $73,000 in revenue in 2017 alone; HWeek, an associated program that brings its top students to Harvard for a week, racked up an additional $133,000. Chinese students pay $1,500 to attend the nine-day program, though some receive financial aid.
At the time of the presentation, both the U.S. government and Harvard University had discouraged short-term travel to mainland China. HAUSCR presidents Vivian Y. Zhou ’20 and Caleb A. Ren ’21 hoped that travel restrictions would ease by August.
Now, as the pandemic spreads across the United States, the HAUSCR website cautions seminar leaders against booking flights until “certain that HSYLC will proceed.” According to Zhou and Ren, HAUSCR does not have an internal deadline for cancellation.
In typical years, the conference seeks to export “the Western liberal arts education style at Harvard” to China through its eclectic speaker series and seminars. Though the program prides itself on its range, seminar leaders must ensure that their curriculums do not clash with the stances of the Chinese government on controversial issues. And while the presidents reject the idea that admission to HSYLC improves one’s odds of admission to Harvard, some applicants believe the brief affiliation with its undergraduates will bring them closer to their goal.
While teaching a course on museums, former seminar leader Ava M. Hampton ’21 recalls watching her students “transform” before her eyes. Within nine days, they began speaking up in class and became immersed in topics they once found boring, sometimes even submitting pages and pages of detailed exhibition sketches, she says.
Given the limits of free speech in China, some phrases and topics are necessarily off-limits, Hampton notes. HAUSCR leaders suggested she reframe a class on protests in museums as one on access and activism instead, she says. Zhou and Ren say they rarely intervene in curriculum, though, because seminar leaders are “usually very cognizant of sensitive topics.”
For Yuxuan Shen, a current high school junior, the seminars she attended at HSYLC were a refreshing change from her lecture classes at school. It was her first time in a discussion-style seminar, and she found it “pretty fun talking [about] my feelings and ideas.”
While the Harvard name sparked some intrigue, Yuxuan was initially attracted to HSYLC as a place where she could “make a crazy number of friends” and “discover a new side of [herself].”
Hampton also emphasized the bonds seminar leaders can form with students. She still messages many of her former students on WeChat. Many ask about college life in America and, occasionally, about admission to Harvard.
She acknowledges that for every student like Yuxuan, there are some who view HSYLC as a “feeder program” for Harvard and other Ivy League institutions. Many hope the program reads well on their resumes. Others, Hampton explains, use the “taste of the liberal arts” HSYLC provides to flesh out application essays explaining their interest in American colleges, especially Harvard.
The program’s promotional materials hint at an immersive experience akin to attending Harvard. The website compares HSYLC workshops to Harvard’s freshman seminars and repeatedly claims that many alumni have matriculated at the College and other top institutions.
In addition to advertising its academic similarities with Harvard, the program also emulates the College’s residential system with “houses” of its own, including “Libertas” and “Virtus.”
Ruoshan Jiang, currently a junior in high school, puts it more bluntly: While she did enjoy the program, she says she paid $1,500 to attend the 2019 Summit largely to “help [her] college applications.”
Mainstream Chinese media outlets have only bolstered this impression. A recent People’s Daily article claims that the conference’s selection process is “similar to undergraduate student admission at Harvard University,” and underscores that “many [former attendees] were later admitted to prestigious universities including Harvard, Oxford, and Cambridge.”
Ruoshan chose to attend seminars on her likely college majors — economics and computer science — working hard so she might secure a recommendation from the program.
But her hopes quickly fell apart. Once she realized that the program does not issue recommendations for its students, she began treating HSYLC as a springboard for HWeek, an associated HAUSCR program that brings students to Harvard for a week. The $4,500 program gave her an “insider perspective” on the College and the opportunity to ask real-life Harvard students about her application.
Although Ruoshan notes that few students offered instructive advice, she remains hopeful that her links to Harvard will distinguish her from a crowd of applicants. She recently applied to the Harvard Summer School program with a letter of recommendation from Hampton.
“The harvard.edu email, it just might increase my chances,” she says, with some skepticism.
For now, it remains unclear if the conference will have any student attendees this year at all, dashing the hopes of students like Ruoshan.
Cancellation, however, may come with its own silver lining. According to Ren, the year after HAUSCR postponed the conference due to the H1N1 pandemic, HSYLC had to add a new site to accommodate the surge in interest.
— Magazine writer Saima S. Iqbal can be reached at saima.iqbal@thecrimson.com.
Sections
For LaShyra T. Nolen, it was never about being the first black woman president of the Harvard Medical School Student Council. It was about making sure that she wouldn’t be the last.
The woman standing outside Vanderbilt Hall at Harvard Medical School is recognizable: she recently graced the online pages of Teen Vogue and The Lily in a white doctor’s coat. Here, though, in a red sweater and black booties, Nolen exudes a stylish, put-together, casual air. Takeout pad thai in one hand and a Pellegrino in the other, she’s just come from an exam. “You know that feeling when you finish a big exam, and then everything else you have to do just hits you?” she asks. “Yeah, that’s where I’m at right now.”
Still, Nolen is all smiles and warmth; her magnetic energy suggests her ability to lead.
This year, Nolen has taken an ethos of advocacy to the Medical School’s student council as the first black woman president. However, the work doesn’t stop at representation alone. “I want to use this platform and this opportunity to make meaningful connections, and really bring the outside community near HMS into its walls,” she says.
A quick look at her presidency thus far demonstrates how she has fulfilled these goals in tangible, innovative ways. Usually, the student council uses its funds to throw a Halloween party. This year, it instead organized an event for students at nearby Mission Grammar School, inviting them onto campus to trick-or-treat and learn more about careers in medicine.
“You could tell that they were just happy to be on this campus and to spend time with us,” Nolen says. “Because even though it’s a two minute walk away, the Medical School building is very intimidating. Even though it’s accessible to everyone, it doesn’t look that way.”
Not only have Nolen’s initiatives aimed to bolster the community’s engagement with the Medical School, they’ve also pushed its students to become more engaged with the world around them. For example, the council paid for students’ Ubers to a Cambridge DACA rally in November. “When you look at photos from that DACA rally, you could just see a flood of white coats,” Nolen says. “There were over 50 students who ended up going.”
Despite her extensive involvement in student affairs, Nolen never imagined herself choosing to attend an institution like Harvard. She wanted a place with diversity comparable to that of her hometown of Los Angeles, Calif. But, after a mere one-and-a-half semesters at the Medical School, she already feels at home. “Even though I don’t necessarily see people that look like me all the time, I still feel like my HMS community and my class are some of the most beautiful, most supportive, most amazing people ever,” she says.
Nolen recounts how, a month ago, the Medical School’s Student National Medical Association — like “the Black Students Union for medical schools” — went on a retreat to Rhode Island. “We wrote a letter to blackness,” she says. “It was this audio letter, where everybody went around and recorded it so we could save that memory for ourselves. It was just so beautiful to be in this safe space where we all were having similar experiences, but we were going through those experiences in isolation.”
This strong sense of community seems to define Nolen’s experience as a student at Harvard. But while she has nothing critical to say about the student body, she does take issue with the institution of medicine as a whole. “People love to talk about implicit bias. But what no one wants to talk about is the structural racism that is ingrained in the medical system and institution,” she explains. “Because literally, the reason why medical schools were built in certain spaces was because they were next to cemeteries that buried black people, so that they could use them as cadavers for their anatomy labs.”
For Nolen, such phenomena cannot simply be relegated to the past or treated as a failure of medicine that has since been rectified. “All of these different instances in history have caused the bias that we’ve experienced, because we’ve learned to see black people as lesser than, and to feel like their pain doesn’t exist,” she clarifies. She cites the childbirth mortality rate — three to four times greater for black women than for white women — and the still-prevalent conception of black people’s heightened tolerance for pain.
As for the Medical School itself, Nolen thinks that its classes begin the necessary conversations about medical disparities, but there’s more to be done. “We’re still just scratching the surface. In cardiology textbooks, they’ll drop that black people are more likely to die from something than other populations,” she says. “Then it moves on and I’m like, ‘Wait, what?’ When you constantly see this in your curriculum, you can start to internalize it, and see these people as inherently damaged.”
Nolen explains that even more than medical institutions, it's “society that’s damaged. And individuals are manifestations of those issues.” Consequently, Nolen’s drive to go into medicine is largely in order to attend to the inequalities that both constitute this field and are caused by it. While her passion for medicine dates back to a fateful third-grade science fair, she only realized that she needed to become a physician when she took a class about health and homelesness. The class required her to stay in Skid Row, a neighborhood in Los Angeles that has one of the highest stable populations of homeless people in the United States, for four days, sleeping outside and in parking garages and shelters.
“I always knew that I had the privilege of returning back to my warm shower, my warm bed at the end of the day. That class helped me understand that there’s so many inequities in our society,” Nolen recalls. “I felt like through being in medicine, I could help those individuals going through those challenges, and tackle those societal issues.”
Wearing a silver necklace that reads “Feminist” on one side and “Boss” on the other, Nolen seems to be on her way to doing so — both as a future doctor, and now as student council president of the Medical School. But, even with all that she’s accomplished, and amidst “all the media attention from being the first black woman president,” she wants to bring attention to those who came before her.
“We found out that forty years ago, there was a black woman who was the chair of her class. And beyond her, there was also a black woman who was vice president,” she says. “So I wanted to use this space to bring value to the contributions that these women have brought to the Harvard community, and how they really set the path for me to be here today.”
— Magazine writer Elyse Pham can be reached at elyse.pham@thecrimson.com.
Sections
Cynthia Yee lived on the second floor of the row house at 116 Hudson St., but she grew up along the entire block.
Yee calls her childhood in 1950s Boston Chinatown “a paradise” — children played hopscotch, rode bikes, and skipped rope up and down the streets; their parents worked at restaurants and sewed at home.
Scrappy and resourceful, Yee and her friends explored the nooks, crannies, and characters of their neighborhood. They constructed toys with grains of rice and scraps of cloth. They split and traded the occasional treats that came along — comic books, baseball cards, potato chips. Nobody locked their doors or rang the doorbell; instead, they learned to knock on friends’ first-floor windows so as not to wake their fathers sleeping after a night shift. All the mothers looked after all the kids, and all the kids explored all the sidewalks, all the railings, and all the stoops. The street was theirs to share.
“We loved it because you were not a minority,” Yee recalls. “The whole street ate the same kind of food, like salted fish, and what mainstream Americans might consider smelly, like shrimp sauce,” she says. “There’s something cozy about that. . . There’s something nice about not being the only one.”
In 1962, Yee’s idyllic childhood came to an abrupt end when her home was seized by the Massachusetts Turnpike Authority and demolished to make room for highway construction. Her family was displaced to an area on the outskirts of Chinatown called the “Combat Zone,” a hub for the adult entertainment industry. “It’s a type of violence when you displace people — it’s their home,” Yee says.
Yee — now a blogger who writes about her family’s history, her childhood in Chinatown, and the personal effects of displacement — contrasts the violent, faceless seizure of her Hudson St. home with the warm community and shared space she enjoyed as a child.
“Everybody's house [was] your house too,” Yee says.
Her story speaks to a decades-long tension between those who value Chinatown for its economic potential and those who value it for its cultural significance — those who see it as a house and those who see it as a home.
The streets of Chinatown still bear the scars of highway construction, institutional expansion, and urban renewal efforts. Today, a lack of affordable housing and the emergence of Airbnbs and short-term rentals drive up prices for the residents who have built the community from the ground up. Chinatown’s right to take up space continues to be challenged.
Chinatown’s physical structures are deeply intertwined with its cultural significance: As gentrification razes row houses and storefronts, it also threatens the character of the community and its tight-knit, working-class core. Amid the conflict over what — and who — makes Chinatown valuable, activists work to preserve its history and guide its future, allowing the community’s influence to grow beyond its borders.
Looking at Chinatown today, with its high-rise towers and trendy bubble tea shops, it’s hard to imagine a time when its space was not in high demand.
But Boston Chinatown was founded by Chinese immigrants moving into space deemed undesirable by the rest of Boston, who built it from scratch.
In the 1860s, the building of the Transcontinental Railroad attracted a wave of Chinese laborers to the American West. When they left the completed tracks to settle in nearby towns, racial hostilities flared, often culminating in violent riots.
Those laborers traveled eastward to coastal cities like New York and Boston. In Boston, Harrison Ave., between Essex and Beach St., became the heart of a fledgling Chinatown community.
But the racism the laborers had attempted to escape on the West Coast soon became codified in federal law. In 1882, President Chester A. Arthur signed the Chinese Exclusion Act, which barred new Chinese immigrants from entering the country.
Even with the flow of Chinese immigration halted, the Boston Chinese community — composed largely of working-age men — continued to grow, albeit slowly, in the face of racism and xenophobia. The population expanded from 250 people in 1900 to over 800 people by 1930. In 1943, the Chinese Exclusion Act was repealed. Men brought over wives and children, and with their arrival, the neighborhood began to change. Laundries gave way to family restaurants. Gambling and opium dens were replaced by schools, churches, and a Chinatown branch of the YMCA.
Family life in Chinatown brought the stability and vibrancy that would transform this little neighborhood in downtown Boston into one of the bedrocks of Chinese culture in New England. It was these relaxed immigration policies that allowed Cynthia Yee’s mother to join her father in Boston.
Michael Liu — a former professor of Asian American Studies at the University of Massachusetts Boston, who was born on Chinatown’s Tyler St. in 1948 — calls this growth of families a turning point for the neighborhood. Before that period, Chinatown “was not considered a desirable neighborhood. All the homes were simply-built row houses that they had put up to house primarily immigrants,” Liu explains. The community-building that families put into the neighborhood allowed this perception to change.
At the same time, Boston’s expanding downtown area was rubbing up against the borders of Chinatown, turning the previously unwanted space into an area of interest to the city of Boston. Just as families began to transform Chinatown into a cultural home, the city began to view the neighborhood as a site for the highways that would connect Boston’s downtown to its suburbs.
The Chinese Merchants’ Association Building still stands today, a stout six-story structure with tan siding, bearing a red sign that greets cars with the words “WELCOME TO CHINATOWN” as they drive past. The first Chinatown building financed by the immigrant community, the landmark was cut in half by the construction of the Central Artery expressway in 1959 that demolished a third of its structure.
In the late 1950s, President Dwight D. Eisenhower’s Interstate Highway Act expanded highway systems across the nation, allowing white Americans to live in the increasingly desirable suburbs but still commute to the city for work.
The Central Artery, now I-93, was intended to alleviate traffic congestion in downtown Boston. The newly-built Chinese Merchants’ Association Building, as well as many family homes, were treated as obstacles in the way of this vision. Highway construction brought noise, pollution, and eviction notices for Chinatown residents.
“You grew up and you’re watching people’s homes being destroyed,” Liu says. “One week they’d be there and the next day they’d be gone.”
In 1962, another highway project — the extension of the Massachusetts Turnpike — brought I-90 into the city and cut through Chinatown, replacing the row houses with a concrete wall and ramp to the expressway. According to Liu, half of residential Chinatown was destroyed — including Yee’s home on Hudson Street.
But highway expansion wasn’t the only impetus for displacement at work. At that time, the New England Medical Center, which would eventually become the Tufts Medical Center, was eyeing Chinatown as a site for its potential expansion.
In a 1955 report, Kevin Lynch, an MIT urban planning professor tasked with surveying the neighborhood, described Chinatown as “an area of physical dilapidation and progressive abandonment, of mixed shifting use, of declining values, declining population, low incomes, low rents, and poor health.” The Medical Center, Lynch believed, could contribute to Chinatown’s urban renewal by stimulating economic development and improving community facilities — institutional expansion would be mutually beneficial.
Though Lynch recognized “the strength of the Chinese family and community” in his report, he ignored residents’ opposition to his plan. Instead, he recommended that Chinatown’s entire residential community be relocated a few blocks away, in what he called a “Foreign Village” with apartments, churches, playgrounds, and “peppering of restaurants or stores of special flavor.” By 1969, over 700 Chinatown residents had been displaced and their historical homes demolished — all under the vague guise of “renewal.”
But as Chinatown residents witnessed the devastating effects of highway construction and the Medical Center’s expansion, many decided to fight back. A new generation of progressive, college-educated young activists was coming of age, inspired by the Civil Rights movement and Vietnam War protests.
“I got politicized from college and started thinking about the experiences of my family,” Liu says. After finishing his master’s degree in 1971, he returned to Chinatown to meet other radical activists. While some of these young activists were, like Liu, Chinatown residents themselves, another group of college-educated young people also began to get involved — Boston-area college students, often ethnically Asian American. With a heightened awareness of how inequality affects people of color in particular, they formed the Free Chinatown Committee that same year to resist the Medical Center’s exploitation of their neighborhood.
Liu’s efforts reflected a new wave of activism in Chinatown: a community-oriented activism that included social services such as financial literacy programs and youth leadership opportunities, in contrast to the more unilateral efforts of the older generation.
“I remember the day when my friend lambasted them. That was such a shocking moment,” says Yee. “He said to all the elders of Chinatown, ‘I don’t see you running daycare centers. I don’t see you having English [language] program classes. We have gambling houses everywhere.’”
Although the Free Chinatown Committee soon disbanded, Liu was later involved in founding the Chinese Progressive Association (CPA) in 1977 and the Asian American Resource Workshop (AARW) in 1979, which survive to this day and have influenced other organizations with their service-oriented approach to social justice. Liu recalls that some of the early staffers of AARW were Boston-area college students, including some from Harvard like Peter Kiang ’80.
During his time at Harvard, Kiang was involved with student organizing for Asian American Studies and Ethnic Studies. His interest in Asian American advocacy led him to become involved with AARW upon graduation, where he worked for five years.
According to Kiang, the AARW was co-founded by Fred Ho ’79, a fellow Harvard student who has since passed away. Kiang remembers the group as one of the first Chinatown organizations to call itself Asian American, instead of Chinese or Chinese American, engaging a radical new political vocabulary. Its Chinatown location offered a home base for Asian American advocacy in Boston more broadly.
“[Chinatown] was the physical concentration of Asian Americans in Metro Boston at that time,” says Kiang. “If you wanted to be involved with Asian American anything, Chinatown was really the geographic place where you had to do it.”
The progressive associations were met with resistance from older community leaders, who warned them not to make waves. Liu recalls that the old guard called them “communists,” physically threatened the women involved, and put pressure on local parents to keep their children in line.
Nonetheless, the radical ethos seems to have been effective. “[Boston Chinatown] now is probably considered the most [politically] active neighborhood in the city,” says Liu. “Whereas for a long time. . . they were considered the model minority who went along with whatever.”
Chinatown’s heightened political consciousness is evident in the CPA, whose headquarters are located directly across the street from the Tufts Medical Center — a silent yet powerful assertion of its right to occupy the space. According to Executive Director Karen Y. Chen, the organization focuses on empowering ordinary citizens to get involved in the decisions that affect their daily lives, rallying around causes including labor rights, environmental justice, and education in addition to housing.
“All we have is people power,” Chen says.
China Pearl, the oldest restaurant in Chinatown, is a banquet-style dining room, upholstered in red and bustling with servers and dim-sum carts. At the top of a grand staircase, lined with mirrors, stands Patty Moy, the restaurant manager, showing guests to their tables. The establishment has been a staple in the neighborhood since 1960.
Recently, Moy has noticed a distinct demographic shift in the breakdown of the restaurant’s clientele.
Sixty years ago, according to Moy, China Pearl’s menu catered to the palates of Chinese residents originally from southern China. Now, though, their clientele is more “a mix of everybody.” Within this mix, she estimates, college-aged students or younger, most of them white, make up “80 to 90 percent” of her customers.
Indeed, although the overall Chinatown population increased by 43 percent between 2000 and 2010, the Asian population decreased over 10 percent in the same period, while the white population doubled.
Adjusting to this new demographic means China Pearl has made changes to both its menu and its architecture. Its dishes now include gluten-free and other allergy-friendly options, and a renovation is in the works. The new restaurant, Moy hopes, will “bring in the traditional decor of the Chinese culture but at the same time [modernize] the look of the restaurant.”
Moy’s concerns are an example of the difficulty of maintaining a balance between tradition and modernity in Chinatown, as gentrification not only changes the neighborhood’s demographics, but also threatens to erode its cultural history.
Jeena Hah, programs manager of the Asian Community Development Corporation (ACDC), calls today’s Chinatown “the place to be.” Given its proximity to downtown Boston, as well as the presence of institutions like the Tufts Medical Center, the neighborhood has become a hotspot for new businesses, tourists, and working professionals.
But desirable land often connotes rising prices, and Chinatown is no exception. According to Hah, Chinatown is currently Boston’s most expensive residential neighborhood. Chinatown is now “seen as so liveable, [but] the people who stayed here and really invested in the neighborhood to make it liveable are now getting pushed out and priced out,” Hah says.
ACDC seeks to ease this financial burden on working-class residents through affordable housing projects. The past twenty years have seen a rapid expansion of market-rate housing in the area, including Millenium Tower and Liberty Place. These luxury apartments are far too expensive for many of Chinatown’s working-class families, who make an average household income of $26,280 a year, just above the federal poverty line for a household of four. Even more recently, short-term rentals and the rise of Airbnbs have also reduced available affordable housing in the area.
This shortage has caused a wave of migration of Chinese Americans to other neighborhoods in Boston, notably Malden and Quincy. The latter is now home to a higher percentage of Chinese residents than Chinatown itself, Hah claims.
Though by no means “monolithic,” Hah says the move away from Chinatown can bring challenges, both personal and logistical, for many families. “You’re moving into a new place and you don’t feel belonging. That’s a huge part of it because you lose a lot of your social network,” she says. “But the second piece of that is, logistically, if your social services, your housing counseling, whoever reads the newspaper to you, helps you read the phone bill — all of that is in a whole other city, that’s a huge barrier.”
Since its founding in 1987, ACDC has made efforts to expand affordable housing in Chinatown in addition to providing social services to residents. It has successfully built 375 affordable housing units for low-income families, including, in 2017, a Hudson St. building with 51 affordable condominiums.
ACDC is currently working on “Parcel 12,” a high-rise which, as proposed, would contain 171 affordable units, as well as a permanent site for the long-awaited Chinatown branch of the Boston Public Library.
Sheila Dillon is Chief of Housing and Director of Neighborhood Development for the city of Boston. She works closely with Chinatown-based organizations like ACDC, which she sees as “allies and partners,” and she echoes the importance of affordable housing development.
According to Dillon, 44 percent of all housing in Chinatown is income-restricted — much higher than the city-wide average of 19.5 percent. “We’ve been working hard as a city to maintain that high percentage and increase it whenever possible.”
For Dillon, the issue is not large-scale development of market-rate and luxury housing in Chinatown, but rather the astronomical demand for affordable housing and the relative difficulty of building it.
According to Hah, one recent development received 4,000 household applications for 95 units. “Affordable housing is harder to get into than the Harvard admissions process,” she quips.
Nonetheless, both Dillon and Hah are optimistic about Chinatown’s future.
Dillon claims that 60 percent of all proposed housing for Chinatown are affordable units. The city also recently passed the Community Preservation Act, which grants money to neighborhood organizations for affordable housing, city beautification, and historic preservation. ACDC was recently awarded half a million dollars as part of this policy. “That’s a really good example of the city responding to the needs that we’re stating as a community,” Hah says.
Others, however, are less optimistic.
Michelle Wu ’07 is the City Councilor-At-Large for Boston, as well as the first Asian American woman to serve on the Council. She agrees that “gentrification and housing affordability is front and center for the neighborhood,” but doesn’t share Dillon and Hah’s optimism.
When asked if the administration was doing enough to support affordable housing, she sighs. “I’m still worried every day about Chinatown.”
Peter Kiang, whose advocacy work began in the 1980s, sees Chinatown’s struggles today as a continuation of the decades-long process of defending Chinatown's “integrity as a working-class, primarily immigrant, racially minoritized community. It was under threat back then, and it still is.”
Wu agrees that Boston Chinatown’s core residential population is what sets it apart from other Chinatowns. “That’s important to preserve because it completely changes the dynamic of who has a stake in the decisions that happen,” she says. “It adds stability, and it adds depth and resiliency when there’s a connection to residents who are there for the long haul.”
In fact, it is this preservation of physical space that allows the neighborhood’s history and culture to endure.
Chen discussed the importance of preserving the historic row houses, like the one Yee grew up in. “We have to preserve that character, not the architectural facade. We are talking about the role that [the row houses] play, that it provided housing for working people,” Chen says. “And that’s the character we want to preserve. Because if you don’t preserve that character, you don’t have a community.”
Chinatown’s character and culture are inseparable from the history of its physical location, first as a safe haven from discrimination, now as a desirable neighborhood.
Protecting it affirms and respects historic efforts to create and maintain a space of their own and shows that activism efforts over the years have not been in vain. And as Chinatown moves into the future, preserving its physical space is an investment in the continuation of the distinctive history and culture that have defined the neighborhood.
“To preserve Boston Chinatown is to say actually, in the city of Boston, we value and we say that working class immigrants belong in the city,” Hah says.
Alan R. Dai ’22 arrived at Harvard with plans to study math and computer science.
But during his freshman year, Dai — a former Fifteen Minutes writer — began volunteering with Chinatown Afterschool, a PBHA after-school enrichment program for children of low-income families in Boston Chinatown. After volunteering in Chinatown, he says, “I would come back to campus and start a problem set [and] immediately feel that. . . it was harder to understand why I should be doing this.”
He hasn’t taken a problem set course since.
Dai’s experience speaks to the lasting mark that Chinatown has for years left on the people who serve the neighborhood, even those who don’t live there.
Like in the early decades of Chinatown activism, many young activists in Chinatown are not from the area. Karen Y. Chen herself, Executive Director of the CPA, was introduced to the neighborhood over 20 years ago, through a youth program she participated in as a high school senior.
“I never lived in Chinatown,” Chen says. “But I see Chinatown as my community more than any place I have lived in.”
Today, Chen mentors college-age students like Daniel Lu ’20.
Lu is a Massachusetts resident, but growing up, he only knew vaguely about Boston Chinatown. It wasn’t until this past summer, when he interned at the CPA, that he came to better understand the community and the issues it faces. Over the summer, he led pushes for policy change, organized community education efforts, and worked to compile a database of the new residential units built in Chinatown over the past two decades.
During our interview, he pulls up infographics illustrating the gap between resident income and new housing prices and emphasizes the importance of voter registration and attendance at public hearings.
“How do you make change if you don’t have money or power?” he asks. “You use the democratic process.”
When asked about what drew him to Chinatown specifically, Lu responds, “There is something about the racial identity of being a Chinese American, just seeing more of myself, my family, in the folks that we’re serving. . . It just felt like, in some ways, this is pretty close to home.”
Many other Harvard students contribute to public service in Chinatown through the Phillips Brooks House Association, which features eight different student-run programs that serve the neighborhood.
Dai is the co-director of PBHA’s Chinatown Adventure, a seven-week summer educational program for kids in the Chinatown area. Counselors lead campers in math and literacy lessons, excursions, and activities that develop self-confidence, interpersonal skills, and cultural awareness.
Most of the campers live in public subsidized housing, Dai says, and they have felt the effects of gentrification. “There’s a real lack of green space in the neighborhood — and open space in general,” Dai says. “Parents want their kids during the summer to be able to go outside and play, but in Chinatown, there are still relatively limited spaces for that.”
Dai sees his community service as inseparable from political activism; for his PBHA training, he had to attend a DACA rally and learn more about the specific challenges that the Chinatown community faces. Like Lu, Dai found that doing service work in Chinatown led him to reflect on his own background and position in the larger Asian American community. Prior to this experience, “I didn't have that deep kind of thinking about my own identity,” Dai says. “I think my service has really helped me be more conscious of where I come from, and both the privileges and the negative sides of that.”
He has noticed that other counselors in the Adventure program have similar motivations. “There are a decent amount of Chinese Americans [or] Asian Americans who apply… [who] want to be able to serve an Asian American community,” he says. “They feel that serving in that community will help their own identity and help them grow their consciousness.”
Harvard students engaged with the Chinatown community have also reflected on their service in more formal settings such as Nicole Newendorp’s class Social Studies 68CT: “The Chinese Immigrant Experience in America,” which she taught for four years. To be eligible for the course, all students had to have been involved with a Chinese or Chinese American community service organization already. Most were Asian American themselves. According to Newendorp, the class put Boston Chinatown in the context of larger immigration trends in the U.S. over the same time, in order to better inform students’ involvement in this community.
“Most of the students, I would say, were initially attracted to the class specifically to have an opportunity to think and reflect on their role as service providers,” Newendorp says. “But overwhelmingly, students came away from the class reflecting on their own positions and family experience as Chinese Americans, and the heaviness that that history represents.”
Yong Han Poh ’20 — who volunteered with PBHA’s Chinatown ESL program, which provides English language classes to adult immigrants — took Newendorp’s class during her sophomore year. She says the class made her consider the “social and political capital” she has as a Harvard student. “[It] made me think a lot about how I could translate that capital and give it back to the community,” she says.
For her final paper in Newendorp’s class, Poh interviewed her ESL students about their experiences learning English. Many, she says, took classes for the social bonding more so than the language acquisition itself.
“They’re very, very lonely and I think they came together in part to find other folks to hang out with and find a community,” Poh says. She describes how new immigrants would go to the square in Chinatown where people play chess and go up to strangers to ask for help. “Public spaces are so important in creating community.”
For city councilor Michelle Wu, involvement in PBHA Chinatown Citizenship, a free naturalization assistance program, made her “[fall] in love” with the Chinatown community during her time at Harvard. She calls her students “adopted grandparents of sorts,” and she went on to become director of the program.
The experiences of her students inspired Wu to enter electoral politics. “There were just so many ways that I started to see how much city government can do and how much community can be supported from all sides,” she says.
Both students at Harvard and leaders within Chinatown emphasize the need for universities to work in collaboration with the community, instead of coming in to fix it from the outside — especially in light of the ways Chinatown has been harmed by institutional expansion in the past.
College students working in Chinatown must consider “how can [their] institutions be planning hand in hand with the community, or not be competing against community voices,” Hah says. For PBHA, this means empowering Chinatown residents by helping them learn English, gain the right to vote, and provide resources to youth.
According to Dai, one of the goals of Chinatown Adventure is to build the leadership skills that young Chinatown residents can use to have further positive impacts on their community. Many campers who outgrow the program return to mentor younger students as junior counselors.
“I think part of our mission is to educate them about these issues,” Dai says. “And part of it is to understand that we can’t just come in and be the saviors and tell them about issues in their own community.”
Although Chinatown was carved from a city riddled with discrimination, it has welcomed visitors throughout the generations. For people like Kiang, Chen, and Wu, their engagement with Chinatown opened up broader interests — in advocacy, scholarship, and public service. For people like Dai, Lu, and Poh, Chinatown became a community that changed the way they thought about themselves and their identities.
For all of them, the physical space that Chinatown takes up in Boston allowed its cultural impact to extend far beyond its borders.
The roots of this physical space lie in its history — the narrative that Yee records on her blog, and the one she speaks passionately about today.
“We are born into the two dimensions of space and time,” Yee says. “But we also have another third dimension that we actually live with every day, and that is memory.” By preserving her memories of Chinatown — the same ones built into the red brick of the remaining row houses — and sharing them with the world, she hopes to make that third dimension just a little bit bigger.
This third dimension often seems at odds with Chinatown’s rapid modernization. However, Yee and other activists have worked to reconcile the two, making Chinatown a space where past and present not only coexist, but complement each other — where current efforts preserve the history, and history makes the current neighborhood worth preserving.
“There is a wide network of social institutions that are part of Chinatown and they have survived,” Kiang says. “That’s remarkable, almost miraculous — but it’s because of labor, sweat, smart political organizing, strategizing.”
At a time when other historic Chinatowns, notably in Washington D.C., Philadelphia, and Los Angeles, have been disappearing, activists hope Boston’s can break the trend.
Hah wishes, hopefully: “I would want Boston Chinatown to be the Chinatown people look at and say, ‘Oh, we could be like that.’”
— Magazine writer Maliya V. Ellis can be reached at maliya.ellis@thecrimson.com.
—Magazine writer Sophia S. Liang can be reached at sophia.liang@thecrimson.com.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard Law School students and alumni wrote a letter on Saturday asking the Law School’s Low Income Protection Plan to maintain current levels of financial aid if the federal government approves student debt relief amid the ongoing coronavirus pandemic.
The Low Income Protection Plan covers a portion of loan repayments for Law School alumni with low post-graduation incomes. It aims to give graduates freedom to pursue public sector employment or other relatively low-paying jobs despite high levels of debt accrued by many who attend the Law School.
The Trump administration’s March 20 decision to suspend federal student loan payments and waive interest on these loans during the ongoing national emergency — as well as potential relief packages being debated by Congress — would reduce the amount graduates must pay towards their loans each month.
The letter — signed by roughly 50 current and anticipated future participants of the Protection Plan — states that the Law School should refrain from recalculating financial aid to reflect graduates’ lower loan payments.
“We basically don't want the intention of assistance from the federal government to be offset by a corresponding and equal reduction in assistance from Harvard, because then it's not assistance at all, right?” said Law School graduate Alexandra M. Jordan, who signed the letter.
The letter noted that Law School graduates anticipate that financial challenges may arise during the pandemic and further asked that Harvard modify LIPP policies to give participants affected by an economic crisis increased flexibility.
The suggestions included waiving interest on loans held by the University, loosening requirements for submitting income tax returns to the school, and allowing those who take non-legal jobs to be eligible for assistance.
“Public interest lawyers around the world will need any extraordinary assistance they can get for what’s coming -- medical bills, childcare costs, travel restrictions, job loss, and political instability, among other challenges,” the letter reads. “We hope that Harvard will take this global crisis as an opportunity to show leadership in its commitment to public interest work.”
LIPP associate director Natasha D. Onken replied to the authors of the letter in an email, writing that the program will modify its paperwork requirement for the May application period in light of the United States Treasury Department extending the income tax filing deadline to July 15.
She also wrote that the Law School would advise graduates to continue with their regular loan payments and to only opt-in to federal relief opportunities if necessary. The email noted that suspending payments may impact future eligibility for LIPP, however.
“For those participants who are in LIPP we would recommend they continue to make the loan payments for which they received assistance if they are able,” Onken wrote. “However, if their financial circumstances have changed and they are experiencing financial hardship related to COVID‐19 we would recommend utilizing the federal government’s options.”
According to Onken’s email, the program will review additional changes to LIPP policy as the coronavirus situation continues to evolve.
In response to a request for additional comment, Onken wrote in an email that LIPP has provided comprehensive aid to thousands of graduates and aims to continue this mission through the economic uncertainty caused by the pandemic.
“As they were during the 2008 financial downturn, need-based financial aid programs, including the Low Income Protection Plan, will remain a top priority for Harvard Law School,” Onken wrote.
Still, Jordan said she hopes the letter will highlight issues that some graduates face making ends meet even with support from LIPP.
“It means that folks who are doing work on the front lines — like trying to get people out of immigration detention centers, working as public defenders, people doing public interest legal work — are having a really hard time paying their bills even with this assistance,” Jordan said.
—Staff writer Kelsey J. Griffin can be reached at kelsey.griffin@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @kelseyjgriffin.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Cambridge police officers and firefighters delivered roughly 50,000 donated masks to Mount Auburn Hospital and Cambridge Hospital Tuesday as medical professionals work to treat coronavirus patients.
EMS Division Captain Jeremy A. Walsh of the Cambridge Fire Department — who coordinated the distribution of the masks along with Officer Jason Callinan, a registered nurse — said in a Wednesday interview that the two hospitals faced dwindling supplies due to the COVID-19 outbreak. The officers also delivered hand sanitizer to the hospitals.
GCP Applied Technologies, a Cambridge-based construction technologies company, immediately responded to a donation request from the Cambridge Fire and Police Department and supplied the masks for distribution, according to Walsh.
“Mount Auburn Hospital said they were starting to get a little bit worried about their supply,” Walsh said. “And they were certainly rationing this equipment, so we wanted to get there as quickly as possible [to deliver the masks].”
GCP sourced the protective gear from flu-response kits that had sat in boxes for years, according to Walsh. He said the donated equipment expired in 2012 but is still usable.
“[GCP] said they had a bunch of masks and that they were expired,” Walsh said. “Lots of hospitals are turning to expired equipment and to masks.”
“It's not like a medication,” he added. “They don't degrade really, and we're not too sure why they expire.”
GCP Applied Technologies did not respond to requests for comment.
In an FAQ page on shortages caused by the coronavirus pandemic, the FDA noted that expired masks “still offer some protection even when they are used beyond the manufacturer’s designated shelf life or expiration date.”
Upon delivering the masks and hand sanitizer, Walsh said “it was kind of like Christmas morning with little kids — but these were nurses and doctors who were very, very happy to get them.”
Healthcare workers at Mount Auburn and Cambridge Hospital responded to the donations with “thank you emails” and a “big virtual hug,” according to Jeremy Warnick, a city spokesperson.
Warnick added that several non-profit organizations “in dire need” have recently reached out to local officials for assistance. He said the city hopes Cambridge companies with a surplus of personal protective equipment — such as masks, goggles, and hand sanitizers — will consider donating it.
“We certainly can use it across the board and throughout the city,” Warnick said.
Despite the swift response in donations, first responders and city officials never expected to coordinate a collection effort for surgical masks because of the coronavirus pandemic, according to Walsh. He said he partook in a “pandemic tabletop exercise” in January, which focused more on “mass vaccinations.”
“I never thought we'd see this where they needed donations, but here we are,” Walsh said.
Cambridge Mayor Sumbul Siddiqui and City Manager Louis A. DePasquale wrote they are grateful for both GCP’s donation and the public response to health and safety efforts amid the COVID-19 outbreak more broadly in a joint statement released Tuesday.
“We greatly appreciate GCP Applied Technologies for their generosity and our public safety and health care providers for their ongoing resiliency and selfless commitment to mitigating and slowing the pandemic,” they wrote.
—Staff writer Simon J. Levien can be reached at simon.levien@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @simonjlevien.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard’s Graduate School of Arts and Sciences announced last week that graduate student employees will receive compensation for the spring 2020 semester even if the University’s new policies to combat the spread of COVID-19 leave them unable to continue their normal work.
Dean of the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences Emma Dench wrote in an announcement posted to the GSAS website that the University plans on compensating graduate student employees regardless of their ability to complete necessary tasks remotely.
“Graduate student workers who are unable to work due to the pandemic will still be compensated to the end of work expectation within the spring 2020 semester,” Dench wrote.
Dench wrote that graduate students should still try their best to continue their original work for the remainder of the spring semester.
“Where possible, the University expectation is that the work that graduate students are compensated for should continue,” Dench wrote. “If work assignments are not possible to complete using online or distance learning technologies, supervisors are encouraged to find other opportunities for graduate student workers to complete their work commitments.”
Harvard’s graduate student union wrote in a tweet that it supports the new measures.
“Our union has been pushing for these protections, and we are relieved they are finally being implemented,” Harvard Graduate Students Union-United Automobile Workers wrote. “We look forward to a forthcoming announcement for undergraduate student workers as well!”
University spokesperson Jason A. Newton wrote in an emailed statement that Harvard is still working to determine what effect the COVID-19 pandemic will have on its compensation for graduate student employees for summer work.
“For summer programs, the University will continue to review and assess its policies, including those related to compensation, as this public health crisis and its economic impact continues to evolve,” Newton wrote.
Francesca Bellei, a Ph.D. candidate in Comparative Literature, said Harvard’s ultimate decision about compensation for summer employment will be very important for graduate student workers like herself.
Bellei, who teaches for Harvard Summer School’s recently cancelled Milan and Siena 2020 Study Abroad Program, said she had been “counting on the summer appointment” to cover her living expenses during a research fellowship abroad.
Bellei said she hopes the University quickly resolves the current uncertainty surrounding cancelled summer positions for graduate students, especially those nearing graduation who rely on such funding.
“I think that the highest priority should be addressing the situation for G5 students – so, for those people for whom that was going to be their main source of income for the summer,” Bellei said. “So that would be what I think would be important, but to also acknowledge, to open a dialogue with us about how this has impacted us and our ability to continue our work.”
—Staff writer Ethan Lee can be reached at ethan.lee@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Moderna, a Cambridge-based biotechnology company, is among several firms currently working to develop a potential vaccine against COVID-19.
Founded in 2010, Moderna focuses on the use of messenger RNA, or mRNA, to develop and manufacture medicines for a wide variety of diseases. Medicines that use mRNA technology facilitate the synthesis of proteins to fight and prevent diseases.
“The Moderna vaccine platform, which is an mRNA-based vaccine platform, came out of an effort over the past maybe decade, maybe a little bit longer, to develop vaccine platforms that were scalable and able to respond quickly in the face of new pathogens,” Sarah Fortune, a professor at the Harvard School of Public Health, said.
“So exactly this,” she added, referring to the rapidly spreading coronavirus.
On March 16, the National Institutes of Health announced that the first participant in its Phase One study for the vaccine manufactured by Moderna, mRNA-1273, was dosed.
A week later, Moderna reported that a commercially-available vaccine would likely not be available for at least 12 to 18 months. However, under emergency use, the vaccine could potentially be available to certain individuals, such as healthcare workers, by the fall of 2020.
Barry R. Bloom, a professor at the School of Public Health, said developing a vaccine in a rapid period of time is among the principal challenges facing companies like Moderna.
“The problem with pandemics is that we really don't have time,” he said. “With the caseload and fatality rate that is currently being seen, we need something faster.”
Bloom said the process of formulating and testing the vaccine takes time that the world simply does not have.
“You have to formulate it. You have to test it in Phase One, Two and Three studies to show in the first two that it's safe and the third it's effective,” he said. “And that takes years.”
“We can’t wait 14 years. We can’t wait two years,” he added.
Aside from the issue of time, Fortune said there are “biologic challenges” associated with developing a safe and effective vaccine.
“There are obviously risks, because all immune responses are not the same,” Fortune said. “This is a virus, where it is clear that part of the reason people get sick is that the immune response to the virus is more vigorous and destructive in some people than others.”
Bloom emphasized that “there are no shortcuts” in testing the vaccine.
Nonetheless, he said it is “astonishing” Moderna and the other biotechnology companies working on developing a vaccine were able to do so much in so little time.
“I give Moderna and the other companies an enormous amount of credit for being enormously innovative, starting with only the cDNA sequence, which is the counterpart to the RNA sequence of the virus, and just going from the genome right to making vaccines,” he said.
While Fortune noted that a vaccine is not an entirely “straightforward solution,” she said she believes it would be the “most effective solution.”
“It may be that there are a bunch of different successful candidates, and different vaccines would be used in different places in the world in an ideal situation,” she added.
Apart from developing a vaccine, Yonatan Grad, a professor at the School of Public Health, noted the importance of social distancing and widespread testing for coronavirus, calling the latter “the backbone of a response.”
“We have to be able to quickly identify infected individuals to assist within the context of the health care system,” he said.
Bloom said that while he does not think one vaccine is a “magic pill,” he is hopeful it could save lives.
“One vaccine that produces even a reasonable amount — 60% protection in a naive population — would probably generate enough herd immunity to stop the epidemic,” Bloom said.
“And that's what I think these companies are really keen to do,” he added.
Moderna confirmed Monday that it is increasing manufacturing in order to produce millions of doses per month. The company noted, however, that its ability to scale up production to this level is contingent on investment and on expanding manufacturing capabilities.
—Staff writer Taylor C. Peterman can be reached at taylor.peterman@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @taylorcpeterman.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Harvard Kennedy School Institute of Politics launched new virtual John F. Kennedy Jr. forums and introduced “Flashback Forums” Wednesday following the shuttering of on-campus life due to the coronavirus outbreak.
Dubbed “Fast Forums,” the virtual 30-minute forums require guests to RSVP in order to receive an event link. The forums will take place on Zoom for Harvard affiliates and will be streamed to the general public as Facebook Live events.
The online forums will feature “prominent elected officials, political operatives, journalists, and activists,” according to the IOP’s email announcement. The Fast Forums will allow for questions from the audience, much as in-person IOPs forums previously did.
On Thursday, the first Fast Forum will feature Chair of the House Rules Committee and Congressman James P. McGovern (D-Mass.) as well as co-founder of Black Voters Matter and former IOP resident fellow LaTosha Brown. The forum — moderated by IOP Director Mark D. Gearan ’78 — will focus on the impact of COVID-19 on democratic participation.
Gearan wrote in an emailed statement that the Fast Forums will serve as a “premier arena” for Harvard affiliates around the world.
“Our inaugural Fast Forum featuring Congressman Jim McGovern and Black Voters Matter co-founder and former Resident Fellow LaTosha Brown will serve as the first of many virtual engagements to allow students to engage with elected officials, policy makers, journalists, and activists and continue the tradition of the JFK Jr. Forum as Harvard’s premier arena for political discourse and debate,” Gearan wrote.
“Technology allows the IOP to continue to engage our Harvard community virtually, and a commitment to public service and public purpose unites us across many states and countries,” he added.
The IOP also launched the Flashback Forums series Wednesday, which will highlight “notable moments from the past 40 years of political discussion and debate,” featuring speakers like comedian Stephen Colbert, Nobel Peace Prize recipient Malala Yousafzai, and civil rights lawyer Bryan Stevenson.
—Staff writer Sixiao Yu can be reached at sixiao.yu@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
After Harvard offered many of its tenure-track faculty one-year contract extensions last week due to the novel coronavirus pandemic, several non-tenure-track faculty members argued the University should also extend the time caps on their appointments.
The University hires non-tenure-track faculty, such as preceptors and lecturers, with a "time cap" of three, five, or eight years. At the end of this period, the faculty are required to leave Harvard no matter the quality of their performance.
Several non-tenure-track faculty members said they are concerned about finding employment in the current academic job market — and about what the expiration of their appointments means for their benefits during a health crisis.
History and Literature lecturer Alex W. Corey expressed concern about finding a job, since a gap in employment would mean a gap in health insurance.
“I have chronic asthma, which makes me high risk for COVID-19,” Corey said. “When our term ends, that also means that our health insurance ends and routinely at the end of an appointment year. Folks have a break in between when their insurance coverage from Harvard ends and when it might start from a new employer.”
“The market was already very constricted, and it’s totally collapsing right now,” Corey added. “Springtime is usually a really important time for us to be seeking long term academic employment.”
Last May, 62 non-tenure-track faculty sent a letter to administrators calling for the end of appointment time caps.
Environmental Science and Public Policy preceptor Michaela J. Thompson said she feels the time caps amount to “effectively firing” preceptors and lecturers.
“Harvard needs to be realistic about what it’s doing when it’s timing people out,” Thompson said. “It's saying ‘you’re out of a job,’ and there are no other jobs for us.”
A growing list of universities, including Brown University and Villanova University, have announced freezes on hiring of faculty and staff due to the novel coronavirus pandemic.
Thompson added that, due to the pandemic, non-tenure-track faculty are unable to present papers and conduct library research that might have improved their chances of finding another job when they reach their appointment cap.
“We’re facing the same kind of struggles that all the tenure-track faculty are,” Thompson said.
Dean for Faculty Affairs and Planning Nina Zipser wrote in an emailed statement that FAS is “deeply grateful” for the work of non-tenure-track faculty.
“Lecturers and preceptors play a very important role in carrying out our teaching mission,” she wrote. “We are deeply grateful to these members of our community for all they are doing, particularly during this unprecedented and challenging time.”
Yiddish preceptor Sara Feldman said that if some non-tenure-track faculty’s time caps expire, that could separate students from instructors with whom they have relationships during an already stressful time.
“A lot of us are going to disappear in the fall, that’s just going to add to the disruption that students are already facing,” Feldman said. “All of the things that that person built to support their students, all those things are going to be gone.”
English and History and Literature lecturer Thomas A. Dichter ’08 — who said his appointment will expire June 30 — also denounced the “lack of stability” the time caps impose upon both non-tenure-track faculty and students.
“I have advisees I’ve been working with for years who I’m just never going to see again in- person,” Dichter said.
Dichter wrote in a follow-up email that he has felt supported by both departments he works in, but that decisions about time caps are made at a “higher level of FAS.”
FAS is currently studying the roles and responsibilities of preceptors and senior preceptors through its Preceptor System Review Committee, which is scheduled to submit a report to FAS Dean Claudine Gay by May. The committee canceled a March 10 meeting to solicit feedback from preceptors due to a University prohibition on large meetings during the outbreak.
Romance Languages and Literatures professor Diana Sorensen, who chairs the committee, wrote in an emailed statement that the committee is instead distributing a survey to gather relevant input, and expects to complete its report on time in May despite changes brought about by the virus.
Correction: March 28, 2020
A previous version of this article incorrectly stated the length of Harvard's non-tenure track appointments. They are for one, three, or five years, with time caps of three, five, or eight years.
—Staff writer James S. Bikales can be reached at james.bikales@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @jamepdx.
—Staff writer Kevin R. Chen can be reached at kevin.chen@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @kchenx.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Researchers from Harvard and MIT have pioneered a device that could improve quantum communication and may be the key to developing a quantum internet, according to an article published Monday in the scientific journal Nature.
Quantum signals lose information when traveling over long distances. To solve this problem, the researchers’ new technology catches and stores quantum bits — known as qubits — thus preventing information loss. The physicists hope this breakthrough will open the door to a quantum internet that can communicate unhackable messages.
“This is the first system-level demonstration, combining major advances in nanofabrication, photonics and quantum control, that shows a clear quantum advantage to communicating information using quantum repeater nodes,” Mikhail D. Lukin — a Harvard physics professor who lead the research team — said in a press release published Monday. “We look forward to starting to explore new, unique applications using these techniques.”
Other researchers on the project include electrical engineering professor Marko Loncar, chemistry professor Hongkun Park, and Dirk R. Englund, a professor of electrical engineering and computer science at MIT.
Given recent restrictions on laboratory research in response to the novel coronavirus outbreak, the team’s experiments have come to a temporary standstill. However, the researchers are still meeting through Zoom and other online platforms in order to “continue applying for grants, writing review articles, and designing new ideas,” according to Loncar.
Mihir K. Bhaskar, a graduate student in the Lukin group and an author of the paper, said the quantum internet is innovative because it enhances the security of transmitted messages. Qubits cannot be copied because they change state when measured, Bhaskar said.
A quantum internet, therefore, makes it impossible for hackers to intercept or steal data before it reaches the intended recipient.
“If we can share quantum information between two parties, this information is unique and kind of fragile,” Bhaskar said. “So when people measure it they will change the state of it a little bit, so we can say that the information is secured by the laws of physics, since you know no one has measured your bit since it would be corrupted otherwise.”
The main roadblock to inventing a quantum internet is information loss over long distances. Traditional communication networks use repeaters to amplify signals, fix errors, and account for losses. But those repeaters would not work for a quantum internet, because simply by observing the qubits, they would corrupt the information being transmitted, Bhaskar said.
Another hurdle is that quantum information is hard to process and store over long periods of time.
To address both challenges, Lukin’s group fabricated a nano-scale diamond cavity containing a color center — a crystal defect that absorbs a specific kind of light. When cooled to a temperature of absolute zero, the device’s color center can capture and store quantum information for milliseconds — long enough to transmit information across thousands of kilometers.
“Originally, in order to exchange one bit of information, a single photon would have to go all the way from Alice to Bob, and that can become exponentially unlikely the more Alice and Bob move further and further apart,” Bhaskar said.
The new quantum node that the team has developed can store these photons mid-journey, improving the quality of signal transmission.
—Staff writer Meera S. Nair can be reached at meera.nair@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Music department chair Suzannah E. Clark will serve as the next director of Harvard’s Mahindra Humanities Center, the University announced in a Wednesday press release.
Clark will replace South Asian Studies professor Sunil S. Amrith, who stepped in this year as interim director after Professor of the Humanities Homi K. Bhabha concluded a stint in the post after more than a decade. Amrith will remain interim director until Clark begins her term on July 1.
Harvard established the Mahindra Center to foster interdisciplinary work between the humanities and the sciences and social sciences. The center supports a series of lectures, conferences, panels, seminars, and graduate and postdoctoral fellowships.
A musicologist and music theorist, Clark’s work — much of which has been cross-disciplinary — has focused on the history of tonal music theory, medieval vernacular music, and the work of composer Franz Schubert. She currently serves as a member of the Mahindra Center’s executive committee.
University Provost Alan M. Garber ’76 and Dean of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences Claudine Gay called Clark a “fierce supporter of the liberal arts” in a message to faculty announcing her appointment, per the release.
“Professor Clark brings to the Mahindra Center her belief in the power of the humanities to teach people how to ask questions and to think from different points of view,” they wrote.
In her role as a member of the executive committee for the newly-opened ArtLab in Allston, Clark has been a part of the University’s ongoing efforts to encourage cross-disciplinary collaboration “in pursuit of aesthetic innovation.”
“We are confident that Professor Clark will build upon existing connections and develop new ones with other disciplines around the University and beyond Harvard as she works with the center’s executive committee to shape the intellectual vision for the Mahindra Center’s next chapter,” Garber and Gay wrote.
Clark said in the release that she is grateful and “deeply honored” to receive the appointment, adding that she believes the arts and humanities hold particular importance during the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. The pandemic, which has shuttered most of the University’s in-person operations, led the Mahindra Center to cancel all of its events indefinitely beginning March 11.
“I look forward to building on the strengths of this dynamic and vibrant center and its legacy of cross-disciplinary intellectual exchange at the forefront of humanistic endeavor,” Clark said. “At this historic time, as we all face the unsettling prospect of prolonged social isolation and as the headlines of each day bring greater uncertainty, the humanities and creative arts bring strength to the human spirit and new understandings of human resilience in the darkest moments.”
—Staff writer Meera S. Nair can be reached at meera.nair@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard’s Undergraduate Council tentatively voted to endorse a universal pass grading model in response to changes prompted by the COVID-19 crisis, after reversing its position on a “Double A” grading model at a rollicking emergency session over Zoom Wednesday night.
Over two hundred students attended the more than three-hour-long meeting to discuss grading models.
A number of demands for different grading systems have sprung up as a result of the on-campus impacts of the coronavirus epidemic. Harvard’s Committee on Undergraduate Education, whose members include administrators as well as students, has yet to formally decide whether the College should adopt a different grading model for the semester as students raise concerns about the challenges of studying away from Cambridge.
Some Council members made their stance on grading clear prior to Wednesday’s meeting.
Council President James A. Mathew ’21 and Vice President Ifeoma “Ify” E. White-Thorpe ’21 advocated for the “Double A” grading model in a Sunday email to students. Council Secretary Nicholas J. Brennan ’23 sent out an email asking for students’ opinions after Mathew and White-Thorpe’s endorsement, listing three different grading models as possible options.
According to Mathew and White-Thorpe, the survey, which garnered 3,116 respondents, showed that 56.7 percent of respondents selected the “Double A” grading model as their first choice, followed by 24.5 percent who picked an opt-in pass-fail choice, and 19.3 percent who voted for a universal pass-fail system.
Under the “Double A” grading model, students would be awarded an A or an A- in their courses this semester. Under opt-in pass-fail, students may choose to change the grading status of any course. Finally, under universal pass-fail, all courses will be graded on a pass-fail basis this semester.
At Wednesday’s meeting, Ivy Yard representative Chloe E. V. Koulefianou ’23 proposed legislation for the entire Council to endorse the first of the three models.
The legislation proposed that the Council publicize a petition calling for the adoption of the “Double A” grading model.
Before the Council voted on whether to endorse the model, students shared their opinions to the representatives. Students voiced their questions, comments, and concerns about the “Double A” grading model, using the ‘raise hands’ feature on Zoom or interjecting freely.
Throughout the meeting, attendees utilized Zoom’s chat function to send thousands of messages to one another — some regarding grading perspectives and others less directed toward the topic at hand.
Undergraduate pranksters also screamed, made flatulent noises, and played music during the meeting. Some participants used pseudonyms such as “Larry Bacow,” “Pitbull,” and “Tom Brady Jr.”
After the Council voted to suspend rules and allow members from the student body to voice their opinions, several undergraduates spoke in favor of and in opposition to the “Double A” grading model.
Wesley L. Donhauser ’21 said he supported the opt-in pass-fail grading model.
“I think that people, when they came to the school, that they kind of entered into a contract with Harvard that you do the work and they would give you honest feedback in terms of how that work was,” Donhauser said. “For them to do an either universal ‘A’ or a universal pass would kind of break that contract.”
Sanika S. Mahajan ’21, an organizer of the “Double A” advocacy group Harvard for All, spoke in favor of the policy at the meeting.
“The number one goal here is to equalize the playing field by adopting a universal policy,” Mahajan said.
After an initial vote, the “Double A” legislation passed by a vote of 69.7 percent, just over the two-thirds required.
However, as the meeting continued, further discussion on grading models for the College in light of the COVID-19 outbreak led some representatives to reconsider.
Under the Council bylaws, representatives can change their vote on legislation up to a week after the meeting. At Wednesday’s meeting, that policy proved pivotal as several representatives changed their votes to endorse the “Double A” grading policy and voted against it instead.
Lowell House representative Rachel L. Reynolds ’22 wrote in the Zoom chat that she was changing her vote.
“hi for transparency sake I just changed my vote on double A from aye to nay!” Reynolds, who is a Crimson blog editor, wrote.
As the meeting neared its three-hour mark, Brennan announced that the legislation for endorsing the “Double A” grading model had failed due to representatives’ shifting decisions.
Aside from the “Double A” grading model originally passed, the Council also discussed a second policy — a grading model similar to the one recently adopted by Southern Virginia University.
The proposed version of the SVU grading model would have mandated that Harvard students not receive a grade lower than the grade they had on March 17. The legislation, which did not pass, additionally stated that, in cases where students had not received any grades thus far in the course, they would receive an A.
To close the marathon meeting, representatives introduced three pieces of legislation as “new business.”
Adams House representative Alexa C. Jordan ’22 proposed an act for the Council to endorse a universal pass system. The legislation stated that the system would decrease the competitiveness that would remain in a “Double A system” and account for inconsistencies in grading by different professors.
The legislation, which the Council passed, also called for Harvard to “adopt a Universal Pass system that preferably treats a Pass as a ‘4.0’ for GPA purposes.”
The Council also voted in favor of legislation suggested by Quincy House representative Ryan V. Sears ’22, who proposed an act for the Council to compile different options for grading models and present them to administrators alongside student testimony.
Finally, Ivy Yard representative Pallas Chou ’23 introduced legislation for the Council to endorse a grading model where courses would automatically be graded as pass, but students have the option to change it to a letter grade upon seeing their grades at the end of the semester. Under this model, no students can receive a failing grade because the course is removed from their transcript. Representatives did not vote on whether to endorse the legislation because it did not receive the two-thirds vote necessary for it to be considered.
CORRECTION: March 26, 2020
A previous version of this article incorrectly stated that, under legislation proposed by Pallas Chou ’23, courses would be graded on a pass-fail basis. In fact, students would pass by default under the legislation.
—Staff writer Sharon Xu can be reached at sharon.xu@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
As a Harvard student, the stickers on your laptop say a lot about you and your interests. Maybe your laptop has no stickers, maybe it’s got a couple of neatly arranged ones, and maybe it’s covered in an overlapping mess of stickers. In any case, if you’ve been thinking about what sticker to add next, find out which kind describes you best.
1. It’s time for your Zoom lecture! What are you wearing to greet your classmates online?
A. My favorite sweater! It’s a great day and I’m going to look the part.
B. A full suit, or at least a collared shirt and tie. Dress to impress, no excuses.
C. The t-shirt I slept in last night. Pants are optional. No one’s looking anyway.
D. Obviously, my ethically sourced organic cotton jumpsuit.
2. You’re bored at home and super hungry. What gourmet meal are you making for lunch?
A. Kale salad and a green juice smoothie.
B. Grilled chicken pasta worthy of a Michelin star, plus tiramisu for dessert.
C. Microwave mac n’ cheese. And a few Cheetos.
D. Beyond burger! No meat, please.
3. You’re engaged in a very intense online board game with your friends. What’s your go-to winning strategy?
A. I’m here for the fun! Winning doesn’t matter if everyone is having a good time.
B. I’m way ahead of everyone else and am busy calculating the probability of each possible outcome. Bring it on.
C. Winning strategy? I didn’t even realize we were playing!
D. Why am I playing this game? There are bigger issues in the world that need fixing!
4. What’s your quarantine workout plan?
A. I’m following my favorite influencer’s workout playlist and vlogging the whole thing.
B. 100 push-ups, 100 crunches, and weights every day.
C. Nah. The only marathon happening here is on Netflix.
D. Going for a jog in my neighborhood and enjoying the fresh outdoor air.
5. You decide to do some light reading to pass the time. What are you reading?
A. My favorite happy-ending romance novel!
B. My statistics textbook, of course. It never hurts to get ahead.
C. Basically anything remotely funny. Bring on the comedy.
D. The New York Times. I need to stay updated about what’s happening in this world.
Results:
Mostly A’s: 
You are the inspiring quote sticker: you live your life by quotes like “seize the day” and “the sky is the limit.” You radiate positivity, and this quarantine is definitely not going to set you back. People are sometimes confused about how you have so much energy, but there are still so many friends to video call, cookies to bake, and things to do. Haters will hate, and they won’t stop you.
Mostly B’s:
You are the club sticker: everyone knows you’re in that fancy club, but you keep flexing it anyway. And you have every right to. You work really hard, stay on top of your activities, and plan out your day by the second. You might be home, but you’re still pouring all your energy into classes and the five pre-professional groups you’re involved in on campus.
Mostly C’s:
You are the random TV reference sticker: you love TV shows like The Office, and your personality reflects it. You’re easy-going, fun, and are just here for a good time. You probably spent spring break with popcorn and a remote in hand, and you’re definitely not ready to be productive again. But you’re not worried. You’re just chilling.
Mostly D’s:
You are the activism sticker: you speak up for the causes you care about, fight for what you believe in, and are not afraid to let everyone know what you think. People might question you, but you’ve always got answers. Fighting for change is tough!
