News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Dear Class of 2020,
Up until now, your life has probably gone pretty much to plan. Or at the very least, you knew where you'd be for the next few years, and you were following a playbook similar to your friends', and one that your parents could definitely get behind.
Absent a global pandemic, your adult life was always going to be a bit more improvisational -- asking you to apply all the knowledge and wisdom you've gained to a wide-open playing field of options. There weren't going to be semesters or regularly scheduled breaks or neat milestones to reassure you that you, surely, were on the right path.
This is something college graduates everywhere learn, but it particularly bothers the Type A souls among us who believe they, of all people, can plan their way forward. Even if you did have that perfect job or fellowship or entrepreneurial idea coming out of Harvard, it might not have been perfect for long. Something completely unexpected could have happened — at the very least, you might have realized that path wasn't for you after all. More extremely, it might decide for you (yes, even Harvard grads lose their jobs). Or you could fall in love with someone in a foreign country. Or need to go home to take care of an ailing parent. Or stumble upon the next big thing. Like many of us alumni, you would almost certainly have had to pivot, rethink, and reset at some point.
But here's the secret: good or bad, those points are the most interesting, and vivid, and exhilarating, and they're the ones that shape you well beyond the 32 courses you took at Harvard. Just read 10 pages in the Red Book, and you'll see that it's true.
For your class, that unexpected curveball got pitched early in the game. And it's certainly more disruptive for some of you than others. But maybe your opportunity is now — to try something new, to pick up some skills, to pause and think, to be part of this historical moment (perhaps the biggest of our generation). I keep coming back to Isaac Newton, who spent two years away from Cambridge in quarantine — and came up with the theory of gravity. The world needs great minds and energetic hearts right now. Let history shape you this year — you'll be better for it.
I have plenty of practical advice to offer, but I can do that separately. I will say, briefly, that in the workplace, those of us who graduated in the recession of 2009 can always spot each other. We work hard, and we're humble, and we don't complain when the snacks run out or there aren't enough standing desks. We're happy to work, to be employed, to be productive, and to have a community of people doing similar stuff to what we're doing. We take on the weird, ambiguous projects that no one wants to do, and we make them awesome.
We strive, and we set goals, but in pencil. We hug our loved ones and we keep a responsible savings account. We keep in touch so we can inspire and care for each other. We always respond when a younger Harvard grad emails us to ask for career advice. And we look forward to our next reunion, when we'll hear stories we never thought we'd hear.
Giuliana Vetrano ’09 was a History concentrator in Kirkland House.
This piece is part of a series of letters written by members of the Harvard College Class of 2009.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Here in Massachusetts, we are fortunate to have top university researchers, some of the finest medical schools and teaching hospitals in the world, and a robust state system of public health.
But even a state like ours has faced an unprecedented challenge from COVID-19.
We had our first confirmed case of COVID-19 on Feb 1. Since then we have been working nonstop to address the local impacts of this pandemic across several key areas: increasing testing capacity; developing surge capacity in our health care system; doing disease surveillance, case identification, and contact tracing; and communicating and sharing information as we learn more about this new and evolving disease.
This pandemic is like none other any of us have seen in our lifetimes. Unfortunately, many of us now know someone who is sick or has lost someone to this illness. As of this writing, we have reported more than 90,000 cases and unfortunately more than 6,000 deaths since this pandemic began. It is difficult to comprehend this loss of life, and individual and family suffering that this virus is causing.
But we have been fighting back together. We took an early lead on testing and are working to expand the 10,000 to 14,000 tests we are conducting every day. We are the first state to put into place a statewide contact tracing initiative, reaching out to those who test positive and their close contacts to make sure they are following isolation and quarantine steps so as not to infect others. We worked hard with our healthcare partners to expand capacity in our health care system. Thankfully, we have started to see hospitalizations level off and a drop in the percentage of COVID-positive tests.
The progress we are making is reflected in the roughly 30-page daily dashboard the Department of Public Health posts online, reporting on cases by county, gender, age, race/ethnicity, hospitalizations, and trends over time. This dashboard is an example of a tool that can help inform and protect communities.
We have long known that data must drive public policy and response — whether to a contagious virus like COVID-19 or to any other disease.  We know that smart actions stem from accurate, reliable data.
As we continue to dig into our data, we are beginning to see some trends that are at once alarming and yet not surprising.
We see clear disparities by race and ethnicity where Hispanic and black residents are bearing a higher burden of COVID-19 cases and deaths relative to their populations. In fact, here in the Commonwealth, eight of the top 10 cities or towns with the highest rates of COVID-19 have majority or near-majority non-white residents.
We see that black residents represent just under 9 percent of our state population, yet account for 15 percent of COVID-19 cases. We see that Hispanics represent 12 percent of the population yet account for 27 percent of cases. The highest rates of positive cases are among black and Hispanic people which are 3 times higher than the rate for white non-Hispanics.
Finally, when looking at COVID-19 deaths, where about half of race/ethnicities are known, we see the COVID-19 death rate is highest for black non-Hispanics.
Massachusetts communities which are already over-represented when it comes to the opioid epidemic, childhood asthma, heart disease, and hypertension are now among those bearing the brunt of this deadly virus. It’s disheartening that people most impacted are again our priority populations: communities of color, people who are housing insecure or experiencing homelessness, and people who are incarcerated. It should not be surprising that, like other diseases, a deadly pandemic highlights health disparities.
To help us put equity at the forefront of our COVID-19 response, we’ve assembled a Health Equity Advisory Group to inform our Department’s actions and initiatives. This group includes members of communities disproportionately impacted who are deeply committed to health and racial equity, and many who have a perspective of both content expertise and lived experience.
We are working hard every day to understand this pandemic and its effect on our Commonwealth and we intend to use this moment to redouble our efforts to address inequities in our healthcare system. We must ensure that marginalized communities are not denied the attention, care, and support all communities deserve.
From smallpox and cholera, to HIV and the opioid epidemic, and other public health issues such as tobacco and e-cigarette use, our state has always led the way when it comes to prevention, improving healthcare, and keeping people healthy.
In our response to a new disease, an unprecedented pandemic, we need to continue to come together as one medical, public health, and scientific community, not only to respond to the moment – but to pay attention to what we are learning and be ready for what comes next.
Monica Bharel is the Commissioner of the Massachusetts Department of Public Health.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
In 1986, a group of professors writing for the journal Current Anthropology found that the country’s most elite anthropology programs, including Harvard’s, operated based on a “hierarchy of prestige” dominated by powerful tenured faculty.
Nearly 35 years later, it is in part that very hierarchy that has allowed three of Harvard’s senior Anthropology faculty — former department chairs Theodore C. Bestor and Gary Urton and professor John L. Comaroff — to weather allegations of sexual harassment, including some leveled by students, according to people with knowledge of the matter and documents obtained by The Crimson.
In 2018, a Harvard investigation found Bestor committed two counts of sexual misconduct during an interaction with a female professor at a 2017 conference at UCLA. Harvard’s Faculty of Arts and Sciences disciplined Bestor for the incident, but allowed him to return to work before completing required sanctions.
Even before that allegation, several faculty and Harvard officials had been aware since at least 2013 of multiple complaints that Bestor had engaged in inappropriate conduct, according to interviews and documents obtained by The Crimson.
In March 2016, one of Urton’s former students emailed an FAS sexual harassment officer to ask about “the process for submitting a complaint concerning a faculty member.” In both the former student’s conversations with that employee and an affidavit later filed in federal court, she alleged Urton pressured her into “unwelcome sex” before writing her a recommendation letter, though she never filed a formal charge against him.
Three current female students told The Crimson this month that they are actively in communication with Harvard’s Title IX office regarding allegations against Comaroff. Last November, the department asked Comaroff not to use his office in the Tozzer Anthropology Building and removed him from an Anthropology course he was scheduled to teach, according to interviews and documents obtained by The Crimson.
Bestor, 68, who studies modern Japan; Urton, 73, who specializes in pre-Columbian archaeology; and Comaroff, 75, who studies postcolonial Africa, are all tenured professors in the department. Urton and Bestor are both scheduled to teach undergraduates and graduate students in the coming academic year. Comaroff, meanwhile, is scheduled to advise Anthropology graduate students and teach undergraduate courses in African and African American Studies, though he has no undergraduate Anthropology courses listed in the preliminary course catalog.
In a May 19 statement to The Crimson, Urton wrote that he had never violated FAS policies on sexual harassment and that, due to confidentiality rules, he could issue nothing but a blanket denial of allegations against him.
Bestor wrote in a May 21 statement that he took full responsibility for the incident at UCLA in 2017, which he wrote was caused in part by a “serious problem with alcohol” that he has since taken steps to treat. He denied the other allegations leveled against him by former students.
In a May 26 emailed statement, Comaroff denied ever having engaged in sexual misconduct or retaliated against a student.
“I have not behaved inappropriately toward any Harvard student, nor ever engaged in professional retaliation. I am at a loss as to why such things should be alleged, let alone reported in The Crimson in the absence of any due process, if there is to be one,” he wrote. “For the record, I have not been banished from the Department of Anthropology, my office, or my teaching, nor informed of any formal charges.”
Urton, Bestor, and Comaroff are just three among many Anthropology faculty at Harvard. But dozens of people who passed through the department over the last two decades told The Crimson that the problems women face there stretch beyond the allegations against individual professors.
Those individuals — including current students, graduates, former faculty, and other affiliates — said a department dedicated to the study of human culture failed to notice that its own culture placed women at a disadvantage.
An internal department report compiled by a student committee last year documented how those disparities affected female students’ outcomes. Since 1990, female archaeology students have taken longer to complete their Ph.Ds, withdrawn at higher rates, published fewer articles by graduation, and undertaken a disproportionate workload as teaching fellows, according to a copy of the report obtained by The Crimson.
Anthropology is a tight-knit field, students in the department said, one where advisors can either open doors for young anthropologists or close them forever.
Because of that dynamic, women who were made uncomfortable by faculty in the department said they faced a persistent dilemma. Report, and risk their career aspirations in anthropology. Continue, and face greater obstacles than their male counterparts.
Several of those interviewed said hiring practices like the ones outlined in the 1986 study on the “hierarchy of prestige” remain at the root of the problems female students face in the Harvard Anthropology department, pointing particularly to a lack of female faculty. Just three of 21 tenured faculty who hold appointments in the department are female. Within its archaeology wing, there are no tenured female faculty. Across FAS’s social sciences division, 32 percent of tenured professors are women, according to a 2020 Harvard report.
In response to The Crimson’s reporting, Anthropology department chair Ajantha Subramanian, who took over from Urton as chair in 2018, and interim chair Rowan K. Flad, who is filling in for Subramanian as she takes leave through July, provided a 3,400-word statement on the department’s efforts in recent years to become “more diverse, responsive, and equitable.”
“These include ongoing measures to prioritize diversity in faculty hiring, to ensure a high rate of success in internal tenure promotions, to institute mechanisms for students to address their concerns, and to create new forums for intellectual and social engagement,” they wrote.
The chairs declined to comment on individual allegations of sexual harassment in the department, referring those questions to FAS administrators.
“We want to underscore the seriousness with which we take all such allegations and our strong commitment to addressing them using every means at our disposal to create a department climate that is free from harassment and sexual misconduct,” Subramanian and Flad wrote.
FAS spokesperson Rachael Dane also declined to comment on specific allegations against faculty.
“The Faculty of Arts and Sciences takes incidences of sexual misconduct and harassment involving our Faculty very seriously and believes the full spectrum of unwelcome behavior must be addressed,” Dane wrote in an emailed statement, responding to the 2017 allegations against Bestor. She made a similar statement regarding the current allegations against Comaroff.
Dane declined to comment in response to the allegations against Urton and the 2013 allegations against Bestor.
The following account is based on emails, affidavits filed in federal court, and other documents obtained by The Crimson, and on interviews conducted over the past eight months with 72 individuals, including 41 current and former graduate students in the department and five former faculty members. Many spoke only on the condition of anonymity because they said they feared retaliation and damage to their career prospects, even years after they had left Harvard.
When the professor reported Bestor had assaulted her at the 2017 conference, it was not the first time Anthropology faculty and University officials heard complaints that he had sexually harassed women. At least two other women have accused Bestor of sexual misconduct since the early 2010s, and multiple people have raised concerns about him to the Title IX office, according to documents obtained by The Crimson and individuals with direct knowledge of the complaint.
Harvard administrators first learned of student concerns regarding Bestor as early as 2013. According to several current and former graduate students, allegations against him are the most widely known instances of alleged sexual misconduct in the department.
After reading a late night email in 2013 that brought back memories of Bestor’s “longstanding pattern” of harassment, one student told four Anthropology faculty members about inappropriate physical contact and email messages she had received from him, according to a 2014 affidavit the student filed under seal in federal court.
Speaking on the condition of anonymity, she estimated in an interview that she had around 10 interactions with Bestor which she found uncomfortable or inappropriate, including harassing emails and unwelcome kissing, over a roughly seven-year period.
One of the professors she spoke with — Urton, the then-department chair — assured her that he was in contact with the University’s lawyers and ombudsman about her concerns.
Urton wrote in his statement that the court case in which the allegations against Bestor surfaced — a gender discrimination lawsuit brought against Harvard by former associate Anthropology professor Kimberly S. Theidon — had been decided in the University’s favor.
Urton also noted that the judge found he had adequately responded to the allegations against Bestor. United States District Court Judge Leo T. Sorokin wrote in his 2018 opinion that Urton had “handled the matter promptly” and to the “satisfaction” of the reporting party.
The student wrote in the 2014 affidavit that the conduct had stopped, and that she had been able to “maintain a cordial relationship” with Bestor, though she chose to distance herself from him.
“I remain concerned that my complaint could adversely affect his future recommendations about me and my work,” she wrote. “I did not, and do not, want my complaint to adversely affect his career in any way. I made the complaint solely because I wanted the offensive conduct to stop, both for my own sake and for the sake of future graduate students at Harvard.”
In his emailed statement, Bestor wrote that he did not send inappropriate late night emails to students or make inappropriate physical contact with students. He wrote that he was never contacted by anyone in the department or Harvard about any Title IX or Office for Dispute Resolution complaint related to the 2013 allegations in the affidavit.
Five students said in interviews that they were aware of a second student since 2013 who said Bestor had sexually harassed her.
Heidi H. Lockwood, a professor at Southern Connecticut State University who advocates on behalf of women subject to sexual misconduct at universities, wrote in an email that she is personally aware of multiple allegations against Bestor.
“The complainants have declined to file formal complaints due to the perception that Bestor wields significant power within the field of anthropology,” she wrote. “They are afraid that filing a complaint -- or even saying negative things about Bestor to others in the field -- would make it difficult or impossible to get a job. In the case of at least one alumna of the program, this appears to have been a justifiable fear.”
Harvard officials also appear to have been aware that fear of reprisal discouraged people with allegations against Bestor from reporting, Lockwood wrote. She spoke with Harvard Title IX officer Seth Avakian on July 18, 2017 about allegations against Bestor.
During their conversation, according to Lockwood, Avakian said multiple students had contacted the Title IX office with concerns about Bestor, but declined to file formal complaints. Lockwood also recounted the conversation to a third party in a July 19, 2017 email provided to The Crimson.
“As an explanation for the refusal to file formal complaints, [Avakian] pointed out that although Harvard can prohibit retaliation on campus, the Title IX Office has no way to protect complainants from retaliation within a discipline or a field,” Lockwood wrote in her statement to The Crimson.
Bestor wrote that he was unaware anyone had discussed concerns about him with the Title IX office prior to 2017.
“The only complaint made against me that I am aware of in my 33-year teaching career is a single complaint made in 2017 that ODR investigated and which was based on a one-time, isolated incident that was fueled by alcohol, as the complainant herself recognized,” Bestor wrote.
In that incident, the professor from another university reported to UCLA’s Title IX office in May 2017 that, while he was inebriated, Bestor made inappropriate statements to her at a dinner banquet for Japan studies professors at UCLA earlier that month. The woman — one of Bestor’s former advisees who had relied on him for reference letters throughout her career — also reported that Bestor attempted to hug and kiss her at the dinner, according to another sworn affidavit filed in Theidon’s case in 2019.
“I have taken full responsibility for my conduct from the moment of first learning of the complaint,” Bestor wrote in his statement. “This event was a one-time, isolated incident that occurred because of a medical condition I have that contributed to my becoming intoxicated at the event.”
Bestor wrote that he suffers from Type 2 diabetes. On the day of the incident, he was unable to return to his hotel to take his insulin and medication.
“The combination of not having access to my medication, the unseasonably hot day, too little food and too much champagne at the reception all contributed to my becoming intoxicated,” Bestor wrote. “My condition only got worse at dinner where there was an abundance of wine, causing me to become extremely intoxicated.”
“The incident, which I deeply regret and for which I accepted full responsibility, made me finally recognize that I had a serious problem with alcohol,” he wrote. “I realized that I needed to take action so that such an incident would never occur again. I went through alcohol detoxification and I can proudly report that I have now completed two years of sobriety.”
UCLA referred the Title IX complaint to Harvard, according to the affidavit. Despite Bestor’s employment at the University, Harvard’s Title IX office declined to investigate the incident on jurisdictional grounds. The complainant wrote in the affidavit that Harvard initiated an investigation by its Office for Dispute Resolution in November 2017, only after she appealed the initial refusal in a letter to then-University President Drew G. Faust.
Dane, the Harvard spokesperson, wrote that FAS takes incidents of sexual misconduct and harassment involving faculty “very seriously.” She noted that when misconduct complaints fall outside the University’s jurisdiction, FAS may determine a need to refer the case to ODR for investigation.
In March 2018, Harvard notified the complainant that ODR’s investigation had substantiated one verbal and one physical count of faculty misconduct of a sexual nature against Bestor, according to the affidavit.
Dane confirmed FAS disciplined Bestor in March 2018, but declined to specify the sanctions.
According to the complainant’s affidavit, FAS required, among other measures, that Bestor not contact her, that he step down as director of the Reischauer Institute of Japanese Studies, that Harvard investigate Bestor’s conduct with other students, that Bestor write letters apologizing to witnesses in the investigation, and that Bestor not return to work until he completed the sanctions.
Harvard, however, allowed Bestor to return to work before completing the sanctions, according to the affidavit. He started teaching two classes in January 2019, but had not yet sent all of the required apology letters.
In February 2019, the complainant wrote to Senior Associate Dean of Faculty Affairs Kwok W. Yu to ask about the status of the apology letters. Yu replied that, due to an “oversight” on the University’s part, Bestor had returned to work without sending the letters to the witnesses, and that they had subsequently been delivered, according to the affidavit.
Another attendee of the dinner banquet, speaking on the condition of anonymity to discuss confidential processes, said they received an apology letter from Bestor in mid-February 2019, more than a month after Bestor had returned to teaching.
Bestor confirmed in his statement that Harvard “sternly sanctioned” him for aspects of his behavior that violated University policy, and noted that he has now completed all of the sanctions after being delayed by illness.
“In this same time period, in June and July 2018, I was diagnosed with stage 4 metastatic prostate cancer and began radiation and other treatments (which I continue to this day),” Bestor wrote. “As a result, the letters of apology to others in attendance at the dinner were delayed in being sent.”

“I am in compliance with all of the requirements that Harvard imposed, I have accepted all the sanctions placed against me, and I consider this matter closed,” he added.
Over the years, Harvard and the Anthropology department’s response to repeated allegations against Bestor caused concern among those familiar with the case. Students said they were reluctant to raise their concerns formally, fearing that doing so could hurt their career prospects. More than four years passed between the 2013 allegation and the ODR investigation, during which Bestor continued to advise graduate students.
Other Anthropology faculty who were the subjects of complaints, however, have not faced formal discipline.
When the 2013 allegation against Bestor surfaced, the task of handling it fell to the department’s then-chair, Urton. At the time, Urton was engaged in an affair with one of his former students that began when she asked Urton to write her a recommendation letter, according to another sealed affidavit filed in the Theidon case.
Later, in 2016, the woman told an FAS sexual harassment officer that Urton had pressured her into “unwelcome sex” in exchange for helping her advance her career.
Urton first made sexual advances toward the woman in October 2011, when she was a student in one of his Extension School classes, according to her affidavit. She said she rejected those advances.
Several weeks later, the student submitted her final paper — a study of Inca gender relations — but had yet to receive a grade. Around Dec. 22, 2011, she said she went to Urton’s office at his invitation, hoping to ask him whether he would advise her thesis.
During the meeting, the student told Urton she hoped to work as a teacher and attend the Harvard Divinity School. Urton complimented her paper and said she showed “a great deal of promise” in anthropology, according to her affidavit, which she provided to The Crimson.
Saying he could help her achieve her goals, Urton suggested a private meeting to discuss her career further, the student wrote in her affidavit. He then moved around his desk and placed his hand on her knee.
“By the position of his hand, I knew he meant a sexual exchange,” the student wrote in the affidavit. “In a routine tone of voice without any apparent concern, he suggested that I meet him at a hotel and room which he would designate. He told me he would bring wine.”
The student wrote in the affidavit that she understood Urton’s actions as an advance requesting a sexual encounter in exchange for a “glowing” letter of reference. She also wrote that Urton was “a tenured professor with a life appointment to the chair of the Department of Anthropology in the most prestigious University in the field, and in one of the fields in which I was hoping to apply for a PhD.”
“I felt I could not say no without jeopardizing my grade or my recommendation,” the student wrote.
After she agreed, Urton suggested they meet at the Sheraton Commander hotel in Harvard Square, according to emails attached as exhibits to the affidavit.
The student wrote that when they met at the hotel a week later, she had yet to receive a grade. She alleged in the affidavit that Urton provided alcohol and made sexual advances toward her while she was intoxicated, which she submitted to. She also alleged he asked her to perform sexual acts that were unwelcome to her.
Several days after the encounter, Urton emailed her a pornographic video and instructions on oral sex, according to the affidavit. He gave her an A in the class and wrote her a recommendation letter for graduate school.
The student and Urton then engaged in a consensual affair for several years. Still, she wrote in the affidavit that the effects of Urton’s unwelcome advances lingered.
“I have suffered greatly from having participated in unwelcome sex and became severely depressed,” she wrote.
Over the course of their affair, Urton sent intimate messages to the student using his Harvard email account and contacted her from his office phone, according to the affidavit and exhibits filed alongside it.
He also sent the student explicit comments about her and another female scholar, calling the other scholar his “playboy bunny,” a “whore,” a “bitch,” and a “fuck,” according to the affidavit.
In his statement to The Crimson, Urton wrote that federal and state law, as well as University policies, prevent him from disclosing confidential information about a current or former student. He added, however, that the allegations provided to him by The Crimson are “either untrue, inaccurate, or misleading.”
“Even if I were able to identify the students or events to which you refer in your email, under state and federal law, and Harvard University policies, the only comment I would be permitted would be a blanket denial,” he wrote. “No matter what the circumstance, I could not disclose personal information about a student or former student.”
He wrote that he has “adhered scrupulously” to the FAS’s policies on sexual harassment throughout his entire career, “despite unfounded rumors which may appear from time to time.”
Current FAS sexual harassment policies explicitly prohibit faculty from engaging in sexual relations with students under their supervision; the policies in place in 2011 only noted that faculty members who did so were “liable for formal action against them.”
“In the academic context, the fundamental element of sexual harassment is ordinarily the inappropriate personal attention by an instructor or other officer who is in a position to exercise professional power over another individual,” the 2011 policies read. “This could involve an instructor who determines a student’s grade or who can otherwise affect the student’s academic performance or professional future.”
Urton also wrote in his letter that any student who alleges a violation of these policies can request a thorough investigation through ODR.
“In my 18 years as a member of the Harvard faculty, no student or former student has ever filed a complaint against me with the Office of Dispute Resolution, my Department or the Dean,” he wrote. “The same can be said for the 22 years prior to my appointment at Harvard. This would not be the case if there were any substance to the allegations contained in your email.”
For several years after leaving Harvard, the student wrote in her affidavit, she hesitated to report her allegations against Urton. After finding what she called a “supportive climate” away from Harvard, she decided to come forward to University officials in 2016 “to prevent [Urton] hurting other people if they should come forward.”
In March 2016, the former student emailed Faust, asking to “discuss a situation involving Dr. Gary Urton,” according to the exhibits. She also emailed an FAS sexual harassment officer, and later told the officer by phone about Urton’s inappropriate behavior, the sexual exchange, and the subsequent affair.
The sexual harassment officer, Johannah K. Park, followed up about whether the former student wanted to pursue the “formal complaint option,” according to emails the student provided to The Crimson.
Faust’s chief of staff, Lars P. K. Madsen, later responded to the student’s email and wrote that he would be willing to speak with the student on Faust’s behalf. When the student told Madsen of her conversation with the FAS sexual harassment officer, he replied that the officer would be the “right person to speak to.”
The student wrote that she decided to submit the affidavit in 2016 because she felt it was “important that the University know that this sort of solicitation is occurring on the campus.”
In response to questions from The Crimson, the student wrote that she has “no ill feelings for Dr. Urton,” but that she believed that she would have completed further education at Harvard if not for him.
The woman’s affidavit — like the two containing allegations against Bestor — was filed on behalf of the plaintiffs in Theidon’s gender discrimination lawsuit.
In the 2015 suit, Theidon accused Urton of intentionally sabotaging her prospects for tenure when he learned of her advocacy on behalf of students who said they had experienced sexual harassment. The question of whether Theidon was unfairly denied tenure due to the Urton’s and others’ actions sparked a five-year legal battle in federal court, ultimately decided against Theidon.
The courts rejected her argument that Urton turned against her when he learned of public comments she made and her meetings with students who had allegedly been harassed by Bestor.
Sorokin dismissed Theidon’s case in February 2018, ruling against her on summary judgement. After Theidon appealed the ruling, a three-judge panel of the First Circuit Court of Appeals upheld Sorokin’s decision on Jan. 22, 2020.
When she first filed suit, Theidon made two primary arguments: that her advocacy biased faculty like Urton against her, and that the Anthropology department as a whole fostered a hostile environment for women. While the courts found neither persuasive, Theidon’s case shed new light on women’s standing in the Anthropology department.
Theidon first met with Senior Vice Provost Judith D. Singer about gender disparities in the department in August 2010. She told Singer that women were given the “lion’s share of the undergrad teaching load.”
Theidon also said in the suit that the department’s lone tenured female professor at the time, Mary M. Steedly, advised Theidon to act like a “dutiful daughter” in the department, playing down her intelligence and not complaining about the extra workload.
That November, Singer prompted a visiting committee from Harvard’s Board of Overseers to look into diversity in the Anthropology department, according to the First Circuit. In its March 2011 report, the visiting committee found “the Anthropology Department lacked diversity at the tenured level in terms of gender and ethnicity and, as a result, Harvard needed to pursue stronger efforts to recruit and retain diverse tenured faculty,” according to the First Circuit opinion.
Though four of the five junior faculty in the department this fall will be women, only four of its 22 senior faculty will be, according to Subramanian and Flad. There are no tenured female faculty in the department's archaeology wing.
In interviews with The Crimson, 10 female graduate students and former faculty members said the lack of female faculty made it difficult to see paths forward in the field for themselves.
Archaeologist Sadie L. Weber, who completed a Ph.D. in the department in 2019, said her undergraduate university, Stanford, had many female faculty in its anthropology department. As she approached her Harvard graduation, however, the lack of female representation among Harvard’s tenured faculty became “very discouraging” to her while she considered her career prospects.
“The academic job market isn’t great in archaeology,” she said. “So just seeing that one of the supposedly top institutions in the world didn’t have any [women], I was like, ‘What does this mean for me?’”
Weber said the absence of tenured women in archaeology also meant she lacked mentors to turn to with questions about how to stay safe while doing fieldwork.
“Harassment is rampant,” Weber said. “I don’t think that male faculty members can’t understand it for lack of trying or lack of empathy, but it’s just something that maybe hasn’t been on their radar.”
Elizabeth S. Chilton, an Anthropology professor in Harvard’s department from 1996 to 2001, said that while she felt supported by male faculty, the gender demographics of the department grated on her.
“It meant we didn’t have anyone that we could imagine ourselves being in their shoes,” Chilton said. “Now I’m a dean and I saw that for myself when I had a woman dean take me under her wing and really say to me, ‘You could do this, if this is what you want to do.’”
Chilton — who will become provost of Washington State University in August — said she believed it was important to be a role model for female undergraduates and graduate students while she was in Harvard’s department.
“It is harder if you don’t see people who look like you,” she said. “Whether that’s faculty of color or women, not seeing people in those positions just gives you that extra hurdle that you have to try to climb over.”
Carole A. S. Mandryk, who taught in the department from 1993 to 2005, said female students would sometimes come to her office to discuss issues they encountered with other faculty.
“They didn’t necessarily want help, because it was not like I could help them. They wanted to vent and have understanding,” Mandryk said.
In particular, forging a strong connection with a dissertation advisor is a necessary condition for success in the department and after graduation, 10 current and former students said. Students rely on their advisors for formal matters — letters of recommendation and sign-offs on classes, teaching load, and dissertation milestones — as well as more informal support.
“Everything that you have to do with respect to the University, with respect to your department, and oftentimes even your professional contacts beyond Harvard goes through or is at least signed off on by your advisor,” said Max D. Price, an archaeology student who earned his Ph.D. from the department in 2016. “There’s an incredible dependency that develops.”
It is highly unlikely that a student with a problematic relationship with their advisor could succeed as a career anthropologist, Price added.
“If you have a bad relationship with your advisor, your academic career usually ends,” he said.

Beyond structural requirements like recommendation letters, informal social networks between faculty — which impact which journal a student might get published in or what university they might earn an interview from — deepen the dependency, said Jason B. Silverstein, a 2016 Anthropology Ph.D. recipient and a current lecturer at Harvard Medical School.
“Where these vast power dynamics are especially insidious is with those really informal channels, like who is willing to make a phone call for you or not,” Silverstein said.
At Harvard, such informal networks have been largely inaccessible to women, several students and former faculty said.
Mandryk, for instance, said she felt discouraged from going up for tenure because she wasn’t able to access the “academic old boys’ network.” She said male faculty and male students met informally to discuss grant, research, and co-authorship opportunities, meetings from which she felt excluded.
In addition to Mandryk, more than a dozen people currently or formerly affiliated with the department used the term “old boys’ club” to describe its dynamics.
Several of them said male professors’ relationships with male students seemed more comfortable and casual than those with female students, citing examples like the informal meetings.
One current student who spoke on the condition of anonymity said she once observed a male student take his shoes off during a meeting with a male professor, and that the professor responded by taking off his own shoes. She said she felt a female student would not be treated the same way.
Multiple students said such casual, “bro-y” relationships translated to more opportunities for male students to speak in class and participate in potential networking opportunities.
Male students would go out for drinks or meals with professors; female students often only learned of them later. And because informal networking tends to dictate career advancement in anthropology, the male students became better positioned to succeed.
The 2019 gender report identified a need for the department to provide more opportunity for female students to participate during formal networking events and to “equally distribute” opportunities to attend meals or smaller group meetings.

Silverstein said reliance on social capital for career advancement created the conditions for exploitation in the advisor-student relationship, especially because of the precariousness of the academic job market.
“In today’s job market, where even the smartest doctoral students are basically guaranteed to struggle on the job market or not get a job at all, the power dynamic between a Ph.D. advisor who might hold the keys to one of those positions — or appear to hold the keys to one of those positions — and a doctoral student who makes $30,000 a year and doesn’t have dental insurance has never been more extreme,” he said.
When Mandryk arrived at Harvard for her job interview in 1993 — even before her first day as a member of the Anthropology faculty — a male professor made disparaging comments about her nursing her one-year-old child, she said.
Mandryk, who taught as a junior faculty member and as a lecturer, said that while most male professors she encountered during her time in the department were less direct, she came to understand that if a female professor wanted to get tenure, she would have to demonstrate that work — not family — was her highest priority.
“It was definitely pointed out to me that it was assumed that I wasn’t really or couldn’t be a serious researcher if I took being a mother seriously,” Mandryk said.
Three female students who spoke on the condition of anonymity and attended Harvard over the past decade also said male faculty actively discouraged them from having children.
One student who studied in the department during the 2010s called the decision to have a child a “lonely road,” adding that she felt no one from the department advocated on her behalf when she chose to have children.
Graduate students commonly exceed the expected number of years Harvard anticipates they will spend on their dissertations; when she did so for family reasons, she said she felt stigmatized.
Another graduate from the 2010s said male professors made her feel she had to choose between her career and motherhood.
She said a professor told her when she was a prospective student that he had “never seen a student produce a child and dissertation in the same year.” Another male professor criticized her when she decided to change her research location to accommodate her family.
The student said those criticisms seemed to stem from an “old-school notion of anthropology” which several powerful male faculty in the department hold.
“There’s this whole idea of the lone anthropologist going out into the field and sacrificing all these things to go after whatever the grand research question is,” she said. “That model of a successful anthropologist that was shown to me was very much a model based upon someone who generally would live like a white male person of privilege.”
Several students said the department’s hiring practices resulted in an “old guard” of professors becoming deeply established.
Chilton, Mandryk, and Karen L. Kramer — another former Anthropology faculty member — all said they were told as junior faculty by senior faculty to assume Harvard would not grant them tenure. Chilton and Mandryk both said other professors told them to treat their junior faculty position as a postdoctoral appointment, rather than a chance at tenure.
“It was definitely this understanding that it would be an exception if something like that were to happen,” Mandryk said. “I was told repeatedly, ‘There’s no way you would get tenure.’”
Until FAS formalized its current tenure track system in 2005, Harvard’s rate of tenuring junior faculty across all departments remained extremely low. Chilton, Mandryk, and Kramer all said junior faculty today may have a stronger chance at earning tenure in Anthropology than they did.
Still, decades of not tenuring junior faculty have left a mark on the department: a gap between the senior faculty who control its direction and culture and their younger colleagues.
“Basically you get this top layer of this senior faculty who stay there for decades and then you get this younger faculty that kind of comes and goes, comes and goes,” Kramer said. “Certain perspectives then become entrenched because you aren’t bringing up your junior faculty and incorporating them into the department's perspective.”
Lockwood, the Southern Connecticut State professor, wrote to The Crimson that a department’s hiring practices can also create a culture of impunity for misbehavior.
“Hiring and retention practices within academia privilege the views of the senior members of a department or program,” Lockwood wrote. “As a result, departments who have a known problem in their ranks tend to become nests of problems -- both because they tend to attract other known problems, and because they are unable to hire or retain faculty who refuse to become ostriches or ignore the issues.”
“There is no question that our department urgently needs to diversify its faculty,” Subramanian and Flad wrote in their emailed statement. “We are a department that has far too few senior women faculty, a situation that does not represent the current state of the field.”
The two chairs wrote they “are sure” the small number of female tenured faculty affects the experiences of both male and female students, and that they intend to address the disparity with a slate of diverse hires.
“As we hope is reflected in our five most recent hires -- all of whom are women and minority scholars -- diversifying the faculty is of paramount importance to us,” Subramanian and Flad wrote. “Our plan moving forward is to orient hiring priorities around areas of disciplinary innovation where there is strong female and minority representation.”
The department requested authorization for four hires last year and hosted 14 scholars for job talks, but the FAS ultimately authorized only “one targeted search for a senior woman who was part of the canvass,” according to their statement. That search is now suspended due to the University-wide hiring freeze instituted in response to financial challenges presented by the coronavirus pandemic.
FAS also suspended an open search for faculty who specialize in ethnic studies, which Subramanian and Flad hoped would end in the hiring of at least one of the two senior anthropologists on FAS’s short list. Both candidates are people of color, and one is a woman.
Subramanian and Flad also wrote that much has changed in recent years regarding how the department treats internal tenure candidates. Since 2000, the department has tenured nine junior faculty — three men in archaeology, and four men and two women in social anthropology.
They added that recent senior faculty hires have also reflected institutional diversity, with none of the five lateral hires in the last decade coming from other Ivy League institutions.
“By university policy, senior hires are voted on only by senior faculty in the department,” they wrote. “That said, in our procedures for external senior hires, we have worked hard in recent decades to include the voices of untenured faculty and students in the hiring processes.”
The chairs wrote that their support for the creation of the 2019 departmental report marked just one example of their dedication to incorporating student feedback. The report, compiled by a department College Fellow and several graduate students over the 2018-19 academic year, relied in part on data provided by the department itself.
For example, the department provided data showing that 13 of the 15 graduate students who have withdrawn from the archaeology program since 1990 have been female, Subramanian and Flad wrote.
The student committee also found that female archaeology students have consistently taken more time to complete their degrees than their male counterparts over the last 30 years, and that the gap has grown over time. Of the 28 graduates admitted since 2010, female students have taken 1.5 years longer on average to complete their Ph.Ds.
Men likely made up the majority of recent withdrawals in the department’s social anthropology wing, according to Subramanian and Flad. That data is currently being compiled and was not included in the 2019 report.
Faculty members also wrote point-by-point replies to the student committee’s recommendations before distributing the report to faculty.
Given the gender disparities in degree completion time and withdrawal rates, the student committee recommended that faculty establish regular office hours for their advisees and provide explicit policies for obtaining letters of recommendation. In response, the department suggested to all professors that they hold regular office hours and create a template for their students to request recommendation letters.
The report also found that male archaeology students since 1997 have published an average of 1.97 peer-reviewed articles by graduation, compared to an average of 1.53 for female students.
The faculty wrote in response that all graduate students in archaeology will likely soon be required to submit a working paper earlier in the program, and faculty will work to support that paper’s publication. They have also begun to expand the department’s professional development training.
In response to the student committee’s findings that women are disproportionately selected as head teaching fellows — a position the committee estimated can come with double the workload of a standard teaching fellow post — the faculty wrote that they will work to evenly distribute those roles. The department also now requires course heads to outline specific duties for each teaching fellow at the beginning of the semester, according to Subramanian and Flad.
They wrote in their statement that, to their knowledge, there is “no current pattern” of female students being excluded from opportunities to go out for drinks or meals with faculty.
“As for seminar discussions, while some may continue to be dominated by male students, this is a reflection of behavioral norms in the wider society that many of our faculty work hard to challenge in the classroom, although we do not always succeed,” they wrote.
Subramanian and Flad acknowledged that the department’s prior approach to advising — students being admitted to work primarily with a single professor — “may well have reinforced a sense of dependency.”
“We now make a point of only admitting students whose interests overlap with at least three faculty members, a change which is intended to mitigate over-reliance on a single individual,” they wrote. “We have also instituted a graduate advising team, which is independent of the student’s chosen committee and is empowered to address and mediate concerns the student might have with an advising relationship.”
The department also works to inform students that they can seek new advisors and dissertation committee members at any time, including scholars outside Harvard, they added.
Subramanian and Flad wrote that they will continue to attend to issues regarding female students raised by both the gender report and The Crimson, including by implementing a department climate survey that was planned this semester before the pandemic.
“We hope that by raising these issues, you will aid our efforts to get the necessary support from the University administration to continue to enact meaningful change, particularly in relation to the composition of the faculty,” they wrote. “While recent trends clearly indicate the direction in which we are moving, we are ourselves sometimes frustrated by the pace, and strongly wish we could make changes more quickly.”
Several students complimented the Anthropology department’s recent efforts to diversify, but some said they did not believe the department’s culture could change while an older generation of primarily male senior faculty remained.
Bestor, Urton, and Comaroff — the three faculty members accused of sexual misconduct — are all both tenured professors in one of the world’s most renowned anthropology departments and major figures in the field at large.
According to the women who filed affidavits and others, Bestor and Urton’s power in the anthropology field allowed them to sexually harass women over the past decade, sometimes without drawing attention to their conduct.
And while the allegations against Bestor and Urton are now several years old, those leveled against Comaroff remain an ongoing concern for the students involved.
Three current students told The Crimson this month that they are in active communication with Harvard’s Title IX office regarding concerns about Comaroff’s behavior. According to interviews with those students and other current and former students in the department, multiple people have told the Title IX office about unwanted touching, verbal sexual harassment, and professional retaliation by Comaroff, all of which he denied in his statement to The Crimson.
Last November, Flad implemented several measures that drastically reduced Comaroff’s contact with Anthropology students as a result of concerns raised about his behavior, including asking him not to use his office in the Tozzer Anthropology Building and removing him from a class he was scheduled to teach, according to documents obtained by The Crimson and people with direct knowledge of the situation. Comaroff continued to teach in the Department of African and African American Studies, where he also holds an appointment. He told The Crimson he had not been “banished” from Anthropology.
In an emailed response to the allegations against Comaroff, Dane wrote that while Harvard does not comment on individual circumstances, the University encourages affiliates to bring instances of sexual misconduct to its attention.
“The Faculty of Arts and Sciences’ (FAS) Sexual and Gender-Based Harassment Policy and Procedures maintains that any member of our community, former or current, may file a formal complaint, request an informal resolution, and/or seek supportive measures to help the individual continue their education, research, and participation in all aspects of the University,” she wrote. “We encourage any member of our community who has experienced inappropriate behavior to come forward.”
—Associate Managing Editor Molly C. McCafferty contributed reporting.
—Staff writer James S. Bikales can be reached at james.bikales@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter at @jamepdx.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
In Harvard College’s first-ever virtual graduation ceremony, the Class of 2020 celebrated its achievements and commemorated its losses  with a colorful address from comedian Conan C. O’Brien ’85 on Thursday.
After the coronavirus crisis sent undergraduates home for the remainder of the semester and shuttered campus in March, the University decided to award degrees and honor the graduates with a virtual ceremony. The live-streamed celebration for graduating seniors immediately followed a University-wide event, during which Washington Post executive editor Martin “Marty” Baron addressed graduates.
O’Brien is best known for hosting the late-night talk shows “Late Night with Conan O’Brien,” “The Tonight Show with Conan O’Brien,” and — since 2010 — “Conan.” As a Harvard undergraduate, he served as president of the Harvard Lampoon, a semi-secret Sorrento Square social organization that used to occasionally publish a so-called humor magazine.
“Harvard has been graduating students for nearly 400 years,” O’Brien said in his speech. “This is the first one where the commencement speaker is standing on a spot where his dog urinated seven minutes ago.”
“Yes, this commencement will be very different as you sit here today, or stand, or microwave a burrito, or ride a Peloton, or recline uncomfortably in your childhood bed, or mine Bitcoin, or Google, ‘Who is Conan O'Brien?'” he continued. “You are witnessing many many firsts in today’s ceremony.”
O’Brien broke from his comedic tone to acknowledge all that the Class of 2020 has endured in their lifetimes and praised their resilience. He cited 9/11 terrorist attacks, mass shootings, two economic meltdowns, climate change, and the 2016 presidential election, in which many seniors voted for the first time during their freshman years.
“Cynics like to mock the supposedly spoiled or shallow youth of the new millennia, but you have seen and survived so much,” O’Brien said. “And you've responded with wit, creativity, righteous anger, activism and a gritty determination to take the reality you've been handed and make it better.”
“10 weeks ago, you were told to leave your dorms immediately, get your stuff, get out — something no one has said to me since my first marriage,” he added. “And since that day, you have found ways to stay safe under absurd and confusing circumstances.”
In addition to O’Brien’s speech, the undergraduate event also featured a video made by class members, remarks from Dean of the College Rakesh Khurana, appearances by the 2020 Class Marshals, greetings from faculty deans, and a number of “student-driven” features, including festive videos and musical performances.
Khurana said he grieved for all the significant losses the graduating class has faced in recent months, including loved ones and financial stability. He added that he also wanted to acknowledge the “smaller,” though still painful, loss of their final semester and all it would have entailed.
“You lost all the moments in between classes, those serendipitous moments that make up your lives at Harvard — time spent lingering with friends over meals in the dining hall, a chance to meet your senior thesis advisor for coffee, an encounter with someone you haven't seen in a long time,” he said.
While acknowledging such losses, Khurana added that this is a fruitful period for discovering resilience and deepening “wells of empathy,” which has become all the more important as the pandemic exposes and exacerbates social inequalities.
“I hope you will make the choice again and again to make a difference in other people's lives,” he said. “I hope that during this challenging moment, when it's often easier to articulate what we are against than what we are for, you will be inspired to step up to decide what you stand for.”
In addition to the virtual commencement programming, University President Lawrence S. Bacow previously assured the Class of 2020 that Harvard would host “traditional campus festivities that typically precede commencement” as soon as large gatherings are considered safe.
First Marshal Eric J. Cheng ’20 also promised his classmates in his opening remarks that the class committee would continue working with administrators and organizers to plan the traditional in-person commencement.
“Today is not a farewell. It is the first of many gatherings in which we celebrate each other with each other,” he added. “We will gather again in person and due time to celebrate fittingly and we will continue to do so for many years to come.”
Second Marshal Angelina Ye ’20 said in her closing remarks that though this virtual event was not meant to replace an in-person ceremony, it had its own eccentric merits.
“Every class can say they got the classic pomp and circumstance of a normal graduation. But we can say we got a faculty dean TikTok, a hype video, and Conan O'Brien, all while being able to avoid the blistering heat,” Ye said. “The fact that we got all of this on top of it in person graduation is honestly pretty cool.”
“It's unique, quirky — and dare I say — unprecedented,” she added.
—Staff writer Juliet E. Isselbacher can be reached at juliet.isselbacher@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @julietissel.
—Staff writer Amanda Y. Su can be reached at amanda.su@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @amandaysu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
In Harvard’s first online commencement ceremony, University President Lawrence S. Bacow conferred 1,542 bachelor of arts and bachelor of science degrees to the Class of 2020.
Bacow awarded 8,174 degrees and certificates to students across Harvard’s 12 schools — including the College, the University’s graduate schools, and the Harvard Extension School.
The degrees, which were conferred over live-streamed video, would have been conferred in Tercentenary Theatre under normal circumstances. Harvard postponed its in-person 369th Commencement Exercises as a result of the coronavirus pandemic.
Harvard has only ever cancelled or postponed a commencement in the event of war or plague.
Michael J. Phillips ’20 and Sana Raoof ’12 gave this year’s English student speeches.
In Phillips’s speech, titled “The Keys and the Canvas,” he said he first arrived at Harvard grounded by the question: “Will Harvard change me?”
He shared a story from his own move-in day. As his parents said goodbye, Phillips said, his mother left him keys engraved with the words “believe,” “fearless,” and “inspire,” and his father told him that he imagined his life as if it were a canvas, encouraging him to imagine new possibilities.
Phillips said the experience of realizing those possibilities was bestowed upon graduates before they all arrived in person at Harvard.
“Harvard will change you, but let it continue to change you,” he said. “Let it make you keenly sensitive to injustice. Let it make you more empathetic to struggle. Let it embolden you to make change. Let it make you all of these things because to become anything else would be to forfeit any meaning in being a Harvard graduate.”
Raoof, a graduating Harvard Medical School student, delivered an address titled “This View of Life.” In the speech, Raoof discussed the parallels of biological and personal evolution.
“Challenges are the building blocks of not only biological adaptations but also personal evolution,” Raoff said. “The greater the adversity, the greater the need for evolution on all scales, from the individual to the nation.
Raoof shared an anecdote about the personal evolution of her grandfather, Abdul Raoof, who grew up as an orphan in India and studied diligently to earn a scholarship to Columbia University, where he would go on to earn his Ph.D.
“Education gave him freedom, so he became an educator. Hungry in childhood, he provided food for his students. Homeless in his village, he housed people under his own roof,” Raoof said. “In these ways, from so simple a beginning, my grandfather’s life evolved a mission. It was not his Ivy League degree but his experience at the bottom of society that propelled him.”
Raoof ended her address by urging graduates to use the disruption of coronavirus as a mechanism to spur their own personal evolution.
“We are once again at a challenging moment, but let us remember that challenges inspire evolution, an evolution that Harvard graduates can direct. How can we adapt to serve our communities or future generations?”
The ceremony also included a performance by world-famous cellist Yo-Yo Ma ’76 and a musical interlude by Ashley M. Lalonde ’20 and Madeline A. Smith ’14.
After the student speeches and performances, University Provost Alan M. Garber ’76 introduced the deans of Harvard’s 12 schools, who presented their degree candidates to Bacow.
Following the conferral of degrees, Bacow introduced the principal speaker, Washington Post Executive Editor Martin “Marty” Baron.
A seasoned journalist, Baron boasts a resume that includes work at the Los Angeles Times, the New York Times, and the Miami Herald. Prior to his role at the Post, he served as editor of the Boston Globe for 11 years.
Baron said a free press is important because it holds the government and other institutions accountable.
“Only a few months ago, I would have settled for emphasizing that our democracy depends on facts and truth, and it truly does,” he said. “But now as we can plainly see, it is more elemental than that. Facts and truth are matters of life and death.”
Baron also warned about moments in history when governments have attempted to silence journalists and the dangers such silence poses.
He ended his speech emphasizing the necessity for truth in society, referencing Harvard’s motto “Veritas.”
“At this university, you seek the truth with scholarship, teaching, and dialogue, knowing that it really matters,” Baron said. “My profession shares with you that mission— the always arduous, often tortuous, and yet essential pursuit of truth. It is the demand democracy makes upon us. It is the work we must do.”
Interim Pusey Minister of Memorial Church Stephanie A. Paulsell delivered the benediction following Barton’s address, urging graduates to seek freedom in each facet of their lives.
“As you graduate into a changed world, I pray that you will find the freedom that this moment in history surely holds.” Paulsell said. “Freedom, even from what you expected your Harvard degree to mean, and the freedom to make it mean more.”
The ceremony ended with the University Band and student singers crooning the alma mater “Fair Harvard” and sending a congratulatory message to the graduating class.
—Staff writer Sydnie M. Cobb can be reached at sydnie.cobb@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @cobbsydnie.
—Staff writer Michelle G. Kurilla can be reached at michelle.kurilla@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @MichelleKurilla.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard students awoke on Tuesday, March 10, to the University’s announcement that students were to vacate campus by Sunday due to the surging COVID-19 pandemic. That afternoon, with the academic side of the Charles River in relative upheaval, the men’s hockey team gathered at the Bright-Landry Hockey Center for practice.
It was a particularly loose skate. Drills were competitive but fun, and smiles were prevalent as coaches and players alike engaged in the usual on-ice banter. Everyone did their best to ignore the looming reality: with the coronavirus sending shockwaves through the worlds of sports and academia, Harvard’s season was in jeopardy despite the team’s upcoming series with Rensselaer in the ECAC quarterfinals.
“A lot of us were still very unsure of whether we were going to play,” junior defenseman Reilly Walsh recalled. “In the back of our minds, guys were having a lot of fun and trying to soak it all in. We kind of had an idea that it was looking like we weren’t going to play.”
Tuesday’s practice proved to be the final time that the 2019-2020 rendition of the Crimson would formally skate together. The playoff clash with the Engineers was cancelled the following day, with the rest of college hockey soon to follow.
“I can’t say that I didn’t make it down to the rink those last few days [prior to moving off campus],” captain Nathan Krusko said. “I definitely was emotionally drawn to going back into the locker room and trying to soak in as much [as possible] in the final days that we had on campus. It’s been a little bit tough to move on right now.”
The 2019-2020 campaign is, by definition, incomplete. The Harvard icemen never were able to capitalize on the confidence they possessed as they ventured deeper into the conference tournament—in fact, no team was. And while the past year of college hockey was ultimately inconclusive, the five months leading up to the pandemic-related shutdown provided plenty to look back on and analyze.
THE BIG PICTURE
In several ways, this season featured a similar set of accomplishments to the campaign prior. Crimson coach Ted Donato ’91 once again boasted a young corps of elite scorers. Harvard players occupied three of the ECAC’s top four spots in scoring, as well as three of its top five positions among freshman point-getters.
Powered by its young guns, the Crimson’s offense ranked fifth in the nation in goals per game (3.74). Among the greatest contributors to Harvard’s scoring success was its powerplay, as in 2018-2019. Last season, the Crimson’s man-up unit finished second in the country in effectiveness; this year, it sat atop Division I.
The group’s knack for scoring was not the only trend to carry over from last campaign. The Harvard squad entered this season with questions about replacing key departures, including a reliable option in net. The 2019-2020 season quelled much of these doubts.
“When you have question marks as far as experience [goes], in the net, on the blue line, and just overall [about] the age of your top players, there is a little bit of a learning curve that needs to take place, and I thought that we handled that well,” coach Donato reflected.
Each year, one of coach Donato’s primary goals is to provide his players with memorable experiences. He and his staff work toward this goal in part by trying to ensure that the team’s schedule includes numerous high-profile matchups. In 2019-2020, the Crimson enjoyed several marquee bouts, as in previous years. A rivalry game against Yale at Madison Square Garden, a two-game series with Arizona State hosted in Southern California, and the annual Beanpot Tournament comprised just some of the circle-your-calendar events in the recent campaign.
“Definitely one of the enjoyable ones is New York City,” said junior forward Henry Bowlby about his favorite memories from the season. “We’ve gotten to play there the last two years. It’s always a special weekend because [Madison Square Garden] is just such an amazing arena…. We’ve played well both years as a team, won big games, and then got to enjoy the night as well as…the Harvard Club in the morning.”
Despite the similarities between this season and last, the differences between the two iterations of Harvard hockey arguably tell a more meaningful story. In 2018-2019, the program opened its season with its worst-ever stretch through four contests (0-2-2). The Crimson, however, was able to rebound from its rocky start, return to the top-20 leaderboard, and use its respectable position in the Pairwise rankings to clinch an at-large bid to the NCAA Tournament.
By contrast, this year the Crimson rattled off six consecutive wins to begin its slate, vaulting the team as high as No. 9/6 in the nation. But spells of inconsistency derailed the Crimson’s dazzling start and prevented it from separating materially from the .500 mark until the very end of the campaign.
“It was kind of a weird season from start to finish,” junior centerman Jack Badini said. “We started off really hot, maybe playing a little bit out of this world…and coming back down to reality knowing that no game is going to be easy.”
By the March 11 cancellation of its season, Harvard’s 15-10-6 record (11-6-5 ECAC) was not good enough to land the program a spot on the national big board. More notably, the composition of the Crimson’s wins and losses harmed the group in the Pairwise rankings. Harvard finished 27th in the Pairwise—far too pedestrian for an at-large bid to the NCAA bracket.
Coach Donato’s group mustered very few points from clashes with blue-chip programs such as Boston College, Boston University, Northeastern, and Cornell. The Crimson showed promising spurts of play in almost all of its marquee matchups—enough to give veterans like Walsh the conviction that the team belonged in the national top 10. Nevertheless, in many high-profile matchups, Harvard struggled to string together a complete 60 minutes, which is a necessity if one hopes to pocket victories over ranked foes so valuable for the Pairwise.
“Some of those games didn’t go our way,” freshman forward John Farinacci said. “At the end of the day, you have to take them as learning experiences…. As the year went on, we got better and better. Being able to manage adversity coming into next year will be a huge goal for us.”
With losses or ties against some of the weaker conference competition, the Crimson also left points on the table that would have helped it secure a coveted top-four spot in the ECAC and first-round playoff bye.
“Our season is probably defined by a little bit of inconsistency,” Krusko said. “There’d be times where we’d be able to string together some good wins, and there’d be times where we’d have some questionable losses. But I think that just goes to show how much talent we actually had in that room…. When we were willing to put in the small things and do everything it takes to win, we would come out with a win.”
In 2019-2020, the Crimson wowed with its scoring capability, young core of players at each position, and ability to challenge—and at times defeat—some of the nation’s top teams. Plus, Harvard’s precocious group will enter next season with an additional year of experience and college hockey savvy in its tool belt.
All that remains to address are the results themselves. The coronavirus preempted many of the usual barometers that the Crimson uses to evaluate each season. Even so, finishing fourth in the Beanpot, posting a 3-6-2 record against ranked teams, and missing out on a first-round bye in the ECAC playoffs will all serve as points on which the program will look to improve in 2020-2021.
EMPTY SPOTS, FULL EXPECTATIONS
Entering the 2019-2020 campaign, the expectations within the Harvard program were the same as they usually are: win the Beanpot, clinch a top-four finish in the conference, run through Lake Placid en route to an ECAC crown, and compete for a national title in the NCAA Tournament.
Even though the Crimson paid little attention to outside concerns, it would have to answer multiple questions along its pursuit of these goals. None of these questions were more daunting than whether the group could replace a talented crop of departures from the season prior.
For starters, Harvard graduated two passionate, effective captains in Michael Floodstrand ’19 and Lewis Zerter-Gossage ’19. This letter-wearing tandem guided a young roster through many college hockey firsts. Over the course of last season, the team made strides in maturity and poise and earned a spot in the national bracket as a result.
The greatest hole created over the summer came not by way of graduation, but rather from early exoduses to the National Hockey League. After their junior campaigns, defensemen Adam Fox and John Marino both joined the professional ranks, where they enjoyed stellar rookie seasons.
Despite playing on the blue line, Fox was the offensive cornerstone for the Crimson in 2018-2019, easily eclipsing the career 100-point milestone during his final season at Harvard and earning his third consecutive CCM/AHCA First Team All-America selection. His 48 points (9–39—48) broke the school record for most single-season points by a rearguard.
Marino, meanwhile, further bolstered the right side of the Crimson’s back end with his two-way game, underrated offensive capabilities, and gritty playing style. This NHL season proved that both defensemen were ready for the next level; that said, had Fox and Marino returned for their senior years, Harvard would have iced undoubtedly the most formidable blue line in college hockey.
“We had some challenges with losing two really important players for us,” said coach Donato, referring to Fox and Marino. “I thought we improved [over the course of the season] with some young defensemen.”
The losses of Marino, Adam Baughman ’19, and Jacob Olson ’19 also stripped Harvard of most of its physical edge, an especially important factor in the ECAC. This season, the young and undersized Crimson at times struggled to match the physical demands of battling older and larger players.
So, the summer left sizable voids in leadership and on the blue line. It also created a question between the pipes, as Michael Lackey ’19 transferred to Providence College to spend his final year of NCAA eligibility fielding pucks for another national contender. In 2018-2019, Lackey became a sturdy number-one goaltender and helped propel Harvard to the NCAA Tournament.
Despite uncertainties throughout the lineup, the expectations for the 2019-2020 campaign remained high.
RELIVING THE SLATE
Through the first three weeks of the season, the Crimson generally appeared to have addressed its roster questions. To open its schedule, Coach Donato’s group defeated six straight ECAC foes, including a statement 7-2 thrashing of a ranked Quinnipiac squad. Through Thanksgiving, Harvard’s torrid offense led Division I in per-game scoring (5.50).
During that six-game stretch, the Crimson thrived on opportunism, converting shots into goals at an unusually high clip. Senior Cameron Gornet and freshman Mitchell Gibson combined to form a two-headed monster in net, providing .955 goaltending and pocketing three wins each.
“We started off as hot as I’ve ever been on a hockey team,” sophomore defenseman Jack Rathbone said. “We almost felt like we couldn’t lose on that stretch. We were playing some great hockey. We had a really deep team and we knew that, and everyone was contributing. That was fun to see, and it was fun to play in an environment like that.”
As the victories accrued, Harvard shot up in the national rankings, cracking the top 10. In spite of this, opponents were outshooting the Crimson by over eight shots per game, suggesting areas for improvement in the team defense department.
In late November, Harvard finally saw the conclusion of its unbeaten start to the season. Boston College, which finished 2019-2020 at No. 4, found twine three times in the final minutes of the second period to snatch victory in a relatively even matchup.
Four days later, a crosstown trip to Boston University began a stretch of games that exposed some of the early-season flaws in Harvard’s game. The Terriers took advantage of the Crimson’s defensive lapses to build a 4-1 lead early in the final frame, which Harvard was unable to overcome. Two Beantown rivals halted the Crimson’s winning streak and simultaneously initiated the team’s first multi-game skid of the season.
The losing would continue when conference play resumed. In early December, storied rival Cornell brought its No. 2 ranking and college hockey’s sole undefeated record to Cambridge. Despite two straight defeats, Harvard was confident in its start to the season and eagerly awaited the measuring-stick game.
The contest, however, served more as an awakening to the significant disparity that existed between the Crimson and the nation’s top teams. The Big Red overwhelmed its hosts in the first period, using speed and physicality to generate a 17-4 advantage in shots and, more importantly, a 2-0 lead on the scoreboard. Harvard gradually rose to match Cornell’s intensity, but it was too little, too late.
The Crimson entered the December holiday hiatus with a 6-4 record after bowing to Colgate in overtime the night after the Big Red’s decisive victory.
“We were scoring five, six goals [per game]. I think we played very well, and we were kind of clicking,” said Walsh of the first several weeks of the season. “Our speed and skill was taking over because teams hadn’t really developed their systems yet….Teams started to go back to the dump-and-chase, trap the neutral zone. That kind of took away from us as the season progressed. We were a dominant team, which we definitely could have been continuously, but as any team, we hit bumps in the road.”
Just before the new year, a memorable trip to Southern California and three points at Arizona State’s expense helped steer Harvard back to winning ways.
In the Crimson’s first matchup of 2020, Quinnipiac avenged its early-season loss. The team experienced mixed results through the first three weeks of January, epitomized by a 7-0 thumping of rival Yale at Madison Square Garden but also a 5-3 defeat to a top-10 Clarkson squad.
Harvard scarcely had time to dwell on the loss to the Golden Knights, though, as the following weekend marked the annual trek to Ithaca, N.Y. for a clash with Cornell. The showdown at Lynah Rink is the most anticipated tilt on the Crimson’s schedule each year. Especially after the Big Red’s dominant December showing at the Bright, Harvard was determined to take two points in Ithaca for the first time since 2017.
The Crimson played the ideal game to combat the heavy Cornell style and the oppressive Lynah environment. A controversial ending cost Harvard a triumph over the program’s most intense rival and the No. 1 team in the country—both then and at season’s end. The 1-1 draw was utterly unsatisfying for coach Donato and his group, although it became a pivotal moment in the campaign: the Crimson showed itself that it could contend with the league’s elite.
“Those moments where your whole team pulls together on the rope the same way, and you put so much into it, they do build a lot of inner-confidence within the group,” coach Donato said. “Even though we had a heartbreaking tie…I do think there was a layer of confidence that the group felt coming out of that.”
Harvard finished its busy month with perhaps its strangest affair of the year, an 8-5 victory at Union which included a six-goal second period for the visitors.
The Crimson was unable to extend its scoring touch into February, as it fell to Northeastern in the Beanpot semifinal and, the following Monday, lost its rematch opportunity against BC in the consolation game. Harvard finished fourth in the annual Boston hockey classic for the first time since 2016.
Looking to rebound from the disappointing Beanpot result, the Crimson skated to ties with both Yale and Brown the following weekend. Then, Harvard put forth its most puzzling weekend of the campaign.
The yearly North Country trip to Clarkson and St. Lawrence in Upstate New York provided two very distinct matchups: one against a top-five team in the Golden Knights, and one against the conference’s bottom-feeder in the Saints. On Friday, the Crimson executed its gameplan and handled Clarkson in its hostile barn. Yet, even with the confidence of the prior night’s victory, Harvard came out flat against St. Lawrence on Saturday, providing the program with its only home win of the season on its senior night.
The Crimson thus experienced its most inspiring win and its worst defeat of the season in the same weekend.
“It was very frustrating for us to have to bus home after [the loss to St. Lawrence],” Krusko said. “We ended up turning around and sweeping them in the first round of the playoffs, but it goes to show that the team was a little bit inconsistent at that time. That was something that we struggled with for a while.”
Having left a handful of conference points on the table through January and February, Harvard would have to fight for its coveted top-four ECAC finish during the final weekend of the regular season. RPI was vying with the Crimson for this spot, and in dramatic fashion the Engineers were Harvard’s Friday-night matchup.
The Crimson controlled its fate: a win over RPI would secure the last available bye in the conference playoffs’ first round. Nevertheless, the Engineers imposed their formidable defense and goaltending on the Crimson, secured a 2-0 victory, and wrested control from Harvard over the conference seeding. The Crimson’s win in Saturday’s regular-season finale was irrelevant; RPI clinched the bye with a concurrent 4-1 victory over Dartmouth, forcing Harvard to play in the first round of the ECAC tournament for the first time since 2015.
One thing the Crimson’s first-round series did provide, at least, was a chance to avenge late February’s crucial loss to St. Lawrence. Harvard handled the Saints and won the series, 2-0, in what would become the Crimson’s final taste of game action in 2019-2020 due to the coronavirus.
PERFORMANCES AND PROGRESS
Harvard’s 15-10-6 record arguably reflected a degree of underperformance, considering the sheer talent throughout its 2019-2020 lineup. The Crimson roster featured nine NHL draft picks and a handful of undrafted skaters whose abilities likewise suggest futures in professional hockey. Moreover, in the recent campaign, many of the squad’s young but key contributors took meaningful strides in performance and experience.
“We weren’t able to avoid some adversity, but I think the adversity made us better,” coach Donato said. “I really think some of the lessons we learned, with some of our younger players seeing some really impactful minutes and important situations, will pay big dividends moving forward.”
Sophomore Jack Drury (20–19—39) anchored Harvard’s youthful forward corps with his two-way game and impassioned competitive edge. The Winnetka, Ill. native’s 20 goals led the team this season.
Perhaps the most significant individual storyline for the Crimson in 2019-2020 was Drury’s emergence as a bona fide number-one center and precociously effective leader. The Carolina Hurricanes prospect possessed these qualities even as a freshman, but this season the league embraced Drury as one of college hockey’s young stars.
Drury led by example as the Crimson looked to rebound from its post-winning-streak skid. In December and January, the sophomore paced Division I in points (18), points per game (1.80), goals per game (1.00), and powerplay goals (6). Toward the end of this impressive run—which included a brief hiatus to represent the United States in the IIHF World Junior Championship—the centerman experienced one of the defining moments of his NCAA career thus far.
Drury was at the center of the late-game dramatics at Cornell’s Lynah Rink. His go-ahead goal in the game’s final five minutes was seemingly the capstone on a well-played road game by Harvard. Several shifts later, though, the officials whistled Drury on a questionable slashing call in the Crimson’s offensive zone. The Big Red tied the game on the ensuing powerplay, robbing Harvard of a chance to take down its rival and the No. 1 team in the country.
“That Cornell game is probably one of the most emotional games I’ve played in my career,” Drury said. “In terms of games we really pulled together for as a team this season, I think that one stands out to me…. I took a penalty. That was unfortunate. I was pretty devastated that we came out with the tie instead of the win.”
After overtime ended in stalemate, Drury carried the burden of the frustrating tie. His teammates voiced their support in the locker room before returning to the bus for a difficult trip back to Cambridge. Drury, meanwhile, remained at ice level, teary-eyed, gazing out onto the ice. He so wanted to bring a marquee win to the Crimson program; according to his face, he thought he had failed his team.
Squandering a crucial victory is never a positive, but the experience, and resulting mentorship from coach Donato, did help shape Drury’s approach to on- and off-ice leadership. It also cemented Drury’s role among his teammates as their most passionate fellow competitor.
“All the guys love Drury. Jack is one of my favorite guys on the team,” Krusko said. “He’s just a guy that loves the game, loves being around the guys, has passion being at the rink. I think he has all the attributes and skills to not only captain Harvard one day but to play in the NHL…. He’s a guy that brings a lot of energy, a lot of jam, is a fun guy to be around, and it’s been a pleasure being able to play with him the last couple of years.”
While Jack Drury’s emotional roller coaster in Ithaca was a defining moment for him and his team’s season, the center is just one of many weapons in Harvard’s dynamic forward corps. Two major factors in Drury’s 15-point jump from his freshman campaign—in four fewer games, no less—were his incredibly productive wingers.
Sophomore Casey Dornbach (12–24—36) followed last season’s ECAC Hockey Rookie of the Year performance with another prolific offensive season. In particular, he grew his game at even strength, adding nine 5-on-5 points to last year’s total.
To his right, Drury had 2019’s best ECAC freshman; to his left, he had 2020’s. Freshman Nick Abruzzese (14–30—44) led the conference in scoring and finished the season tied for third in points nationwide. He ran away with this year’s ECAC Hockey Rookie of the Year designation and was named a CCM/AHCA Second Team All-American.
Together, Drury, Dornbach, and Abruzzese formed perhaps the most dangerous line in college hockey. The trio showed its potency throughout the season, with one of the better examples coming at Union in late January. The three forwards combined for 12 points on the night.
“They’re very smart, very easy to play with, and they know where to be on the ice at different times,” Dornbach said of his linemates. “We had something special…. Communication was a big thing with us, too.”
To complement Harvard’s lethal first line, Bowlby (8–8—16) and Badini (6–8—14) provided top-end speed and were among the Crimson’s most capable skaters when battling larger, physical teams. Sophomore R.J. Murphy (6–5—11), who commonly rounded out a line with Bowlby and Badini, impressed with his year-over-year improvement before an injury cost him seven games and slowed his production after he returned.
Rookie John Farinacci (10–12—22) posted a solid first collegiate season, skating both down the middle and on the wing as he provided versatility in the top nine. Farinacci looks to be a top-six mainstay moving forward.
Of the seven Harvard skaters who eclipsed 20 points in 2019-2020, three of them were defensemen. Rathbone (7–24—31) led the Crimson’s blue line in points and ranked third in the country in per-game scoring among defensemen (1.11). For these accomplishments, he earned CCM/AHCA First Team All-America honors, marking the sixth consecutive year in which a Harvard player has done so.
Walsh (8–19—27) was the veteran on Harvard’s back end, where he added his threatening powerplay presence and savvy puck-moving skills much like Rathbone.
For essentially the entire campaign, Walsh skated beside first-year Henry Thrun (3–18—21), whose precocious two-way game quickly received league-wide attention. For many onlookers, the freshman was the most effective player on the ice in the Crimson’s season-opening win over Dartmouth.
Thrun’s effective play did not stop at his debut; in March, he was named a finalist for the ECAC’s Best Defensive Defenseman award. The point man’s season was emblematic of the hefty contributions Harvard received from its teenagers in 2019-2020.
“I felt prepared for [my debut], but I definitely knew that it was going to be a tough game, obviously being my first college game and playing a team like Dartmouth that we had so much history with,” Thrun said. “Things went well both individually and team-wise. For me, it was super cool.”
Due to significant losses over the summer on the blue line—the team returned just two members from last year’s top six—the performances of several less experienced rearguards were critical in rounding out the Crimson defense this season. Sophomore Marshall Rifai (1–7—8) skated in 30 games in 2019-2020 after seeing action in just six the year prior. His skating and puck-movement at times added a dynamic edge to the third pair. Freshman Ryan Siedem (3–5—8) also bolstered Harvard’s blue line. He skated in every game this season and completed the top four, playing opposite Rathbone.
In net, Gibson (11-8-3, 2.61 GAA, .916 SV%) earned a majority of the starts this season, competing with Gornet (4-2-3, 2.64 GAA, .914 SV%) who posted very similar numbers. The freshman frequently impressed with his rebound control and confidence between the pipes, logging eight appearances with at least a .950 save percentage. His performances tracked his team’s: when the Crimson suffered from inconsistency, Gibson often did, too. Nevertheless, the backstop put forth a promising first collegiate campaign on which he can build moving forward.
THE RETURN
Next season, another highly touted freshman class will join a skilled squad which has benefitted from an extra year of seasoning in 2019-2020. While the status of the 2020-2021 college hockey season remains unclear due to the coronavirus pandemic, the team that Harvard expects to ice next year looks to be as deep and offensively dynamic as any in recent memory.
“We had a bit of a younger team this year, and we learned a lot from starting off really well to the season ending in a crazy way like it did,” Badini said. “I know that the guys returning are going to take all the experiences they had this year into next year, and I think they’re going to be really successful moving forward.”
As always, the program will be tasked with replacing several losses. One such loss is the early departure of Badini, who chose to forego his senior season and inked a professional contract with the Anaheim Ducks organization in late March. For now, Badini is the only player whom the Crimson will lose prematurely. Walsh will return for his senior campaign, bolstering the depth and experience of the back end. Meanwhile, Rathbone has yet to come out publicly with a decision on his professional future. His return would be similarly valuable for Harvard.
The program will also bid farewell to five seniors. Among them is Krusko (3–3—6), who played in 131 contests while seeing his role fluctuate throughout his four years in Cambridge. He chipped in at crucial times during the Crimson’s 2016-2017 Frozen Four season, earning Beanpot MVP as a rookie.
Gornet, also a fourth-year, has provided high-quality backstopping at crucial times throughout his career while receiving the praises of teammates for his character and veteran presence. Fellow graduates Frédéric Grégoire (1–2—3) and Colton Kerfoot (3–5—8) both played over 80 games for Harvard and enjoyed especially productive junior seasons in which they saw their roles expand. Justin Szeto (0–1—1) served as a spark plug for coach Donato over the last two seasons and is the inaugural recipient of the Alford/Brown Faculty Fellow Prize for unsung contributions to the team.
If 2019-2020 demonstrated anything, it is that talent alone does not always yield results. Next season, the Crimson will look to capitalize on its skill while integrating its experience.
“We got to win,” said Drury, when asked what has to change about Harvard hockey next season. “In my tenure here, we haven’t brought home too much hardware. We certainly have the talent for it next year…. We all understand that the time to win is now.”
—Staff writer Spencer R. Morris can be reached at spencer.morris@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @SMorrisTHC.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
The question I received most frequently during my four years at Harvard wasn’t about the classes or the one-of-a-kind opportunities at the College. Rather, it was: “Do you want a career in sports journalism?”
The first few times I confronted this question, I didn’t have an answer. Hell, as a wide-eyed freshman, I didn’t have strong intentions of covering sports for The Crimson, much less pursuing a full-time future in sports journalism. Come to think of it, I can’t even remember what drew me to my first comp meeting at 14 Plympton. Flash forward, though, and being a part of the Sports Board in some ways grew to define my Harvard career.
In the fall of 2016, I tested the sports-writing waters with my earliest (now funny to re-read) stories: women’s volleyball, men’s soccer, and other teams. Back then, the Sports Board was top-heavy, chock-full of juniors and seniors with refined writing skills and high social engagement with the board.
I cherish the time spent with those upperclassmen during my freshman fall: walking across the Charles River with Ariel, Julio, and Kurt to watch soccer or field hockey games; learning the basics of Crimson style from Theresa and Stephen; meeting Sam, Troy, and other future leaders of the board at social events. These moments drew me in. I couldn’t pass up the opportunity to be part of something like that—a group that extended far beyond the bleachers and press boxes—for the next four years.
The comp was fun and informative, but suddenly it was over. It was time to choose a beat or, like some compers inevitably do, fizzle out and find new extracurricular activities. A bit oblivious to the usual pecking order, I submitted an application to a “Big Three” beat: men’s ice hockey. On a top-heavy board, underclassmen didn’t usually contend for the Big Three; those who had proven themselves on smaller beats did. But hockey was my passion—the sport of all sports. Its traditions, reverence for team over individual, and combination of power and finesse are all incredibly unique. And Harvard’s team was really, really good.
Today, I still have no clear recollection of how or why I started down the Sports rabbit hole. This makes it all the more puzzling that freshman Spencer felt compelled to interview for one of the most demanding beats on the board. I am so glad he did, though.
I am endlessly indebted to Jake Meagher, the outgoing men’s hockey writer at the time, for giving me a chance in the interview process, bringing me onto the beat during the program’s 2017 Frozen Four run, and trusting a freshman to take the reins. Jake graduated, and suddenly I faced the challenge of total ownership over the beat.
As I write this, the one emotion that continually surfaces is gratitude. Sportswriters for The Crimson rarely have the chance to cover the same team for four seasons. This is especially the case when that sport is men’s hockey. I’ve had such a singular opportunity to cultivate multi-year relationships with coach Ted Donato, his players, and the surrounding staff of athletic trainers, equipment managers, and hockey operations directors. My interactions with all of these people proved progressively more rewarding as time went on.
The men’s hockey program was so patient and gracious to me. Ted and his players made themselves available at my weekly visits to practice and after every game, even when the results were disheartening or when a full bus was waiting outside the rink for a long overnight trip back to Cambridge. One of my favorite morsels from covering men’s hockey was seeing the players’ faces when we locked eyes outside the visiting locker room at a faraway rink. I had traveled across the Northeast to watch them skate and take a few quotes afterward while having other student obligations just like them. When the guys played well, they read about it in my stories. When they didn’t, the same was true. From all of this, I think, respect developed between the program and me.
That respect is the foundation of my enjoyment covering the team over the last seven semesters. It drastically improved the quality of my interviews. It allowed me to gain access that few professional college hockey beat writers can attain. It meant that, if I simply kept my eyes open and my ear to the ground, I would ask the right questions and get to know and appreciate a group of student-athletes who are so often misunderstood on Harvard’s campus.
The Harvard men’s hockey players I knew were solid teammates and even better friends to each other. They were open to growing under the mentorship of Ted Donato and his staff. They were at the pinnacle of their craft but still made time for me as a lowly beat writer. They cared about their academics and embraced the difficulty in balancing the student and the athlete.
On their side of the river, too, I was part of something meaningful. For that, I’ll be eternally grateful.
I’m thankful for the good music, thoughtful discussions, and sometimes questionable dinners on long road trips with Stuti, Tim, and Amanda. I’m thankful for the mid-practice and late-night musings about the team with Jeff and Paul. I’m thankful for the opportunity to watch over 30 high-quality hockey games a year and preserve my connection with the game I love. I’m thankful for my seats in the press boxes at Madison Square Garden, TD Garden, Lynah Rink, and most of all the Bright-Landry Hockey Center. And I’m thankful for the community of sports fans and beat writers at 14p, the countless meetings and stories, Champagne Showers, Final Press Run, and all the friendships that bloomed from these memories.
Whether The Crimson is part of your Harvard experience or not, I urge you to be part of something. It’ll give you so much to be thankful for.
Sections
To our readers:
It goes without saying that 2020 has been a year unlike any other in recent history. When the Ivy League, and soon thereafter the entire NCAA, announced their decisions to cancel spring and ongoing winter sports seasons in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic, the collegiate sports world changed indelibly. As student-athletes saw their seasons disappear, the question of how to approach a commencement issue loomed for the sports board. How could we possibly determine end-of-year honors and review the year when so many sports were missing? Well, imperfectly.
You will notice that we follow a format relatively similar to past sports commencement editions, with end-of-year honors, senior perspectives, parting shots, and other features. Superlatives such as “team of the year,” “athletes of the year,” and “rookies of the year” still appear in the edition. At the same time, “Year in Sports 2020” is very different due to the absence of spring sports from our end-of-year honors. And this is certainly a disservice to all of the spring student-athletes who deserve recognition. In our senior perspectives, we hope to give voices to a handful of student-athletes who could not finish their careers due to the pandemic, but we know this recognition is just a couple of articles. At the same time, however, we still wanted to do something relatively normal during very abnormal times. And while we did not cover all of the teams and individuals that did complete their seasons in this commencement edition, we feel as though the “Year in Sports 2020” offers a view into some of the seminal moments of the past season of Harvard Athletics. Thus, we continued with the commencement edition as best as we could, recognizing the void that the lack of spring sports leaves in this issue.
Going forward, we hope to continue telling student-athlete stories, and we look forward to a time when we truly do have a “year” in sports to review, and not just two-thirds of one.
Sincerely,
William C. Boggs ‘22 | Sports Chair
Joseph W. Minatel ‘21 | Sports Chair
Sections
For many athletes, elevated expectations come with crippling performance challenges.
But as Harvard squash champion Gina Kennedy went from being one of the top performers in the country to becoming the player to beat in all of women’s college squash, she dazzled under the spotlight.
In her first two years for the Crimson, Kennedy’s accomplishments were many: She brought home her first individual national championship and the Ivy League Rookie of the Year award as a first-year, and an undefeated regular-season record as a sophomore.
By the time she entered the 2019-20 campaign, “in the challenge matches, with her teammates, in the Ivy scrimmage, in every match, in the individuals — she was expected to win,” said Harvard squash head coach Mike Way. “That is a very, very tough position.”
But Kennedy, a senior co-captain, wrapped up a banner four-year career with the Crimson with perhaps her best season yet, leading Harvard to its sixth straight national championship and capturing the College Squash Association’s Individual Championship title.
“A lot of expectation was on us to follow up on the amazing season that we had last year,” Kennedy said. “It was always just taking it one day at a time, just focusing on being the best that we can be every training session, day in, day out.”
Kennedy’s final team performance for Harvard came in the form of a 10-7 victory over Princeton University’s Elle Ruggiero in the Howe Cup final, which Harvard won 6-1 to finish off its fifth straight undefeated season.
“As a senior, it was such a special moment to win for the last time with your team,” she said.
But her season was far from over. Just over one week later, Kennedy capped off her college career by capturing her third CSA Individual Championship title in four years, solidifying her status as the nation’s top female squash competitor.
Squash is practically unique in its structure of being both a team and an individual sport. Two weeks after celebrating the Howe Cup title in New Haven, Conn., Kennedy faced many of her teammates as opponents in the individual tournament. She knocked off her co-captain and longtime best friend, Amelia Henley, in the semifinals before defeating another Harvard teammate, Hana Moataz, in the championship round.
Kennedy said she is used to the dynamic. She spent many of her teenage years in the United Kingdom training with — and then competing against — Henley, whom she met at age nine and has roomed with at Harvard for the last three years. Way also puts an emphasis on learning to compete against teammates by having players compete in challenge matches against other Harvard players nearly every week — a tactic that he said has helped to set the program apart.
“I’ve definitely been used to having to manage that, having had Amelia in my life and being competitive against her, but being best friends off the court,” Kennedy said.
Henley said she and Kennedy — who served as the Crimson’s co-captains this season — were competitive growing up, but that there was “never any bad blood” between the two.
“We both brought each other along,” Henley said. “As soon as we stepped off that court, we were best friends. It was just an amazing opportunity for both of us to go to Harvard. To be able to have her by my side for the whole four years I’m so grateful for. She has always been so encouraging of me and all her teammates.”
Way, who describes Kennedy as a “quiet warrior,” said he saw her develop after she made the decision to pursue playing professionally after graduation.
“Once you’ve made that decision — when you graduate, you’re not going to go out and get a job, you’re actually going to compete with the best in the world — that actually feeds something quite powerful inside,” he said.
Kennedy focused her training throughout the season on the individual championships. Following the graduation of several key teammates and training partners last spring, she said she spent more time this winter practicing with the boys’ team, which Way also coaches.
“I had to put a lot more thought into my training this year,” Kennedy said.
Now, though, Kennedy has been off the court for the longest period of time since she began playing seriously at age nine due to the coronavirus.
“I can’t ever remember taking two months without hitting a ball, so I’m definitely very excited to get back,” Kennedy said.
“It’s very difficult to train, and it’s not going to be the same, but I’m just trying to keep fit and keep my body healthy right now,” she added.
Kennedy’s college squash career, though, was unaffected: The season wrapped up mere days before the virus upended life on campus.
“I’ll be forever grateful that we got to finish it,” Kennedy said.
—Staff writer Jasper G. Goodman can be reached at jasper.goodman@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @Jasper_Goodman.
On the second day of the Valentine Invitational at nearby BU, a Harvard runner would make history. Senior cross country and track star Kieran Tuntivate broke the once unthinkable four-minute barrier in the mile, crossing the finish line in 3:57.36. This blistering time set an all-time Crimson record and etched Tuntivate’s name forever into the history books of Harvard Athletics. However, to get a full picture of Kieran Tuntivate’s season, it is best to look back to the end of last year.
Last season, the then-junior made national news when he ran the 3k at the Ivy League Indoor Track Heptagonal Championships in 8:12, winning the race. The most amazing part about this race was the fact that Kieran’s spikes started causing him trouble about 300m into the race, and by 500m, he had ditched one of his shoes entirely. This means that the standout runner ran the remaining 2500m with one shoe, exposing his blistering foot to the track. He closed the race hard, picked up the win, and the following day recovered enough to win the 5k at the same meet. This was the story of Tuntivate last year. The story that pushed us to nominate him to win Male Performance of the Year for the Harvard Crimson as the one-shoe wonder. This year, his shoes have remained on, and his performances have only improved.
Tuntivate made his season debut in a dual meet against Yale on tired legs, having trained throughout the week, placing third behind a pair of Bulldog runners. This trend would not last. The following week at the Battle of Beantown, a 24-team race that included ranked opponents, Tuntivate had one of his best races of his Harvard career. The Delaware product beat the entire field of runners by 12 seconds with a time of 23:58, setting his own personal best in the 8k by over 20 seconds. However, Kieran’s eyes were set on a much loftier goal.
“It’s true I won HEPs last year but our team was second and also missed out on qualifying for nationals,” said Tuntivate following the meet. “I’m motivated because I want our team to win HEPs and get to nationals. I want to do my part in helping that happen.”
After the team secured a second-place finish at the Ivy League Cross Country Heptagonal Championships, Tunitvate was named to the All-Ivy League Second Team. It was on to nationals for the Crimson, who was looking for its best finish as a program in many decades. After a last-minute dramatic change from the traditional course to a road course because of a snow storm, Tuntivate placed second in the 10k with fellow senior Will Battershill finishing just behind in third. This run qualified the team for nationals.
“My favorite moment was definitely New England Cross Country Regionals,” said Tuntivate when asked about his season. “I crossed the finish line next to my teammate Will for second and third and then turned around and saw our freshman Colin Baker get seventh and our four and five guys shortly after. We had high hopes entering that meet but I think the team exceeded them.”
At nationals, the team placed 15th, its best finish since 1968. Kieran led the way in 28th place with a time of 31:12.7. This run was good enough for Tuntivate to be selected as a USTFCCCA All-American, the seventh Harvard runner to receive the honor. This finish ended the cross country portion of Tuitivate’s season, ending the year with many team and individual accolades and writing himself into the Crimson history books. However, his best was yet to come.
On Feb. 17, at the beginning of the indoor track season, Tuntivate had his best race yet. The senior ran a blistering 3:57.36 to win the illustrious mile event, placing second in the Ivy League all-time and ninth in the NCAA for the whole season. This performance topped even his one-shoe legendary HEPs finish the year before and his incredible cross country feats from the season prior.
To close out his season too early, the All-American ran the same race that started his legacy one year prior. In the 8k at the Ivy League Heptagonal Championships, the senior crossed the line in 8:28.90, good enough to win the event for the second year in a row, defending his title from the year before. Battershill again finished right behind Tuntivate in second, another nice moment for the two seniors. Tuntivate went on to win the 5k as well crossing the finish line with a blistering time of 14:20.65. These wins qualified Tuntivate for nationals, which were canceled due to COVID-19. Despite missing out on the chance to run at nationals, Tuntivate’s career as a runner is far from over.
“Personally I want to do well at nationals, I don’t know what event I’ll do but we’ll see,” said Kieran before COVID-19 put plans on pause. “And then I definitely will continue running post collegiately, hopefully, take a shot at going to the Olympics and world championships next year as well.”
Now, having missed out on his chance to run at nationals, Tuntivate’s plans are less certain. Often, nationals are a chance to prove yourself as a runner on a major stage. However, post-cancellation, the now-graduating senior still has goals left in his running career.
“I’m hoping to run professionally,” said Tuntivate when asked what’s next for the standout runner. “I’m applying for grad schools where I could run another year as a backup plan.”
Kieran Tunitvate will leave Harvard with school records in the mile, the 3k, and the 10k. He earned All-American honors in cross country and was named an All-American in the 3k and the mile for track & field. The Delaware product was also a five-time Ivy League Champion and has the best time in the 3k and the second-best mile time in Ivy League history. Tuntivate had a decorated college career for the Crimson and will go down as one of the best Harvard runners ever. In addition, Tuntivate had an impact not just as a performer but on the team as a whole, and his teammates know it.
“I can’t think of anyone more deserving of this award than Kieran. His accomplishments are truly remarkable, but as a teammate, he is so much more than a list of times and races won,” said senior captain Charlie Davis about his teammate. “Kieran’s competitive spirit, dedication, and hard work are infectious. He makes everyone around him better, and we would not have accomplished what we did this year without him. I am very lucky and proud to have been on the same team as him.”
Tuntivate’s commitment to excellence both on and off the track makes him a perfect selection for this year’s Male Athlete of the Year.
— Staff writer William Connaughton can be reached at william.connaughton@thecrimson.com.
Sections
“When you see someone that far ahead on the races at the Ivy Championships — and just keep going...that's when you know you've got someone special to work with,” said head coach Stephanie Morawski ‘92, The Costin Family Head Coach for Harvard Women's Swimming & Diving, regarding first-year Felicia Pasadyn.
It is not normal to be winning multiple races at the Ivy League Swimming and Diving Championships by several seconds, where races are often determined by fractions of a second. Nor is it normal to win every event you swim in at a championship meet — but that’s exactly what Pasadyn did this February at the Katherine Moran Coleman Aquatics Center at Brown University in Providence, R.I.
Pasadyn swam a 1:55.88 to win the 200-yard IM, beating Princeton’s Christie Chong by over two seconds, setting a new program and pool record in the process, while posting an NCAA B-cut qualifying time.
Later, on the third day of the meet, she beat the longest-held program record, which was set in 2012 by Courtney Otto ‘16, by two seconds as she won the 400 IM. She won the event with another pool record, touching the wall in 4:08.47, almost an incredible six seconds ahead of second place.
“There wasn't a second at all, as you're watching her race, where she’s thinking, ‘Oh, I can just back off and touch the wall,’” said Morawski. “She just kept trying to increase her leads — and that was something pretty special to watch.”
Pasadyn continued to dominate on night four of competition as she won the 200-yard backstroke with yet another program record and meet record in 1:52.56, finishing over two seconds ahead of teammate Samantha Shelton ‘22.
In addition to earning Ivy League champion honors in three individual events, she swam in three relays, all of which placed first: the 200-yard medley, 800-yard freestyle, and 400-yard freestyle. The 200-yard medley set a new program record in 1:37.81, beating Princeton by five-hundredths of a second. The 800-yard freestyle finished in 6:59.92, the fourth-fastest time in the nation, an NCAA A-cut qualifying time, which also obliterated the previous program record by more than five seconds, setting a new meet record. Finally, in the last race of the meet, the 400-yard freestyle squad set yet another Harvard, meet, and pool record in 3:14.48, another NCAA A-cut qualifying time.
“One of the things that Felicia has that separates her from many people in the country is her ability to be tired and never, ever give up,” said Morawski. "She just keeps pushing through, and when you [see] it day in and day out in the pool and practice, you know it's going to translate at the end of the season.”
All in all, Pasadyn earned six All-Ivy First-Team honors and All-American status in her first year of collegiate competition, demonstrating time and time again that she’s able to compete at the highest level, even having missed a week of practice due to sickness in the lead-up to the meet.
Reflecting upon her transition from high school to college swimming, Pasadyn explained that being around teammates who share the same passion for swimming and “want to work incredibly hard to achieve their goals” impacted her swimming much more than she thought it would.
“I would say that the upperclassmen mostly have taught me that the idea of swimming is not really about the pool,” she said. “It's mostly about the relationships you make, and who you go through those hard sets with, and the relationships you make with the coaches. That’s ultimately what HWSD [Harvard Women’s Swim and Dive] is.”
Among those mentors who have been a big part of Felicia’s transition to college swimming is none other than her older sister, Cassandra Pasadyn ‘21, who was recently named co-captain for the upcoming 2020-2021 season. Felicia explained how nice it is to have a family member there with her every step of the way, whether it be the ability to walk over to her dorm and eat dinner together if she was stressed, or just having someone there to show her the ropes and what it means to be a part of the team.
“It’s like a little piece of home,” Morawski said in regards to having a sibling on the team, while adding, “It’s a lot of fun.” The Padasyn parents came to several meets and were able to be there in the stands at the Ivy League Championship meet.
However, Cassandra is not the only other Pasadyn sibling to compete at Harvard. Selena Pasadyn ‘16 ran cross country and track for the Crimson, and Felicia herself also went through part of the college recruiting process for running before choosing to swim, a choice she’s very happy with. Luckily, throughout the quarantine, Felicia has been able to lean on running as a large part of her adjusted training regimen, given the lack of pool access. “I do feel that giving my mind and body a break from swimming will make me only love it more when I go back, and not take it for granted,” she said.
Morawski recounted that, on the day the team found out that NCAA nationals would be canceled, Felicia nonetheless got in the pool and swam a workout by herself, which is a testament to her drive and focus. “In her mind, she might not have NCAA, but at that time it was still ‘I have Olympic Trials’ or ‘I have three more years left,” said Morawski. “She has this ability to reset and refocus very quickly...and it’s that ability that’s her mental toughness right there.”
Among the uncertainty of what the fall and next season may bring, having acknowledged that there is no idea of what next semester may look like at the moment, Morawski also expressed, “We are hopeful that we have a championship meet in February of 2021. The process to get there will look very, very different. But as long as we have a meet that we want to win, they need to figure out a way to train,” which doesn’t always have to be training. Focusing on any little thing to help improve, whether it be flexibility or a positive mindset, will help improve for 2021, and the team has been quite successful at staying connected during the quarantine.
Pasadyn was set to compete in the 2020 Olympic Trials and is excited to compete in the rescheduled 2021 trials. She has qualified in the 200 free, 100 back, 200 back, 200 IM, and 400 IM. “Even if I’m not posting best times, I think it’ll be a wonderful experience,” she said.
Among all her accomplishments, Pasadyn remains humble and emphasizes, “I think it's just important to remember that swimming — it's not really about the times you post, and it's not really always about the place you get. I think it's just about doing something you love.”
Despite not knowing when there will be access to a pool or a normal training regiment, Pasadyn said, “I just do know that I’m so thankful to have HWSD...throughout quarantine, along with my family members of course… I think the future’s looking positive even if we don’t know what the future holds.”
— Staff writer Zing Gee can be reached at zing.gee@thecrimson.com.
Sections
The Crimson is not the only entity to give first-year forward Nick Abruzzese post-season accolades: his conference already has. The ECAC labeled him the rookie of the year in men’s ice hockey, thanks to a 44-point 2019-20 campaign. The conference also reserved spots for the first-year forward on the all-ECAC First Team and the ECAC All-Rookie team. The 14-goal and 30-assist season did not just resonate in New England: the high-flying numbers garnered national recognition, earning him Second-Team All-American honors from CCM/AHCA Hockey. After all, a 1.42 points-per-game average did rank second in the NCAA, topped only by Jack Dugan of Providence.
Digging deeper into the points breakdown, Abruzzese showcased his knack as a facilitator, more than doubling his impressive goal total with his assist numbers. Abruzzese averaged just about an assist per game on a powerful line that featured sophomore forwards Jack Drury and Casey Dornbach, who had 20 and 12 goals respectively, aided in part by Abruzzese’s ability to get them the puck.
“His [Abruzzese’s] vision, his skating, his hands are all incredible,” said Drury in a February interview with The Crimson. “He understands how to play give-and-go hockey. He’s one of the best passers I’ve ever seen… It’s been nice to at least find a little chemistry this year.”
Indeed, when evaluating the linemates, head coach Ted Donato ‘91 noted their ability to play off of each other and complement each other’s games, a characteristic that syncs with Abruzzese’s ability to facilitate.
“As far as Dornbach, Drury, and Abruzzese [are concerned], I think they’re real students of the game,” Donato said. “They found ways to share the puck and utilize each other’s strengths to be successful.”
Abruzzese is not just a passer though — his potential to score timely goals also merits attention. In his 14-goal campaign, three times he put up two-goal games, and not just in any games. In October against Dartmouth, albeit in a scrimmage, Abruzzese showed the stage was not too bright with two goals in his collegiate debut. In an upset of a top-10 Clarkson team, the first-year again came through with two goals. And finally, in a rivalry game against Yale, a contest in which the Crimson trailed 4-1, Abruzzese spearheaded the comeback. The rookie skater not only added two goals but also contributed two assists, involving himself on every score en route to Harvard clawing back to a 4-4 tie.
Diving deeper into his stats, there are other reasons to take note of the rookie season. Three game-winning goals emphasize his trend of timely scoring. 18 power-play points from Abruzzese powered the already high-octane unit that would go on to convert 31.2% of the time. And with only four penalty minutes on the season, the forward managed to avoid the sin bin almost entirely.
With the pros of the accolades and numbers that Abruzzese and his linemates put up, however, come some cons. Next season, the trio will not only have earned the attention of the coaches and media but also of fellow competitors.
“The challenge for them is to find ways to make their offensive success more versatile so that they can find success in different styles of games or different defensive scenarios that they might face,” Donato said. “The challenge also becomes being able to do it again when people are even paying more attention to you.”
Despite future challenges and inevitable opportunities for improvement, Abruzzese’s rookie season offers a promising building block for the Crimson. In fact, his hockey career continues to trend upward. Before Harvard, while playing for the Chicago Steel of the USHL, Abruzzese turned in an 80-point effort in a 62-game 2018-2019 season. The numbers caught the eye of the Toronto Maple Leafs, who selected Abruzzese with the 124th overall pick in the 2019 NHL Draft. With 2019-2020 in the books, Crimson supporters are not the only ones that have taken note, nor will they be the only ones paying close attention to what he has in store next in a Harvard uniform.
— Staff writer William Boggs can be reached at william.boggs@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @BoggsTHC.
Sections
The 136th rendition of The Game would prove historic in more ways than one. Protestors occupied the field during halftime, stalling the second half of play for roughly an hour. The game proceeded into near-darkness as a result of the delay and the 105-year-old Yale Bowl’s deficiency in the area of lighting fixtures. The Bulldogs overcame a 17-point deficit and completed the comeback with a victory in the second overtime. And, Harvard’s unassuming first-year running back Aidan Borguet set the rushing record and tied the scoring record for the historic rivalry.
A Franklinville, N.J., native, Borguet’s talent was immediately recognized by the coaching staff, and they gave him snaps in his first collegiate contest against San Diego. In this inaugural contest, quarterback Jake Smith dished him the ball three times, on which Borguet netted eight yards. By the second contest, he had found his sea legs and took 11 carries for 84 yards and his first score against division rival Brown — his season’s most productive contest exempting Yale.
“We know he’s a terrific player,” Harvard Coach Tim Murphy said. “He’s one of those kids where you don’t know quite what you have until you have it.”
With the Crimson’s run-by-committee lineup, Borguet spent the season trading reps with junior running back Devin Darrington and junior wideout B.J. Watson, who took screen passes to the wing. Entering the contest with the Bulldogs, Borguet had accrued half as many carries and nearly half as many yards as Darrington. The Yale Daily News’ preview of the contest listed Darrington and Smith as the “anchor[s]” of the Harvard offense, exempting any mention of Borguet.
To be sure, Darrington took opening reps at the spot for the Crimson in that November contest. Borguet didn’t touch the ball until late in the second quarter. Just inside the two-minute mark, on first-and-10 from the Bulldogs’ 47, Borguet got the give and took it the distance. The sprint, which pushed Harvard’s lead to 12, would be the shortest touchdown run of Borguet’s four-score day.
The Bulldogs exhausted the rest of the first-half time, and Harvard took the opening kick of the second half. When the Crimson offense entered the field to open the final half of play, so too did Borguet. Smith tossed an errant throw before returning to the first-year back, who netted four yards on the give. Smith went to the air twice more, both falling incomplete, but a pass interference against Watson reset the downs. Borguet took Smith’s ensuing give the required 59 yards for the score.
Harvard’s next offensive drive proceeded in much the same manner. Borguet ran first for five yards, and took the next give for 60 and six points. The Crimson assumed a 16-point lead, up 29-13.
“We don’t really focus on the scoreboard,” Yale quarterback Kurt Rawlings said. “I mean knowing how much time is left is important. I just tell them, ‘guys, enjoy these last moments, enjoy the moments in the game, just take it all in and have fun, do your job and just have fun.’”
A drive that featured Darrington disrupted the Borguet streak. That drive, hamstrung by a sack and a pass that lost five yards, could not be salvaged by Darrington’s 13-yard sprint. Harvard punted and Yale quickly returned the favor.
In the crescendo of the Crimson's productivity in the contest, Borguet took the second snap of the drive the full 67-yards to the endzone. His fourth score of the evening placed Harvard in good position, ahead 36-19 with 13 minutes left to play. As for Borguet, the run was but his sixth of the afternoon. Here, against the soon-to-be Ivy League champions, the breakout running back had averaged 40.3 yards per carry.
The Crimson went to the Borguet five more times throughout the contest. He finished with 11 carries for 269 yards, in addition to affixing his name to two rivalry records. During the postgame press conference, a lone coach Murphy praised his first-year back after speaking to the pain of the loss.
“He’s a tremendous football player and a great competitor,” Murphy said. “He’s got great physicality and he’s got finishing speed. The irony is that he was a triple-option running back with his hand on the ground.”
For his efforts in this contest, Borguet was named FCS National Rookie of the Week and Ivy League Rookie of the Week. On the heels of his record-breaking performance, he was awarded Ivy League Rookie of the Year and landed a third-team selection to the All-Ivy League team.
“Aidan’s a very patient runner,” Murphy said. “He’s a very strong runner, he’s got good vision and balance, and he’s a hell of a football player.”
—Staff writer Cade Palmer can be reached at cade.palmer@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @THC_CadePalmer.
Sections
Over 102 minutes of game-play had elapsed, and even still, a winner had not yet been crowned. Everything was on the line as the mid-afternoon crept into the evening. The Harvard Crimson and the Yale Bulldogs had split the first two games of the ECAC quarterfinal series, meaning that this triple-overtime finish in game three would decide it all. The loser’s season would end, and the winner would advance to the ECAC championship weekend.
“We were sticking together, and we knew it was going to come down to who is mentally stronger and mentally tougher,” sophomore goaltender Lindsay Reed said.
By the time that things were all said and done, the teams had skated to the longest ECAC playoff game since 2010. After more than two periods of scoreless action, the game-winning goal finally emerged. Junior forward Becca Gilmore propelled the Crimson into the next round and into simultaneous feelings of pure joy, exhaustion, relief, disbelief, and celebration.
“You’re exhausted,” Gilmore said. “You’re not in disbelief that it went in, but it was like ‘Finally, it took three overtimes.’ [It’s] completely blissful and joyful...being able to just huddle around all the teammates and all the fans that stuck through six periods.”
With the win, Harvard reached a benchmark not just for the season but for the program. Returning to championship weekend had eluded the Crimson and served as one of the goals for the season. With the win, Harvard returned to the championship weekend for the first time since 2015 and preserved its NCAA Tournament hopes for the time being.
The path to the ECAC semifinals, however, was not easy, which goes without saying when a team has to play over 100 minutes to advance. A 60-minute game already requires a great deal of stamina from all the players, so one can imagine the challenges that 100 minutes present. That said, the Harvard squad felt prepared for the unforeseen circumstances thanks to a rigorous training program.
“Our coaches definitely prepared us a ton for a three-overtime game, and I’m not even kidding,” Gilmore said. “We brought our favorite drills into the locker room [between periods]. This is why we get skated so much. This is why we are exhausted at the end of all of our practices — it was to prepare for this moment. When you’re in the practices, you love the sport, but you’re definitely exhausted, and you don’t understand why we’re doing such a high-intensity drill. It’s games like [Yale] that show [why].”
The challenges of the marathon game extended beyond the physical. The game had been back and forth from the beginning, with no team ever holding a two-goal lead. Harvard had scored first, but the Bulldogs evened at 1-1. When the Crimson scored its second, Yale countered with an equalizer before Harvard could find its third goal. And the alternating in the scoring had not ended yet.
In the final seconds of the game, the Crimson had put itself in prime position to advance to the semifinals, pulling ahead to a 3-2 lead with just 1:16 remaining in regulation. Overtime had seemed likely with 90 seconds to go but all of the sudden did not after Harvard’s late-game tally. Just about a minute later, however, overtime became imminent again. With an extra attacker on the ice, Yale maintained high pressure. As a point blast careened towards the net, traffic circled in front of Reed. Yale sophomore forward Claire Dalton made that traffic count, deflecting the puck in with just 14 seconds left in the third period. With the score locked at 3-3 and the momentum back in Bulldog control, Harvard had to regroup in the pre-overtime intermission.
“It takes character. We all came in definitely with our heads down a little bit, but right away...it was ‘Hey, we’re still in this. We’ve dominated for most of the play. There are lucky bounces,’” Gilmore said. “We were prepared. That was our [sixth] overtime experience, most when we were ahead and had to fight through. The hockey game is definitely a game of mistakes, and you just have to bear with it and stay positive. Our team did a really good job of not dwelling on it, not pointing fingers...and coming out with the win together.”
With regulation complete and both teams having the time in the locker room to reorganize, the first overtime period began. Both teams pushed several promising chances to the opposing net and scrapped to protect their own goals. After all, each team’s season could end with one stray bounce of the puck, and the pace of play showed this urgency. Nonetheless, the clock ticked away, and still, no one had managed to score. While playoff and tournament overtimes are unlimited until someone scores, regular-season games end in a tie after one five-minute extra session. For most anyone involved, even those who had played longer overtime and shootout games before, triple-digit minutes were still unprecedented. Eventually, the unusual circumstances of triple overtime dawned on the players.
“You have to laugh about it a little,” Reed said. “You’re kind of like ‘Wow, we’re going into the second overtime. Wow, we’re going into the third overtime. What is happening?’ Coach would come in between the periods and be like, ‘Alright, second overtime, I’ll give you two days off now. Third overtime, three days off.’ Using the comedy aspect helped ease the tension and pressure because it was next goal and your season is over.”
Amidst the exhaustion of four hours and 21 minutes of gameplay, the roller coaster of emotions in a back-and-forth game, and the realization that something truly strange and incredible was happening, it all suddenly came to an end with one shot. At nearly 6:30 p.m. Gilmore pounced on a loose puck in front of Yale junior goaltender Gianna Meloni, off of a feed from co-captain and forward Kat Hughes, and powered it into the back of the net.
The Crimson’s season did end six days later on March 7 at the hands of top-seeded Cornell, and indeed all NCAA seasons ended on March 12 as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. Since the end of the season, the team has begun its preparation for next year. Junior defender Emma Buckles and junior goaltender Becky Dutton have been selected as captains, and the 2024 recruiting class has been announced. And while uncertainty about the fall semester and upcoming sports seasons remains, the lasting effects and memories of this game will persist nonetheless.
“It really bonds us together,” Reed said. “It shows that, no matter what happens, our mentality as a team is ‘We’re tough.’ You can take us to three overtimes, but in our own locker room, we know that we can still overcome our situation.”
—Staff writer William Boggs can be reached at william.boggs@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @BoggsTHC.
Sections
On Mignone Field, in front of a large and boisterous home crowd, the Harvard women’s rugby team defeated Army West Point 18-7 to be named the 2019 National Intercollegiate Rugby Association (NIRA) National Champions for the first time in program history. After a season full of adversity and a couple stinging losses, the team pulled together to achieve a historic season.
In 2017, Harvard named Mel Denham the new head coach of women’s rugby at Harvard. While the team has managed to be extremely successful in the past few years, it has experienced a lot of rebuilding and preparation in order to be great. This year the team combined all of the hard work and perseverance from the past few years in order to be crowned the 2019 National Champions.
“This championship was built by more than just this team, but by the generations of Radcliffe Rugby before us that brought our team to this level through their hard work and example,” junior Gabrielle Fernandopulle said. “We are most proud that we won together, as a family.”
Harvard dominated most of its regular-season competitions. In both games versus the Quinnipiac Bobcats, the Crimson won by a margin of over 45 points. Harvard managed an impressive shut-out against Notre Dame College (Ohio), where the Crimson scored over 100 points. The team also defeated its Ivy League competitor, Brown, 42-14 to end its regular season. Harvard’s only loss of the regular season was against Army West Point in early September — a loss the Crimson was able to avenge at the very end of post-season when it mattered most.
A key feature of this momentous season was the rivalry between Dartmouth and Harvard.
Two years ago, the Crimson fell to the Big Green in each of its three matchups. Dartmouth retained its Ivy League title for the third year in a row.
Early in the season last year (2018), Harvard fell to Dartmouth in a blowout, 55-13. But the Crimson was able to find the strength to defeat the Big Green in the Ivy League Championship, earning only its second Ivy tournament title in program history. Just a few weeks later, however, Dartmouth crushed Harvard’s dreams of becoming National Champions, with a 19-14 victory in the NIRA National Championship.
The back-and-forth of wins and losses between these two Ivy League contenders failed to cease this season. The Crimson enjoyed an important victory against the Big Green early in 2019, winning comfortably, 50-32. But about a month later, Dartmouth retaliated in the Ivy League Championship. On Harvard’s turf, the Big Green reclaimed the Ivy League title, 41-22.
Two weeks later, the two teams met again at Mignone field to compete in the NIRA tournament semifinals. Both teams played an aggressive game, recognizing its importance: the opportunity to play for the National Championship title, or the end to a long, demanding season. Penalty kicks and tries alternated between the competitors for the two, forty-minute halves, and the outcome of the game was decided in the final couple minutes. Down two points with just over a minute left to play, junior Milan Roberts put the Crimson on top, 23-22, with a successful penalty kick. Dartmouth was unable to answer, and Harvard was on its way to the National Championship match.
Following the Crimson’s loss to the Big Green in the Ivy Championship, senior captain Emily Prentice was asked about the Harvard-Dartmouth rivalry.
“We make each other better and we push each other. Having Dartmouth in the Ivy League with us is just not only helping our team advance, but it also helps advance Ivy League rugby in general,” Prentice said. “It’s exciting because at any given point it could go either way. It is a really special opportunity to play them multiple times a year.”
Needless to say, the rivalry between these two Ivy League schools was present and profound in the 2019 season.
But the season did not end with the crucial win over Dartmouth. Harvard still had to face the team who handed it the only loss of its regular season: Army West Point. Once again, the Crimson had the advantage of playing on its home field in front of a large home crowd, and the opportunity to take revenge for a previous defeat.
While the Black Knights scored a try within the first few minutes, the team did not see its end zone a second time. Harvard responded with 18 unanswered points to secure the win, 18-7.
On this freezing, snowy day in November, the Crimson was named NIRA National Champions in front of friends, family, and other Harvard rugby supporters.
“The crowd we had was amazing; having fans who showed up even in the weather created such an incredibly unique experience for all of us,” Prentice said. “Having all of that support from the department, the student body, other teams, and our friends made all the difference. It meant so much for us to win the National Championship in front of everyone.”
Yet, the success of this significant team did not end with this title. A remarkable number of ten members on this team were awarded NIRA All-American honors. Senior Robyn Beese, juniors Erica Jarrell and Erin Wright, sophomores Cassidy Bargell and Sofie Fella, and first-years Brogan Mior and Achele Agada received first-team recognition. Seniors Dominique Cantave, Delia Hellander, and Emily Prentice received honorable mention.
The road to becoming National Champions was strenuous and intense, but the team was able to perform at its best in the final moments of the rugby season and will undoubtedly be remembered as one of the greatest teams in the program’s history.
— Staff writer Lucy Connor can be reached at lucy.connor@thecrimson.com.
Sections
“I don’t think there was a feeling of anxiety or nervousness around the team, but I think that people definitely knew the pressure that was on us,” sophomore goalie Noah Hodge said. “Preparation-wise, everyone knew we just had to go out there and do what we’ve been doing all year.”
The Harvard men’s water polo team entered the Northeast Water Polo Conference Championship on November 24 riding a program-best 28-0 undefeated record. They sat at No. 9 in the country, and the No. 1 seed in the conference tournament, slated to face off against the No. 2 seed and No. 19 team in the nation, the Princeton Tigers, who had defeated them the previous year in the same game. An automatic bid to the NCAA Tournament awaited the winner.
To add to the already monumental stakes, head coach Ted Minnis had secured his 199th win with the men’s program the day prior in a 15-9 victory over St. Francis. Harvard entered the matchup with the stage set for a chance to secure Minnis’s 200th career win with the program, a historic feat.
The Class of 2020 was already the winningest class in Harvard history, and Hodge revealed that after they got Minnis his 100th win, “They made a promise that they wanted to be there and win his 200th game for him.”
All of this made it that much more special when time expired, and the scoreboard read 8-7 in favor of the Crimson, minutes after sophomore Alex Tsotadze nailed a penalty shot with less than four minutes remaining in the fourth quarter to put the Crimson up for good.
In the first quarter, Harvard and Princeton traded goals, entering the second tied at 2-2. Then, the Tigers took the lead to 4-2 before the Crimson responded with a 3-0 run to make it 5-4 at the half. Late in the third, the teams went back-and-forth again until the match was even 6-6. Harvard went down 7-6 in the fourth before responding with 7:51 left, eventually sealing the deal as the defense held resolute after Tsotadze’s penalty shot.
“All of our games were kind of high-scoring,” said Hodge, but “this game was close,” and “whoever held the tighter defense, in the end, was going to win that game, and we knew that going in.” The matchup was only one of two times this past season where the Crimson did not reach double-digit scoring.
The tournament took place two T-stops away at MIT's Al '51 & Barrie Zesiger Sports and Fitness Center, a neutral site for the Crimson and Tigers, but effectively a home advantage for Harvard, meaning the entire women’s team and a slew of Harvard faithful were there to cheer the squad on. The women’s team unveiled a sign congratulating Coach Minnis on his 200th career win, and Minnis said, “To be in the pool celebrating with them and looking up and seeing the women’s team with the sign... just really kind of made me feel how special our program is and how much of a family we really are.”
The win capped off an incredible four years for the seniors as it became their third conference championship. It was also the third time in a row they faced Princeton in the final. In 2016 they topped Princeton 12-11 in the semi-final before beating Brown for the conference championship, and in 2017 they bested the Tigers 12-11 in overtime to secure back-to-back championships. The 2018 season met a tough end when they lost to Princeton 12-10, but this defeat proved to be instrumental in kickstarting the team’s success during the 2019 campaign (which included two other wins over the Tigers in the regular season).
Minnis, who was recognized as the NWPC Coach of the Year, revealed that the 2018 finals loss ended up being “huge for us just recentering…our offseason after that was amazing, the way the guys worked and were hungry again, and I think that loss really helped us lose some complacency that we were getting.”
Hodge, who garnered first-team all-conference and All-American honorable mention accolades, said, “losing that game honestly just fueled our fire more for this season,” as the team trained and lifted harder than they had ever before this past offseason.
“To be able to come back and kind of finish the journey and finish at 29-0 is just something as a coach you don’t ever really believe is gonna happen,” Minnis said.
Another key to the Crimson’s incredible run leading up to the championship game was the team’s depth, resulting as a manifestation of that hard work throughout the year.
“Our team this year was the most balanced that we’ve ever been,” senior co-captain Austin Sechrest said. “We didn’t really have a superstar this year, and that’s why we were undefeated. If anybody had an off game, it wasn’t like there were two guys to pick him up, there were ten guys there.”
Sechrest, who was the 2018 conference MVP, first-team all-conference, and an All-American honorable mention, was one of six scorers for the Crimson in the championship, netting a goal with 1:00 left in the second quarter to bring the game to 4-4. Tsotadze and sophomore Jackson Enright, co-captain for the upcoming 2020 season, tallied two goals, while first-years Gabe Putnam, Kaleb Archer, and Alex Bucur all had one apiece.
In a game that went back-and-forth each quarter, Hodge, the other co-captain for the upcoming 2020 season, recorded thirteen saves. He credited the defense’s ability to communicate well and the team’s ability to start quick counters and move the ball up the pool as keys to the win, which stem from the cohesiveness and chemistry within the team.
Minnis revealed that chemistry starts with the recruiting process. “We talk about [how] we’re going to be the support system for each other and we’re always going to be there and we’re going to be a family,” Minnis explains, given how his coaching staff and a majority of the players are from California, meaning they are quite far from home. “You know we’ll be dysfunctional at times like any family, but you know we’re gonna always have each other’s backs.”
Sechrest emphasized that “Everyone loves playing for him, and we have a really good team chemistry...I just felt like we were destined to cap it off...everything kind of fit together perfectly.”
Minnis credited the senior class, saying “The senior class has meant so much to me… They were leaders… They were [as] successful in the classroom as they were in the pool, and I think those are the things that I’m most proud of, how they led these teams and how they held our program at a standard on both sides of the river.”
With the conference championship, Harvard earned a bid to the NCAA Tournament, where they lost 13-12 in a hard-fought opening matchup with No. 12 Bucknell. Senior Bennie Seybold and senior co-captain Charlie Owens, the 2019 NWPC MVP, first-team all-conference recipient, and an All-American honorable mention, join Sechrest as they graduate with a record 102 career wins. The program will welcome four new players from the Class of 2024 next season, as they look to continue their dominance in the NWPC, defend their title, and once again reach the NCAA Tournament. Regardless of what the future holds, the 2019 NWPC Championship win over Princeton will be a special game that Harvard water polo will always remember.
— Staff writer Zing Gee can be reached at zing.gee@thecrimson.com.
Sections
With four minutes remaining in the 4th quarter, The Game was Harvard’s to lose.
An afternoon of passion and protest had propelled the Crimson to a 36-22 lead, leaving the Bulldogs down two touchdowns and stranded on their own four-yard line. It should have been over right then and there. Already, locals of Cambridge and New Haven alike were emptying out of the Yale Bowl, weary from what may have been the longest contest in the 136-year history of The Game.
But this is Heartbreak of the Year, not Uneventful Ending of the Year. You know what’s coming.
Kurt Rawlings’ first miracle was a feat of consistency. The Yale quarterback completed six of his next eight pass attempts, bringing the Bulldogs ten yards short of diminishing their deficit. After one last toss, Rawlings did just that – no bark, all bite.
“[Rawlings was] just incredible, not just today but whenever they needed a play this year,” Harvard coach Tim Murphy said. “The sort of connection he has and his ability to make big plays are things that are other-worldly.”
With 1:28 to go, Harvard’s lead had been cut in half. An onside kick attempt by Yale was successful, leaving Rawlings and Friends® 50 yards away from forcing overtime. Yet again, consistency was key – a series of completions mobilized the Bulldogs, sending the squad into the red zone. Here’s where things got tricky. On the next play, finding no open receivers, Rawlings narrowly escaped the pocket – only to take a headfirst dive straight into the pads of Crimson linebacker Jordan Hill. The pigskin came loose. Harvard attacked.
Cue Miracle #2.
“What [my team] was able to do in this game requires power, but even more so requires the ability to have complete faith in the other guy,” Yale coach Tony Reno said. “And that’s what happened.”
In an act of raw strength, Bulldog senior Cameron Warfield plucked the ball from the pile of Crimson defenders, a recovery that left Yale a mere seven yards away from championship contention. With less than 20 seconds to go, Rawlings did not disappoint. A toss down the middle and successful PAT tied the game up, sending the stadium into overtime.
However, darkness was beginning to descend upon New Haven. Although the game began in the early afternoon, a halftime protest by students from both universities had delayed the contest by over an hour. The Yale Bowl lacked stadium lights (how’s that for gothic architecture?), and with the sun poised to set in just a few minutes, dusk had overtaken the field – an environment to which Harvard was unaccustomed.
“You just deal with the circumstances that you have,” said Murphy of the blackout. “You don’t make a big issue with your team, it just is what it is.”
And thus, overtime began. Yale won the toss and deferred, allotting the Crimson first dibs. A 25-yard pass by Harvard quarterback Jake Smith to receiver Cody Chrest was good, adding seven to Harvard’s point total. The Bulldogs did not back down though. A pair of completions allowed Yale to match its opponents, tying the game for the final time.
The next possession went to the Bulldogs. Two swift Rawlings passes brought Yale four yards from the endzone, and one final rush secured the touchdown.
It was ten minutes past sunset, and Harvard had one more chance to curtail the Bulldogs’ comeback. Smith’s first pass was incomplete. A second-down rush by running back Aidan Borguet amounted to only five yards, in spite of the freshman having taken 11 carries for 269 yards over the course of the contest. With two downs to go, Smith lobbed the ball to junior BJ Watson for no gain.
The Crimson had one more shot. Up by a touchdown and used to competing in the dark, The Game was now Yale’s to lose.
Yale did not lose.
Final Score: Yale 50, Harvard 43.
—Staff writer James Joyce can be reached at james.joyce@thecrimson.com.
Sections
For Harvard distance runner Abbe Goldstein, the abrupt end to her junior track and field season due to COVID-19 did little to diminish the sweeping success of her 2020 campaign. Goldstein enjoyed a breakthrough performance on the track, and her work ethic, optimism, and resiliency have led to triumph off of it as well.
After two seasons of running long distance, Goldstein’s transition to middle distance events this year vaulted her to the top of NCAA leaderboards. At the Ivy League Indoor Championships, she not only placed second in the 800-meter race but also led the distance medley relay team to a first-place finish as the final leg. Goldstein’s mile time placed her within the top 16 in the country, earning her a spot at the NCAA Indoor Track and Field Championships.
While Goldstein led the Crimson track and field program’s success this past winter, her path to victory was not free of external pain and internal battles. Goldstein’s severe gastrointestinal (GI) problems produced anxiety and mental health struggles. Moreover, jumping over these large hurdles each race negatively impacted her performance on the track, only causing her problems to grow larger.
“That whole situation was really making racing an unenjoyable experience, which, in turn, was adversely affecting my mental health,” Goldstein said. “It was really just a big cycle because I’ve learned that a lot of my anxiety is what is causing my GI issues and that I just have a very large connection between my physical health and my mental health.”
After returning to campus in the fall of 2019, Goldstein made the difficult decision to step back from NCAA racing and sit out Harvard’s cross country season. She continued to train in the fall, but the most important actions during this period were her meetings with Harvard’s Counseling and Mental Health Services (CAMHS).
“Going to CAMHS starting in early November 2019 was the biggest piece in all of this,” said Goldstein. “I’ve been focusing a lot on paying attention to how my behaviors affect my thought processes and how to pursue racing purely for the joy of it without placing too many expectations regarding performance on it. This time really allowed me to reconnect with why I love the sport and has actually led to my best collegiate performance so far.”
When Goldstein returned to the track in January 2020, the progress she made in her mental health immediately yielded improvement in her racing times. This level of achievement came after the Crimson’s men and women cross country teams made history by both qualifying for NCAA nationals. She was proud of her cross country teammates, but this period of watching from the sideline in the fall made Goldstein’s string of personal bests in the winter all the more satisfying.
“I think the word ‘fulfilling’ is really the right one for describing how I felt after witnessing my team have a great fall and then having a great winter for myself,” she said. “I’ve learned a lot about patience throughout my collegiate running career, and all of the lows I experienced really made the highs of the winter that much greater.”
In addition to CAMHS, Goldstein credits her coaches and teammates in contributing to her personal growth between these two seasons.
“My coach, Alex Gibby, also played a huge role in this whole process,” she said. “He was really supportive when I explained my reasoning and desire to take the fall season off […] I also can’t ignore how supportive a lot of my teammates were throughout both the fall and the winter. There were no feelings of resentment towards me taking the time off that I needed, and when I returned to racing it was really great to have such a fun group to train with.”
In the eyes of her teammates, Goldstein has played a large role in the positive, more connected relationship and the strong work ethic that defines the women’s distance group.
“She’s very tenacious, very detail-oriented,” said distance teammate and junior Anna Juul. “Even when she took time off in the fall, she was still showing up and getting work done. There were no races on the calendar, but she was going to workout regardless.”
“Abbe is definitely someone that I feel like a lot of people feel comfortable going to for advice, especially if it concerns mental health and finding resources concerning that,” said Judy Pendergast, also a junior and distance teammate of Goldstein. “She’s also just a great presence to have at practice, and she’s helped lay the foundation for what this team is today.”
As the threat of COVID-19 persists, the prospects of a full cross country and track and field season for Goldstein remain in question. Regardless of what form her senior year takes, the impact of Abbe Goldstein and her many victories as a Harvard student-athlete have forever positively shaped her friends, her team, and her campus.
—Staff writer A.J. Dilts can be reached at aj.dilts@thecrimson.com.
Sections
In the winter of 1993, Erin McDermott and her teammates at Hofstra University traveled to Harvard to play in a basketball tournament hosted at Lavietes Pavilion.
Nearly three decades later, McDermott will return to Cambridge in July — this time as Harvard’s first female Director of Athletics.
For the past seven years, McDermott has headed athletics at the University of Chicago, adding women’s lacrosse to the school’s slate of varsity sports and securing a department-wide partnership with Adidas during her tenure.
In Chicago, McDermott oversaw 500 athletes who play for the school’s 20 varsity teams, which compete at the NCAA Division III level. In Cambridge, she will lead a department that boasts 42 varsity teams — more than any other collegiate athletics program in the nation — and 1,200 student-athletes who compete on the NCAA Division I stage.
But McDermott is no stranger to Division I athletics. She brings to Harvard a background in Ivy League administration, having previously held top posts in the athletic departments at Columbia University and Princeton University. What is more, McDermott understands what it is like to be a Division I athlete because she was one herself.
A native of Westminster, Mass., McDermott enrolled at Hofstra University in 1990 and competed on the basketball team during her four years in Nassau County, N.Y. She captained the team her senior year and received the school’s top female scholar-athlete award before graduating in 1994 with a degree in international business.
Standing at 5’10, McDermott played forward and center for the team. Though she was smaller than many of the women she guarded, McDermott proved to be a formidable opponent, according to several of her college teammates. They said she was a fierce defender and strong rebounder.
One of McDermott’s former teammates, Jenii Robinson, said it would have been a mistake to judge McDermott by her appearance.
“She didn’t look strong, but she was scrappy in there, and she was a really tough competitor,” Robinson said. “She was shorter in stature and definitely not as bulky as some other people she was competing against — she wouldn’t back down. So that was a toughness that got her a lot of respect.”
During her sophomore year season, McDermott averaged 5 points and 5 rebounds per game.
Some of her most valuable contributions to the team, however, appeared beyond any box scores, through her work ethic and attitude.
Robinson said McDermott’s hustle and demeanor as a freshman stood out to her.
“I was always struck with how very mature she was. Even as a freshman, just wanting to come in, work hard, had a positive attitude,” she said. “But a good balance too because she was always a lot of fun.”
Robinson said she and McDermott both have a “really big laugh,” which they nicknamed “the cackle.”
Robinson explained that McDermott’s high spirits played a vital role for the team, which went through a dry spell in the early 90s and struggled to win games until McDermott’s senior season, when the team earned an above .500 winning record and made it to the semifinals of the conference playoffs, according to then-head coach Leslie Danowski.
“It was really important to have players who were on the team that were not only committed to working hard and rebuilding but just have a positive outlook because it was really tough going,” Robinson said. “And Erin had that.”
Tonya Donnelly, who also played with McDermott at Hofstra, said McDermott was a compassionate teammate.
“She was always the first one up if she wasn’t in the game at the time providing encouragement for everybody coming off the floor,” she said. “Or if she was on the floor during a foul shot, she was always the first to slap your hand while you were at the foul line.”
Danowski, who both played with and coached McDermott at Hofstra, said she was an approachable leader.
“Erin, I think, tackled everything the same way,” she said. “She was a great teammate. She was a great leader. Any of the kids could go to her — as a player and as a coach I can say that on both sides.”
Donnelly also said McDermott, who was a bridesmaid at her wedding, brought that same level of empathy and commitment to her life off the basketball court.
“She knew what was important to her, and she knew that you had to put in effort to get back, whether that was basketball, academics, or friendships,” Donnelly said. “She was always there to lend an ear or provide her opinion or advice on how to handle a situation.”
Having worked with her on the basketball court, Robinson offered insight into what McDermott’s leadership style as Director of Harvard Athletics may look like.
“She has a way of bringing people together. People want to be around her because she’s very positive and — no pushover — but she’s very fair,” Robinson said. “But she'll expect excellence, and she'll expect hard work.”
“That tenacity that she had as an athlete will serve her well as she goes forward,” Robinson added.
—Staff writer Ema R. Schumer can be reached at ema.schumer@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @emaschumer.
— Staff writer Alexandra N. Wilson can be reached at alexandra.wilson@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @alex_wilson2023.
Sections
Harvard women’s soccer’s Class of 2024 recruiting class is arguably the best in program history, with an incoming eight-member group ranked No. 5 in the nation by TopDrawerSoccer. Among the recruits are three of the country’s top-12 prospects and six players with national team experience.
“It was almost like this unicorn class,” said head coach Chris Hamblin, “where the timing was right and we were able to get the best players who also happened to be the best students.”
The Crimson’s three top American recruits are midfielder Hannah Bebar, defender Smith Hunter, and forward Ainsley Ahmadian, the former two of whom have been ranked as high as No. 1 and No. 3 respectively by TopDrawerSoccer. All three are teammates on the U20 U.S. National Team; two other recruits, midfielder Josefine Hasbo of Denmark and forward Cayla McFarlane of Pasadena, Calif., have made appearances for their full national teams (McFarlane for Trinidad and Tobago). Rounding out the class are Canadian U20 goalkeeper Anna Karpenko, defender Taylor Fasnacht, and forward KaiLan Mackey, evidence of the class’s positional balance and substantial depth to accompany its high-end talent.
“I think what you look for is kids that are in good environments on a day in and day out basis,” said associate head coach and recruiting coordinator Mike Calise. “A lot of these kids come from some of the top club teams in the country, and the fact that they’re on the national teams gives us more avenues to watch us play and see them competing against the top players in the world. And when you see them compete on the national team scale and they do well at that level, it’s a pretty good indicator that they’re going to translate well at the college level.”
Until recently, it had been difficult for Harvard to convince top recruits that it, like perennial powerhouses Stanford, UCLA, North Carolina, Virginia, and Georgetown, could provide them with both a high-level education and a chance to play college soccer at a high level. The team’s mid-major profile seemingly barred it from competing with the best programs for the top recruits. But the last handful of years have begun to show cracks in the image of the Crimson — and of Ivy League schools in general — as a second-tier women’s soccer program.
“We’ve always been trying to promote that you can do both at Harvard,” said Hamblin. “You can have a high athletic experience, play professionally, play for your national team, and also get a world-class education. We’d never been able to prove that until the 2016 season, 2017 graduating class when [Sky Blue FC forward] Midge Purce ‘17 went professional, and Lizzie Durack ‘17 played for England and played two years professionally at Chelsea. For us, being able to say yes you can, and here’s the evidence, that I think was the tipping point for us.”
Purce’s career trajectory — she earned her first cap for the USWNT last year — serves as evidence to top youth soccer players that they can go to Harvard to fulfill dreams of going pro, not sacrifice them. And it is not just the Crimson: four Ivy League programs produced top-50 recruiting classes, a record-breaking feat that comes in the wake of a year in which the Ancient Eight trailed only the Pac-12 in winning percentage and finished fifth in RPI, a schedule-adjusted appraisal of team and conference strength, ahead of the Big Ten and within shouting distance of the SEC and Big 12.
“I think in the past it’s been a hurdle for us, that some of those top recruits have said: ‘I love soccer, I want to play pro, I want to play for the national team, and I don’t think I can do that within the Ivy League environment,’ and I think we’ve kind of smashed that ceiling now,” Hamblin said. “We don’t look at ourselves as a mid-major anymore. And I’m not going to say we’re the same as the ACC or the Pac-12 — we’re not — but we’re knocking on the door and we’re getting closer every year.”
But while the league seems to be improving steadily, the strength of this year’s recruiting class is unlikely to be repeated anytime soon. A number of factors coalesced to create the perfect environment for Harvard to excel in recruiting to the extent that it did this year. Chief among them: the fact that Bebar and Ahmadian, two of the best prospects in the country, happen to be best friends, were classmates at Waubonsie Valley, a high school in the Chicago suburbs, and have been teammates from a young age. And beyond that, the fact that the teammates are both academically driven and long had a goal of playing together at the next level.
“I’ll tell you what. [Hamblin] spoke about a unicorn — that’s a unique one,” said Calise of the Chicago duo. “Because not only are they best friends but they’re also elite soccer players and also incredibly academic. So it was really a perfect situation, and I think what we appreciated with them is that they were pretty honest from the beginning that they wanted to go together. That’s not always the case when you’re recruiting kids. We obviously loved them as players, the question was going to be whether they fit the academic model for us. And I think it was pretty amazing that they both knocked it out of the park academically. They were very, very good applicants for Harvard even without soccer, which is a unique situation.”
The recruits are not exactly joining an unproven roster. Returning is most of the team that went 12-3-1 overall and 5-1-1 in the Ivy League last season, finishing just behind a talented Brown team in the Ancient Eight standings. The only departing seniors who received substantial playing time last season were goalkeeper Kat Hess and central defender Kimaya Cole. Murphy Agnew, last year’s Ivy League Offensive Player of the Year and the Crimson’s fulcrum, returns as a senior along with three other All-Ivy honor recipients. Among those are Gabby DelPico and Angela Caloia, who as first-year last season provided much of Harvard’s offensive punch, combining to score 13 goals and assist 17 more in 16 games. Given the speed bumps that first-years often experience in their first seasons at the college level, it is reasonable to expect even more production moving forward from the sophomore forwards, who both showed assuredness on the ball and combined well with Agnew.
With all but two starters returning and the Crimson’s entire starting midfield and attack still intact, the new recruits will not necessarily find instant playing time at the next level despite their pedigrees. The competition for places in the team will create conundrums for Hamblin, who is entering his fifth season at the helm of the program and has never had a team this deep. But the playing time headaches will likely produce a team that is more balanced, deeper, and healthier late in the season.
“Nothing makes teams more successful than knowing that there’s someone on your toes every second of every day trying to get that playing time,” said Hamblin. “And it’s very difficult to win championships and be successful over the course of a season with just a small group of players. You need a whole roster, you need a whole group, and we’re now at a point where I think we’ve got really good balance in age, in positions, in experience. And it’s going to be ultra-competitive. It’s going to be the most competitive we’ve ever had.”
All of this, of course, is contingent on the season taking place as scheduled in the fall. As of publication, it still remains up in the air how the university and the NCAA intend to handle the fall semester. Perhaps the coronavirus pandemic will keep the incoming recruiting class from suiting up in the fall. But whenever the “unicorn” class does make its Harvard debut, it will give spectators a glimpse of the Crimson’s potential and, perhaps, of the Ivy League’s future.
— Staff writer Lev Cohen can be reached at lev.cohen@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @LevTHC.
To become a Harvard Basketball player, you need to learn our goals, standards, and identity. These values summarize everything we want to do and aspire to be as a team. It only takes a few words to describe what our program is built around but embracing and living up to our standards and identity isn’t as easy as you’d think.
My journey through Harvard and with Harvard Basketball has been the greatest adventure of my life thus far. I’ve traveled around the globe, met with world leaders, and most importantly, made incredible friends. I’ve been granted unbelievable opportunities through the basketball team, but to truly appreciate them, I had to learn a little about myself.
During my first few months at Harvard, I felt like the biggest imposter. I didn’t invest in friendships, struggled adjusting to a new environment, and felt like everyone on the basketball team was two steps ahead of me. I just couldn’t seem to figure out how I fit into Harvard.
But as our season began, I started to find my groove. The routine of classes, practices, and games gave me the structure I needed to excel how I wanted to. I bought into the team’s philosophy, took pride in dominating the defensive end, and as my role within the team grew, I grew more confident in my abilities as a ballplayer and student at Harvard.
Likewise, having the team’s standards and identity outlined for me helped shape my own beliefs. At first, I didn’t see how basketball correlated to life at large. But what I’ve come to realize is that who I am on the court is immensely reflective of who I am off of it. I care about doing the little things, executing on details, and helping my teammates be the best possible versions of themselves. I strive to always be learning and know that the direction I’m heading is more important than where I stand.
Basketball has helped me learn who I am and what I believe in. I think that it’s rare to be a part of something that gives you both structure and enough room to develop and flourish on your own.
I don’t know that I would have developed these values if I wasn’t able to play basketball at Harvard. Playing under Coach Amaker has taught me just as much about being a human as he did about playing the game of basketball. Some of my fondest memories are doing magic tricks in Milwaukee, solving riddles on a long bus ride back home, and working my ass off with my best friends.
It’s an incredible privilege to be part of the Harvard basketball family. I couldn’t have asked for a better place to grow and learn. Thank you to Coach Amaker, my teammates, and the rest of our staff for helping me flourish over these past four years.
This isn’t how it was supposed to end. In a perfect world, the Harvard Baseball team would have just wrapped up our first title defense in over a decade, and we would be preparing for an upcoming NCAA regional. Instead, we’ve been at home facing a new reality. We’ve traded our batting gloves for surgical gloves, and we've replaced our helmets with face masks. Virtual Zoom meetings stood in for class. Makeshift at-home workouts must suffice in lieu of practices. And without games, we fantasize about what could have been. We’ve confronted the reality that there will be no possibility of a dog pile this year, and our hearts are broken because of it.
My baseball career started as an infant. Most toddlers’ first words are somewhere along the lines of “mama” or “dada.” Instead, the first word out of my mouth was “ball.” For months, that was all I would say: “Ball, ball, ball, ball.” My parents finally bought me a plastic baseball bat and ball, which quickly became my most precious toys. I would set the ball up on a plastic tee, hit it, and chase it down countless times every single day. I haven’t put down the bat and ball since. At that moment, baseball became my life.
Baseball is a game of failure. Those who’ve been around the game should have heard that said to them time and time again, and if you haven’t been around the game, you can easily understand this fundamental fact by looking at batting statistics. As an example, the best player in the National League in 2019 got a hit about three out of every ten at-bats, putting his rate of failure at about 70%. If you fail 70% of the time in almost any other profession, your employer will simply fire you. But in baseball, a 70% failure rate makes you one of the best in the sport. Baseball is a game of failure because there is so much out of a player’s control. In any at-bat, a batter can hit the hardest ball of their life, and it may still end up in a fielder’s glove. A batter can hit a ball that, at most fields would be a home run, but at a uniquely large field is just a deep flyout. A batter can quite possibly do everything right, and still not get a hit. For every home run, there is a strikeout. For every win, a loss. And for every championship, a season ended too soon. In a world defined by measurable success, this amount of failure can be debilitating for those who let it. Baseball forces you to confront failure and to reframe what it means to succeed. You have to focus on what you can control.
In baseball, the two biggest things you can control are preparation and frame of mind. Preparation, putting in the work, gets you into the best possible position to succeed at any given moment. In the physical sense, this means pushing yourself to the limit in the weight room, putting in extra time in the batting cage, and taking care of your body. It also means getting your schoolwork done efficiently so you have extra time to study as much game film as possible. Then, you have to trust that preparation will support you in the moment, that the physical and mental preparation will manifest cohesively come game time. You cannot control what pitch a pitcher will throw, or where he throws it, or the outcome. But you can control your preparation for that at-bat and therefore how you react in the moment. All of this is easier said than done, but I’m a firm believer in the idea that hard work pays off.
Winning the Ivy League Championship in 2019 was so satisfying because of the work we put in as a group, our collective struggle. Nobody saw the 5 a.m. wake-ups. Nobody saw us running stadiums until our legs felt like lead, the two-a-days, the extra time spent in the Murr weight room, the hours of cage work we put in. Nobody saw us get back to campus at one in the morning from a road trip only to stay up studying in the dining hall for exams the next day. In some ways, receiving our championship rings in the fall validated the time we spent on practice instead of schoolwork and the summers we spent playing baseball rather than working or relaxing.
As evidence, take our marquee win that year, our first game against Yale. We entered the bottom of the ninth inning down by seven runs. We quite literally had a mountain to climb, but if you looked in our dugout, there was no panic. It felt a lot like looking up the steps of Harvard Stadium when you are already an hour into conditioning, about ready to pass out from exhaustion but knowing that there was more work to be done, that those steps would need to be climbed again before the day was through. It’s daunting. But not until you remember that you’ve climbed those steps hundreds of times before, by putting one foot in front of the other until you reach the top, do the distance and the struggle melt away, and the far off goal becomes a tangible reality. So that’s what you do, over and over again, one step at a time until you can see the Charles River snaking into the distance.
The situation we found ourselves in that day against Yale was no different. Seven runs is a lot to overcome in one inning, but the approach was the same. We focused on one at-bat at a time, one pitch at a time, until we found ourselves out on top. That momentum made us feel invincible; there was nobody who could get in our way after that game. That’s not to say we didn’t find ourselves in situations like that again that year. We did, several times. But we took the same approach, step by step, pitch by pitch, and never gave up. I look back on 2019 as a testament to our resilience. There were undoubtedly situations where we may have been down, but we were never out.
We find ourselves now in unprecedented times. The Covid-19 pandemic completely upended our lives. For the seniors, our time on campus got cut short. For student-athletes, seasons evaporated into thin air. For many, the jobs and internships they had worked hard to obtain have been canceled or postponed. For many more, the consequences have been far worse than just a lost job or season. The future seems uncertain, more uncertain than any of us had planned for. A great philosopher once wrote “that each of us lives only in the present, this fleeting moment of time, and that the rest of one's life has either already been lived or lies in an unknowable future.” Uncertainty about the future isn’t anything new; it is just the nature of the uncertainty that’s changed.
So what is there to do? The same philosopher also wrote that if you fail to see the proper course, then you should “move forward with due care as far as your present resources allow, holding firm to whatever seems just.” We proceed one step at a time, pitch by pitch, moment by moment, using our preparation in the past to inform our actions in the present, and we focus on those things that are within our control. In the immediate, that means listening to health officials, heeding social distancing guidelines, protecting those who are most vulnerable, and doing whatever we can to slow the spread of the novel coronavirus. And while we bide our time, we watch the game film, we read a new book, we continue to better ourselves. We prepare, in any way that we can, so that when the game time finally arrives (and it will), we can hit the ground running.
No, this wasn’t how my time at Harvard was supposed to end. But, with new challenges come new opportunities. And with new opportunities come new experiences. I’ll miss those long nights in the dining hall, the road trips with my teammates, the late-night runs to El Jefe’s and Felipe’s. I’ll even miss the 5 a.m. wake up calls, the moonlit walks across the river in sub-freezing temperatures, and the feeling of looking up at Harvard Stadium when my legs feel like jelly. I’m eternally grateful to all Harvard gave me, and though the future is undoubtedly uncertain, I plan to continue the only way I know how: by controlling what I can, by releasing what I cannot, by moving forward one step at a time.
After finishing my junior spring competing on the Harvard-Radcliffe Heavyweight Crew Team, I knew I needed to take the next semester off of rowing. This is probably not how you expected a senior student-athlete reflection article to start.
I was exhausted mentally and physically and just felt lost and unhappy with who I was as a rower and as a Harvard student. As any Harvard rower will tell you, the sport requires an intense amount of grit; you have to be willing to push yourself at all hours of the day, nearly year-round, in order to be competitive. Being a Harvard student requires similar willpower and discipline; you have to be willing to put in the extra hour of studying when all you want to do is sleep and work to maintain your sense of identity amidst a sea of similarly driven students. Being a student-athlete was my “thing,” so for the better part of my college career, I clung to the need to be both a student and an athlete, both an electrical engineer and a rower, in order to view myself as successful. Even as the sport no longer sparked the same joy for me as it had during my freshman and sophomore years, I was determined to push through it and show up for practice day after day. But in my junior spring, I hit a breaking point where I could no longer hide from the mental toll rowing was taking on the rest of my Harvard experience. I made the hard but necessary decision to not row during my senior fall. Taking a semester off during your senior year feels wrong; this is supposed to be the year when you lead the team, when you’re supposed to be wise and capable. And yet here I was. Rowing was something that had defined me for three years of college, and suddenly the incoming freshman didn’t even know my name.
Taking the fall off of rowing wasn’t the “silver bullet” solution I had expected it to be. When people asked me what extracurriculars I did, I no longer felt like I had enough things to list. As I submitted resumes and interviewed for post-grad jobs it was a delicate balance between using rowing anecdotes and admitting that I was taking a semester off. But without fully realizing it, I did grow to find joy in new parts of my Harvard experience. I took up mentoring, I attended classes and events that fell during practice times, I spent more time with non-rowing friends, and ate sit-down lunches instead of Fly By. In short, I just felt more present.
As Senior Spring approached, I realized that for the first time in a long time I was excited by the prospect of getting to row. I missed having my team and the indescribable high of racing next to another boat. From January through March, I once again gritted my teeth and pushed myself through tough practice after tough practice. But, I was now a student-athlete on my terms. When I was in the boathouse, I tried to be as present and competitive a rower as possible. But unlike in previous years, when I left the boathouse, I tried my best to be as present a student and friend as possible. Finally, I felt like the sport that I’d fallen in love with in high school was back.
And then, as I sat studying for a midterm in the library on Tuesday, March 10, I received the email informing Harvard College students that we had to move out “as soon as possible and no later than Sunday, March 15.” In the coming days, the Ivy League and later the NCAA would make announcements that the Spring 2020 competition season was canceled.
I want to believe that the personal growth I achieved over my senior year is enough of an accomplishment, but inevitably I feel the hole left from missing out on having a final season of racing and a final couple months with my teammates. I don’t have the heart to delete the races from my Google calendar, so periodically I’ll get a reminder that “Race v. Yale and Northeastern” or “Ivy Championships” is coming up. It opens up the hole slightly wider, and I’m reminded again of what I’ve lost.
College is often framed as being this narrative arc from naive, overeager freshman to wise, finally-able-to-have-a-reasonable-sleep-schedule senior. I expected senior year to be the year when I’d figured it all out. And instead, I spent the first semester of it taking a break from my sport and spent the greater part of the second semester living and taking classes in my old childhood bedroom. I am still coming to terms with the way my Harvard experience is ending both as a rower — an abrupt departure from campus — and as a student, closing my laptop after my virtual graduation on May 28. What I failed to realize for too long was that success was not the same thing as happiness or finding true joy in what you’re doing. My identity became defined by the things that labeled me as successful not the choices that were truly making me happiest. Giving up rowing, even for a semester, felt like failing. It felt like I was giving up on my chance to have that perfect “narrative arc” of four years of being a student-athlete. But it was only through abandoning that narrative that I was able to actually grow in my understanding of myself and renew my love for the sport. As I move past my time at Harvard I hope that rather than forcing myself to grit through until the metaphorical “senior year,” I can remember to be present and accept what I am feeling. Sometimes senior fall is the right time to take a break. And sometimes I won’t get a culminating senior season. But if I can be present during the process, hopefully, I can come to find greater enjoyment in whatever it is that I’m racing towards.
Every article which the Sports Board produces has an overarching question, a reason for putting the pen to paper and dedicating that precious time which might otherwise be spent in Kong eating crab rangoons.
In my several years as an editor here on the Back Page, I’ve noticed that we tend to preoccupy ourselves with strict questions of fact. The baseline: what was it that happened at the event? The more advanced: what were the storylines swelling beneath the impersonal box scores? The professionally done: how do you describe the rollercoaster of emotions which accompanied the swings of momentum? And when ambition is high, we might even occasionally venture into consideration of the ineffable: how is it that Gabby Thomas runs so fast?
After signing the porcellian and rattling off that last closeout, our writers indulge one final question in this, their Parting Shot. True to the name, these stories reorient our typical considerations of exceptional athletic performances to those who epitomize quite the opposite, our sportswriters. There is no prompt for these articles, yet everyone knows exactly what they will write. Imbued within these more accurately labeled reflective essays is the implicit question of, why?
This final, unspoken inquiry offers a story of its own. It contends that no reasonable person would dedicate so much time to covering something (often sailing) which will offer so little in return. That no true “sports fan” would discard the latter half of that identity in favor of journalistic impartiality. It’s also a story that has been writing itself every week for the past four years. It’s the story we repeat to ourselves as we swelter in the Pfoho Library at 3:00 a.m. writing that hopeless fencing recap, or when we leave campus at 4:30 a.m. to drive to Philadelphia and contract hypothermia as we write the gamer in the uncovered “press box” of Franklin Field. It is supposed by all to be a justified question. It is not.
I hold no undue prejudice concerning the Sports Board, yet a more warranted query is why anyone would write anywhere else. Even if you broaden your definition of “writing” beyond coherence, it's not clear what the Lampoon produces qualifies. Much like Yale, the Lampoon is housed in a peculiar building and maintains its relevance on account of its rivalry with a superior institution. In contrast, The Independent produces a single interesting issue each year concerning a topic for which Harvard students care less about than athletics. Within The Crimson, one faces the “difficult” task of determining whether they would rather disgorge either spineless opinions or those which they will undoubtedly regret in 10 years, scramble across campus gathering quotes on Allston, or write on the glory and heartbreak of the fellow student. I will not answer that which is self-evident.
Instead, I’d like to repurpose this article as a culmination of my controversy-riddled tenure in the Sports Cube. I’ve spent enough time peeling through the website’s analytics to know this article will be my least read ever. I can count as readers only my editors providing a quick glance, my parents not laughing, my successors looking for ideas for their own Parting Shots, and future employers. However, the website’s algorithm will place it above the double-overtime loss to Yale in my writer profile, a needed and welcome change which betrays my purpose in authorship.
The Crimson, however, taught me quite a bit more than just asking yourself strawman questions and then rejecting the premise — that I learned in Con Law. The Sports Board showed me how to lose with humility to the HPR in basketball, and then publish an elegant recap. I learned to lie to the News executives on a daily basis about my lack of a middle initial. I learned from FM how to effectively flip the entire Editorial office upside down. Handing out newspapers at the 2018 Commencement taught me an inky seat cushion or paper umbrella is often more appealing than News content. I learned not to wear headphones on your bike back to the Quad from The Crimson at 5:00 a.m. lest the Boston Globe delivery truck, which stops for no individual nor red light, nearly flatten you on four separate occasions.
As my journalism career draws to a close, I am indebted to G-reg for providing immeasurable inspiration, to Ithaca for the low hanging fruit suitable for every occasion, and to the Harvard Band for encouraging me with its horrid halftime performances. Most of all though, I thank the Yale Daily News for bravely declaring in no uncertain terms that Epstein did not, in fact, kill himself.
Like many kids growing up in the suburbs of this country, sports was what grounded my understanding of reality and my acculturation into American society — it represented a certain ontology and social fact. I treated the members of my favorite teams — the Yankees, Nets, and Giants — as extended kin, with each player’s batting average, each team’s draft picks, each franchises’ championships serving as enchanted totems of truth.
Sports provided me with a common language, allowing me to immerse myself in the collective consciousness of both my peers at school and the masses of strangers sitting next to me at Yankees Stadium or watching football on TV every Sunday at 8:20 p.m. ET on NBC. Those debates at the cafeteria table about which NBA player to start your fictitious franchise with, which coach deserved to be fired, how this GM should have used salary-cap space — all of this provided a sense of order and morality in our lives, however simplistic and trivial. These conversations built up a symbolic interactionism in our little social world of sports, giving meaning to our trek through childhood.
From a pessimist’s perspective, I was perfectly molded into exactly what the sports-industrial complex wanted out of a young consumer — I paid for commemorative jerseys and hats, watched entire preseason games on television, waited an hour in line for a picture with Eli Manning at the opening of a Microsoft store. But for my younger self, all of that hoopla was part of my identity as a sports aficionado.
And as one could imagine, those rare moments where the wall between reality and that mythical sports universe broke open — whether that be getting autographs or simply sitting in the nosebleeds — were what I selfishly lived for.
In many ways, this opportunity to fully entrench myself in the sports world was what originally inspired me to get involved with sports journalism at Harvard. And boy, did I live out that dream.
Traveling the country, I covered three years of Harvard Basketball and experienced the thrills of a game at the Dean Smith Center, the heartbreak of a lost March Madness bid, the craziness of a triple-overtime Ivy League contest, and much more that ironically can’t be put into words. Sharing the sheer emotionality of the live sporting experience with an avid fan base and weaving together the narrative of each thrilling season made the long trips down I-95 worth it.
But what I least expected to realize this final year is that the true value of sports is not merely in what it provides as an entertainment product — rather, sports is tremendously powerful when it serves a tool for elucidating qualities of humankind and of our society that truly mean something outside of the playing surface.
Sports in America bestows such tremendous cultural capital that even in an academic-first school like Harvard, student-athletes are immediately elevated to a higher pedestal and seen as figures who should be emulated. Handed this platform, many individuals I have gotten to cover and profile on this campus have shown tremendous character and leadership — bringing greater attention to mental health, fighting against gender inequities, spearheading organizations that mentor younger generations in academics and beyond. I have learned more from these teams and athletes about the less “observable” traits such as grit, service, and commitment than I ever will about play schemas and clock management. Even at the simplest level, so many of these folks who cross the Charles River daily have unique personal stories that cannot be merely captured through a stat line or roster sheet.
However obvious this may seem, it is apparent that athletes are not presented in this fashion enough. Too much of the time, sports teams and athletes are displayed as commodities: Can a better 40-time improve this linebacker’s draft stock? Why has this slugger’s batting average dropped? How is this guy so freakishly athletic in his shot-blocking abilities? Why can’t this team score one more goal to hit my parlay?
Our 24/7 sports channels and social media perpetuates this dialogue, arguing over whether someone’s 50-million dollar contract was too risky, or whether this superstar should have stayed quiet to preserve his marketability. The athlete in America is thus quite easily prone to be viewed and idolized unidimensionally, building a personal narrative but one that they have little control over.
I, like many others, was part of this complicit audience growing up. I could tell you how much my favorite athletes were making per year or their wingspan but honestly knew nothing about them as human beings. In sum, sports was a fictional universe, when it could have very well been a powerful connector to reality.
As the sports industry, journalists, and athletes themselves have awoken to this fact, there have been tremendous signs of progress — take Kevin Love becoming a national spokesperson for mental health or sports websites like The Undefeated that bring awareness to social justice, for example.
Sports may be what brings people to the table, but it is ultimately in pursuit of something bigger. Whatever the message or cause that one is compelled to deliver, there is no better place than in the arena of sports. Now more than ever, we need athletes to serve as educators and exemplars in conjunction with their role as entertainers.
As I leave the ranks of Crimson Sports, that is my final request: To athletes, be more than just athletes. To fans, view athletes as more than just athletes.
And never just shut up and dribble.
