News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
I’m a Belgian LL.M. student at Harvard Law School. Because of the coronavirus outbreak in the United States, I was told to vacate my on-campus housing three days before the beginning of spring break. As an international student, the waiting and anguish were particularly acute: What to do and where to go, in a country that is not mine, thousands of miles away from my family? I hardly ate or slept for five days; I was too lost, shocked, sad, and panicked.
And I was not the only one. Looking back, it is clear that many people are experiencing far worse things than I did. But I’m still angry at the measures taken, or rather at the way these measures were taken, by the Law School to deal with this health crisis. I am strongly disappointed by the lack of humanity and the brutality materialized in a policy that appears to aim at the easiest solutions.
On Tuesday, March 10 at 11:24 p.m., the Law School announced by email that any student residing in an on-campus residence who had another place to stay, including outside the U.S., was to move out by Sunday, March 22 at 4:00 p.m. I didn’t see it coming. One week before, on March 2, I had contacted the administration to know whether it was better to cancel my trip to New Orleans. They replied, “Harvard does not currently recommend cancelling planned trips within the US during Spring Break.”
The Law School gave students the opportunity to fill out a survey and explain why some were unable to leave their current dorm. I responded the next day that I did not want to go back to my home country because the situation in Europe seemed worse than in the U.S. and the risks of contamination in the airports or on the planes were substantial. This was also the advice of the Belgian Consulate. And I was not mentally ready to accept the idea that my LL.M. was over and that I had to leave the group of people with whom I had been living during the last months.
Furthermore, while the Law School was deciding who could continue living in on-campus residences, President Donald Trump adopted successive restrictions on flights from continental Europe and the United Kingdom, for many of which the Center for Disease Control and Prevention had issued Level 3 travel alerts. Some European countries decided to start closing their borders as well. Many of us could not dither any longer.
On Friday morning, when I saw that I still hadn't received a response to my request to stay on campus, I decided to go back to Belgium. If the Law School was not able to respond diligently on such an important issue, how many days would they need to deal with the rest? And in the following weeks, would they act in the best interest of their students or in the best interest of the institution? I left because I no longer had any trust in their leadership. I packed my bags in two days. I didn't have time to say goodbye to most of the people I’ve been living and working with for seven months. That was the hardest part for me.
On Saturday, March 14, at 11:04 am — after three long days — the Law School decided that I could stay in my dorm. Permission to remain in my on-campus residence came with an important caveat: I had to be able to move rooms quickly during the upcoming weeks, if this was made necessary by evolving circumstances and guidance from the University or state and federal governments. But you can’t live like this. When you’re drowning in uncertainties, you need certainty about housing. The email only reinforced my decision to go back to Belgium.
After I went back, students previously living in dorms with shared bathrooms were relocated to my residence, the only facility on campus with private bathrooms. It seems clear to me that I was told to leave not because students in my residence were more likely to spread the virus, but because Harvard was rushing to get people out. I fully understand the imperative to “reduce the population density” on campus “to slow the spread of the virus.” However, there is a difference between “de-densifying” and “emptying.” The Law School did what was best for itself. If there is hardly anyone left on campus, it is very unlikely that someone will catch the coronavirus and put the Law School in a difficult situation that they may be held responsible for. Drastic. Easy.
Above all, I do not accept that the Law School did not inform us earlier of the measures it was thinking of taking so that we could prepare ourselves psychologically for the changes to come. I do not accept that the Law School did not include us in the decision-making process, although it concerned an important aspect of our life. I do not accept the coldness of some emails. I do not accept that a well-resourced institution shifted the negative consequences of this crisis mostly onto us, its students.
I'll never forget the sadness or the anger I felt during the week Harvard sent its students away, but also the solidarity that sprung up around us. I don't know how many people spontaneously offered me housing, food, storage space, help with paperwork, or a car ride to the Boston airport. They have done much more for me than the Harvard administration, and I am infinitely grateful to them.
Carine M.S. Seron is an LL.M. student at Harvard Law School.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
COVID-19 has forced people around the world to reconsider some of the fundamental assumptions and structures of their lives. President Donald Trump signed the largest stimulus package in United States history, which sends money directly to adult Americans, delays student loan payments, and extends unemployment insurance to include freelance and gig workers.
Harvard has not been immune from this dynamic. In particular, the University has been forced to reckon with the fine line it walks between community and corporation, especially in regards to labor relations. After all, like many employers, Harvard has had to decide who is essential and how, if at all, to support and compensate those who are not.
On at least one of these questions, the University has flip-flopped. While it initially said all employees who could not work remotely would receive only 30 days of compensation and benefits, it has since extended that guarantee through May after student advocates at Harvard Law School garnered more than 7,000 signatures for a petition advocating for the extension.
Over the past year or so, Harvard, like many universities, has been pushed toward owning its role as a corporate employer. Graduate student unionization has forced the University to consider its obligations to many students not in terms of intellectual patronage but in terms of employment. Simultaneously, Division I NCAA athletes have gained the right to profit from sales of their names, images, and likenesses. And while these might be the two most obvious cases, as we pointed out a year ago, they have brought Harvard’s tenure practices, benefits, housing, and harassment allegation procedures to light as well.
But do we really want the University to act like any old American employer? If it did, we might see very little support for employees — as evidenced by record-high unemployment figures. If Harvard is to be an employer, it cannot be so in the strictest, most corporate sense. Some compassion must prevail.
Harvard employees — including full-time, part-time or contingent, and contracted workers — are not just laborers in the University factory, but members of our community with whom we are privileged to build personal relationships. In that sense, the University, uniquely positioned between corporation and community, has the opportunity to lead broader corporate thinking.
Still, some big questions remain. Who counts as an “essential” employee and what does that term mean at a university? Is the necessity to support employees indicative of a failure on the part of the government or is this role justly left to employers? Should the crisis’ end mark the limit of Harvard’s commitment to more-than-typical generosity? Should time caps on non-tenure track appointments be extended, as has been done for many tenure-track faculty? And what is the scope of the broader community for which Harvard should accept responsibility — should others who depend on the University through more tenuous affiliations also receive assistance?
As the University balances its private interests and obligation to society, Harvard’s workers are canaries in the institution’s labor mine. Under pandemic conditions, these individuals are uniquely vulnerable because of their extensive exposure to student spaces makes their university employment a primary source of danger to their health and productivity. Harvard’s decision to extend pay and benefits to all employees, including many subcontractors, is the first step toward acknowledging our concern that workers may be neglected because of their employment status. These workers are valued members of our community, and we hope to see them safe and secure when we return to campus.
These rapid changes in compensation adjustments challenges other academic institutions to define their fundamental responsibilities toward staff. We laud Harvard’s decision to provide more complete support during the pandemic, and we encourage other institutions with the financial means to do the same for as long as is necessary.
Furthermore, we encourage the University to utilize the vast resources at its disposal to assist in addressing the disparate health burdens borne by the broader local community. In light of skyrocketing unemployment and a terrifying dearth of hospital space, the University should follow in the footsteps of universities like Quinnipiac University, where dorms have been set aside to house those impacted by the coronavirus, particularly hospital workers self-quarantining.
This staff editorial solely represents the majority view of The Crimson Editorial Board. It is the product of discussions at regular Editorial Board meetings. In order to ensure the impartiality of our journalism, Crimson editors who choose to opine and vote at these meetings are not involved in the reporting of articles on similar topics.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The rapid spread of COVID-19 is a disaster that has unfortunately only just begun. The necessity of shutting down non-essential businesses has left millions of people jobless and wondering how they will get by. The most effective way to provide immediate relief is to put cash directly in people’s hands — in other words, an emergency universal basic income. Suddenly, in a time of crisis, policymakers across the political spectrum have realized that a universal basic income would provide financial support and security in a time when both are hard to come by.
We already needed UBI before COVID-19; the pandemic just exposed that need. This outbreak has been an indisputable disaster on a massive scale, but we mustn’t forget the many individual disasters that occur every day. Someone gets laid off, gets evicted, unexpectedly falls ill, or runs into anything else that suddenly throws life into chaos. A 2017 survey found that 71 percent of workers are in debt and that 78 percent live paycheck to paycheck at least some of the time. According to a 2017 study by the Federal Reserve, 40 percent of Americans would struggle to meet an unexpected $400 expense. UBI would protect people from financial ruin all the time, not just during major crises.
Our unemployment infrastructure was recently overloaded by 3.3 million claims nationwide in just one week and the crisis is only getting worse — how many of those people will get the help they need just to get by? The present crisis has underscored just how weak, fragile, and ill-prepared our welfare system really is. Looking at the millions of people who suddenly find themselves out of work with no way to pay for their living expenses, it is obvious that tying income exclusively to work and bureaucratic, means-tested welfare programs guarantee disaster. If you get laid off from work, your income suddenly drops to zero. Unemployment benefits may cushion the fall, but you have to navigate bureaucracy and wait for benefits, and there’s no guarantee they’ll arrive when you need them.
Even in normal circumstances, our welfare system isn’t working. Before the outbreak, there were over 38 million Americans living in poverty according to the official count (a more accurate measure would put that number even higher). Of those, 13 million were receiving no benefits whatsoever. Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) only reached 22 percent of families in poverty, and cross-state disparities in the use of funds was accountable for as much as 15 percent of the black-white child poverty gap. Housing assistance was only reaching 24 percent of those that qualified. The system is set up so that often even those who do qualify are trapped in poverty by welfare cliffs — design flaws that punish people for working by taking away benefits as recipients’ incomes rise. Simply put, our safety net is full of holes.
Why is UBI so much better in a crisis than traditional welfare? First, speed. If you want to put money in people’s hands, you put money in people’s hands. No wasting time on bureaucracy, forms, or figuring out who to give it to. Second, universality. Means-testing always excludes people in need; if you give it to everyone, you guarantee that everyone who needs help will get help. And last, but certainly not least, utility. Money is going to be useful for just about everyone. It also allows recipients to make their own decisions instead of being forced to obey the often ridiculous restrictions placed on non-cash programs (for example, you’re not allowed to buy hot food with food stamps).
Policymakers are proclaiming the importance of emergency UBI in this crisis, but they’re ignoring the incredible impact that UBI would have in normal circumstances. In addition to protecting those left behind by our patchwork welfare system, UBI would produce unprecedented economic growth by giving people money to spend. A cash transfer experiment in Kenya grew the local economy by $2.60 for every $1 invested. A 2017 study estimated that $1000 monthly to every adult would increase GDP by over 12 percent in 8 years — that would permanently raise GDP by $2.5 trillion. Additionally, UBI can be increased in times of economic crisis, like our current pandemic, to combat recessions by increasing consumer spending.
Right now, income is conditional either on work or on meeting arbitrary welfare requirements. This means people depend on the good graces of their employers, a fickle and complex welfare system, and general good luck just to survive. We need unconditional income to ensure that everyone has financial security no matter what and to provide an economic foundation that will lift millions out of poverty.
Matthew B. Gilbert ’21 is a Computer Science concentrator in Adams House. His column appears on alternate Thursdays.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
So you got cuffed this season: You thought you would have all semester to spend with your new boo — but just as your feelings for each other grew exponentially, so did the curve of coronavirus infections. And now you find yourselves evicted from campus, quarantined in homes thousands of miles away from each other with only Zoom to help your budding relationship bloom.
Gotcha, dummy! COVID-19 played us all. But have no fear: Rachel is here with her limited relationship experience to single-handedly keep your remote romance alive. Follow these simple suggestions, and you’re sure to find that (social) distance makes the heart grow fonder indeed — and if not fonder, then at least thirstier for human contact.
That’s all, folks! Wishing you the best of luck in your long distance love. And hey, look on the bright side. At least you can’t get ghosted because they “don’t have time for a relationship right now.” :)
—Magazine writer Rachel Chen can be reached at rachel.chen@thecrimson.com.
Sections
Ross D. Simmons ’21 thought he had left Higginsville, Mo., behind when he left for college. However, due to the mass exodus from Harvard’s campus, Simmons has found himself back in his parents’ house for the foreseeable future, along with his sister, brother-in-law, and niece.
Higginsville lies about 50 miles outside of Kansas City, Mo., Simmons tells me. He knows the population off the top of his head — 4,797 — and notes that his town “has a Walmart and everything.” He chuckles. “Not a Supercenter, but a Walmart.”
While Simmons points out that “[t]here are smaller places,” he struggles to access high-speed internet from his hometown. Higginsville is one of many rural areas in the U.S. that now must support the WiFi needs of students completing their education at home and online.
Oftentimes, accessibility barriers arise from the kind of internet a region is equipped with. Today, there are three general internet options available to consumers: DSL , cable, and fiber. DSL runs through telephone wires, and cable runs through an underground network of cords. Fiber is the newest option, using fiber-optic cables to deliver what is purported to be the fastest of the three.
In my experience, it’s a lot simpler — DSL is slow, and cable is fast.
Cable internet is only an option if an underground cable runs below your street. For many streets in very rural areas, including Simmons’s and mine, there is not.
To access the internet, I rely on DSL with 25 megabits per second (mbps). In Higginsville, the fastest internet “has a grand total speed of 15 megabits per second,” Simmons explains. “For comparison, Harvard’s WiFi on a normal day gets 100 megabits per second, easy.”
Peach Bottom, Pa., my hometown, has a population of 3,853 and no Walmart — just an Amish general store. My house doesn’t have the worst WiFi, but now that I’m living my whole life from home — FaceTiming friends, writing essays on Google Docs, and attending club meetings on Zoom — fractured connections hamper my every interaction.
Sustaining remote connections to both my academic and social life has required a new commute: a 20-minute drive to the Burger King in the next town over. Last week, I waited for a TV show to download in the parking lot so that I could watch it with some friends. My sister downloads her chemistry videos there too.
Access to speedy internet, or internet at all, remains a persistent hurdle for both low-income and rural students across the U.S. A 2019 report by the Pew Research Center found that about 63 percent of Americans living in rural areas have broadband internet, compared to about 79 percent of Americans in suburban areas and 74 percent of Americans in urban areas.
I recently watched an episode of “The Patriot Act with Hasan Minhaj” titled “Why Your Internet Sucks.” In it, Minhaj points out that about three million students in the U.S. have trouble completing their homework assignments due to a lack of high-speed internet access. Why is that? Because Comcast and Charter, the two internet giants in the U.S., have essentially evaporated competition, dividing the country in half. There’s no incentive to serve sparsely-populated areas that won’t bring in much money.
This checks out. In the past, my family has called Comcast to request that a cable be installed for us. After taking a survey of my street, they found that the majority of my neighbors are Amish and don’t use the Internet, so the answer was “No.”
At one point in the episode, Minhaj tells the audience that Comcast was voted America’s most hated company in 2017. Learning all of this information took me a bit longer than the episode’s 23-minute runtime, since the video stopped every few minutes to buffer.
***
Class discussions have been a little difficult from home, since enabling my video on Zoom freezes the other participants on the screen, and my audio is often delayed. This past Wednesday, I was trying to participate in a discussion on Judith Butler while sitting on a beanbag in my basement. (My sister uses my old high school desk, since our WiFi doesn’t reach her room.)
Midway through the discussion, my professor fell silent, my classmates froze, and I got a text from my friend in the class, “Maya, I’m screaming!” She had sent a picture with the text, but it wasn’t loading fast enough.
About five minutes later, when my computer reconnected to Zoom, the discussion had moved on. Finally, after class, the picture my friend had sent downloaded, which was the cause of her figurative screaming (it could’ve been literal — I wouldn’t know; I was booted off the call). It’s a screenshot of my arms flailing and my expression incomprehensible, frozen on the screen. Some of the faces of other students and my professor are visible, all laughing — I’m not sure if it’s at me.
In rural homes of Harvard students across the country, getting repeatedly kicked out of Zoom and accidentally interrupting classmates with delayed audio has been a common frustration.
Last week, my friend Galdino Guzman-Navarro ’22 thought he was discussing a research paper idea for his sophomore economics tutorial with his classmates when suddenly an all-caps message from his professor popped up in the chat feature of Zoom: “I HOPE YOU KNOW WE CAN’T HEAR YOU.” Turns out, he was merely miming his idea to his classmates.
Guzman-Navarro is from a town in northeastern Nebraska, and uses DSL broadband with 12 mbps — far from the optimal speed for Zoom. On the first day of online courses alone, he was kicked out of one class several times.
As Simmons sat down for his very first class on Zoom, the power flickered out for a second.
He immediately sprang into action. Simmons ran out of his room, found an adapter and a long cable to plug his computer directly into the WiFi modem to “bypass the router entirely while it was rebooting after the power blip.” While he was able to jump back into class without missing too much, the quality of Zoom was not great, even with his computer plugged directly into the modem.
“That’s the fastest it’s ever going to be,” he says. “And it’s not enough.”
Kayla M. Manning ’22, another friend, lives on the outskirts of Salado, Texas. “There's really only one Internet provider that works well out here,” she explains. Then, she corrects herself. “Works well is kind of an overstatement. It’s what works best for us.”
Throughout the first week of Zoom classes, Manning had lectures where the audio became too choppy to comprehend. In a meeting with a teaching fellow, she had to resort to communicating over the chat feature of Zoom, defeating the utility of a video call. She has been kicked out of Zoom breakout rooms, leaving her partner alone and confused.
The solutions to WiFi connectivity problems that might be available in other areas, like using a personal hotspot, don’t help Manning. In her area, cell phone service isn’t strong either, foreclosing her ability to improve the connection.
I spoke with Manning on a warm and sunny afternoon, so I ran to the top of the hill in my backyard to get more reliable cell phone service. During the middle of the call her voice audio broke up, and I couldn’t hear her for a minute — it’s unclear who’s iffy cell phone service was responsible.
***
I have WiFi, but it’s really fucking slow. It’s frustrating to get kicked out of my online classes over and over again, and it’s sad that socializing with friends has transformed into stilted and lagging conversations. Home isn’t the easiest place to complete my sophomore year of college.
But, my professors are accommodating, I will complete my classes on Zoom, and I will be okay. In Peach Bottom, I can hang out with my sister, run around my neighborhood, and go outside as much as I please without coming in contact with any humans (just donkeys and sheep).
The pandemic has highlighted that online education isn’t easy for many people in rural and low-income areas, often because of the state of high-speed internet access. For now, for myself and many other students, in the words of Simmons, “Buffering is just a way of life.”
— Magazine writer Maya H. McDougall can be reached at maya.mcdougall@thecrimson.com or on Twitter @mayamcdougall2.
Sections
When the email arrived that quickly upended the lives of so many Harvard students, Nancy Hu ’22 kept her composure: Though nearly all of her peers would have to leave campus, Hu knew that she would be able to stay.
“I knew for a fact that...I'll be able to have housing because I have a Chinese passport,” she says. Visa requirements and CDC-imposed travel restrictions meant that it would be difficult for her to return home; she filled out the housing exception form and now calls an empty suite in Quincy House home until May.
Of the more than 6,000 students that typically reside on Harvard’s campus, only a few hundred remain. Social spaces are locked, the chairs in the dining halls are gone, and hallways –– normally resonant with the sounds of life from within dorm rooms –– are silent.
Most undergraduates still living on campus are international students unable to go home, either because of visa requirements, health concerns, or COVID-19-related travel restrictions. While Hu felt sure about her ability to stay on campus, other students, like Nadine S. Bahour ’22, did not. Bahour is from Ramallah, Palestine, and in the week before Harvard announced the campus shutdown, the Palestinian Authority declared a state of emergency. Later, Jordan closed the King Hussein Bridge, the only entry and exit point Palestinians from the West Bank may legally use for travel abroad.
This effectively barred Bahour from returning home. “I wasn't sure if Harvard knew that,” she says, “so I basically just petitioned and crossed my fingers.”
On the day the University announced the closure of campus, Bahour’s resident dean reassured her that she had a good case for an exception. One of Bahour’s friends from her hometown in Palestine, however, had a different conversation with her own resident dean –– one in which he told her that she should make other plans.
“I was like, ‘Oh, they have a very different view from what I got,’ so it’s a little bit like everyone’s saying something different and I wasn’t entirely sure who was right –– my resident dean or hers,” she says. In the end, both of them were granted housing.
Had Daniel J. Forrest ’23 returned home to Australia, he would have had to take classes from two to seven a.m. due to the 14-hour time difference with Boston. He also has respiratory health issues and had just finished a round of antibiotics when he heard the news that he might have to fly home.
“I thought they couldn’t really have asked me to travel back, at least until my immune system had recovered,” he says. “So I thought I’d at least get some sort of allowance to stay, but in the end I was granted a full semester.”
The students who remained on campus had until March 18 to move to their assigned rooms, all located in Kirkland, Eliot, Quincy, and Adams. In keeping with proper quarantine procedure, each student has an entire suite to themselves with an in-suite bathroom. Students do not have swipe access to other houses or even most facilities within their newly-assigned residences, like house gyms and basements; they can only access their entryways and assigned dining hall.
“Everything is closed. There are no social spaces, because they locked all those,” Tout Tun Lin ’20 says. Lin is from Myanmar and would not have been able to return to the U.S. if he flew back home.
“We’re not hugging anymore; [we’re] doing the elbow bump thing,” he says of his interactions with other students. “I imagine most people aren’t completely isolating themselves, but there is a degree of a personal boundary that doesn’t get broken anymore,” he continues. “People walk around with distance. When they’re standing, there’s distance. There’s a lot of distance.”
The dining halls have proven to be another challenge. Instead of serving lines, all food is individually bagged by dining hall staff and served cold. The College issued every student a fridge and microwave so that they can store and reheat their food when they get back to their rooms, where they’re encouraged to eat their meals. Though most Harvard Square businesses are closed, several restaurants remain open: El Jefe’s continues to serve burritos to go until 4 a.m. — at least for the time being.
Even with the switch to a grab-and-go serving style, some students are still meeting for mealtimes.
“Last week, there were students who got bagged food and got together to get a meal, but outside, and we have sitting places set out,” Hu says. “But not a lot of people are gathering. There aren’t a lot of people walking around campus either. People just stay in their suites most of the time.”
Houses have begun to observe new rules and institute stringent curfews. Harvard has announced to students that they aren’t allowed to have overnight guests or keep alcohol in their rooms, even if they’re over 21. Measures haven’t been strictly enforced, however. A few GroupMe chats have sprung up, and people have gotten creative with ways to have fun. Bahour has met friends for walks along the river; Hu and her friends hosted a karaoke night in her room.
“It’s been surprisingly, I would say, normal. It’s surprisingly easy to get into the routine of the space,” Bahour says.
But in general, the houses are quiet. “I think you realize that Harvard is made by its people,” Bahour says. “And it doesn’t matter if you’re in Cambridge or in a House or surrounded by Harvard. If people aren’t around, it literally means nothing. And I think that was something I thought about for a few days. It’s like, wow, we say we’re so attached to this place, but in reality we’re only attached to the people.”
— Magazine writer Anna Kate E. Cannon can be reached at anna.cannon@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @aecannon.
Sections
On the last day of classes before students abruptly returned home amidst the coronavirus pandemic, Daniel G. Donoghue, who teaches English 103G: “Old English: Working with Manuscripts”, made sure his students would not leave campus without a bit of fanfare. He and the course’s teaching fellow E. Claire Adams made a special effort to send off the seniors in their class with an improvised awards ceremony. “We made them, all the seniors, a sort of a congratulations diploma and signed it, and we put on our robes and presented it to them, and we had some donuts,” Adams says, “to try to make a little more pomp and circumstance out of everybody being shoved off campus.”
Even before the beginning of remote classes, Donoghue and Adams had already begun adapting to the effect the pandemic would have on teaching and learning at Harvard. Lectures and seminars have moved to bedrooms and living rooms in hometowns spread across the world as the College transitions to online learning. Alongside technical difficulties and time zone differences, virtual education has brought a new set of challenges for professors and students: How do you foster a social-academic community when you can’t see anyone face-to-face?
Donoghue’s tight-knit Old English language course, one of the more obscure courses offered by the College, has been making the transition to online learning in unique ways. For the instructors of the small class, which spans two semesters, activities like the makeshift graduation ceremony came naturally.
“Because it’s not a lecture class, and because there’s a lot of interpersonal contact, and because the students have been together for a full year now, there’s a pretty tight community there with the students,” Donoghue says. His students know each other well, and they’re already used to unusual academic experiences, such as a professional calligraphy lesson held earlier in the year. According to Donoghue, preserving this dynamic of “collegiality” between classmates remains an important priority.
Beyond maintaining Harvard’s academic standards, Professor Donoghue also expresses his overarching desire to be of “service to students,” saying that he wishes “to present them with some version of what is normal, that the business of class is going on, that other parts of the world might be in great distress, or uncertainty, but here’s something that you can rely on.” For Donoghue, this meant keeping his class syllabus relatively unchanged.
In classes with laboratory and field trip components, the problem of community building is especially hard to solve. Noel M. Holbrook, who co-teaches OEB 52: “Biology of Plants,” says her teaching staff is working on replacing in-person activities with handouts and recordings, “but it’s not the same.”
“We just miss the — you know, the looking at plants together,” Holbrook says. The course is adapting by trying to replicate some of that experience virtually. “Lots of our students are sending us photographs — ‘I saw this, what’s this, I saw that!’” she says.
Holbrook is also pioneering a series called “ZESPP Conferences” for the Environmental Science and Public Policy concentration. The hour-long talks, held weekly on Zoom, span a range of environmental subjects. Holbook says the intention is to bring faculty and students together in a cooperative discussion.
“We work hard already to have a sense of community in that group because our students are taking classes sometimes at MIT and all over the place,” Holbrook says. She considers the pilot program a success: “We had over 30 students who signed on last week for our first one… So we had what I thought was a far ranging, interesting discussion, participation amongst all the students.”
Caroline Light, the director of studies for the Women, Gender and Sexuality department, describes in an emailed statement the “loss of spontaneity” that she has witnessed in the switch to digital learning. “I dearly miss those often unscripted, spontaneous encounters with colleagues and students, as they are a large part of what makes WGS special,” she writes.
Light has found creative ways to maintain a sense of intimacy with students, however. “This week, for the first time, I tried out an ‘open discussion office hour’ using zoom, and it was tremendously fun because my GenEd 1073 students could just pop in when they wanted,” Light writes. “I even got to meet some students’ siblings!”
Phyllis Thompson, who teaches the popular WGS lecture course WOMGEN 1225: Leaning In, Hooking Up: Visions of Feminism and Femininity in the 21st Century, had to make large changes to a class once centered around live interaction with students. Her weekly lectures, which used to be an hour and 15 minutes long and involved “a fair amount of student participation throughout,” are now pre-recorded in smaller segments. Thompson worries about her ability to maintain the “atmosphere of trust” and “mutually supportive environment” made necessary by the often personal, difficult subject matter of her course.
“It was not realistic to think that that was going to carry over post-pandemic,” she says, regarding the kind of active engagement the class had prided itself on before the move to online learning. In thinking over how to simulate this intimate class community in the virtual space, Thompson and her teaching staff decided to schedule a large group meeting each week where she leads a discussion. So far she’s been pleased with the results, reporting that she was “incredibly impressed” with the “amazing rate of participation last week.”
For many professors, the ongoing crisis has also created a new need for levity and humor in the classroom. Donoghue and Adams, for instance, have decided to organize “zoom themes” for each class session. Adams explained that last week the class engaged in a “wicked cool sunglasses” day, a theme appropriate to that day’s translation assignment: a poem in which Lucifer is shunned out of heaven and into the glaringly bright fires of hell. They have scheduled a drinking horn day and big bold ‘baeg’ (the Old English word for jewelry) day for later in the semester.
For Donoghue, introducing these lighthearted elements to the course is an essential aspect of keeping his classroom unified. “If there’s a pedagogic point to this, it’s to keep that kind of cohesion with the class,” he says. “Everybody is off separated in their own little place now, and this is a way of bringing us back together in some way — in some fun way.”
Robin Bernstein, who chairs the WGS program, has reworked the syllabus for her course Gen Ed 1113: “Race, Gender, and Performance,” in an effort “to create a sense of belonging” by emphasizing the healing and unifying powers of performance art. “I want to focus on the qualities we need now: empathy, connection, courage, honesty, and humor,” she writes in an emailed statement. But Bernstein, like Donoghue, also has other, slightly less educational ideas for raising students’ spirits. “I'm going to wear a different hat to every lecture. Plus, my hats will become sillier as the semester progresses (I own a lot of silly hats),” she writes. “I've already picked out my hat for the final lecture. It’s a doozy.”
— Magazine writer Olivia E. Gopnik-Parker can be reached at olivia.gopnik@thecrimson.com.
— Magazine writer Tamar Sarig can be reached at tamar.sarig@thecrimson.com.
Sections
These days, Fred H. Humphreys rarely visits Harvard Square.
“Too many memories,” he says, gaze fixed on his brown carpet. “I haven’t been there in a long time.”
Nestled between two much larger houses at the terminus of a dead end road in Melrose, Mass., Humphrey’s home — squat and pale, a worn American flag hanging from its porch — sits nearly forty minutes away from Cambridge. Outside, a thick lid of gravel clouds, dense with precipitation, weighs heavy upon the hushed block as if to seal it off from the city. A slick blanket of leaves carpets the street, the asphalt beneath cracked from years of freeze and thaw.
“The stores I knew are gone; my friends are gone,” Humphreys continues. “Times have changed.”
But the expansive, multi-component audio system in the corner of the room — a perfectly preserved relic of the eighties or the nineties — seems to belie his claim. The record player, CD player, several speakers, and array of knobs and dials have survived in pristine condition, and Humphreys, now 85, handles them adroitly: He has spent nearly his entire life selling and repairing similar systems.
For Humphreys, music was a family passion. The summer after he turned 14, his father put him to work at the music store he ran in Harvard Square — a small business called Briggs & Briggs, located on the corner of Plympton St. and Mass. Ave. Fred and his brother H. Paul Humphreys would wait in the shop until it closed and then sweep the sidewalks and wash the windows of the storefront. Gradually the two boys began to take on more responsibility, eventually learning to repair record players and radios. By the time they were adults, they had inherited the store from their father — just as their father had from their grandfather decades earlier.
For many, the shop was a fixture of Harvard Square since its opening in 1890, the unrivaled source for classical sheet music and records. But in 1999, rising rents forced the Humphreys brothers to relocate, and then ultimately shutter their store. Briggs & Briggs was priced from the neighborhood where it had operated for more than a century, and Fred Humphreys returned to his quiet home on the dead end street in Melrose.
I first learned of the music store while reporting a story on the changing face of Harvard Square last winter. Many historic businesses have fallen victim to rent hikes over the last three decades, but people spoke of Briggs & Briggs like it was some sort of legend.
“Where TD Bank is right now used to be this place called Briggs & Briggs,” Bill Bartley, owner of Mr. Bartley’s Burger Cottage, confided in me at that time. “Best guys ever,” he added immediately, bracing the heel of one hand against the counter and gripping his gleaming spatula with the other.
But as he remembered the fate of his friends across Plympton St., Bartley’s pulse seemed to quicken. Leaning forward, he began to detail how Briggs & Briggs met its demise, gesturing down Mass. Ave. towards the shop’s old location with his spatula. “That’s one of the Harvard clubs, not even the university,” he said, referencing the music store’s landlord. “That’s one of the clubs that’s making money on real estate — they wanted to throw out a really great neighbor, a really great tenant!”
The “Harvard club” to which Bartley referred was the A.D. Club, one of the seven remaining all-male unrecognized single-gender social organizations commonly known as final clubs. The A.D. has for years owned the 1 Plympton St. property which also includes the 1270 Mass. Ave. storefront that first housed Briggs & Briggs, then an Adidas, and today a TD Bank.
“I don’t know if they’d still be there given the business climate of the Square today, but that Harvard club threw them out,” Bartley continued. “They did exactly what [activists] are criticizing these big real estate firms of doing.” At that point, Bartley paused to flip a burger on the sizzling grill behind him. “I understand why a landlord who spent millions of dollars on a building is going to try to get as much money as he can,” he said. “But they’ve got that building for free — someone must have donated the building or whatever; I don’t know how they acquired it — but the money didn’t come out of the pocket of the guy who raised Briggs & Briggs’s rent.”
In recent years, activists, residents, and business owners alike have leveled criticisms at large, out-of-state real estate investment firms — the firms that Bartley invoked — for purchasing significant swaths of land around Harvard Square. By doing so, critics claim, the firms make the Square less viable for locals, driving up rents and often pricing out lower-income residents and small businesses. In December 2017, for example, the North Carolina-based Asana Partners purchased a string of properties on Brattle St., and over the months that followed, several of the businesses that had operated there were forced to close, including Black Ink, Flat Patties, and Crema Cafe. For devotees of Harvard Square, property acquisitions by large firms like Asana have come at the expense of the neighborhood’s historic character.
Asana Partners did not respond for comment on those claims.
The A.D. and other final clubs aren’t technically real estate investment firms, and for some, they represent just as integral a part of Harvard Square’s history as any long-standing business. But with their property ownership comes the power to raise and lower the rents of their tenants: The ability of the final clubs to control and manipulate space grants them agency not merely within the Harvard College social scene but also the Harvard Square real estate market. And because of their legal status as social organizations — and not explicitly for-profit entities — the clubs retain a special set of financial advantages that help to insulate them from the forces that have driven so many from the neighborhood.
Scott B. Paton ’87, who identified himself in an email as the current president of the A.D.’s graduate board, declined to comment on behalf of the club.
As they face an uncertain future, the small business owners of Harvard Square — those with long memories, at least — speak of the loss of Briggs & Briggs as a tragedy, an irreparable tear in the neighborhood’s social fabric. But Briggs & Briggs and other small businesses like it have for years existed in a constant competition for space — with large chains, with the University, and even with the final clubs. Sometimes the rules of that competition aren’t necessarily fair.
For nearly as long as the phonograph record existed, so too did Briggs & Briggs. First opened by Albert P. Briggs in 1890, the shop specialized in sheet music, recordings, and musical instruments. Though it eventually came to sell audio equipment, the store never played music on its first floor — too distracting for the musicians who frequented its aisles and leafed through its collections of sheet music.
In 1927, Humphreys’s grandfather, a piano tuner, and William Rice, a mandolin and banjo teacher, purchased the business from Albert Briggs. When Rice died in 1936, the Humphreys family became the business’s sole proprietors.
In 1899, when the business was still owned by Briggs, the music store relocated into a new storefront on 1270 Mass. Ave. It was a newly remodeled building, purchased that year from the estate of Helen M. Niles by a Harvard final club — the A.D. Club. “The A.D. Club, which, by the way, ranks with the Porcellian in social standing at Harvard, buys for the purpose of building a clubhouse, the present house on the corner of Dunster and Mount Auburn streets having long been inadequate for the purpose of the society,” a Cambridge Tribune article reported on April 22, 1899. “Plans have been prepared for a splendid new building which will, probably, call for stores on the ground floor.”
At that time, the club paid $50,000, or about $1,500,000 in today’s currency. Earlier this year, the same property was valued at $7,208,500.
Briggs & Briggs and the barbershop with which it shared the storefront became the A.D.’s first tenants. “We used to have a five year lease,” Humphreys says. “[The A.D. Club representative] would say what he wanted, and my father would say what he wanted, and they’d come to an agreement.”
“It was a gentlemen’s agreement,” Humphreys explains. “They weren’t in the real estate business — it was the A.D. Club!”
Humphreys pauses to describe a list of rules that his father and the A.D. representative would write together: In order to allow customers to enter and exit Briggs & Briggs and the barber shop, members of the club couldn’t loiter in the building’s vestibule. The young Harvard students were also prohibited from standing and smoking on the corner of Plympton and Mass. Ave.
When I ask if he still has the list, Humphreys sighs. “My father got old and he threw it out,” he says. “But there wasn’t ever much arguing about how much to pay or what to do and so forth — my father paid the rent, and when the five years were up, we’d have a new lease.”
A year after the death of Humphreys’s father in 1992, however, that “gentlemen’s agreement” came to an abrupt end. With Briggs & Briggs’s lease set to expire, the A.D. Club drafted new terms that raised the shop’s rent significantly. Though they managed to stay afloat for the five years that followed, Humphreys says he and his brother had no choice but to relocate to a smaller storefront in Porter Square in 1999. The new location proved unsustainable: A year later, Briggs & Briggs closed its doors.
The A.D. Club, it turned out, was in the real estate business. Less than a year after the departure of Briggs & Briggs, the club welcomed a new tenant — the athletic-wear store Adidas, which opened on March 1, 2000. Over the fiscal year that followed, the A.D. earned $270,625 in rent from the international retail chain.
Paton, the graduate board president, declined to comment on the rent hike that drove Briggs & Briggs from the Square. Oscar K. Anderson III ’92, a former president and treasurer, also declined to comment. Several other current and former members of the club’s graduate board — including Bartle B. Bull ’93, who until this year served as president of the graduate board, and Michael V. Casciotti ’17, who served as graduate board clerk through 2019 — did not reply to multiple requests for comment.
Bartley wasn’t the only one to lament the small business’s departure. “I just miss Briggs & Briggs,” confessed Louisa Solano, then owner of the Grolier Poetry Bookshop, in a 2001 article in The Crimson. “This should be something similar, more in keeping with the area,” she continued, referencing the Adidas that had moved into the storefront across the street from her shop. In the days that followed its opening, she said, Adidas had taken to blasting loud, pulsing music from its windows in an attempt to attract customers.
The silence that Briggs & Briggs had worked to maintain for its customers and neighbors was no more.
The A.D. Club isn’t alone in its ownership of property among Harvard’s storied social groups.
Across the Square, seven other final clubs own clubhouses, storefronts, spaces leased to restaurants, and even a parking lot. Whether willful or not, the clubs are actors in a contentious real estate market dominated by the University; their ownership of property compresses the already-narrow space available to residents and small businesses.
The Delphic Club owns its 9 Linden St. building, valued at $3,646,400.
The building that houses the Phoenix-S.K. Club, owned by the 72 Mount Auburn Trust, is valued at $2,344,900.
The Owl Club owns its 30 Holyoke St. building, valued at $3,224,400.
The Fox Club owns its 46 JFK St. building, valued at $3,234,100.
The Spee Club owns its 76 Mt. Auburn St. building via the 76 Mount Auburn Street corporation, valued at $3,094,000.
The Porcellian Club owns not only its 1324 Mass. Ave. building, valued at $6,179,300, which includes the 1320-1324 Mass. Ave. storefront leased to the Harvard-logo on apparel store J. August, but also the property at 8 Holyoke St, valued at $3,696,800, which until 2017 housed the Mediterranean-inspired restaurant En Boca.
Similarly, in addition to its 2 Holyoke Pl. building, valued at $4,283,500, the Fly Club also owns the adjacent parking lot, valued at $519,700, via the Two Holyoke Place LLC and the property at 45 Dunster St., valued at $5,580,800, via the 45 Dunster Street LLC. The Two Holyoke Place LLC and 45 Dunster Street LLCs are foreign limited liability companies organized in the state of Delaware, but both claim principal offices at 2 Holyoke Pl. — the address of the Fly’s main clubhouse. The 45 Dunster St. property includes both the 82 Mount Auburn St. storefront — which until 2018 housed the 86-year-old men’s clothing boutique J. Press and now features the restaurant Dig Inn — and the second floor space currently leased to the Hasty Pudding.
All told, the final clubs own $43,012,400 worth of real estate across Harvard Square. Of the eight property owning clubs, three — the Porcellian, the Fly, and the A.D. — also act as landlords, leasing space to businesses and even other social organizations. Those three clubs own the greatest share of property wealth, about 64 percent.
Taken collectively, all of Asana Partners’ holdings in Cambridge amount to $54,809,300 worth of property — just ten million dollars more than the final clubs.
As a result, the clubs exert a sizable influence on the Harvard Square property market. “I don’t think it’s dissimilar in impact to an international real estate or financial entity like Asana Partners that has bought up large swathes of property in Harvard Square,” Theo M. Skeadas says of the final clubs and their property holdings. Skeadas serves as executive director of Cambridge Local First, a non-profit small business advocacy network. “The effect is the same: It’s detrimental to the viability of local businesses.”
“It’s independent of the kind of owner,” she continues. “It’s a function of the rent.” Because they can set rents, Skeadas suggests, the final clubs that lease space have the same agency as a landlord like Asana to either protect or expel their tenants; what they do is ultimately their prerogative. “They could be a small or medium sized building manager, but if they’re charging exorbitant rates, it has the same impact,” she says.
But unlike many other landlords in the Square, the final clubs retain a special set of financial privileges that help enable their longevity: All but the Porcellian have at various points in their recent histories operated as tax-exempt nonprofits, insulating large chunks of their income from federal and state taxation.
Section 501 of the Internal Revenue Code — the federal law regulating domestic taxation in the United States — establishes tax exemptions for several different types of institutions deemed to either serve the public good or merit a special immunity. Perhaps the best known of these is the exemption for 501(c)(3) organizations, or public charities, but in fact the code outlines 29 different types of entities eligible for exemption, ranging from veterans’ organizations — 501(c)(19)s — to agricultural associations — 501(c)(5)s.
Most relevant to the final clubs, though, is section 501(c)(7), which establishes an exemption for social and recreational clubs.
“The central purpose of social clubs is to provide benefits to members, including access to social and recreational facilities such as club houses, golf courses, and swimming pools,” write Jim Langley and Conrad Rosenberg, authors of a continuing education brief on tax-exempt organizations published by the Internal Revenue Service.
“When such benefits are funded by members, exemption has been justified by Congress on the theory that the members will be in the same position as if they had paid for the benefits directly,” they continue. “The practical effect of the exemption is to allow individuals to join together to provide themselves with recreational or social opportunities on a mutual basis without further tax consequences.”
Congress first passed an exemption for social clubs in the Revenue Act of 1916. Less than a year later, the A.D. Club issued a Declaration of Trust, enabling it to apply for tax exemptions.
Unlike a 501(c)(3) — a charity like the Red Cross or Salvation Army — a 501(c)(7) merits tax exemption not necessarily because of its contributions to the public good but rather because its income stems from the dues paid by its members. Because members pay those dues with their after-tax income, the income a social club receives has theoretically already been taxed, rendering any further taxation redundant.
As such, the basis for a social club’s exemption holds only if its income stems solely from its members, and in 1969, Congress extended a tax on “unrelated business income” to social clubs. Under the revised law, income that stemmed from individuals who were not members and sources deemed outside the scope of the organization’s social function was also made subject to taxation.
In order to maintain its tax-exempt status, a 501(c)(7) organization must keep its nonmember income within certain bounds.“To be exempt, substantially all of a social club’s activities must be for a purpose set forth in §501(c)(7),” writes Brian D. Yacker, a certified public accountant, adjunct professor at the University of California Irvine, and managing partner of YH Advisors, an accounting firm specializing in tax-exempt organizations, in an emailed statement. “Accordingly, a social club may receive no more than 35 percent of its total gross receipts from non-member sources without risking its tax-exempt status.” The IRS defines “gross receipts” as “the total amounts [an] organization received from all sources during its annual accounting period, without subtracting any costs or expenses.”
When 501(c)(7)s stray above that 35 percent line for consecutive years, the IRS typically strips them of their tax exempt status, subjecting all of their income — not just their unrelated business income — to taxation.
Of the property-owning final clubs, the Delphic, the Spee, and the Fox have all filed as 501(c)(7) organizations with the IRS within the last five years. Because those clubs don’t also act as landlords, they are better able to keep their unrelated business income within the proper bounds.
The Fly Club, by contrast, operated with 501(c)(7) status until it reorganized its corporate structure in June 1998, choosing to forego its tax exemption and establish the for-profit limited liability corporations registered in Delaware that hold the deeds to its properties. In its final set of tax returns filed as a tax-exempt organization, the Fly declared about $110,000 in income from member dues and donations but close to $400,000 from rent and investments — well beyond the proportions set by the IRS.
Though the tax-exempt clubs still must pay taxes on their nonmember income — income from rents, investments, and sales of securities, for example — they are exempt from taxation on the income they receive from their members — dues, donations — on the federal level, Langley and Rosenberg explain. Similarly, while Massachusetts law also requires organizations exempt from taxation under section 501 of the Internal Revenue Code to pay a state tax on their unrelated business income, they are excused from Massachusetts corporate excise tax and property tax.
Thus, in the constant competition for space in Harvard Square, many of the property-owning final clubs have been afforded a special advantage over small businesses and lower-income residents. Uniquely situated to remain in the spaces they have occupied for decades, the clubs reduce the supply of property available for lessees, driving up rents across the neighborhood.
Not long after the departure of Briggs & Briggs, the A.D. Club underwent a series of significant changes. In 2001, the club organized as a nonprofit corporation and applied for tax-exempt status. Prior to that date, it had existed formally as a trust — “The A.D. Club of Harvard College,” originally declared on Feb. 13, 1917.
But on Oct. 1, 2001, the trust transferred the deed of its 1 Plympton St. property to the newly established nonprofit corporation, charging one dollar for the building and then terminating the trust that same day. The four men listed as trustees in the deed transfer — David S. Lee ’56; Francis L. Coolidge ’68; Samuel B. Carr, Jr. ’78; and Oscar K. Anderson III ’92 — assumed positions on the corporation’s board.
“The Corporation is organized and shall be operated exclusively for pleasure, recreation, and other nonprofit purposes, including, but not limited to, the promotion of social intercourse, friendship and loyalty to Harvard College,” its articles of organization state.
That year, the A.D. began to file its federal taxes as a tax-exempt nonprofit. All tax-exempt organizations are required to make their federal tax returns accessible to public inspection via the IRS’s database, affording insight into the A.D.’s income sources, gross receipts, and balance of member and nonmember income.
Between its new tenant and lucrative investment profile (the club at that time held stock in defense contractor Raytheon and energy giants ExxonMobil and Royal Dutch Shell, among others), the A.D.’s unrelated business income soared in the years following its incorporation: In its 2001 tax returns, the club claimed $58,506 of income from investments, $718,570 from sales of its securities, and $270,625 from the rent it received from Adidas, amounting to a total of $1,047,701 of gross nonmember income, or 57 percent of its gross receipts. That proportion fell slightly in 2002 then jumped to 71 percent the next year and continued to climb until reaching a peak of 94 percent of gross receipts in 2006, buoyed by $979,658 in securities. Following the 2007 tax period, when the A.D.’s nonmember income totaled 79 percent of its gross receipts, the IRS stripped the club of its tax exempt status.
In each of the seven years that it filed as a tax-exempt nonprofit, the club’s non-member income surpassed the 35 percent threshold set by the IRS, averaging 76 percent of its gross receipts. Its member income — from club dues, alumni donations, and a curious source of revenue described on its filings only as “restaurant sales” — never surpassed 45 percent. Over the same period, the average proportion of nonmember income across all 501(c)(7) organizations in the United States amounted to only seven percent.
While the A.D.’s investments and securities proved extremely lucrative in specific years, it was the leasing of the 1270 Mass. Ave. storefront, which for a century had housed Briggs & Briggs, that proved one of the club’s most stable sources of income: Fetching nearly $300,000 annually, rent from the storefront provided more than half of the club’s nonmember gross receipts in 2002, 2004, 2005, and 2007.
Because of its status as a landlord, the A.D. Club lost federal recognition of its status as a social club.
Paton declined to comment on the loss of the A.D.’s tax exemption. Bull, Anderson, and Casciotti all did not reply to multiple requests for comment on the same concerns.
A few hours after the conclusion of a particularly rowdy Harvard-Yale football game, Fred Humphreys remembers seeing a stream of cans and bottles cascade from an Adams House window. He watched them clatter to the Plympton St. sidewalk, sending shards of broken glass into the street. An ashtray followed moments later with a metallic clang.
Finally, a radio crashed to the ground, coming to rest amidst a bed of debris and shattered glass. The drunken laughter emanating from the open window ceased immediately.
It was relatively early in his tenure at Briggs & Briggs, but Humphreys remembers meeting two distraught students on the sidewalk and surveying the rubble together.
His grandfather didn’t always take well to his college-aged neighbors and their antics. He likely wouldn’t have pitied their situation. But on that particular afternoon, the shop’s patriarch was fast asleep in his chair. The younger Humphreys led the nervous students into Briggs & Briggs and helped them choose a replacement. Before his grandfather had awoken from his nap, Humphreys had replaced their radio.
“Every day was a challenge,” he says, eyes animated by his memories of Briggs & Briggs. Humphreys rifles off a list of the businesses that used to operate in Harvard Square, asking after each of their owners by name. He’s disappointed when I tell him how many have closed.
Perhaps it was this sort of neighborly attitude that Solano, the previous owner of Grolier, referenced when she wished that Adidas was “more in keeping with the area.” But very few of the places Humphreys mentions still endure today: If there existed a trait that unified the neighborhood, perhaps it has dissipated.
“I think everyone has an obligation to preserve the vitality of our community, the accessibility of our community to people of all socioeconomic backgrounds, and its historic character,” says Skeadas, the director of Cambridge Local First. “But the reality is that a commitment doesn’t exist unless it’s regulated.” Skeadas references a handful of individual property owners who hold the same values as her organization — but given that they are so few and far between, their commitments matter little on the whole, she says.
“I would hope that [landlords] do have that kind of commitment, and I think we’re better off when they do,” she continues. “But it’s an uncommon commitment.”
Given their unique legal status and eligibility for tax exemptions, the final clubs are some of the best situated of any of the Square’s actors to uphold the commitment Skeadas outlines: The Porcellian, for example, has for decades maintained its lease with the clothing store J. August, which first opened in 1891.
But when Humphreys’s father died and the “gentlemen’s agreement” that governed Briggs & Briggs’s lease ruptured, it appears as if the A.D. Club reevaluated its obligations. Though the club may be historic in its own right, its actions marked just another move in the perpetual competition for space in which all the neighborhood’s residents must jockey.
Squeezed between the University, large real estate firms like Asana, and even the final clubs, lower-income residents and small business owners are left with little room to compete.
“I’ve tried to think,” Humpreys continues. “Could we have made it if we stayed another year?” He shifts his gaze from the carpet to the window, seems to watch as the gray lid of gravel clouds presses down further upon his quiet block. “I don’t know.”
— Andrew W.D. Aoyama is the Magazine Chair of the 147th Guard. He can be reached at andrew.aoyama@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @AndrewAoyama.
Real estate data in this story was sourced from the Cambridge Property Database, an online collection of municipal assessment records. Calculations used “Assessed Value,” the sum of “Building Value” and “Land Value,” the same measure used to calculate property taxes.
Fifteen Minutes obtained the final clubs’ tax filings via the IRS and the information service GuideStar, which maintains a database of Forms 990 for American nonprofits.
FM scraped the data on the A.D.’s income sources over the period the club filed as a nonprofit from the National Center for Charitable Statistics’s IRS Core Files, a dataset published annually by the Urban Institute. The NCCS Core Files itemize and consolidate the data presented on Form 990 for each active and reporting nonprofit in the United States. FM verified the data recorded in the Core Files against the A.D.’s actual Form 990 for 2001, 2006, and 2007, accessible on GuideStar.
This article uses the NCCS’s measure of gross receipts, calculated as the sum of rental income, securities sales income, product sales income, investment income, public contributions like donations and grants, program service revenue, membership dues, and interest from savings. For the purpose of calculating the member and nonmember proportions of the A.D.’s gross receipts, FM considered rental income, investment income, and income from the sale of securities to be nonmember sources, while all other income sources — public contributions, program services revenue, membership dues, etc. — were counted as member sources. 
FM obtained corporate filings — like the A.D.’s Articles of Organization and subsequent annual reports — from the Massachusetts Secretary of the Commonwealth’s online database for corporations and business entities. Other documents — leases, property deeds, tax liens, mortgage agreements — were obtained through the Massachusetts Registry of Deeds.
Sections
Besides being one of Harvard’s largest and most popular courses, Economics 10 might be best known for producing well-known alumni. From Ben S. Bernanke ’75, former chair of the Federal Reserve, to the professors of the course themselves, many current leaders in their fields began their college educations taking Ec 10 in Sanders Theatre.
For this reason, when David I. Laibson ’88 and Jason Furman ’92 — former chair of the Council of Economic Advisers under President Barack Obama — inherited the class from N. Gregory Mankiw, they knew not to take their newfound opportunity lightly. As many of the class’s topics — healthcare reform, rising inequality, economic fluctuation — dominate the headlines and the world stage, their job as teachers of Ec 10 may be more important than ever.
Since assuming Mankiw’s mantle, Laibson and Furman have altered the course’s structure in significant ways. The class is now taught primarily in lecture rather than in section so that the professors transmit their information to the students directly.The pair has also worked to incorporate methods grounded in active learning, including an experiment where students simulated operating a bank.
Perhaps the most notable change, however, is one that the professors made to the content of the course itself. Laibson and Furman endeavored to make the course far more interdisciplinary than it had been in previous years; students not only learn about the basics of economics, they learn about policymaking, behavioral economics, and “the social problems that our society faces that have an economic dimension,” Laibson says.
For Laibson, teaching Ec 10 is not merely an academically enriching experience but a morally significant one as well. “I see a profound moral obligation to help the next generation of leaders understand the most basic economic principles that they will deploy in all the realms of leadership that they will find themselves in,” Laibson explains. “Whether it’s running an NGO, or whether it’s serving in Congress, or whether it’s serving as the superintendent of a school district, or whether it’s being the president of the United States, many of whom came from Harvard.”
Laibson and Furman’s interdisciplinary approach became even more crucial when adjusting the spring curriculum to address the emerging COVID-19 crisis. The newest version of the class includes visits on Zoom from some of the world’s key policy makers. In the email sent to Ec 10 students announcing the first speaker — Ben Bernanke, who visited class to share his thoughts on the Fed’s response to the pandemic — the professors write, “When we started planning Ec10 a year ago we wanted to make sure that it was as relevant as possible, including up-to-the-minute discussions to help you understand and participate in the economic debates of the day.”
The email also announced the upcoming visits of Jeremy C. Stein, chair of the Economics Department, Timothy F. Geithner, former Treasury Secretary and key player in resolving the global financial crisis, and Kenneth S. Rogoff and Gita Gopinath, the former and current chief economists of the International Monetary Fund (IMF). These speakers will discuss different aspects of the current economic crisis, such as lenders of last resort and the issue’s international dimensions. These influential visitors are an addition to Mankiw, Lawrence H. Summers ’82, and Karen Dynan, chief economist at the Treasury Department under Obama, all of whom had already been slated to visit at the beginning of the school year.
While Laibson acknowledges the severity of both the global health and economic tragedy currently taking place, he says that “We are making the most of that opportunity to demonstrate the importance of these economic ideas, because it is these concepts and these policies that will prevent this recession from being even worse than it would be.”
Throughout the whole interview, Laibson’s voice never stops exuding enthusiasm and sincerity. He adds, “Understanding the scope of crisis, the depth of human suffering and the important role the policymakers have to try to alleviate these problems makes this course even more vital than ever.”
— Magazine writer Alex N. Wilson can be reached alex.wilson@thecrimson.com.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Three Harvard Medical School teaching hospitals — Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Brigham and Women’s Hospital, and Massachusetts General Hospital — have reported high numbers of coronavirus cases among employees.
The growing number of infected employees comes as hospitals’ resources — including their corps of healthcare workers — are stretched thin by the novel coronavirus pandemic, which continues to grow in Massachusetts and across the United States.
As of Tuesday afternoon, 115 employees at Brigham and Women’s had tested positive, according to the hospital’s COVID-19 webpage. In addition, the hospital is currently housing 43 COVID-19 inpatients, 17 of whom require intensive care. There are also 28 admitted patients under investigation for potential coronavirus infection.
In a media statement posted online on March 26, Brigham and Women’s wrote that the hospital expected a high number of reported cases among its employee population, since health care workers are “among the groups prioritized for COVID-19 testing at the Brigham.”
“The percent of health care workers tested who are positive for COVID-19 at the Brigham is 50% less than the positivity rate of the general population that has been tested,” the statement reads.
The statement also notes that workplace exposure caused infection for only “a very small percentage” of the employee cases.
“Overall, transmission between colleagues or from patient to provider remains rare,” according to the statement.
According to Beth Israel spokesperson Lindsey A. Diaz-MacInnis, 82 employees had tested positive for the virus as of Wednesday morning, up 20 cases from Monday afternoon.
Massachusetts General Hospital, meanwhile, reported on its website that 135 employees — including both clinical and non-clinical staff — had tested positive for COVID-19 as of Wednesday morning.
The hospital also reported 139 confirmed COVID-19 cases in its inpatient and emergency departments, with 49 patients requiring ICU care. There are 89 admitted patients at the hospital with tests for COVID-19 pending.
Like the statement issued by Brigham and Women’s Hospital, the MGH report also points out that most of its infected employees likely did not contract the virus at work.
“Based on hospital data, our broad implementation of CDC-guided infection control procedures throughout the hospital and the extent of community spread now ongoing in Massachusetts, it is believed that the vast majority of these individuals did not contract the virus at work,” MGH’s statement reads.
Though the hospitals believe most of their employee cases were not due to workplace transmission, Brigham and Women’s said it has begun implementing stricter protective measures as a result.
“In response to the few cases that were [the result of workplace exposure], we’ve intensified our PPE standards and have recently moved to a universal masking strategy,” an online statement from Brigham and Women’s reads.
—Staff writer Virginia L. Ma can be reached at virginia.ma@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
To supplement “Virtual Visitas” — Harvard College’s now-online admitted students weekend — student groups like the Harvard Black Students Association have organized “Black Visitas” to welcome new admits to Harvard and provide them with information about student life.
Christian Malachy M. Porter ’23, the publicity chair of the First-Year Black Table, said he hoped to bring elements of the Visitas experience to prospective members of the Class of 2024 before they decide where to attend college.
“No matter what the circumstances are, we want to welcome you, we want to congratulate you, and we want you here,” Porter said.
In preparation for Black Visitas, Harvard students created an Instagram page, multiple GroupMe chats for prospective students, Zoom panels with the boards of different black student organizations, a virtual mentor and mentee pair-up, and informational documents.
The Black Visitas Instagram page regularly posts “Org Spotlights,” where student leaders can introduce their organizations. The social media page also includes a series called “What Black Harvard Means to Me" focusing on current students’ experiences at Harvard.
The organizers of Black Visitas also compiled several informational documents to help prospective admits with their college decisions. One document included the contacts and concentrations of several black Harvard students. Another detailed why current students chose Harvard over other institutions.
“We want to be able to help them make that decision of why they should choose Harvard over another school, given that they’re now unable to get to campus to get a feel for the environment,” Jerry W. Registre ’21, who contributed to the informational documents, said.
Registre added that he has made himself a resource for prospective students to dispel misconceptions he says he once had about Harvard.
“When I thought of Harvard, I didn’t imagine a black student thriving at this school,” Registre said. “There were a lot of misconceptions that I had, and speaking with somebody who’s actually from this school can sometimes be all that you need to realize that, ‘Oh okay, all of these things that I had are misconceptions. I’m actually going to be able to have a good time. I’m actually going to be able to be myself.’”
Black Visitas has received overwhelmingly positive feedback from prospective students, according to Mubeen A. Momodu ’23, another contributor.
“Black Visitas and the strength of the black community at Harvard shows that even though this institution wasn’t originally made for us, it is an institution that we can thrive in together, where we support each other,” prospective student John T. Hatcher said.
Other prospective students also said they have found Black Visitas helpful.
Admit Travis Johnson’s said his virtual interactions over the past week have eased his qualms about leaving his family for college.
“The Black Students Association, they really became that family immediately. They reached out to us instantly, and made us feel welcomed. That shows to me the inclusive nature of Harvard on campus,” Johnson said.
Prospective student Maria F. De Los Santos said she appreciates that the effort was student-driven.
“It feels more down to earth and comfortable when you hear it from people that are in your own shoes, and not from administration or anything like that,” she said. “They’re reaching out and they’re giving us their personal information. It really feels nice — like an actual family.”
—Staff writer Jessica Lee can be reached at jessica.lee@thecrimson.com.
—Staff writer Christina T. Pham can be reached at christina.pham@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @Christina_TPham.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
In light of the COVID-19 public health crisis, Harvard’s Department of Organismic and Evolutionary Biology has waived the public defense requirement for obtaining a Ph.D. — a major milestone of doctoral programs.
The OEB Graduate Program announced that the department decided to waive the requirement in an email to defending Ph.D. students March 11. Under the new policy, students can receive their Ph.D. if they turn in their dissertation and privately defend their work to their advisory committee via the online platform Zoom.
OEB Department Chair Elena M. Kramer wrote in an email that students also have the option to give a public defense over Zoom or to return to campus in the future to give a public seminar once University regulations surrounding the virus change.
“So far, these options seem to be sufficient to give students the flexibility they want,” Kramer wrote.
Michael M. Desai, the OEB Director of Graduate Studies, said the decision was “fairly straightforward” because many students had already completed almost all of their degree requirements. The department felt it was “not practical” to delay their graduation, he added.
Given that both Massachusetts Governor Charlie D. Baker ’79 and the City of Cambridge declared a public health emergency over the COVID-19 outbreak — including issuing a stay-at-home advisory — Desai also said department leaders felt they had “no choice” but to waive the public defense requirement.
“Like so many of the things that are happening with the current global health situation, it’s unfortunate that we can’t do [defenses] in person at the moment,” Desai said. “We recognize that, of course, that is a disappointment to many of the students.”
Ph.D. candidate in OEB Avantika “Ava” Mainieri, whose public defense was canceled, said the presentation is typically a “big source of pride” for graduate students.
“It’s a nice way to show not only yourself and your committee, but your friends, your family, everyone, your department, ‘Look what I’ve been doing for the past six years. Yes, I missed all of these social outings for this reason. Let me show you all of my hard work,’” Mainieri said.
Mainieri also said she, like most members of her OEB cohort, has decided not to conduct a Zoom defense because of the platform’s limitations.
“It’s not a fun platform. It’s not fun to watch or to be a viewer or to be a presenter,” Mainieri said. “We want to show our friends and family, and they’re not going to be that enthused to watch an hour-long Zoom presentation. No one wants that.”
Other graduate students have chosen to extend their time at Harvard in order to conduct a defense. Ph.D. candidate in OEB Meghan Blumstein said she previously planned to graduate in May and begin a postdoctoral program. In light of the coronavirus pandemic, however, she decided to continue at Harvard until August and receive her degree in November in order to continue receiving funding and health care benefits from the University.
“I think ultimately I will end up doing [my defense] on Zoom, but obviously, it doesn’t have quite the same feeling as having a room full of people watching your talk,” Blumstein said.
Despite the current restrictions, Desai said the department will welcome graduate students back to campus to give public presentations once the coronavirus pandemic subsides.
“We obviously can’t do it in person right now. It’s not allowed,” Desai said. “But we will try to offer students the opportunity to do it as soon as it becomes allowed.”
And although some graduate students might prefer a public defense, Mainieri said she and her peers understand the severity of the public health crisis.
“As a scientist, I understand the reasoning behind quarantining or social isolation,” Mainieri said. “But of course, everyone’s a little selfish, and we’re all little bummed that we don’t get to do it.”
—Staff writer Callia A. Chuang can be reached at callia.chuang@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter at @calliaachuang.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Office for the Arts launched a digital series called "Pause for Art" featuring artistic performances by Harvard affiliates, with the aim of providing viewers a sense of community through music, poetry, and other art forms.
OFA plans to share new videos daily on its website and social media platforms, including Instagram and YouTube. These videos — the first of which was published March 23 — highlight a variety of artistic expressions, ranging from spoken word to beatboxing to classical piano.
The Pause for Art website states that the goal of the series is to provide “a daily dose of artistic inspiration for anyone looking to find a moment of beauty, comfort and connection.”
Jack Megan, the director of the Office for the Arts, said the inspiration for the series came in part from University President Lawrence S. Bacow.
“He reached out to me and encouraged the idea and made specific suggestions of artists, so that was wonderful,” Megan said. “Of course we had been thinking along the lines of a digital series as well, so it just felt like the right thing to do.”
Bacow appeared in the series’s March 27 video, in which he introduced his wife Adele F. Bacow, who played the first selection from Robert Schumann’s “Scenes of Childhood.”
“One of the advantages of working from home is that I get to hear Adele play the piano,” Bacow said in the video. “And now you do too.”
The pair recorded the video on March 22, two days before they announced in an email to Harvard affiliates that they had both tested positive for coronavirus.
Music professor and pianist Vijay Iyer performed a variation on John Lennon’s “Imagine” from an album he released in 2005. He said the invitation to play for the series at this time of uncertainty inspired him to choose a song he recorded in another time of uncertainty: after 9/11, during the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan.
“I couldn’t really think of anything new to do at that time because I was just so off by everything, as anyone else was,” Iyer said. “So I set it in a more of a minor tonality, and I tried to make it somehow transformed into something of the moment.”
Stephen J. Greenblatt, an English professor and Shakespeare scholar, performed “Spring” and “Winter” from Shakespeare’s play “Love’s Labour’s Lost.” He said the selections he chose were inspired by what he noted to be a “difficult spring.”
Greenblatt also spoke about the importance of the arts during the coronavirus pandemic, adding that he believes “you can’t only read the statistics for the coronavirus to keep yourself alive, stable, balanced, happy, sane.”
“I think that it makes perfect sense that survival and the economy are the uppermost of our minds,” Greenblatt said. “But we know that we want to survive because we have, over the length of our existence as creatures, created cultures, and we can’t drop what makes us human, especially at the moment that we are trying to remain alive as human beings.”
—Staff writer Meera S. Nair can be reached at meera.nair@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
In response to health concerns about the spread of COVID-19, Outings and Innings — a service that offers discounted event tickets to Harvard affiliates — will halt sales until further notice.
For the rest of the semester, O&I will share information about virtual programs and online events through its weekly digest and social media platforms. It will also issue refunds for all canceled events, per its website.
O&I offers subsidized tickets to events and venues throughout the greater Boston area via its website, mailing list, and social media. The service sells theater and museum passes as well as tickets to sports games, concerts, movie showings, live performances, and other “hidden gems.”
Originally established in the 1970s, O&I was at first only available for staff, but was extended to students five years ago. After current director Devorah S. Sperling joined the office in 1995, she transitioned the program from predominantly advertising one-off events to promoting more recurrent ones.
“I shifted the focus to more things that were on a continuing basis,” Sperling said in an interview Tuesday.
While COVID-19 threatens to interrupt Sperling’s mission to provide continual access to Boston-based events, the O&I team is still spotlighting virtual resources for students, faculty, staff, and affiliates. To do so, O&I has kept track of the many organizations that have published resources from their archives and made them digitally available to the public free of charge.
Besides posting programs on Twitter and Facebook, O&I is now sending out a weekly digest of online talks, digital exhibits, virtual concerts, and live-streams at zoos and aquariums. Over the last few weeks, it has highlighted a Make-A-Thon hosted by the Boston Children’s Museum, online tours at the Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum, and virtual screenings at the Coolidge Corner Theatre.
“We’re putting out about 3 or 4 tweets a day of different things. We seem to constantly have content to put out there. Everyone is trying to keep our patrons engaged,” Sperling said.
While COVID-19 has forced O&I to cancel in-person offerings, Sperling remains optimistic for the future, particularly about movie ticket sales.
“If we can get out of COVID-19, we have a really good season coming up in the 2021 season. When we reopen, we’d love to see everyone come by and use us,” she said.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
A group of non-tenure-track Harvard faculty distributed a petition Tuesday urging Harvard to extend time caps on their appointments by at least one year due to the novel coronavirus pandemic.
More than 800 people — Harvard affiliates as well as outside “community supporters” among them — signed the petition as of Wednesday evening, according to History and Literature lecturer Alex W. Corey. Non-tenure-track faculty from multiple departments worked together to create the petition, which they addressed to University President Lawrence S. Bacow and Provost Alan M. Garber ’76.
The University hires non-tenure-track faculty, such as preceptors and lecturers, with a “time cap” of three, five, or eight years. At the end of this period, Harvard requires the faculty to leave regardless of the quality of their performance.
“The petition is a continuation of the efforts undertaken by a group of non-tenure-track faculty who know the time caps to be counterproductive to Harvard's educational mission--especially in the midst of a pandemic in which continuity and a robust community are central to the student experience,” Corey wrote in an email.
The petition argues that non-tenure-track faculty who are “timing out” this spring may be left without income and health insurance during the pandemic. It also states that non-tenure-track faculty who are not timing out will have “lost valuable months of research and job-seeking.”
Two weeks ago, Harvard extended the appointment contracts and tenure review timelines of many tenure-track faculty by one year due to COVID-19, acknowledging the potential disruption in their ability to conduct research.
The petition argues non-tenure-track faculty should likewise be offered a one-year appointment extension because research is similarly important to their employment prospects. It further argues that Harvard has a “moral responsibility” to offer the extension, because not doing so would put non-tenure-track faculty “at great risk” of job insecurity.
“Non-tenure-track faculty are precariously employed and are thus vulnerable to unemployment, lack of medical insurance or care, and housing insecurity,” the petition reads. “The pandemic makes these difficult conditions all the more frightening and dangerous.”
The petition comes as a growing list of universities, including Brown University and Villanova University, have announced freezes on hiring of faculty and staff due to the novel coronavirus pandemic.
In response to the petition, College spokesperson Rachael Dane referred to a statement last week from Dean for Faculty Affairs and Planning Nina Zipser. Zipser wrote in an emailed statement that lecturers and preceptors are “very important” to Harvard’s teaching mission.
“We are deeply grateful to these members of our community for all they are doing, particularly during this unprecedented and challenging time,” Zipser wrote.
—Staff writer James S. Bikales can be reached at james.bikales@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @jamepdx.
— Staff writer Kevin R. Chen can be reached at kevin.chen@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @kchenx.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Faculty of Arts and Sciences will not convene its monthly meeting in April, Secretary of the Faculty Susan L. Lively announced in an email to faculty and guests Wednesday.
FAS Dean Claudine Gay requested the April 7 meeting be canceled, and the Faculty Council agreed, according to Lively’s email. Gay recommended the cancellation due to “there being insufficient business ready for action upon the docket,” according to an update posted to the Office of the Secretary’s website.
The next FAS meeting is now scheduled for May 5.
The routines of University and faculty governance were thrown up in the air last month after Harvard took unprecedented measures to prevent the spread of the novel coronavirus across campus. The University transitioned all classes to online learning and asked most students to leave campus in mid-March due to the pandemic.
Gay announced in a March 10 email to faculty that future FAS Faculty Council and Faculty meetings would be held virtually. A March 20 announcement required all FAS faculty and staff to work from home until they receive further notice.
FAS spokesperson Anna G. Cowenhoven declined to comment on whether the May meeting would take place as scheduled.
Faculty members convened for a virtual “Town Hall” on March 20, during which administrators announced that Harvard will offer many tenure-track faculty the option to extend their current appointments and postpone their promotion reviews by up to a year due to the pandemic.
FAS made another major academic decision outside of a faculty meeting later that month, when the Faculty Council — FAS’s highest governing body — voted unanimously to recommend adopting a universal "emergency" satisfactory-unsatisfactory grading system for College students. Gay subsequently accepted the proposal.
Last month’s faculty meeting, held March 3, marked the first time administrators raised the potential of a transition to remote learning due to the coronavirus outbreak.
At that meeting, Gay and Harvard University Health Services director Giang T. Nguyen suggested faculty should learn to teach using Zoom, a video communication platform; just under a month later, campus sits mostly empty and all classes are taking place remotely, the majority of them on Zoom.
—Staff writer James S. Bikales can be reached at james.bikales@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @jamepdx.
—Staff writer Kevin R. Chen can be reached at kevin.chen@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @kchenx.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Despite leaving campus in mid-March due to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, Harvard Law School students will continue to serve Boston residents in need of free legal services online.
Students in the Law School’s clinical programs gain practical experience by working as pro bono attorneys for clients in the Boston area. The Law School offers 46 clinics and student practice organizations covering a wide range of legal specialties, including health, taxes, immigration, and BGLTQ advocacy.
The clinics offer students the opportunity to interview clients, take depositions, and try cases in court — activities that typically occur in-person rather than thousands of miles away.
Still, the clinics are providing their services virtually using video conference platforms such as Zoom, FaceTime, and Skype.
Housing Law Clinic Director Maureen E. McDonagh said her clinic stores case documents in an online database so students can access files from anywhere and easily work from home.
“Students are still working on the cases they were working on when they left,” she said in an interview Wednesday. “They’re still connected to their clients.”
Still, McDonagh said she recognizes that conducting the clinic virtually limits the feedback and support clinic staff can provide students.
“There’s no substitute for the students getting up and doing something and us giving them feedback, you know, either in class or in person at the office when they’re working on their cases,” she said.
Kiah D. Duggins, president of the Harvard Legal Aid Bureau, wrote in an email Wednesday that students are completing their existing casework, as well as taking on new responsibilities, in response to the coronavirus. The new tasks include advocating for rent suspension during the pandemic alongside the housing rights organization City Life Vida Urbana and “working with Greater Boston Legal Services to remotely represent people in certain COVID-19 related unemployment benefits hearings.”
Nicole Negowetti, Clinical Instructor at the Animal Law & Policy Clinic, wrote in an email that students have been able to transition smoothly to remote work.
“While we miss working together on campus, I’m impressed with how graciously and generously the students have adapted,” she wrote. “Through Zoom classes and meetings we have been working together to ensure that our projects move forward and that everyone feels as positive and supported as possible during this challenging time.”
McDonagh acknowledged that while her students are connecting with clients and drafting documents, they have not been able to participate in court hearings remotely since the Eastern Housing Court is currently only conducting emergency hearings. The court, as well as several other courts throughout the state, is closed until April to prevent the spread of coronavirus.
“It’s not that that this is happening without the students,” she said. “If we do have to do an emergency case, it’s very likely it’ll be telephonic and we can have the student participate from wherever they are.”
Daniel Nagin, the Law School's Vice Dean for Clinical and Experiential Education, said he commends the work of students, clinic staff, and faculty members throughout the difficult circumstances brought on by the virus.
“The Law School’s clinics and student practice organizations have been incredibly nimble in their ability to continue to advocate for their existing clients and also to take on the emerging legal needs of community members related to the COVID-19 outbreak,” he wrote in an email. “Students, staff, and faculty at clinics and student practice organizations across HLS are continuing to do critical work in a variety of legal areas.”
—Staff writer Kelsey J. Griffin can be reached at kelsey.griffin@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @kelseyjgriffin.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Virtual Visitas — the College’s adapted online welcome to the Class of 2024 — kicked off on Wednesday, drawing both positive responses and constructive criticism from students who participated in the events.
Last month, the College decided to cancel the on-campus admitted students weekend in light of concerns regarding the coronavirus outbreak.
Wednesday’s Virtual Visitas — the first day of the month-long program — featured activities ranging from working on a computer science puzzle to listening to student testimonies on social media platforms such as Zoom and Snapchat.
Admitted student Travis A. Johnson said he appreciated the creative outreach strategies adopted by student organizations on campus, citing the Black Students Association as an example.
“They actually have a forum where we can fill out to have a virtual host,” Johnson said. “It’ll allow you to connect with someone who has a similar career path but also has a similar life upbringing, and that’s very important for me to know that I’m not alone on this journey, and I will be supported.”
Anne M. Foley, another prospective member of the Class of 2024, also said she appreciated outreach efforts by her local Harvard Club.
“They also reached out to us and gave us a huge contact list for all the current students from the Chicago area and all the alums in the Chicago area,” Foley said. “I can now reach out to them with questions, and also they’re having Zoom meetings pretty much every day for us to just go and talk to them.”
In comparing Virtual Visitas to other schools’ virtual outreach programs, Johnson said there were a few ways in which Harvard could improve its program, starting with a more personable virtual tour narrated by a student.
“I think that’s a little more powerful, and it allows students to really know what goes on inside those buildings versus the generic tour that you’ll find on the admitted student page,” Johnson said.
In addition to the College’s programming, Angela Dela Cruz said admitted students like her are making an active effort to get to know each other from afar.
“There’s also something called a ‘redemption prom’ going around that we’re trying to plan for people who are going to miss their prom,” Dela Cruz said. “While we are let down, we’re still trying to make things work, and we’re still trying to get to know each other.”
—Staff writer Benjamin L. Fu can be reached at benjamin.fu@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @BenFu_2.
—Staff writer Dohyun Kim can be reached at dohyun.kim@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
For the United States Census in 2010, Harvard undergraduates filled out paper forms they received in on-campus mailboxes. This year, with campus closed due to the coronavirus, administrators and student groups are working to make sure the 2020 Census counts students correctly.
“Harvard undergraduates will be counted by our administrators as living at Harvard and should not be counted in their home or current location,” a weekly digest email from the College read. “Administrators from Harvard College will be submitting your entry on your behalf, and no action is needed from you in order to complete your Census.”
University President Lawrence S. Bacow announced last month that most undergraduates would be required to move out of on-campus housing in an effort to prevent the spread of coronavirus.
Student organizers from the Harvard Votes Challenge — a campus organization dedicated to increasing voter turnout — helped to gather and share information with students as the Census proceeds.
Kevin L. Ballen ’22, co-chair of the Harvard Votes Challenge, said he believes working to ensure that students participate in the Census aligns with the organization’s mission.
“The Census isn’t our main focus, but we felt called to mobilize around it because it’s important for civic engagement,” Ballen said. “The main thing around the Census is really just messaging to students how to fill it out.”
The Harvard Votes Challenge has also partnered with similar organizations across the Ivy League to create a “civic engagement cohort” and encourage Census participation among students across all eight universities.
The Census is a constitutionally mandated count of the population conducted every ten years. The count is used to distribute seats in the U.S. House of Representatives, determine legislative boundaries, and allocate billions of dollars in public funding.
Per Census rules, universities count college students that live in on-campus housing. A press release from the Census Bureau said this policy would still hold “in general” for students attending colleges and universities temporarily closed due to the spread of coronavirus. Undergraduates that live off-campus, however, should still fill out their own Census forms “in most cases,” according to the Bureau.
Due to social distancing guidelines from public health officials, the Bureau has extended the timeline for Census responses online, by phone, and by mail. Although April 1 is the reference date for determining where individuals reside, households can still fill out the Census until Aug. 14.
Correction: April 3, 2020
A previous version of this article incorrectly stated the Census Bureau's revised timeline for accepting responses. The end date for households is Aug. 14, not July 31.
—Staff writer Joshua C. Fang can be reached at joshua.fang@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @jshuaf.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Affiliates of the Harvard Extension School — which offers over 200 courses each semester that primarily meet via Zoom — shared their experiences with online learning a week after Harvard College students began taking courses on the platform as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic.
The Extension School, which offers courses for both in-person and distance learners, has had a long history of using online teaching platforms, beginning with a lecture capture system in 1997. Since then, as its reach and size has expanded, the Extension School has shuffled through multiple platforms before deciding on Zoom.
“In 2016, we switched to Zoom, and it really was a game changer,” said Adrienne Phelps-Coco, director of faculty development at the Extension School. “What Zoom really allows is for your class to connect as if you were in the classroom, in ways that end up feeling very natural once you settle into it a little bit.”
Due to their familiarity with the technology, Extension School administrators were contacted early in the discussion about COVID-19 contingency plans. The University began discussions about the technology in early March, recommending all faculty familiarize themselves with the platform. On March 10, the University announced that all courses would be transitioned online for the remainder of the semester.
Henry H. Leitner — who serves as chief innovation officer and interim dean of the Division of Continuing Education — said he was “contacted immediately” by Vice Provost for Advances in Learning Dustin Tingley to help the University with the transition.
“Adrienne and a couple of other people here sort of canvassed our existing experienced faculty and teaching assistants who have been teaching online through Zoom with conferencing for some time to ask if any of them would be interested in volunteering to assist,” Leitner said.
Given its more extensive use of Zoom, the Extension School has established a strong set of resources for adapting to distance-based learning, such as an instructional technology help center. Furthermore, Extension School Zoom courses have also been adapted to deliver quality education across the medium.
“We limited enrollment in Zoom-based courses to around 45,” Leitner said. “As a faculty member, if you really want to be able to see everybody that’s in the class and be able to actually interact with the students, it’s really difficult when you get beyond that.”
Claudia C. Batz, a third year Extension School student, said it took some adjustment to familiarize herself with the Zoom platform. Over time, however, she said she got used to the technology and was able to get more out of her coursework.
“When you first start, it’s really awkward and you’re just struggling with the technology,” Batz said. “Once you get used to it, you become really solid.”
“I really think that I get more out of each class because I'm not worrying about the technology,” she added.
Batz said she hopes this period of University-wide online learning will make the “validity” of remote education at the Extension School more clear to University administrators and change the way Extension School coursework is viewed.
“[Online coursework] being the situation that the rest of the University is in, that should also reflect, I think, on the work that we're doing with the Extension School,” she said.
Past efforts from Extension School students to change the name of their degree – which currently appears as "in Extension Studies" on their diplomas – received pushback in 2016. In November, former Dean of the Division of Continuing Education Huntington D. Lambert said he agrees that Extension School degrees should be rephrased.
In the wake of the entire University’s transition to online learning, Extension School affiliates said they hope that the rest of the University will understand their learning experience.
“It’s really good in terms of collaboration and cohesiveness for all students at Harvard to see, what is it like to learn in a dynamic classroom environment?” Kenny M. Marshall, a student at the Extension School, said. “In terms of legitimization, hopefully they see the reason why the Extension School is becoming more popular and more in demand.”
Phelps-Coco shared the sentiment.
“In terms of online learning in general, there is a lot of fear of the unknown,” she said. “For everyone, for faculty, for students. And now this will not be unknown to anyone anymore.”
—Staff writer Isabel L. Isselbacher can be reached at isabel.isselbacher@thecrimson.com.
—Staff writer Andy Z. Wang can be contacted at andy.wang@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Students from Harvard and Stanford launched an international education challenge in March to encourage students to get involved in global issues during the coronavirus pandemic.
The Crown Education Challenge — whose name derives from the English translation of “corona” — invites elementary, middle, and high school students around the world to submit original artwork, writing, and scientific research centered around the theme of “hope during a pandemic.”
Amy Y. Jin ’22 and Stanford student Anne L. Lee founded the initiative in response to global school closures and educational disruptions caused by the rapid spread of COVID-19.
“We were looking at several different parent blogs and Facebook groups online that expressed some of the frustrations behind homeschooling and this new virtual learning that parents were now faced with,” Jin said. “So we sort of had this idea of starting a K-12 international education challenge.”
Since the pair first began brainstorming less than two weeks ago, their team has expanded to include other students from Harvard and Stanford — including David A. Paffenholz ’22 and Stanford students Yannie K. Tan, Dhruvik S. Parikh, and Adam A. Pahlavan.
“Given the current challenges created by the coronavirus, there’s a lot of education that’s not happening as regular,” Paffenholz said. “We as college students experienced that with the transition to online classes, but while it’s arguably fairly well-managed at Harvard, that is certainly not the case for the majority of schools in the U.S. nor around the world.”
The challenge’s theme of “hope during a pandemic” was inspired by the team’s aim of contributing a positive story to a news cycle “dominated by COVID-19,” Lee said.
“The whole thing about ‘hope’ is kind of two-fold here. In one sense, we want the kids to think about their own representations of hope and things that give them hope during this type of time,” Parikh said.
“For the world at large, seeing the amazing things that children and students are doing during this kind of time, we think that this could give the world itself hope during a pandemic,” he added.
The students on the team are also working with Serena McCalla, the science research coordinator for the Jericho Union Free School District in New York and founder of the iResearch Foundation, which sponsors the challenge. The team was initially connected to McCalla through Pahlavan, who worked with her in high school.
McCalla said the team has been “working nonstop” on getting the challenge up and running.
“I’d be on the Zoom with them and it could be almost one o’clock in the morning in New York, and we’re still hashing out issues that we found on the website,” McCalla said.
Despite the challenge’s focus this year on promoting hope during COVID-19, the team intends to “iterate” the Crown Education Challenge even after the pandemic ends.
“We hope that it will be an annual challenge with different themes,” Tan said. “We hope that in future years we’ll try to tackle other global issues while still maintaining the breadth of the arts, STEM, and writing categories for all age groups.”
Online submissions for the challenge opened this week and will be accepted until May 31. Entries will be judged by a panel of professors, artists, and other experts, and finalists will have their work published in the Harvard Technology Review.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Debates in Springfield — postponed. Fundraisers in Boston — cancelled. Canvassing in Cambridge — scrapped.
As the coronavirus has upended daily life in the United States, sending college students packing, shuttering businesses, and overwhelming medical facilities, politics has largely been put on pause as campaigns are no longer front of mind for voters.
In Massachusetts — home to a closely-watched United States Senate primary between incumbent U.S. Senator Edward J. Markey (D-Mass.) and U.S. Representative Joseph P. Kennedy III (D-Mass.) — candidates have moved operations almost entirely online as they work to stay relevant amid the crisis.
“We talk about our campaign very much being a person-to-person, friend-to-friend, neighbor-to-neighbor operation,” said John E. Walsh, Markey’s campaign manager. “It’s just no longer face-to-face.”
Kennedy and Markey, who both describe their operations as grassroots-oriented, have shifted to holding live video town halls focusing on coronavirus issues with guests on social media.
Kennedy — who suspended all campaign activities on March 13 — has received glowing national media coverage for making a swift transition to digital platforms, where he has built a ubiquitous presence through near-daily Facebook live appearances.
“The Congressman made a promise to folks that he would show up every single day for every single person in Massachusetts across the Commonwealth, and he’s staying committed to doing just that,” said Brian Phillips Jr., Kennedy’s press secretary.
Kennedy has also stopped campaign fundraising over his email lists and has instead encouraged supporters to donate to charities doing coronavirus relief work.
Markey, who was out-fundraised by Kennedy in the fourth quarter of 2019, has continued to tactfully ask supporters for cash amid the crisis. Walsh, a veteran Massachusetts political advisor who chaired the state Democratic Party for six years, said he was not bothered by the optics of continuing to raise money, even while Kennedy does not.
“We chose not to suspend our operations, but to adapt them,” Walsh said. “We really believe that a vibrant democracy is a key part of the solution here.”
“One of the parts of running a grassroots campaign, even though it’s not face-to-face, is it does cost money,” he added. “So we’re being very conscious of how we ask and asking people to take their own situation into consideration. But we’re moving ahead with the campaign — that includes fundraising.”
Experts say current developments — including Markey’s decision to continue campaigning amid the crisis — are unlikely to have a major impact on the race as voters are consumed by coronavirus coverage.
“He’s going to have to find a way to raise those funds,” Stonehill College Political Science Professor Peter N. Ubertaccio said of Markey. “Joe Kennedy is in an enviable position to be able to give some of his money away to charities because he and his team know that he has really high name recognition and the ability to raise it easily if the situation were different.”
Ubertaccio added that candidates’ virtual town halls, which have been primarily focused on coronavirus information, are unlikely to expand their voter bases.
“There’s no way to reach the same number of voters via virtual events or digital events. When you have those kinds of events, you’re typically reaching folks who are already committed to you in one way or another,” he said. “There’s a reason that we do door-to-door canvassing and that there are rallies. Facetime with candidates is important. This just puts it all on pause.”
“It’s hard to know at this point how it really impacts the dynamics of the race,” he added.
Maurice T. “Mo” Cunningham, a political science professor at the University of Massachusetts Boston, said the crisis is likely to make the race more policy-focused.
“It calls out for innovative policy — bold policy proposals — in a Democratic primary,” he said. “I think that’s what’s going to carry the day.”
Markey received a boost earlier this week when the Massachusetts Democratic Party announced it was moving to cancel its annual convention and hand its endorsement to him after he built an insurmountable lead in local caucuses. Phillips said the Kennedy campaign did not contest the party’s decision.
Walsh said that Markey’s victory was a testament to the campaign’s grassroots organizing.
“I think there’s a strong case to be made that, at times like these, a senator with experience and with a dogged legislative style is important,” Walsh said.
While Markey and Kennedy have been forced to change tacks, they have both kept a high profile, appearing on various cable news shows in recent weeks. But for down-ballot races, the coronavirus presents an even bigger challenge.
In Kennedy’s home district, where a crowded field of candidates is running in a Democratic primary to replace him, some have put campaigning on hold.
Yael Sheinfeld, the communications director for Newton City Councilor Jacob D. Auchincloss ’10 — one of two Harvard College alumni vying to replace Kennedy — said Auchincloss has suspended campaigning.
“The term social distancing — which is obviously what we’ve been practicing — is maybe the perfect antonym to the term political campaign,” Sheinfeld said. “We have pivoted our campaign to focus on Jake’s position as a Newton city councilor, and have worked on providing resources, information, and support to both his Newton constituents and to constituents and voters throughout the district.”
Cunningham said it will be “very difficult” for down-ballot candidates to connect with local leaders and to fundraise amid the crisis.
“Many of them were depending on the next month to get known in the other parts of the district. Now they can’t get there,” he said. “That’s really going to be a drag on their campaigning.”
Sheinfeld said digital engagement with the campaign has been up in recent weeks, which she attributes to voters spending more time online.
“There’s no playbook for this situation,” she said.
Massachusetts student organizers have also been working to keep volunteers engaged as undergraduates are scattered around the country. Hayley Fleming, the president of the College Democrats of Massachusetts, said she has been setting up phone and text banking, as well as virtual town halls, so students can participate remotely.
“We’re still trying to navigate the best options here,” Fleming said. “I think that campaigns — when they find ways that people can get involved on their own time, according to their own crazy schedules right now — that’s most effective at the moment.”
Cunningham said he expects voters’ interest to increase as the summer moves along.
“The summer is always a difficult time, but I think this is really going to focus people’s attention on, you know, what can government do?” He said. “We’re going to be in this for a while and people are going to be very interested in policy proposals that get America back on track.”
—Staff writer Jasper G. Goodman can be reached at jasper.goodman@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @Jasper_Goodman.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Even with online classes done through Zoom for the rest of the semester, it’s still important for the rest of the world to know that you go to Harvard. But, in a time of social distancing and quarantine, how do you achieve this? Don’t stress, Flyby is here to help.
Harvard + Graduating Year on Every Social Media Platform Bio
Is an Instagram really complete if it doesn’t have Harvard (Online) ’23 in the bio? This is probably the most effective way to let all your fellow friends from home know that you do still go to Harvard. Add it to all your social media platform bios to achieve optimal effectiveness. It might even help you to gain a few extra friends on Facebook or reach TikTok stardom.
Harvard Merch and Decor on Facetime/Zoom/Houseparty
Despite only being able to see your friends and extended family through Facetime, Zoom, or Houseparty, you have to take advantage of the 1x1 inch worth of screen space to show your H-pride. Throw on that Harvard bucket hat and those wash-off H tattoos that you know you only use for Harvard-Yale, hang up that Harvard pennant on the wall behind you, and intentionally use that Harvard coffee mug your parents bought when you were first admitted. “Show, don’t tell,” right?
Harvard-themed Social Media Posts
Post a few photos recapping this past semester and a half. Use this to reminisce on all the good memories and tough times. Feel free to also add in a Harvard-themed or reflective caption. Bonus: a photo of the John Harvard statue and an @harvard tag.
Harvard Lanyard
What better way to carry your car or house keys than to put them on a Harvard lanyard? It’s not only a secure method of ensuring that the keys don’t get lost, but it also serves as an implicit way of letting people know which university you attend. A two-in-one package deal.
No matter where you currently are in the world, there is certainly no shortage of ways in letting everyone know that you still go to Harvard.
