News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
In the chaos of the spring, it is easy to forget that the end of the fall semester was chaotic too. When graduate students went on strike, not only did finals seem uncertain but so did the coming semester. If only we knew!
The story of COVID-19 and the University’s sudden transition online has relegated the year’s headlines to footnotes: Nov. 23 — “Hundreds of Divestment Protesters Storm Field, Interrupting Harvard-Yale Game;” Feb. 20 — “Harvard Police Arrest Man in Smith Campus Center After Physical Altercation, Drawing Criticism;” May 1 — “Harvard Kept Ties With Jeffrey Epstein After ’08 Conviction, Report Shows.”
But the issues these events represent will still exist when we return. Much will be different, but how much and in what ways are open questions — ones we can’t ignore in the interim. At every turn, Harvard seems to struggle with a fundamental question of identity. School or company? Community or network? University or corporation?
We’d like to think about our eventual return as a bit of a reset: What can Harvard be after COVID-19?
The University in the Mirror
At the kind of University we aspire to attend, administrative reviews matter and facilitate meaningful change. Robust procedures for self-examination are impartial, triggered swiftly, and are responsive to the needs of the most vulnerable parties.
Time and time again, Harvard has failed to meet these standards.
Perhaps uniquely concerning has been the case of Harvard University Police Department and its chief, Francis D. “Bud” Riley.
A Crimson investigation exposing systemic racism, sexism, and alleged favoritism within HUPD highlighted Riley’s role in perpetuating this culture in his department over a period of nearly 30 years. Further, in February, Anthony T. Carvello — an officer with a history of using excessive force such that one man he arrested said he struggled to breathe — violently arrested a young homeless black man in the Smith Campus Center. In the wake of the report’s release, HUPD commenced an internal review of its own misconduct. Among the review’s leaders? Riley himself. Perhaps, as both judge and defendant, Riley can maintain the integrity of the investigation, subjecting himself to full scrutiny. But we’re not counting on it.
An inability to self-examine has hampered the University’s efforts to solve other enduring campus problems like sexual misconduct. In the last four years, the prevalence of sexual misconduct on campus has remained steady. Thirty-three percent of female undergraduates have experienced nonconsensual sexual contact since entering the College. And the University’s response to past cases of sexual misconduct, such as when allegations were raised against former Government Professor Jorge I. Dominguez, drew criticism from multiple victims for perceived administrative “disinterest” and a failure to adequately listen to their concerns.
Yesterday, The Crimson reported a set of sweeping allegations of sexual misconduct against three leading faculty in the Anthropology Department. A patriarchal culture has inhibited, intimidated, and even sexually victimized women as scholars and students.
And though the Department opened itself to a recent review, it seems that oversight of that patriarchy has always fallen in the all-too-complacent hands of the patriarchs themselves. Perhaps the biggest case in point: Gary Urton, one of the named professors, was tasked in his role as the then-department chair to handle an allegation against fellow professor Theodore C. Bestor after it surfaced in 2013. At the time, Urton was allegedly engaged in an affair with a student.
We recognize that durable progress in making our campus safer requires deeper cultural changes. But Harvard must interrogate and revamp its own procedures — a task made only more important (and more difficult) by the United States Department of Education’s new set of Title IX guidelines. The guidelines not only narrow the definition of sexual misconduct, but also limit the University’s ability to address complaints of misconduct that occurs at unrecognized off-campus locations, including final clubs.
A University seeks to protect its students. A corporation minimizes risk and liability. As Harvard begins to determine how it will approach the new Title IX guidelines, it must be willing to use its political weight to resist the regulations in Washington, D.C., as it has done on other issues — most notably immigration.
But fighting the Department of Education will not be enough. Now more than ever, the University must be creative and aggressive in exploring new ways to erode the culture of sexual harassment and assault that has long pervaded our campus and to develop independent procedures — above and beyond Title IX — to investigate and intervene in patterns and places of violence and predatory behavior.
When the safety of our community members is so often in Harvard’s hands, genuine self-examination cannot be an afterthought. Harvard’s police force can only claim to act with care and respect if it also does so behind closed doors, and works urgently to right itself — starting by ditching the man who has fostered a quarter century of bigoted policing. And Harvard’s administration, if truly committed to a campus free from sexual assault, must creatively transcend federal policies of disregard.
Who Keeps the Lights on?
Harvard most obviously embodies a corporation when it comes to its financial interests. When dealing with funding and donations, the corporate drive seems to almost always prevail — time and again undermining Harvard’s moral integrity.
The maintenance of personal and financial ties to donor and convicted sex trafficker Jeffrey E. Epstein a full decade after his crimes were known stands as a particularly appalling example. As recently as 2018, a convicted sex offender was repeatedly invited to our campus, offered a private office, welcomed into classes, and allowed to rehabilitate his image using a Harvard website. The recent report concerning Epstein’s connections to the University demonstrates that faculty members who urged Harvard to reconsider their decision to refuse money from Epstein were depressingly willing to overlook underage prostitution for monetary gain.
But tainted money imperils Harvard’s ability to perform objective research and promote academic freedom. Epstein didn’t just buy access to the Harvard name — he also bought himself a psychology fellowship for which he had zero qualifications. Our institution’s academic standards were discarded.
Just months ago, University Professor Charles M. Lieber was charged with lying to the U.S. Department of Defense about accepting $1.74 million in research funding and hundreds of thousands in pocket money from a Chinese initiative known for academic espionage. This deception inevitably erodes public trust and has even led some conspiracy theorists to believe Lieber created coronavirus.
Harvard’s official connections to foreign powers with deep pockets may prove even more egregious. A recent Crimson exposé revealed that at least one Harvard administrator has attempted to silence Chinese dissidents on campus to avoid jeopardizing the University’s relationship with China, growing in influence on the global academic stage. Harvard has also cozied up to Saudi Arabian Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman despite many organizations cutting ties following the murder of journalist Jamal Khashoggi by the Prince’s affiliates and Saudi-led torture in Yemen. And though not all money from foreign sources should be rejected out of hand, Harvard has repeatedly ignored the crimes of despicable people and regimes as long as they open their checkbooks.
Still, the fallout of the Epstein debacle demonstrates the untenability of a purely corporate outlook. That the University donated its remaining Epstein money to support victims of sexual assault after mounting pressure hints at a degree of self-awareness in this regard — a tacit, perhaps forced, rejection of the anything-goes corporate mentality. But acknowledging the corporate-academic duality is not the same as successfully wrestling with it.
If campus activism has taught us anything this year, it's that our student body will not tolerate the banal prioritization of growing the endowment without contemplating its ethical implications. From storming football fields in defiance of long-standing traditions, to reporting on our coddling of authoritarian governments, students have resisted the abdication of Harvard’s moral responsibilities.
When students have pushed to make Harvard’s financial underworld more ethical, the University has tended to respond with incrementalism. The University — in acknowledgment that its investments are political — has given an inch by committing to reaching a carbon-neutral endowment by 2050. Here, its moral aspirations, though better than nothing, are meager. Many peer institutions such as Oxford University and Georgetown University have thrown down the moral gauntlet by committing to full divestment from direct fossil fuel holdings as soon as possible. Harvard’s commitment to achieve less in 30 years time rings hollow.
Given that the Epstein debacle will prompt changes in donation guidelines, perhaps similar transgressions will be rarer. But the constant pull of the corporate impulse will necessitate a deeper investigation and reckoning with how intellectual advancement is sponsored.
The New Grad Student
Of course, coronavirus — at the University and beyond — has surfaced many questions about labor as well. Which jobs are essential? And which are valued and protected as such?
So when so much else has seemed to stop, graduate student union negotiations have perhaps unsurprisingly endured.
Negotiations between the nascent graduate student union and the University have been slow — with ongoing disagreement about important issues, not least discrimination and harassment proceedings. During the fall semester, the union grew so fed up it voted to authorize a strike. On the first day of reading period, graduate students stopped working … mostly. Though they stopped teaching and grading undergraduate courses, disrupting finals, they continued to conduct vital research, complete coursework, and act as residential proctors and tutors.
Graduate students are not purely employees, nor are they purely students. As part of an agreement reached in April, Harvard will cap graduate student workload to twenty hours per week. But it seems obvious that graduate student contribution to campus life and the institution’s intellectual output will continue to exceed those bounds. So too should the University’s obligations to them.
What the graduate student unionization process has indicated is the extent to which the University struggles to clearly and consistently parse its dual and often conflicting role as patron of intellectual work and employer of intellectual workers.
Consider non-tenure-track faculty, who have not received the sort of timeline extension granted to many of their tenure-track peers. Despite their doing much of the same work as tenure-track faculty — teaching, advising, conducting research, administrating — they have been sorted more fully into the category of employee. Where the University has made a sort of bet on the long-term potential of tenure-track faculty, it has no such stake in non-tenure-track faculty.
But graduate students have demonstrated that Harvard’s dual role as patron and boss is not so clear cut. It’s not as if one stance is obviously more appropriate or just than the other. Indeed, graduate students don’t want more University patronage — after all, that has historically allowed the University to take their labor for granted. Instead, they want to establish themselves — or at least some part of themselves for some defined set of hours — as contracted and protected employees.
The last month or so has seen rapid advancements in the union negotiation process. In a “comprehensive compromise proposal,” the union accepted the University’s most recent proposal for compensation, child-care and insurance provisions for dependents, protections for international students, among other critical facets of a comprehensive deal. It’s meaningful progress — especially given a March controversy over whether the University would even continue negotiation after it transitioned online.
The biggest shift, however, has been that both parties are now shooting for a one-year, rather than permanent, contract. In some sense, this more modest target may be a good thing — acknowledging the uncertainty of the year to come (not to mention those that follow), as well as the need for experimentation as the University and its graduate students continue to explore the evolving terms of their relationship.
Looking forward, we urge the following: First, we continue to stand by the union’s outstanding demand for third party arbitration of discrimination and sexual harassment allegations. Second, a one-year agreement can’t be the end of the University’s engagement with the union or the big questions it continues to raise.
Third, graduate students’ labor struggle cannot operate in a vacuum. What graduate students are fighting for must be bigger than their own cause. The University has shown itself all-too-capable of putting off its responsibility to its workers — not least the maintenance, building, dining, security, and other staff that often work low-wage or agency-contracted jobs. What graduate students are hashing out in the negotiating room implicates their livelihoods in powerful ways too.
Harvard’s graduate students are, above all, members of our community — mentors and friends, tutors and proctors. Even as they pioneer a new course of unionized employment, we continue to insist on their centrality to the life of this campus.
Maintaining Moral Optimism
Sometimes the old joke — Harvard is really just a hedge fund with a university attached — feels all too real. The University’s corporate interests often seem to outstrip its educational, scholarly, and ethical commitments.
Students feel this conflict in the course of academic life, and the continued upsurge of activism shows we do not accept it passively. It was students who first investigated and exposed HUPD’s entrenched racism and sexism. It was students demanded divestment on the football field. And it was student-workers who struck for higher wages and better protections and procedures to combat sexual assault. We are deeply inspired by our peers — eager to see how they persist remotely and when we return.
Our peers remind us that moral optimism — the courage to imagine a more just University and world — is not futile. We dare to believe that when we return the University can be a more just, self-reflective, and equitable institution. If COVID-19 offers anything, it is the chance for a fresh start — one informed by a more confident sense of why we come together year after year in the pursuit of knowledge and the values and mutual commitments that must underwrite that pursuit.
The University must hold itself and its most powerful members accountable — preferably before the big stories break.
The University must hold its donors to basic ethical standards. And it may have to take some economic losses to make some moral gains.
The University must treat all its workers with equal dignity, because this campus — as we saw last fall or four years ago when dining hall workers struck — does not exist in the minds of a handful of professors, but in the efforts of all of us together.
If the pandemic proves anything, the real illness is only sort of COVID-19; and the real cure is always the power of people together — not as a corporation and maybe not even as an institution, but as a collective body of moral self-making.
This staff editorial solely represents the majority view of The Crimson Editorial Board. It is the product of discussions at regular Editorial Board meetings. In order to ensure the impartiality of our journalism, Crimson editors who choose to opine and vote at these meetings are not involved in the reporting of articles on similar topics.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The emotion that stands out, when I think back on the beginning of my senior year, in September of 2008, is bitterness. The firm where I had spent my summer went bankrupt, and even if it hadn’t, I was a far cry from the top of my intern class. Everywhere I looked, it felt like others had advantages I hadn’t noticed until then. This person had been preparing for medical school since day one. That person got a National Science Foundation fellowship. This guy was going to work for the consulting firm where his uncle was a director. That girl happened to intern at a company that wasn’t hit very hard by the recession.
It didn’t help that my dad lost his job and my mom had quit the labor force a few years prior because of health issues. I wasn’t speaking very often with my parents, but when I did, I could tell that they were desperate to protect my feelings. “We’re fine. Your father has a second-round job interview next week. Or, we never told you about the inheritance that your grandfather set aside for us. He’s sending it over soon.”
Growing up, my family was upper-middle class (that was a thing back then, when there were enough people in the middle class that you could distinguish). It bothered me. I went to a private high school in a wealthy town, where other girls called me poor. I was frustrated that I had no control over money. That frustration built up over time into something worse.
In college, I obsessed about what life would be like after graduation. I’d have a great-paying job that put me in the 1 percent or above. Dad wouldn’t have to work 24/7, mom’s condition would go away. I’d get married after a few years. Suburbs, kids, low-impact sports, coding camp. Not that far off from the typical fantasy, when you think about it. It didn’t need to be evil money, I rationalized, it just needed to be safe money. Insulated money. Hell, I’d even give some of it away.
Which is why, senior year, all I can remember is the bitterness. The classes I took are a blur. I can vaguely recall a job interview here and there, but none of them amounted to anything. I sat in my dorm room, dwelling on everything I had messed up. There were only two possible explanations for where I was in that moment: arrogance and worthlessness. Frozen labor markets and climbing unemployment were a sideshow.
If you haven’t noticed, this isn’t a story about the financial crisis. It’s a story about latent depression, papered over by the chaotic, over-achieving, high-energy optimism of college. The recession just exposed what was there when all of that was stripped away. I’m not saying it was a blessing in disguise – the months and years that followed were exceedingly difficult. But I’m lucky that I had roommates who intervened and got me professional help. I’m grateful for an institution that was far gentler on me than I was on myself.
I came to realize that my family didn’t need saving. Sure, I was on the hook for certain financial obligations after graduation, and that’s always stressful for a recent grad – whether in the form of student loan debt or responsibilities to other family members. But, in my mind, I had blown that burden way out of proportion. My dad ended up getting the job. In fact, he enjoys work way more than he lets on. My mom’s condition went away, and I realized that while they weren’t 100 percent happy, they were happy-ish. I was the one that everyone was worried about.
It’s also important to have perspective on the churn of the college social hierarchy. Advantages absolutely persist, but every year there's a different cohort at the top and at the bottom. I've known people who struggled with grad school or investment banking who later became successful entrepreneurs. I've known people who struggled with corporate jobs who later became successful academics. I've also known people who have stuck with the same career, including healthcare workers who have been on the front lines of the current crisis, and thank God for people with that sort of conviction.
The guy with the uncle never left the consulting firm and has gradually worked his way up the ladder. In many respects, he’s had the ideal business career. He’s also got an astounding depth, and a small but solid group of people, mostly family, he’d give anything for. He’s already had to make sacrifices, and still hasn’t found a wife or the suburbs.
I’m writing this letter as a business school professor. In a few months I’m starting law school, probably with some of you. Is this a step backwards? Perhaps. Forward, bottom, unfair, talent: these concepts blend together and erode over time. I’m just glad I’ve found something I want to do.
Katherine P. Waldock ’09 was an Economics concentrator in Kirkland House.
This piece is part of a series of letters written by members of the Harvard College Class of 2009.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
This April was the hottest in recorded history, in a year that seems very likely to break every mark for global temperature. And so, on the 50th anniversary of Earth Day, one might have expected the world’s most prestigious educational institution to act decisively, sending a strong signal that it would help break the political logjam.
And that’s precisely what happened. As its student newspaper reported, “Oxford University has passed a motion requiring its endowment fund to divest from all direct investments in fossil fuel companies, and end future investment in funds that primarily hold stock in fossil fuel companies."
Harvard, on the other hand, took the coward’s way out. In the same week, the Harvard Corporation directed the Harvard Management Company to develop a plan to achieve net-zero greenhouse gas emissions across the endowment portfolio by 2050. Well and good, but in deciding not to divest its fossil fuel stocks Harvard signaled that it lacked the guts to make a decisive statement about where it stood. Yes, over the next 30 years (30 years!) its managers will study and weigh and consult behind closed doors, and they may change the weight of Harvard’s portfolio, and it may in some small incremental way help move us forward.
But that ignores the actual fight. The actual fight — the only fight, really, since the start of the global warming era 30 years ago (30 years!) — has been over whether we can break the political power of the fossil fuel industry. If we can, then we can move forward quickly: Engineers have dropped the price of solar and wind power to the point where it’s the cheapest way on earth to produce energy, meaning technology and economics are no longer the barriers.
Instead, the barrier remains the power of the fossil fuel companies, which even in their decline are able to use accumulated political clout to keep us from doing the right things. Despite knowing the truth about climate change since the 1980s, they have funded and organized the climate denial machine (they have, that is, behaved in intellectually dishonest ways that would get a student or a professor booted). They have lobbied without cease for the tax breaks and subsidies that have kept their industry artificially healthy. Even now, amidst the pandemic, they are winning battles to end regulations on pollution. All in all, they are the problem, or at least a problem — a problem that can be solved.
The divestment movement has been one of the solutions. Eight years after we began it, $14 trillion in endowments and portfolios have joined in. Among educational institutions, it’s not just Oxford among Harvard’s peers. Brown University in the Ivy League has done the right thing. So have Georgetown University, which is the Harvard of Catholic education, and the University of California, which is the greatest public education system on the planet. All of them have concluded that there’s both a strong moral reason for acting and a compelling financial one.
And they have had great effect. Shell Oil, for example, said in its 2019 annual report that divestment had become a material risk to its business — that’s good, because Shell’s business is a material risk to the planet. When coal companies sought their COVID-19 bailout this spring, they explicitly said that divestment campaigns had made it impossible for them to raise sufficient capital. The long, long list of colleges and universities — and pension funds and sovereign wealth funds and religious organizations and charitable foundations and even, for god’s sake, insurance companies — that have divested have reason to be proud.
But not Harvard. It’s the outlier, and for reasons that I fear are apparent to almost everyone. It doesn’t want to involve itself in the politics of the single greatest crisis the world has ever faced because it fears offending a few rich, conservative alumni — it fears some red-faced old boy will read a column in the Wall Street Journal criticizing Massachusetts Hall, and that that red-faced old boy will leave one fewer squash court in his will. That’s it.
That fear, I guess, is understandable. If Harvard took a side in every fight that ever came up, it would be endlessly distracting. But the end of the world isn’t like that. The end of the world is different.
William E. McKibben ’82, a former Crimson president, is an environmentalist and founder of the international climate campaign group 350.org.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
As a group, we’re scattered. We’re trying, but sometimes our byline — “The Crimson Editorial Board” — feels strained. Talking over Zoom instead of around a table, the diversity and disagreement we thrive on sometimes just feels like distance.
And while our voice and process has continued to hold us together, it might not be enough to fully catalogue and comprehend these strange times. Each of us is experiencing this forced estrangement differently, with our own ups and downs, heartbreaks, lessons, reflections, and silver linings. We traded dining halls for kitchen counters and lecture halls for beds. Our Harvard experiences, once communal, suddenly became isolated.
So with this commencement editorial, we’re stepping back from our collective voice — assessing together our respective times apart. To be sure, we can only record the lives we’re living. But in writing from personal experience, we hope to help document the intimate details of quarantined life.
So, guided by a few prompts we chose together, here is a glimpse of our lives and minds in our own words.
What would you want future generations to remember about this time?
Before all of this, people had already been withdrawing further and further into their homes. The unprecedented convenience of entertainment, the remarkable ease of communication, two-day shipping — all of it started sapping away motivation to go outside long before most people knew what “coronavirus” even meant. So this quarantine feels imbued with an irony exceeding even Dante’s contrapasso. It’s like the devil sporting a sinister grin asked us, “So you like Netflix, eh?”
—Daniel L. Aklog ’21
In those endless, infinitesimal last days on campus, what struck me most was how quickly compassion melted the rules of social and academic life. A professor moved my final and made it significantly easier. A crowded Winthrop Grille (Remember grilles? Remember crowds?) recast casual acquaintances as commiserating tablemates. “Let’s catch a meal” friends became “why haven’t we made time for each other” friends. In every last precious in-person interaction as we counted down to our impending isolation, the veil of interpersonal distance — the will-they-won’t-they guessing game of stopping on the street to chat — dissolved into a chorus of “I’ll miss you’s” and “stay safes.” I hope we remember that feeling when normal life resumes.
—Ari E. Benkler ’21
Sometimes it feels like the world has its own emotions. Buzzing streets are frenzied laughs. Dimmed lights are weary smiles. Rain clouds are eyes welled with tears. Since the pandemic began, the world has been volatile, its emotions vacillating between shades of dejection and euphoria. My first – and only – trip to the supermarket since returning home was sad. The distance between customers felt like loneliness and longing. My dad’s first day returning to work at his hospital was scary. The rain that day seemed to tell a truth that his outward assurance did not. And yet there has been plenty of good. Each night, my entire family is home, and the world feels warm. On sunny days, my whole neighborhood can be found walking outside. We smile, laugh, and wave … and the world feels happy.
—Gemma S. Schneider ’23
A few weeks into quarantine as I tucked my eight-year-old brother into bed, he whispered “this is the best vacation ever.” He is happy that we are all together and excited that after a shortened day of virtual school, he has siblings and parents that are constantly home to play baseball. Sure, my brother misses his friends too. But, he has adapted to our new normal better than anyone. He learned how to bike, planted a garden, and even wrote a short story called “Spy Mouse.” These are his mementos from the coronavirus. As opposed to him, I have struggled with being confined to our home. I haven’t tapped into the vacation vibes. So, my brother pushes me to ask of myself: how can I grow throughout this time? What can I do to turn my quarantine into the best vacation ever?
—Jonathan L. Katzman ’22
In January on my way to Harvard I laughed at pictures of people in China wearing bags on their heads to play mahjong. I couldn’t stop thinking about that when I played my first game in May with a mask on, after living at home for two months. And though I hate that every conversation spirals back to coronavirus now, the real shock is how long we managed to go without talking about it at all, as if it were only happening on the other side of the world. Can’t say this was my most productive semester, but the one lesson I will hold onto: humility.
—Michelle I. Gao ’21
What has broken your heart during this time? What’s kept you sane?
My roommate left me with his red 10-speed bicycle when he packed up and flew home. He gave me the two locks, their keys, the grease and hex wrenches, lights, pump, and helmet. He walked me through its features, its weaknesses, and its care rituals. It had sentimental value, he told me — a source of great solace through a long, lonely year in an unfamiliar city. I almost remember him saying it was like a friend. Now, I ride it incessantly — all over this unfamiliar town, through the pandemically quiet streets, feeling I’m with him at every turn and peak.
—Isaac O. Longobardi ’21
In my Zoom window, I glimpse parents not-so-slyly peeking their heads into view, catch echoes of little siblings’ giggles and shrieks, and smile as pets sniff the camera with big, wet noses. I can make out photos pasted on brightly colored bedroom walls of best friends from high school: the people who knew and loved my classmates and friends before I did. These spaces — our bedrooms, our households, our hometowns, and the people in them — paint an intimate story of who we were before we came to Harvard. At school, it seems like we know our peers’ next essay deadline before their home state, their political leaning before their number of siblings, and their exam grade before their high school sport. I’m grateful for this chance to view my classmates, friends, and blockmates in a new way. To know their lives outside of Harvard’s gates.
—Chloe A. Shawah ’22
It became a running joke with my friends that I give “half-arsed” hugs. Using my lankiness to complete one-armed lazy stretches around their torsos wasn’t the wholehearted, compassionate embrace they desired. But I ran with my bit and continued putting all my compassion into my one limp arm in the name of good banter. But before the bit could get old, we were leaving campus. That swell of emotion was too overwhelming for any embrace, no matter how tight the squeeze … Now it has been in excess of two months since I have embraced a thing. A crushing thought. What I would give for another half-arsed hug.
—Marcus B. Montague-Mfuni ’23
“Know that the worldly life is but play, a means of boasting and competition among you for wealth and children...” I read the Quran verse several times, and thought back to life on campus just a few weeks ago where I spent entire days running back and forth between classes, the library, and numerous extracurricular activities. As I sat on my prayer rug that night, I realized that while I had promised myself not to get lost in the competitive nature of school, I had failed. Observing Ramadan during quarantine has been grounding and given me plenty of time to self-reflect on what really matters in life.
—Salma I. Elsayed ’23
Walking down the streets of Waikiki — social distancing with every step — I couldn’t help but be angry. Angry that, in their own land, there were so many Native Hawaiian homeless people in just the two blocks I had walked. Angry at all the tourists that were taking advantage of cheap flights to sit at the beach and visit their favorite “vacation spot.” But most of all, angry that, in my race to get home before the borders to American Samoa closed, I was also being complicit in displacing Indigenous people in their own homeland. That night, I tossed and turned until finally finding myself lost in a nightmare, where COVID-19 had decimated Indigenous Pacific Islander populations. Only when I woke up, I realized that nightmare could very well be a soon reality.
—Gabrielle T. Langkilde ’21
“As far as I’m concerned, the semester is over,” a classmate said to me the night of March 10. Our engagement with learning has always been what connects us. It is one of the reasons why I wanted to be a part of this community. The pandemic has, at least temporarily, interfered with that. Gone are the spontaneous conversations with professors after class that teach us as much as the material itself does. Gone are the hours spent discovering books in Widener. To see how difficult it has been to stay invested in the education we have worked so hard for is heartbreaking.
—Orlee G. S. Marini-Rappoport ’23
In my first two weeks under quarantine, I revisited old photos on my phone from last semester, reminiscing — the fond steps of Widener, the selfies I took with graduating seniors, the Kung Fu Tea runs with Korean friends about to enroll in the military, all leading up to the final sunless day on Weeks bridge. Scrolling further, I recounted my travels last summer to the beautiful seascape of Cape Town, the vibrant clutters of Hong Kong, the strobe-lighted karaoke bars of Shanghai — my screen brimming with bright faces and places. But when I scrolled further down, my recent photos devolved into jarring white screenshots of memes, poetry, and puppies — much needed albeit lacking the same memory-spurring, unsullied reminiscence of the photos shot outside the screen. Though this made me feel trapped in my room, I’ve been coping by exploring worlds and stories beyond mine, by watching K-dramas and reading short articles, a way of traveling without traveling.
—Woojin Lim ’22
This pandemic undermined the myth of American individualism and has shown us that we cannot rely on ourselves, but that we must rely on others – to help out, wear masks, and stay home. And we can. While volunteering at a food distribution, I noticed that many of my fellow volunteers were elderly or unemployed – putting themselves at risk and giving their time when many of us needed that help, too. I’m kept sane by hoping that we emerge with a new vision for this country, defined not by the success of individuals, but by the strength, health, and safety of our communities. After this virus, I hope we remember that we are only strong when we stand together.
—Patrick C. Barham Quesada ’21
I’ve been thinking about my bike that lay abandoned on the streets of Amsterdam. With less than a week’s notice, I had to evacuate the city that was supposed to be my home for the whole semester. I hated that stupid bike for all the times I fell in busy streets or it broke down on the way to class, but thinking that I never got to learn its rhythms and truly integrate into a new culture breaks my heart. Without the time necessary to sell it, I was forced to leave it at the last location I biked to: my University. I hope it finds its way to a safe home like I have.
—Romy Dolgin ’21
In April, my twin and I celebrated our birthday together for the first time since we left to attend college on separate continents. Being back home during the pandemic has afforded me opportunities to reconnect with my family, normally spread across three time zones, in ways that would otherwise not have been possible: celebrating birthdays and anniversaries in-person, lively dinner table conversation, movie nights, even the occasional bickering and leg-pulling.
—Shreyvardhan Sharma ’22
During our last days on campus we all spoke of the apocalypse. Joking, but not exactly; leaving it all really felt that upending. But waking up to the latest horrors of police violence, to videos of endless black death, now dodged for my sanity, has reminded me that the world has been ending for some time now. It just keeps ending.
—Hana M. Kiros ’22
The night before leaving campus, my friend Noah and I ran to The Coop and purchased matching “Harvard” hoodies. Now, every Saturday, we share a morning coffee over Zoom and more often than not we’ll both be wearing them as we chat. The hoodie pulls me back to the physical community I love, reassuring me that I still belong to this elusive place called Harvard, that the past two years weren’t just a dream. I close my eyes. I’m back brushing my teeth next to my roommate as we deliver feminist manifestos before bed; I’m exiting Lamont at 3:30 a.m., my feet forming craters in the fresh, moonlit snow. Sitting in my childhood bedroom on this Zoom call, I’m overcome with longing and with gratitude. For a moment, I feel at home.
—Aysha L. J. Emmerson ’22
At what moment did this all become ‘real’ for you?
It was Monday night and we knew what was coming. Not the specifics, the million logistical intricacies on everything from grading to financial refunds. But schools had started shutting down- Amherst had done so the night before. A major University announcement was expected the following morning and we knew (or we feared we knew) what that meant. And so that night I helped my roommate drag our mattresses into our common room, and we crashed there with a few friends. We had perfected normalcy, slipped into new habits — a combo of Domino's, Netlflix, and debating the validity of astrology until 4 a.m. When I woke up the next morning to an email from University President Lawrence S. Bacow I felt the instant urge to wake them up. To hear them complaining, joking, crying; to have them be there. But I decided to let them sleep. There was no need to rush them into our new reality.
—Guillermo S. Hava ’23
When I returned to Hong Kong, I was given a quarantine bracelet for the two weeks of mandatory quarantine. The bracelet, a flimsy plastic tag with a QR code and a non-removable clip, seemed insignificant until the moment it was snapped onto my wrist. Suddenly, the pandemic became real — a camera sharply reeled into focus, revealing the cracks in my once optimistically expanding world. The confusing blur of rushed goodbyes, lingering hugs and see-you-sometime-soon-?’s from last week faded into distant memory, and evening news brought new taunts, new restrictions, and the confirmation that the days of simple, welcoming and open embraces are very far off. An international student from a self-proclaimed international city, I saw the world outside shrinking into intolerable factions from within my room.
—Justin Y. C. Wong ’22
When I got home in the middle of March, I refused to settle. Life at home was temporary, in my mind. This was a time to plan for the future. I found myself constantly thinking about what I’ll do when “it’s all over.” Concerts, outings, travel, anything to get me away from the monotony of today. It was intoxicating to daydream about the future. Yet, slowly, the rush has subsided. At first with indignation, and now with peace, I have settled. The dog walks and conversations over coffee are becoming something to cherish rather than something to distract. I just grew tired of wasting all of my “todays” waiting for potential tomorrows.
—Carine M. Hajjar ’21

Grateful. That is, surprisingly, the single word that comes to mind when I think back to my last days on campus. A final coffee with my Visitas hosts; a last J.P. Licks with a senior who’d traveled with me to three continents; a final hurrah with suitemates who’d lived with me for years—in some cases, since opening days. Being forced to leave was a costly but important reminder of what I often took for granted—and how Fair Harvard always was. The sudden farewells imparted, in the end, a magnificent clarity; those closing days became a time for recognizing the true value of years spent in the Yard. As T.S. Eliot wrote, “the end of all our exploring will be to arrive where we started, and know the place for the first time.” To know — in one’s heart — a home like Harvard is a wonderful thing, for which I’m incredibly grateful.
—Andrew W. Liang ‘21
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
We call my great-grandmother Mormor, Swedish for mother’s mother. It would be more accurate for me to call her my father’s mother’s mother, but Mormor is the name my father called her, the one he passed down to us.
So I call her double-mother, and for life I owe her twofold, or more. My debt to her is pleated infinitely, like the skirts of the floral chair in her living room. When I was little, I’d hide beneath the wooden coffee table and play with her orange and blue Dala horses, the clacking of their lacquered legs muffled by the cream carpet.
Mormor’s name is Birgitta: exalted one. We seat her at the head of the table on Christmas, Thanksgiving, when my grandparents grill hamburgers on a random Tuesday night. She is like a small child, timidly watching as her meal is served first; she is like a bird, the bones of her arms folded like jointed wings. She is our Mother, all of ours, her hair glowing in the halo of battery-powered tea lights.
***
In 1944, my great-grandfather, Bill Lane, was a navigator for the U.S. Air Force on a bombing raid over Berlin. His plane was one of many: one of many to scorch the earth beneath it and to receive fire in return. But rather than turn back to England as others did, and face long stretches of sea which swallowed greedily and indiscriminately, his crew set course for Sweden.
On neutral soil, the American soldiers were first asked to shed their uniforms. They were then placed in a low-security internment camp in Falun, which just so happened to be the city where Birgitta lived with her four sisters, her brother, and her father. On Saturday nights, the men would sneak out of camp beneath a fence, brush themselves off, and go to dances in Folkets Park. Among those shadowed trees, they wore their plainclothes and twirled Swedish girls and thought of dances back home, of mosquitoes and wilting flowers and high school sweethearts. Certainly not of bombing raids.
One Saturday, Bill danced with Birgitta. Afterward, when he asked to walk her home, she stiffened. Plenty of other nineteen-year-old girls were wooed by foreign soldiers who promised to write and did not. So she gestured to her sister, Dagmar, and shrugged. “You can walk us both home.” And he did.
In his seven months in Sweden, Bill snuck beneath the fence to dances, movies, family dinners. And though she’d been warned to be wary, Birgitta did not doubt him when he talked of life after the war. He promised to send for her, and she knew he would. Perhaps the other American men dreamed of their families at night, their front porch swings, their yipping dogs and white-steepled churches. Bill thought of it all too: home, not as it had been but as it could be, with Birgitta’s blue eyes flashing down on the sidewalks and street corners of his childhood.
He was shipped out before Christmas, leaving Birgitta’s sister with money for a gift. Birgitta still wears that gold ring on her right hand. Two years passed during which they did not see one another. The war ended, and Bill wrote to Birgitta’s father, then her, everything in the proper order. He sent her a ticket to New York on a ship called Drottningholm, first class — a luxury.
At port, Birgitta said goodbye to her sisters, not knowing how many years would pass before she’d see them again. She instructed them to stay in the same spot, so she could wave from the ship, but once she boarded they were lost in the crowd. Even now, she remembers her panic. She was 21. She spoke little English. She was suspended above an ocean of black water which gave and took. It took from her childhood and its landscape, and delivered her to Brooklyn, to a ring for her left hand to match the one on her right, to four children who had children of their own, who had children of their own, and so on.
***
And so I sit at age six on her living room floor and play with her pretty painted horses. I do not know that they come from the province Dalarna, the most picturesque in all of Sweden, where Falun lies. I know my great-grandmother came a long time ago across the sea to marry my great-grandfather. It is the end of a bedtime story, of every princess movie I have seen. I don’t consider how it must have ached. It is inevitable.
At 17, I leave for college and I can feel each bone in her back as she hugs me goodbye. Since my great-grandfather died years ago, she has grown wispy. She does not drive or eat chocolate before bed. She watches Lawrence Welk reruns on PBS and at birthdays she sings in Swedish, and we all mime our way along, laughing with one another.
Her shoulder blades quake and I am shocked at her sorrow. We are strangers in so many ways; the landscape of her childhood is nothing but a postcard to me, and yet it shaped this woman before me. Her courage and her love gave me life, gave me a home in three freckled sisters, saltwater marshes, and my father, her grandson, who married my mother, who wears a little gold Dala horse around her neck. I can see it glinting as I hug Mormor, my mother of mothers, and the longer I hold her, the less bewildered I am by her tears.
I think, This is a woman who knows about leaving-behind. In her mind, I am suspended above a black water ocean. I do not know where I am going, but I know where I come from. I trace back my origin not to my family’s house in South Carolina, not to Brooklyn or to Falun; I come, more than anything, from her.
— Staff writer Roey L. Leonardi can be reached at roey.leonardi@thecrimson.com. This is one of five essays published as part of FM’s 2020 “Homecoming” feature.
Sections
“So, where are you from?”
I have been asked this question dozens of times by dozens of people during my time at Harvard. Every time, I return my well-rehearsed lie: “I’m from Baltimore, but I live in California now.”
It’s technically true that I was born in Baltimore. Precisely, I was born in the University of Maryland Medical Center, where some decades earlier my great-grandmother was the first Black child to have been born there. It is technically true that I live in California. Precisely, I live in El Dorado Hills, where some 674 people are Black, or 1.6 percent of the town’s population of 42,108.
My answer is only revealed to be a lie when we, in the words of Malcolm Gladwell, “descend into the particulars.”
I did not live in Baltimore; I lived twenty minutes outside the city, in an affluent suburb called Howard County. Howard County’s astroturf sports facilities are where I learned to play lacrosse, its parks where I discovered my love of mountain biking, and its schools where I explored my passion for science and reading.
The distinction between being from Baltimore and being from outside Baltimore is meaningful when I consider where my father grew up, twenty minutes away, in the heart of the city. His childhood was not characterized by the privilege that defined mine.
Although I have lived in California for the last seven years, I feel that it never truly accepted me as one of its own, and in return I’ve been reluctant to call myself a “Californian.” Beyond my general disdain for avocado toast and the ocean, there was always some barrier, something irreconcilable between me and El Dorado Hills, the place whose name literally translates to “The Golden Hills.”
I first realized exactly what this barrier was at a lacrosse practice in 2015. A teammate was discussing the protests, turned riots, in Baltimore following the death of Freddie Gray at the hands of the Baltimore Police. My teammate said something to the effect of: “They have no right to destroy things like that; why are they so mad?”
I proceeded to lose my temper at this white teammate, this teammate whose name ends in "the third.” I responded: “Have you ever been to Baltimore? Of course not, you don’t know what the hell you’re talking about, so shut your mouth.”
I said this emphatically, righteously, as if I had an intimate knowledge of Baltimore — which I felt that I did. Before coming to practice I had watched coverage of the riots with my father. As the news copter moved around the city, he pointed out blocks and buildings and explained our family’s connection to them.
“That was your great-grandparents’ neighborhood,” he said. “You see that? I used to walk with your Aunt Joan to that drug store.” He kept pointing out places and listing names as we watched the city of my birth burn.
In that instant, sitting in my living room, some 3,000 miles away, I had never felt closer to nor further from Baltimore. While my father was talking, I began to realize how little of the city I actually knew — I could name every starting quarterback for the Baltimore Ravens, but I couldn’t even navigate between my great-grandparents’ home on North Pulaski Street and M&T Bank Stadium some two miles down the road.
My father’s stories and memories began to conjure in my mind the Baltimore of his youth, a more vibrant version of the city, before jobs in the steel yards left and corruption took their place, before a parking lot replaced my familial home on North Pulaski. This version of Baltimore replaced the burning buildings we saw on CNN, and suddenly I felt transported; I could almost feel the spray from the cracked fire hydrants that showered the city on hot summer days.
I realized then what the barrier between myself and El Dorado Hills was. It was the voice of my father, the memory of my aunts, uncles, and cousins, as my father narrated Baltimore burning to the ground.
Despite never being as intimately acquainted with Baltimore as I had hoped I would be, the city, my memories and those of my family, are with me always. I will always cherish Baltimore’s inner harbor, its Chesapeake Blue Crabs, its sports teams, its borderline fanatical obsession with the seasoning Old Bay. Its brutal winters, sea air, vibrant peoples, music, and artists will always be a fundamental part of who I am.
Baltimore will always be mine, in one way or another.

— Staff writer Harrison R. T. Ward can be reached at harrison.ward@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter at @Hurrison_. This is one of five essays published as part of FM’s 2020 “Homecoming” feature.
Sections
Getting ahold of Keanu V. Gorman ’22 proved more difficult than anticipated.
After the first few calls failed to connect, Gorman texted to explain the situation.
“I think the service is spotty because of the wind today,” he wrote. He promised to call back when he arrived at his aunt’s home, where he planned to complete an assignment. “There is generally better service there.”
Gorman lives in Tselani, a Navajo chapter located about 23 miles southwest of Chinle, Ariz. Before March, completing online classes in his hometown would have been impossible. “My household did not have any WiFi or internet connection whatsoever,” he says. “There is no cellular service or streaming.” When Gorman texted to explain the interview’s delay, he was about to begin a familiar 26-mile drive to his aunt’s home in Chinle; before his home had WiFi, it was there that he carried out all of his internet-related tasks.
Gorman’s family installed a satellite service when it became clear that internet access would be essential for Gorman and his sister to complete the school year. But their shared 20 gigabyte plan can be both unreliable and short-lived. The data cap turns everyday platforms such as Zoom and FaceTime into luxuries and forces Gorman to complete his online work between the hours of 2:00 and 8:00 a.m.; he is not charged for WiFi services during this window.
But WiFi is not the not the only concern that has surfaced during quarantine. Gorman’s late work hours ensure him the “peace and quiet” that eludes his small household during the daytime, and in those quiet hours, he says he feels that he can finally focus.
Alone, Gorman says he often finds himself “anxious and worried about how [his] family would get through quarantine given [their] financial circumstances.” Leaving Cambridge meant abandoning his campus jobs — cutting off an important stream of income on which Gorman had relied.
The switch to remote learning brought about by the COVID-19 pandemic has challenged all members of the University’s large and diverse student body. But the burden of finishing the school year away from Harvard’s campus weighs more heavily on certain students than others — and often those from first-generation or low-income (FGLI) backgrounds, from rural homes, and from time zones across the globe shoulder a disproportionate load. From slow WiFi, to housing uncertainties, to personal and familial unemployment, systemic disadvantages have transformed completing problem sets and writing essays into unusually arduous tasks.
While the possibility of a fall semester conducted entirely or partially online looms, students must weigh the continuation of their education against the frustrations and fears that accompany college during quarantine. This decision not only affects the next semester of classes for students, but also their families, their incomes, and their health. Equalizing and preparatory measures may prove ineffective against the obstacles that inhibited their learning this spring — obstacles that will likely endure throughout the summer and into the fall.
For now, Gorman navigates the spring semester plagued by restricted WiFi access and a lack of quiet workspace by downloading PDF files and watching lectures between 2 a.m. and 4 a.m. “At that time, the WiFi is just a bit faster.”
Now that Jordan H. Barton ’23 has returned to the small oil town of Andrews, Texas, the housing security that Harvard’s residential system provided him is no longer a guarantee. During the oil economy crash of 2018, Barton’s father lost his job, and his family was evicted from their home. Since then, Barton has lived his life switching between his great-grandmother’s house and his uncle’s house, where six people currently reside.
“When you live in a big family that’s all in one house, it’s pretty hard to find a place of reserve and quiet to do things,” he says.
Since returning to Texas to finish his first year of college online, he has found himself travelling to yet a third place to get work done — his girlfriend’s house, where things are quieter and WiFi is faster. He has been able to get a lot of his work done there, away from the crowd of six people in his uncle’s house, but he says, “Honestly, my solution to the house problem is going to a different house, which means it’s probably not that useful as a solution.”
Nick T. Wyville ’20 also faces an uncertain housing situation. Wyville originally hails from Anniston, Ala. but is currently living in a rental house with friends of his sister in Chattanooga, Tenn. He hasn’t returned to his home in Alabama because his grandmother, who has pre-existing health conditions, lives there; he says he also did not think returning there would be good for his own mental health.
Because his housemates are also completing their school years online, Wyville says that their WiFi frequently crashes under the strain of too many users and finding a quiet place to work can be difficult. Getting work done can “be a big, a big mess,” he says.
However, the biggest stressor for Wyville is what he will do come June 1. “It’s just almost like a ticking time bomb,” he says. The lease on their rental house ends at the start of the month, so Wyville and his housemates will have to move out. At the moment, he does not know where he will live or what his source of income will be this summer and beyond — the post-graduate fellowship he had secured earlier in the semester was cancelled.
“So we’re just waiting until June 1,” he says. “I don’t really know where we’re gonna go after this. But it’s gonna be a journey.”
As national unemployment rates skyrocketed to 14.7 percent in April — their highest level since the Depression era — for some students, family finances are more pressing than a research paper.
“My family lives paycheck to paycheck,” Tauheed Z. Islam ’21 explains. “So it’s already been sort of a precarious situation.”
Islam lives outside of Atlanta, Ga., and the pandemic has exacerbated his family’s prior financial struggles. His father, who is a full-time driver, his mother, who is a daycare worker, and his aunt, uncle, and cousins, are all currently unemployed. Islam’s family members are immigrants originally from Bangladesh, and he has had to help them file for unemployment. Since being home, Islam has filled out five separate unemployment applications. He describes the process as long, complicated, and bureaucratic.
“The implementation took so long that we’ve had to go weeks without receiving those benefits, and that hurt. We’ve had to borrow money; we’ve had to figure things out,” he says.
Now that Georgia has reopened its economy, Islam’s parents will soon be expected to return to work. But should they do so, they will stop receiving unemployment benefits, and Islam worries that they will not make the income they need if people continue to stay at home — not utilizing the services of drivers or daycares.
Islam has also felt responsible for tutoring his brother and cousins, who are in middle and high school and also completing their school years online. “It’s definitely been a lot of obstacles that I’ve had to face along classes,” Islam says. “I am still a full time student; I still need to make sure I’m on top of my classes, but at the same time, I’m having to navigate an unemployment system for multiple people, having to keep track of these things, and just trying to survive.”
He continues, “I have really tried to devote a lot of my time towards making sure my family is okay.”
A baby’s yells and cries can be heard through speakerphone when talking with Henry A. Villarreal ’21. Villarreal lives with his mother and his 11-month old brother in Norwalk, Calif. “I have a baby brother here, so it’s nice having him around, but it’s also a worry around classwork,” he says. “And my mother, too — she’s not working right now, so that’s on my mind.”
On top of being currently unemployed, his mother has a significant amount of debt, Villareal says — so in addition to his school work, Villarreal has had to worry about his family’s finances. He has been able to keep his paid internship with Harvard’s Office of the President, so he can pitch in for bills, grocery shopping, and buying things for his baby brother. However, when we spoke, he was unsure if his position would continue into the summer — he had only been told the job would last until the end of May.
If he can’t keep his internship, he will consider getting a job at home. “I worked at Target on campus, so there’s a possibility that I could work at Target here. I just don’t want to because of my baby brother,” Villarreal explains. “There’s more of a risk of transferring the virus at home if I work at Target.”
Barton, too, has felt the financial effects of the pandemic on his life and his school work. The economic woes the pandemic had wrought in his oil-dependent town were magnified when the per barrel price of crude oil dipped below $0. “You have the intersections of a health pandemic, with a town with a lot of old people, with an economic recession for a lot of poor people, with an oil crisis for a town that runs on oil. So you can see those puzzle pieces are going to create nothing but chaos, and that’s what it is. It’s really bad. And it frames my experience a lot,” Barton says. “I’m certainly not at a place where I think I can perform at 100 percent academically. That’s certainly true.”
The ability to focus on schoolwork, or access it at all, is an obstacle in and of itself for many students. WiFi access has always been a hurdle for students from rural and low-income backgrounds — only about 63 percent of Americans in rural areas have broadband internet — but the return of college students to these areas has exacerbated the issue. Finding quiet places to focus in homes that house more people than can be counted on one hand proves a struggle as well.
Upon his abrupt return to Los Angeles, Calif., Andrew Pérez ’20 spent the first month of quarantine attempting to settle into the role of an at-home student.
Pérez’s home is a stark contrast from his quiet single in Mather. “In my household, there’s eight of us here,” he explains. “I sleep on the bottom bunk in my nephew’s room, and there is no space. There’s no conception of space, of alone time. I have to find some random room that they’re maybe not in at the moment, but obviously someone will be in at the end of the day.”
But even as he locates study spaces in his crowded home and maintains his jobs as a tutor and course assistant, there is one more barrier that is out of Pérez’s hands — his WiFi access. At the time of his interview, Pérez’s home had been out of WiFi for a week, as their cable box had broken down. He and his nephew, who was also completing online coursework, resorted to using hotspots — the workload, however, put them 20 gigabytes over their hotspot limit.
“We’re trying to figure out what that bill is going to look like in the next couple weeks,” he says.
Gorman, too, was no stranger to limited WiFi access before this semester. Even pre-COVID-19, all of his internet-related work required a trip to his aunt’s home. “I would have to make a list of what I had to do [online],” Gorman explains. “Once I arrived [at my aunt’s home], I would spend a couple of days and complete all of those tasks online and then I would return home.”
Quarantine, however, eliminated that safety net early on, as visiting his aunt posed a risk to her health. The satellite WiFi Gorman now relies on can be unreliable, but he considers himself fortunate.
“I have the privilege of having in-home satellite wifi, even though it’s very slow and not very stable,” he explains. “There are many other families here that don’t have any WiFi or any type of internet connection because the reservation is out in a very rural area, very similar to mine, where they can’t get any internet reception at all, and having to even get there to install a satellite for WiFi is impossible.”
Like Pérez, Gorman also struggles to find space to do work in his home. His relatives often stop by to drop off essentials, resulting in a “completely full house.”
“It’s very hard to have a quiet time to do my work,” Gorman says.
In his uncle’s household of six, where Barton lives most of the time with siblings and cousins, it is also difficult to find a conducive place for studying. “Kids are energetic and they like to make a lot of noise, so finding time to find the place within a smaller house with that many people is just difficult to do conceptually,” he says.
WiFi connection has not been a walk in the park for Barton either. Zoom constantly crashes, and he always has to have his camera and microphone off. Not only has this made work difficult, but it’s made Barton self-conscious.
“In a weird way, I always kind of felt judged,” he says. “Because it felt like everyone else had their mics and cameras on and I didn’t want to seem like I was not paying attention, or that I wasn’t supplying the same amount of effort.”
For a select number of students, returning home has turned their lives upside-down. With a class schedule that remains firmly rooted in the Eastern time zone, students living on the West Coast or halfway around the world grapple with a hindrance that was once a constant — time. Differing time zones turn 9 a.m.’s into 6 a.m.’s or 9 p.m.’s.
Michel B.R. Nehme ’22 offered to schedule a call for 1 p.m. EDT — for Nehme, who lives in Melbourne, Australia, this equated to 3:00 a.m..
Nehme routinely goes to sleep around 3:30 a.m. after his 2:00 a.m. Arabic section, and then wakes up at 10:30 a.m. to go about the rest of his day. Despite following this schedule for a month, he still hasn’t gotten used to it. “[Waking up at unusual times] is purely not good for your health,” he says. “I mean, I’ve woken up at different times of day, I don’t really have the best sleep pattern, and when I wake up sometimes it’s dark outside, which is not as ideal for mental health.”
Ruth H. Jaensubhakij ’22, who lives in Singapore, has seen her sleep schedule take an erratic turn as well. While a 2 a.m. bedtime might not seem too abnormal, Jaensubhakij’s wake-up time of 6:30 a.m. is a little more out of place. To compensate for the minimal rest, she often naps for a couple hours in the afternoon when there’s “no one from school to talk to and not much going on.”
Shifting schedules have required ample coordination between international students and professors, as some class times prove unreasonable. In her current time zone, Jaensubhakij’s 2-hour Women, Gender, and Sexuality seminar would take place from 3 a.m. to 5 a.m.
“I talked to my professor and I was like, ‘I can’t do it,’” Jaensubhakij says. Thankfully, her professors have been accommodating — in lieu of having class before dawn, she attends one-on-one office hours with her professor for 45 minutes each week.
Nehme’s professors have been similarly flexible with class times and deadlines. His Arabic preceptor also offered to conduct a one-on-one section with him at a more suitable time; the combination of classes and extracurricular meetings that revolve around Eastern time zones, however, render Nehme’s schedule fairly rigid, and he continues to attend the 2 a.m. section.
Jaensubhakij maintains that time zones are an issue for a significant proportion of Harvard’s student body, and the issue should be weighed as such.
“I was talking to one of my professors, and she was saying in all the discussion they were having about the fall, it seemed like the university was kind of forgetting that international students are something like 15 percent or 12 percent of the undergraduate student body,” she says. “I think it applies even to people in California who are now having to wake up at 6 a.m. for their 9 a.m.s. Time difference is kind of a big factor in having classes live.”
On April 27, Provost Alan M. Garber ’77 sent an email to the Harvard community detailing the University’s commitment to opening in the fall. In discussing the limitations of online learning, he wrote, “with more time to prepare, we are confident we can create a better, more engaging experience for the fall should many of our activities need to be conducted remotely. Rather than seeking to approximate the on-campus experience online, we can focus our efforts on developing the best possible remote educational experience.”
Nonetheless, many students feel that even with “a successful shift in pedagogy,” their immutable living conditions will not allow for the “better, more engaging experience” that Garber promises.
Barton says that whether or not he will take a leave of absence next semester depends largely on how the fall semester will be structured. He does not think it is possible for the University to equalize online learning for its students. “For Harvard to try to move into this next semester business as usual — returning to normal grades, normal research, etc. — of course, it’s going to be something that I believe will be inherently unjust, because the great equalizer of the Harvard campus itself has been lost,” Barton explains. “I don’t even know if it’d be possible. I know it would certainly be really hard for me.”
Others also claim that school cannot continue, “business as usual,” in a way that is fair for all students. Jaensubhakij feels that the administration’s decision to implement emergency SAT/UNSAT this past semester is a testament to the “vastly different situations, some of them unchangeable things, that make it difficult to complete school work.” Nehme asserts that the conditions that encouraged the SAT/UNSAT system remain “constant and particularly salient for the international community.”
Though it remains unclear what the grading system would look like for an online fall, Jaensubhakij says, “I don’t really know what the argument would be for bringing back letter grades.”
Villarreal feels that the messaging about the fall semester towards FGLI students has been particularly lacking. In his experience, some professors have not acknowledged the different experiences FGLI students may be facing, and the messaging from the administration about the fall semester has been too general. He says the news he has received “sounds like a sounding message that they’re trying to generalize everyone together, like, ‘We’re all Harvard students.’ But that’s not the case. There’s some people who are doing more to choose a survival situation.”
University spokesperson Jonathan L. Swain and College spokesperson Rachel Dane did not reply to requests for comment on the student concerns regarding the planning for the fall semester.
Ultimately, many students are grappling with issues that extend far beyond the promises of classes better adapted to Zoom or placeholders for the extracurricular activities that brightened campus life. The uncertainty of the fall weighs heavily upon their own, and their families’, well-being.
“What it has come to for me is not just a choice of ‘can I take online classes or not?’” says Gorman. “It’s ‘should I continue with struggling and taking online classes, being frustrated with the WiFi, being frustrated with not having a space where I can study or concentrate or focus on my work, or struggling to find a job within those months having to stick to that job?’”
He continues, “And of course, now getting a job would have to mean taking extra precautions and isolating myself from my family. And because we’re such a family-oriented family, and because we live in such a small household, it’s very very difficult, near impossible, to completely self-isolate myself from my family because there just isn’t enough space to do that.”
Although he is a senior, when asked if he could complete another semester online in his current situation, Wyville is adamant in his response. “Absolutely not,” he says. “It’s the worst thing I’ve ever done, ever.”
— Staff writer Jane Z. Li can be reached at jane.li@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @JaneZLi.
— Staff writer Maya H. McDougall can be reached at maya.mcdougall@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @mayahmcdougall.
Sections
There is a bittersweet tranquility to scheduling my day around the best time to pick lemons. In the spring, our tree drops hundreds — gigantic monstrosities, bloated with enough juice for each one to fill a glass on their own. We have nothing to do with them except leave them in a cooler at the roadside, in the hopes that others will share what is too much for us.
There is the physical exhaustion that stems from classes timed for a Boston morning when I am across the country, the mental strain that comes from attempting to speak a foreign language as I watch the sun rise through my window. It’s followed by a jittery tension in my shoulders, one I’ve drank straight from my seventh cup of black coffee.
There is a heavy-hearted fogginess to going through the day feeling like I’ve forgotten to don my glasses — I can see the colors of reality, and I can touch them if I reach out far enough, but everything is hazy and farther away than I think. Only if I squint, focusing completely, can anything be completed. If I try to focus on two things at once, I fall back into a kaleidoscope. But there are notes of sharpness in my days, too: The punches of rising death tolls and the bruising words, ‘we still don’t know,’ that linger as an unsettling aftertaste.
There is a disconcerting feeling of antiquity when the sweltering Southern California sun tells me it is midday as the fluttering calls of nightingales whisper ‘midnight’ in the breeze. Instead of hours, I use the periods of various assignment deadlines, or the commas of meals and housework, to punctuate my day.
There is a comforting loneliness to nights. The blurriness of my days blends into darkness, and the angry white noise of life starts to quiet — but my comfort at night only makes weary mornings more difficult. The night makes my mind come alive, finally sputtering into order once everything else has been blocked out. As night starts to flounder into day, I fall into the heaviness of sleep in the hopes that the fog I am wading through will have cleared when my eyes open again.
There are two definitions for the word “pith.” The first is the spongy white tissue that sits under the rind of a citrus fruit, coming from the archaic descriptor for spinal marrow. The second is simply the essence of something, its true meaning or feeling. I’ve found that it is easy to connect the two definitions, for the best way to describe the pith of my time in quarantine is a deep set, bitter sadness.
The best time to pick lemons is the moment right before midday breaks, when warm hasn’t yet turned to blistering. There are no mosquitoes in the air.. I stand on a ladder so my head lies in the crown of the tree and watch honey bees flock to the lemon blossoms dotting the branches. With scraped arms I pick them one by one, their sweet, melancholic scent drifting in the breeze, placing those burdened with the most juice in a pile on the side so I remember to turn them into lemon muffins the following morning.
— Staff writer Aiyana G. White can be reached at aiyana.white@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @grace_aiyana. This is the first iteration of The Lens, a new content category from Fifteen Minutes for visual storytelling.
Sections
My 19th birthday marked the 40th day since I had seen my friends or left my house. We cut a chocolate cake and my brother, Peter, allowed me to give him a brief hug.
Peter and I have never been close. He was born 20 months before I was: not only in a different decade, but in a different century. Though we ended up attending the same college, even on campus, we rarely saw each other.
In my first semester, we enrolled in CS50 together and went out of our way to meet up once a week in Cabot Library to talk over p-sets. Under the fluorescent lights and surrounded by freshmen, we glared at the 20th compile error of our session. After an hour, he would have to pack up and make the long trek across the river for golf practice. I would be left sitting at the high tables, picking at my nails and wondering if I would see him again the following week.
I knew this feeling well. The emotional distance between us had emerged when we were young.
To be fair, I was the epitome of the annoying younger sister. He was meticulous; I was antsy and frantic. He was STEM-oriented; I liked the humanities. We foiled each other. I couldn’t help but compare us at every moment.
When we were very small, he would kneel on the carpet, dark, curly hair obscuring his face, and spend hours methodically lining matchbox cars in row after row. I envied those plastic cars. How could four little wheels captivate him more than his sister? To steal his attention, I would sneak close, before snatching one quickly and sprinting down the hall as fast as my four-year-old legs could manage. After a stern reprimand, I would be sent to my room, lonelier than before.
I lived in the shadow of my brother, even though that shadow was imagined. Our parents never pressured me to follow Peter’s path. In fact, my mother refused to sign a permission slip that would allow me to take Advanced Placement Biology. She pushed the pen away and crumpled the neon orange paper, correctly guessing I only wanted to take it because Peter had.
While I was wrestling with the curtain I thought Peter had smothered me in, I, too, had placed him in shadow.
I was born with a cleft palate that left a hole in the roof of my mouth. It was patched when I was nine months old, and although my missing uvula is an interesting party trick, other, more serious ramifications of the birth defect lingered. Yearly tests always confirmed slight hearing loss and my eardrums were polka-dotted with perforations.
Though I suffered from all of this, a secret thrill accompanied the medical mess of my ears and mouth. As my parents crowded in the examination room, I couldn’t help but quietly savor their attention. Sanitary paper tearing beneath my weight and diagrams plastered on bleach-white walls held a small corner of my heart.
Each check-up and each pre-op I underwent with my parents was a time when Peter was completely alone. I was too preoccupied with the care I was receiving to be conscious of the care he was not.
The month before my freshman year of high school, I had surgery. My parents drove me to Tampa to spend the night before the operation in a hotel. They let me order vanilla ice cream from room service and we rented Pitch Perfect. I do not remember where Peter was that night, but I know he was not with us.
When I was in first grade, they carved my tonsils out. I ate mac and cheese for every meal and ice cream for breakfast. One morning, Peter asked if he could have some too. I taunted him, sneering that he shouldn’t be jealous of my medical woes. He countered: Well, at least he could use a straw. The pressure of a straw might have increased bleeding from the stitches in my throat. He’d won the fight.
By the end of my first semester at college, I had only seen Peter a handful of times. I wondered if we would always be more like acquaintances than siblings. After all, the only thing that tied us together was shared blood.
And yet, in the past 46 days we have spent more time together than in the past 18 years combined.
Since the quarantine began, we have taken to camping out on the sofa for hours, annihilating bags of pretzel logs, and cursing Cersei Lannister. We wander hazily into the kitchen between classes and take turns boiling pasta for lunch. We cross paths at midnight and exchange bleary-eyed nods. I have started texting him memes and forcing him to watch Tik Toks I make of our dog.
We don’t brush each other off. He starts conversations with me, makes eye contact, and laughs at my jokes. Sometimes, when he passes my room and the door is open, he looks inside and sees me wrapped in bed, on my side. The lights are off, and I’m illuminated only by my phone screen and stray rays of sun leaking from the cracks in my shutters. In these moments, I like to believe he can feel my sorrow in a way our parents cannot. He too mourns the loss of Cambridge, the cancellation of a sports season, and the gaping absence of our friends.
Peter glances at me for a few seconds before disappearing from the doorframe. He returns with our dog, Zaza, nestled in his arms. He bridges the distance from the hall to my bed, striding across the carpeted floor and navigating the haphazard piles of books. Carefully, Peter eases Zaza into my arms or settles her under the covers where she can curl on my legs. This has become our quarantine ritual.
There is no competition for attention or glory in this limbo. We’re in our childhood home, but quarantine has pushed us past the petty tensions of our earlier years.
In a few weeks, my brother will drive 20 hours to New Jersey to pick up his girlfriend. Without the quarantine, I know what his answer would have been. But today, when I offered to tag along and share the burden of driving, he didn’t hesitate to say yes.
— Staff writer Jackie E. George can be reached at jacqueline.george@thecrimson.com. This is one of five essays published as part of FM’s 2020 “Homecoming” feature.
Sections
On March 10, Harvard gave undergraduates five days’ notice to pack up and leave campus — the University had begun shutting down due to the COVID-19 pandemic. That Tuesday was also the day Nina S. Hovagimian threw her hands up in defeat.
“There goes my business,” was all she could say. Her store, Café Pamplona, like many others in Harvard Square, has financially staggered amid the pandemic. Stack sky-high rents on top of a dependence on student and tourist patronage, and a Square without Harvard is a Square without a livelihood for the more than 350 businesses that call it home.
Café Pamplona has stood stolid for two generations as a Harvard Square landmark the size of a two-car garage. The quaint 12 Bow St. coffee shop was the first café to open in the area, in 1958. As the neighborhood around it grew into today’s tourist hotspot, Pamplona’s checkered floors, lemony-colored interiors, and original menu endured. While nearby storefronts constantly changed hands during periods of rent hikes, Pamplona remained. But after 62 years, the coronavirus might just kill the café.
Hovagimian describes the now-empty Square as a “ghost town.” Between the University restricting operations and the Massachusetts governor issuing a stay-at-home advisory, valuable foot traffic has vanished. She can no longer maintain her two part-time workers. One is on unemployment; the other is a student sent home.
She and her husband see two or three customers a day. They’re a handful of habitués: one gets a daily soup; another orders sandwiches each week.
“The regular six or seven customers — I’m going to tell you the truth — they’re the ones who are feeding my kids,” Hovagimian admits, voice cracking.
Like many other Harvard-reliant businesses, the café runs a tight margin in the winter months while students are on break, forging ahead to a more bustling spring. But that spring never came. “There’s no Commencement, there’s no Boston Calling, there’s no Fourth of July. All of our busy season is not busy,” Hovagimian says. “Financially, it’s impossible for us to survive without these two months.”
Many business owners have said relief programs offering loans, like the Paycheck Protection Program, are not enough. They say they need grants to support their businesses. But Hovigimian says she doesn't know what will be enough — no amount of emergency grant money can bring back students. “There’s no way to replenish the business if Harvard’s not there,” she says. “I don’t think our business will survive this. I don’t think we are gonna be able to make it.”
As of May 18, Hovagimian says she will be closing her business. Café Pamplona is filing for bankruptcy.
***
When asked to describe the current atmosphere in Harvard Square, Theodora M. Skeadas ’12 pauses. “People are very transactional, very fast paced,” she says. “There’s a lot of tension in the air in social interactions these days.”
Skeadas is the Executive Director of Cambridge Local First, a nonprofit network of small businesses that promotes local commerce — and she’s extremely worried about the Square. With some estimates predicting that 40 percent of local businesses will not reopen after the pandemic ends and that another 25 percent will fail within the year, Harvard students may return to a neighborhood that looks radically different from the one they left in mid-March.
“The longer this goes on, the more small businesses will drop,” Skeadas says.
While small business owners like Hovagimian have scrambled to adapt without a playbook, larger corporations in the Square, with more funds and logistical capabilities, seem to be riding out the crisis. The multinational Kung Fu Tea — which opened its 1160 Mass. Ave. location in late January but temporarily shuttered due to the pandemic — had been pandemic-planning even before the first confirmed Boston coronavirus case in early February. Their Massachusetts marketing manager Bella Chen says KFT prepared clear-cut phase-out and phase-in business protocols, preempting the state’s tightening and eventual loosening of restrictions. No staff have been let go, and all Massachusetts locations reopened during the week of May 17.
But overall, prior to Massachusetts’ Phase One reopening on May 18, fewer than 20 eateries and about five retailers remained open in the Square, according to Denise A. Jillson, director of the Harvard Square Business Association.
The ones that remained have had to rapidly adapt. After two years of staying committed to face-to-face customer interaction, Black Sheep Bagel Cafe partnered with food delivery apps for the first time. Harvard Book Store is fulfilling online orders through a third-party seller and now offers a book recommendation service on their website. The Brattle Theater is holding virtual film screenings and offering to curate movies available on popular streaming services.
Despite the challenges they face, small businesses — which make up 70 percent of the Square — have the unique advantage of being able to quickly make decisions and adapt their business models, Jillson suggests. In fact, she says, “the [businesses] that have been able to successfully remain open have been the small, locally-owned independents.”
Some of these business owners have thrived unconventionally, exploring new markets in the cyber world.
Esmeralda R. Lambert has run Esmeralda Jewelry out of 54 Church St. for the last six years. The store sells socially responsible jewelry produced by women in the Dominican Republic, where Lambert emigrated from in 2010. She was about to expand with an upcoming second location in Boston’s iconic Faneuil Hall Marketplace, but the pandemic has put her plans on hold. Harvard announced it was shutting down its campus, and she closed her doors the same week. For the month of April, she had zero sales.
On Lambert’s now-revamped e-commerce site, decorated stationery, hand sanitizer, and care packages have supplemented the jewelry selection. She has also partnered with a clothing company to sell face masks. After she went “knocking on e-doors,” a local bank and 60 families pre-ordered more than 1,000 masks.
Lambert, ecstatic and optimistic, ended up virtually earning what she would have made in her pre-pandemic brick and mortar. But most Harvard Square retailers just don’t have the capacity to compete with established online retailers, let alone transfer all in-store catalogues online. Forty Winks Lingerie Boutique at 56 JFK St., which celebrated its 10th anniversary last month, has only seen a fourth of regular sales after going online.
Skeadas believes that the “biggest challenge affecting Harvard Square in particular is the rental market, which has skyrocketed in recent years and is just unsustainable.” Harvard Square Acupuncture and Massage, for instance, had to recently relocate to 1120 Mass. Ave. after becoming unable to pay its $64,000 annual rent at its initial 12 Arrow St. location. The investments of international real estate and financial entities have driven rent up high enough to displace many local businesses even under normal circumstances, Skeadas says. The consequences during a pandemic may be even worse, with collapsing revenues threatening to make already elevated rents increasingly unaffordable.
“Local management is far more invested in the community and the wellbeing of the community,” Skeadas says, and therefore businesses with local landlords may be more likely to recover.
In response to these obstacles, community organizations have instituted a number of efforts to aid local businesses. Cambridge Local First has provided Zoom training sessions on relief opportunities, regulation changes, and rent negotiation. As part of the Cambridge Small Business Advisory Committee, it provided input on a small business relief program to disburse $3.6 million to businesses in the city. The HSBA has partnered with the city to develop reopening guidelines that allow social distancing measures to be followed in storefronts with limited space.
On May 18, Massachusetts Governor Charlie D. Baker ’79 unveiled detailed plans for a phased reopening. Harvard Square businesses cast their doubts. Hovagimian says that in order to have considered reopening under the state’s restrictions, she would have had to hire more employees and make room for social distancing in her hole-in-the-wall café, which she could not do or afford. Ned R. Hinkle, creative director of the Brattle, sees an “extended intermission” for theaters. He couldn’t say how the theater might reopen, though he’s already mapped out how to seat moviegoers six feet apart in his art house.
And despite the cautious reopening, all business owners underscored an anxious uncertainty for their businesses in a post-pandemic Cambridge. Many are waiting for the University to decide whether or not the fall semester will be conducted remotely.
“Not every business is anxious to open, and not every person in the community is ready to start running to the nearest restaurant,” Jillson adds. “There’s a great deal of uncertainty around how people are going to respond to businesses reopening.”
Some offer a bleak vision. Saloniki Greek sandwich chain co-founder Jonathan Mendez — who now uses his closed 12 Dunster St. restaurant as a makeshift office — imagines a dystopian future for dine-ins. “People in Plexiglas cubes being interacted with, almost like prison movies,” he predicts. “They put the meal through the door…in my head, that’s what I see.”
Yet beyond the immediate post-pandemic anxiety, Skeadas hopes this crisis might have a long-term net gain for Harvard Square businesses. “This moment provides opportunity for expanded consciousness on what we call local, resilient economies,” she says.
The pandemic has highlighted both the vulnerability and the importance of Harvard Square’s small businesses — the businesses continuing to provide the community with hot meals, face masks, and entertainment at a time when larger chains have closed their doors. Skeadas hopes that as the economy reopens and pedestrians walk through the Square once again, residents will strengthen their support for the small businesses that have long defined Harvard Square.
“Because people are thinking more locally, it presents an opportunity for increased awareness of the importance of local consumption,” Skeadas adds. “And hopefully, we’ll see changing consumer habits that drive, in the long term, greater local economies.”
— Magazine writer Simon J. Levien can be reached at simon.levien@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @simonjlevien.
— Magazine writer Sophia S. Liang can be reached at sophia.liang@thecrimson.com.
Sections
When I run, I can’t think.
Who in the world said running was meditative? And what the hell is a “second wind?” How do people ponder their life trajectories and creative aspirations while logging miles, when the only coherent thought I can manage is: Are we there yet is it over yet can I stop yet?
From the first stride I take, every cell in my body screams to slow down. No, really — full tantrums, rioting to the beat of the 2000s pop blasting my high frequency hearing away. Pain burns up my legs and lungs. It’s threatening, and for the rest of the jog, it wages a war of attrition against my dwindling willpower and forward momentum.
I try to force myself to think by concentrating on sights and scents: a copper-rusted watering can, the faded lines of hopscotch sidewalk chalk. Fragrant, flowering trees shading a disheveled lawn. The foul pungency of ammonia permeating the entire block.
Sometimes I play games, too: If you can just make it to the blue Prius, then you can see if it’s really parked up the curb. No, you can’t stop until you pass that fire hydrant up the hill. Too steep? Okay, just keep going until the end of this song then.
But these attempts are fleeting, and the urge to stop is so compelling. And when I inevitably give in, I can hear every pity cheer I got in middle school cross-country, echoes of earnest shouts from teammates who’d long crossed the finish line. It hurts to swallow like the gasping, heaving breaths of my first, humiliating mile run, and burns like the shame of being slow and not even steady. Hands on my knees, head down, I can’t tell if I’m breathless from defeat or disappointment or just the crippling cramp under my rib cage.
***
This is not a story of body hatred to self-love. My relationship with the limbs I call home is not tumultuous. I am so lucky to live in my body: She is healthy, intact, and average in a way that protects me from most hate crimes and ridicule. She leaps across puddles and savors steamed rice and sneezes like an irritable cat whose tail has been trodden on.
It’s just that between the ages of five and 12, my parents, with the very best of intentions, put me through every sports team in existence. I missed swings at softball practice and kicked shins in soccer. Tennis ended with more balls in the net than over it; swimming, after a summer spent clutching lane lines and crying in the municipal pool. The pain of pushing myself terrified me. “Mind over matter,” that age-old mantra that mental strength could triumph over any physical struggle, could not seem to motivate me no matter how many coaches cheered or screamed it.
With each failure I was reassured, “Don’t worry. You’re just not athletic.”
At 12, I discovered the first sport I loved: squash, a racquet game similar to tennis but played in a room (not to be confused with the winter gourd). But even after six years of traveling to tournaments and rising in rankings, at my last national championship, my father’s pre-match hype speech remained, “Don’t worry. You weren’t made for this.”
My parents’ methods of reassurance may seem cruel, but they were usually successful, and I loved the sport all the more because I felt no pressure to achieve. But their success rested on the consolation prize that followed. “They might run faster or be stronger than you,” my parents would remind me. “But you can study for hours. Not everyone can do that.”
Mind over matter: not a rallying cry that mental strength could always prevail over physical pain, but a statement of relative importance, of delineating priorities. Not a message to pursue goals against all odds, but a lesson in sticking to your strengths.
When put that way, why bother? Sure, sports can be fun. Squash has introduced more joy and confidence to my life than I ever expected. But I’m climbing uphill in this arena, and I hold the higher ground in the classroom.
My relationship with my body is not tumultuous, but constant. She and I, we keep clearly defined boundaries. I am not athletic, and she was made for hunching over a textbook to study. She is a body to transcend while I enlighten myself reading theories and writing theses. A body to house a brain.
***
Nothing exists in quarantine — not time, or space, or even the freedom to stroll into CVS maskless and impulse buy sour gummy worms. Days pass in waves, awash in blue light, and I do not leave my house. My days of competitive squash and middle school cross-country feel worlds away.
Our Zoom meeting opens with the perfunctory ten minutes of catchup. We share goals for quarantine, and I tell people I’m trying to run more — now that all squash courts are closed, I’ve officially gone the longest I ever have without playing. “But it’s not really running,” I admit sheepishly. “It’s more like jogging, with lots of walking in between.”
One of the leaders laughs, a light, merciful sound to fill the virtual vacuum of muted microphones. “Me too! I feel like very few people can just run straight through without stopping. Why do we qualify our runs?”
Because I can’t think while running the way other people do, I want to say. I don’t know what a second wind feels like because I can’t just keep going when it hurts. Because my brain is strong, but not nearly strong enough to triumph over simple, physical discomfort.
***
This story doesn’t end with me running a marathon, trembling arms raised in victory and frigid medal between my teeth. I may never enjoy running, or even feel truly comfortable jogging with a friend.
But it only took a kind joke over a Zoom catchup to consider that I do not have to be naturally athletic to be an athlete. Why qualify my runs? Why qualify my body?
She is more than a vehicle for my brain; she leaps over dandelions and pushes uphill and sweats out struggling breaths. She deserves to do so without the pressure of expectations — not only the expectation that I should always keep up with everyone, but also the expectation that I will always be weak or slow in comparison.
So every two or three days, on sunny days when I crave endorphins, I go for a run.
I breathe pure sunlight and pollen and savor each breeze against my bare legs. When the pressure builds in my chest, I keep going if I can and stop when I can’t. There, no pressure. I do not punish myself for being weak. I tell myself walking is just as important.
When I start again, I listen to my panting breath, my pounding footfalls, my playlist of 2000s pop. I try to lose myself in the sidewalk chalk and suburbia drifting by. I do not try to think.
— Staff writer Rachel Chen can be reached at rachel.chen@thecrimson.com. This is one of five essays published as part of FM’s 2020 “Homecoming” feature.
In May 1970, the Kent State shooting was roiling America, young people were disillusioned with authority figures, and college campuses were the locus of frequent, rowdy protests.
But Robert L. “Bob” Scalise, then a lacrosse player at Brown University, had a game to play.
After the May 4 shooting, his teammates called a meeting to decide whether to forego their game the following weekend against league rival Cornell in protest. Peter S. Rush, Scalise’s high school classmate and Brown teammate, said the idea of postponing the event did not sit well with Scalise.
The merits of the cause aside, they had made a commitment to play the game, and in Scalise’s view, that was what the team should do.
After hearing Scalise’s arguments — unusually forceful ones for the quiet college student — the team voted to play.
“Bob was never a loud mouth. Bob would state his position, and state his position firmly, always articulate, very much persuasive. People looked up to him,” Rush said.
Fifty years have passed since Scalise’s speech to his teammates, but his approach to college athletics remains much the same. Whether a player, a coach, or an athletics director — his current post at Harvard — he has always believed that college sports should instill strong ethics as much as physical skills.
In delivering that message, Scalise has led Harvard to athletic achievements and defended it from succumbing to the professionalization of collegiate sports — a trend that has swept the country in recent decades. After 19 years as the head of the department, he will retire this summer at age 70.
Since assuming his post as Director of Athletics in July 2001, Scalise has seen Harvard capture 22 national titles and 144 Ivy League championships.
As an athlete, he broke school records at Brown. Becoming the head coach of Harvard men’s lacrosse team just a few years out of college, he led the team to an Ivy League championship and set new standards for the previously floundering program. Around the same time, he worked as the first coach of the Harvard women’s soccer program, which became a varsity sport a few years after the passage of Title IX.
After attending Harvard Business School in 1987, Scalise left Harvard to pursue a consulting career in the private sector. Several years later, he returned to Cambridge to assume leadership positions at the Business School, and subsequently returned to Harvard Athletics as its new director.
Scalise’s tenure as Harvard’s seventh Athletic Director was bookended by national crises: He took the helm of the department just two months before September 11, 2001, and he will leave his position amid a global pandemic that has halted his department’s 42 varsity programs from play and forced them to find new ways to stay relevant.
Despite the crises that punctuated his tenure, colleagues and family members say Scalise has led based on a set of rules and values: hard work, kindness, collaboration, curiosity.
Those values steadied his family as well as his department — although the two are hard to separate. He and his wife, Maura C. Scalise ‘80, an All-Ivy swimmer and former Harvard swimming and diving coach, raised four children, all of whom attended Harvard College and suited up for the Crimson as varsity athletes.
Bob Scalise has always been a leader.
Born in 1950 into a lower middle class family in Long Island, N.Y., Scalise was recruited to play lacrosse at Brown University, where he graduated in 1971.
When Scalise headed off to Providence, R.I. at the turn of the decade, the country was divided in part by the Vietnam War. While young people were at the vanguard of the antiwar movement, Scalise focused on his responsibilities, his teammates, and his family.
He shattered records on the lacrosse field, leading the country in scoring as a junior and setting an NCAA record by netting 11 goals in one game. He received the Brown University sportsmanship award and the Sports Illustrated Award of Merit his senior year. Off the field, he married his first wife and had a child, holding part time jobs to provide for his family.
Rush said he remembers Scalise as quiet and dedicated to his off-field responsibilities. On the field, though, he was unafraid to play rough. He had a special “move”: stepping on a defenseman’s foot to get open.
“Coming from Long Island, we played a real rough and tumble game. We really shocked the preppies in terms of the kind of game we played,” Rush said. “Brown lacrosse — they still use the term — [was] sometimes called ‘Brown State.’ ‘Brown State’ came out of our era which was our down and dirty, we’ll knock you down, we’ll step on your foot to get an edge to score another goal.”
Scalise was an honorable teammate, too. The soon-to-be coach would encourage his teammates and mentor younger players instead of criticizing them, according to Rush.
Rush added that Scalise’s accomplishments as an Ivy League athlete and administrator meant even more given their upbringing as “lower middle class kids from Long Island.”
“Just going to the state school seemed like that would have been good enough,” he said. “The high school we went to, I mean, big dreams were becoming cops, firemen, schoolteachers. I mean, we didn’t have professors and lawyers and things like that.”
Becoming Director of Athletics at Harvard would have been unimaginable, Rush said.
Scalise’s talents as a lacrosse player may have landed him a job as head coach of the Harvard men’s lacrosse team. But, when he arrived in Cambridge, he quickly learned that sheer will alone would not be enough to lead his team to victory.
“My biggest problem in teaching the lacrosse players that we had here was that I was a very good lacrosse player and everything seemed so natural. And I remember thinking back saying, ‘you just do it like this. It’s so easy,’” he said. “It was an adjustment for me.”
After assistant coaching at Brown immediately after graduation, Scalise started the coaching job at Harvard in 1974. He took over a team that dwarfed in talent compared to “Brown State,” and one made up of players who viewed their young coach with some skepticism.
“We tried to instill the things that championship teams do and how they pursued excellence,” Scalise said. “I think the students reacted that ‘holy mackerel, who is this crazy man making us do these things?’”
Former captain of Harvard men’s lacrosse Kevin McCall ‘76 said Scalise experimented with some peculiar strategies during his first season coaching.
“We did a lot of interesting things that my teammates and I look back on and roll our eyes at,” he said. “We jumped over helmets. We did all sorts of interesting and weird fitness routines that Bob came up with.”
Still, McCall said the players gave Scalise, who was only a few years their senior, “the benefit of the doubt” because of his prior successes as an athlete. And sure enough, six years into the job, Scalise led the team to its first Ivy League championship in nearly two decades.
But Scalise made perhaps his longest-lasting contribution as a coach outside the sport he played, when he began coaching the women’s varsity soccer team.
He was the first head coach of the program, which was founded in 1977, several years after the passage of Title IX, the landmark legislation that mandated gender parity in college athletics.
Much like his term with the lacrosse team, Scalise’s starting point was unenviable. Karen F. Ferry ’78, one of the team’s co-founders, said most of the players had never played soccer before they joined the club team at Harvard. Initially, the department supplied Scalise with just three soccer balls for the whole team.
Still, Scalise taught the players the rules and art of the game. Though athletics administrators paid less attention to women’s teams than they did to men’s teams, Ferry said he took the players “entirely seriously from the start.”
“From day one, that was the message he sent, ‘We are a competitive soccer team,” she said. “And it didn't matter that we were women and it didn't matter that we were low level.”
In roughly a decade coaching women’s soccer, Scalise led the team to three Ivy League championships, two NCAA tournament appearances, and a 113-38-11 overall record. He became the first coach of women’s college soccer to win 100 games.
Despite his successes with the lacrosse and soccer program, Scalise decided he did not want to be a coach forever.
In 1989, he earned a Master of Business Administration from the Business School, and stayed on in an administrative role following graduation. He then spent several years in the private sector serving as director of recruiting at the management consulting firm Bain & Company before returning to the Business School. Six years later, he became Harvard’s Director of Athletics.
Despite his efforts to change careers, Scalise said he realized he was best suited to jobs where he could work to fulfill a greater mission.
“I had always been in a mission-driven organization because coaching is mission driven,” he said.
While Athletic Director, Scalise has underscored the overarching principle of the program: “Education through Athletics.”
Former Dean of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences Michael D. Smith, who appointed Scalise to serve as interim Executive Dean of FAS in 2008, said Scalise recited the mission of Harvard Athletics and the College during meetings they attended.
“He would always talk about the mission of Harvard Athletics. What it means, why we’re there, what we’re trying to accomplish for our students,” he said. “He was always grounding the decisions and what we were going to do based on what was best for Ivy League athletics, for Ivy League athletes, for our students and what they wanted to accomplish here.”
Executive Director of the Ivy League Robin Harris said she also remembered Scalise’s leadership during meetings, and the way he would begin them in particular.
“His leadership skills and his willingness to talk to me about how he approaches things allowed me to learn really important approaches to leadership and for example, how you start a meeting matters,” she said.
Former Harvard Athletics Senior Associate Director Patricia W. Henry said Scalise often emphasized a central plank of the Ivy League mission: the importance of athletics as a tool to educate and develop students. Scalise promoted this philosophy during a time in collegiate athletics defined by professionalization and profits. Breaking with that national trend, Scalise has been a vocal critic of proposals to pay college athletes and to make exclusive academic resources available to student-athletes.
Before athletes even come to Harvard, Scalise expects them to embody the Ivy League’s principles, according to Dean of Admissions and Financial Aid William R. “Bill” Fitzsimmons ’67.
“When he first became Athletic Director, he asked every coach when they were putting people forward for consideration in the admissions process to not just tell everybody including the admissions office how good the player was athletically, but rather what the person was like as a human being,” Fitzsimmons said.
At home, Scalise applied essentially the same principles, according to his family members. His oldest son, Michael J. Scalise ’10, who played for Harvard’s varsity lacrosse team, said his father taught him that there is little difference between being a good athlete and a good person.
“As kids, it was not just playing sports and not just winning and losing, but that was his classroom. It was even apparent to us as young children that that’s how he was teaching us a lot of lessons about life, the little things,” he said.
“I’ve had similar conversations with him about the role that athletics should play, and does play in the college experience,” he added. “It’s not a separation between athletics and academics. It’s one big integrated approach to teaching people how to be good people.”
As Director of Athletics, Scalise was tasked with overseeing the greatest number of collegiate varsity teams in the country. Even with so much to manage, no detail was too small for him — not even the type of grass growing on Harvard’s fields.
Former Senior Associate Director of Harvard Athletics Jeremy L. Gibson said Scalise’s attention to detail stood out to him the first time they met, when he toured candidates for the Athletic Director position around the athletic campus in the summer of 2001.
“I was going around the field with Bob and I just remember back then he was so meticulous and kind of planful in terms of the questions he was asking, even down to wanting to know about what type of grass was growing out on the backfield,” he said. “He always asked a lot of questions. And I think, more importantly, he listens to the answer.”
After being tapped for the position, Scalise continued to pay attention to the grounds. He said one of his proudest accomplishments was transforming the physical footprint of the athletic complex. He replaced chain link and barbed wire with trees and fences.
“We transformed our athletic campus from an industrial complex with chain link and barbed wire on the fences to more of a campus,” he said.
Gibson added he aspires to emulate Scalise in his current role as Director of Athletics at Merrimack College — a goal one of his colleagues who also worked at Harvard has often pointed out.
“I’ll say something or do something, and she’ll say, ‘You just sounded like Bob,’” Gibson said. “And it’s a real compliment. It’s not that I’m trying to be someone else, but there are just some philosophies around college athletics that Bob was so clear on and frankly I believed, that we’ve tried to emulate in some of the things that we’ve done at Merrimack.”
Scalise — who began his coaching career at the age of 24 — empowered coaches as Athletic Director, significantly expanding the number of endowed coaching positions and setting in motion more comprehensive professional development for coaches.
Harvard softball head coach Jenny L. Allard, the winningest coach in Ivy League softball history, said she and her program have benefited from Scalise’s leadership. In addition to revamping her team’s facilities, Allard said Scalise encouraged her to create a program that was not only successful in terms of the number of games it won, but also in the values it instilled in players.
Having once advocated for every athlete on the women’s soccer team to have access to a soccer ball, Scalise said he was sensitive to the need to equip each team with the resources they needed.
“I’ve always had this philosophy: I love all of my children. I don’t necessarily — I have never treated everyone identically. But I try to treat everyone fairly and give them the resources they need in order to be successful,” he said.
But Scalise faced challenges, too, in one of the most integral programs to his time at Harvard. Three decades after leaving the women’s soccer team, the team was once again at the center of Scalise’s professional life — this time, off the field.
In 2016, The Crimson reported that the men’s soccer team had been writing a lewd “scouting report” of their female counterparts, ranking them by physical attractiveness. As a result, Scalise and then-University President Drew G. Faust decided to cancel the men’s soccer team’s season.
Scalise described the incident as one of the most painful parts of his tenure as Athletics Director, and said it still lingers in his mind.
“Regardless what team it was, it impacted me because it impacted students under my watch,” he said. “These are kids being mean to other kids. And I never liked that growing up and I still don’t like that.”
Harvard Athletics planned to be celebrating Scalise’s tenure this spring. Instead, his department has been in crisis mode.
Not one to sulk, Scalise said he has continued to provide his department with leadership as it navigates the COVID-19 pandemic.
“In a sense, I’m doing what I’ve done,” he said. “So it’s not like, ‘Oh, I'm missing out on this,’ or I don’t think of it that way. I'm still doing service to a great institution with great people.”
Maura Scalise, his wife, said she and her family have cherished their ties to Harvard Athletics.
“The position was for Bob, and for our family, sort of like a dream come true,” she said. “It just sort of encompassed all of Bob’s strengths in one position, and we loved it. We loved it. It went by so fast.”
On July 1, Scalise’s successor — Erin McDermott — will take over the reins of Harvard Athletics as its first female director. Asked what advice he has given McDermott, Scalise did something typical: He laid out a set of five rules he believes should guide a Director of Athletics.
Rule Number One: To make good decisions, you need good people around you.
Rule Number Two: Act in the best long term interest of Harvard Athletics and the University.
Rule Number Three: Spend money as if it were your own.
Rule Number Four: Love all of your children, but don’t treat them identically.
Rule Number Five: Don’t micromanage.
After a moment, Scalise said five rules wasn’t enough, adding one more.
Rule Number Six: Always try to do the right thing.
—Staff writer Ema R. Schumer can be reached at ema.schumer@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @emaschumer.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
To commemorate the centennial of the Secret Court of 1920, Harvard affiliates on two panels last week reflected on past and present issues facing BGLTQ students at the school as part of an event series titled “Secret Court 100: Harvard’s Queer Century.”
In 1920, six Harvard administrators formed the Secret Court, a disciplinary tribunal to investigate and punish ten affiliates for their sexualities. The students were expelled, banned from the City of Cambridge, and received a permanent note on their transcripts. Multiple ultimately died by suicide.
The first panel focused on “Living Histories” and featured Amit R. Paley ’04, the CEO of the Trevor Project and a former president of The Crimson who first broke the story of the Secret Court in 2002.
He spoke at length about his reporting process, from finding an entry in the archives to a back-and-forth with administrators over whether he would be allowed to access the documents. University administrators justified their repeated denials by theorizing that an individual named in the documents could still be alive and wish to keep the information confidential, Paley said.
The Director of the University Library eventually convened a committee that included representatives from the Office of the Governing Boards, the General Counsel’s Office, and the University to decide the matter. They ruled Paley could access the documents — with the stipulation that all involved individuals’ names were to be redacted.
With assistance from colleagues at The Crimson, Paley said he “unredacted” the documents, discovered the individuals’ identities, and reported the story.
After the story broke in 2002, then University President Lawrence H. Summers apologized for the events, calling them “extremely disturbing.”
Harvard faculty Michael Bronski, Diana L. Eck, and Evelynn M. Hammonds — three trailblazing BLGTQ faculty members — spoke alongside Paley.
Hammonds called the revelation of the Secret Court a moment of “moral clarity” for Harvard.
“It was a dark moment, and it needed to be revealed in the light,” Hammonds said. “As a historian, our history is our history. It’s not to be run away from, it's to be understood, to be made public.”
Eck reflected on the connection between the Secret Court and then-President Abbott Lawrence Lowell — the namesake of Lowell House — and her and her wife’s role as Faculty Deans of Lowell House. The pair was the first openly gay, married couple to lead one of Harvard’s houses.
“We as then-House Masters could take into our own public rhetoric the fact that Abbott Lawrence Lowell had participated in this Secret Court,” Eck said.
Paley discussed the Secret Court’s connection to 2020 and to the coronavirus pandemic, which he said has taken a toll on the mental health of BGLTQ youth.
“It’s a very different story of what’s happening 100 years later, but the parallels of LGBTQ young people being thrust into physical spaces with people who do not accept their identities, who are trying to erase them, is very profound and hits me in a very emotional way,” he added.
The second panel included six current students from across the University in conversation. Natalie J. Gale ’21 also discussed the role of mental health in the Secret Court, which was initially prompted by a student’s death by suicide.
“We see this in secret courts, the role that mental health played and the role that the administration’s negligence and real violence there had in ultimately ending the lives of several students involved, just as some of the negligence that we see today is a legacy that continues to drain the life out of many members of our community,” Gale said.
University spokesperson Jason A. Newton wrote in an email that Harvard University Health Services’ Counseling and Mental Health Services has BGLTQ clinicians and offers a range of BGLTQ-focused group therapy options.
The panels were the first in a series of events to commemorate the centennial, according to organizer Kamille-Dawn C. Washington ’10. The panels together drew nearly 700 registered attendees.
Russell H. Reed ’20, who has been working with Professor Timothy P. McCarthy to plan the centennial since last summer, wrote in an email that the anniversary is an opportunity to “gather, reflect, and demand action from the University.”
Correction: May 31, 2020
A previous version of this article incorrectly spelled the name of a student organizer. He is Russell H. Reed '20.
—Staff writer Camille G. Caldera can be reached at camille.caldera@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @camille_caldera.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Former Harvard President Drew G. Faust was named to the MIT Corporation, MIT’s board of trustees, corporation chair Robert B. Millard announced at the quarterly meeting Thursday.
The MIT corporation reviews and advises the institute's strategic direction and budgets. It also ensures long-term fiduciary responsibility and approves new degree programs, courses of study, and degrees. The corporation also advises MIT’s president.
Faust wrote in an email to The Crimson that she is “excited and honored” to join the institute’s corporation.
“Collaborations with MIT were highlights of my term as Harvard President, and I look forward to working with President Reif and the Institute in this new role,” she wrote.
Most of the MIT corporation’s work is conducted through committees such as the Executive Committee, the Investment Committee, and visiting committees for academic departments, student affairs, libraries, research, athletics.
Each Corporation member is required to serve on at least two visiting committees in addition to the standing committees.
The MIT corporation is similar to the Harvard Corporation — Harvard’s highest governing body — in its advisory role.
Faust, who served as Harvard’s first woman president from 2007 to 2018, is one of 12 term members elected, nine full-term members and three partial-term members. Terms last from one to five years; Faust will serve a two-year term.
As Harvard’s president, Faust oversaw a record-breaking capital campaign, increased Harvard’s global presence, and reformed the structure of the school’s governing bodies. In 2010, the Harvard Corporation increased its membership from seven to 13 members, created term limits, and created committees within the body.
Some of the full-term members of the MIT Corporation include Northrop Grumman chairman Wesley G. Bush, former Undersecretary of Commerce for Intellectual Property Michelle K. Lee,, former CEO of PepsiCo Indra K. Nooyi, and MIT student Adedoyin Olateru-Olagbegi.
The three partial-term members include Faust, retired Air Force four-star general Janet C. Wolfenbarger, and former Washington University in St. Louis chancellor Mark S. Wrighton.
Three life members were also elected — former Senior Vice Chairman of Citigroup Victor J. Menezes, entrepreneur and philanthropist Phillip T. Ragon, and Agman Partners chairman Jeffrey L. Silverman.
As of July 1, the corporation’s membership will comprise 75 members. Of the 75 members, 24 are life members and seven are ex-officio. 37 additional members are emeritus.
—Staff writer Michelle G. Kurilla can be reached at michelle.kurilla@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @MichelleKurilla.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
As Massachusetts hair salons and barbershops open their doors during the state’s reopening plan, customers at Cambridge’s Central Barber Shop will miss a familiar presence.
Longtime barber Alfred J. “Fred” Iannacone Jr. — whose purported customers included former President Barack Obama and actors Matt Damon ’92 and Tommy Lee Jones ’69 — died of COVID-19 on April 20. He was 78.
For more than fifty years, Iannacone’s customers lined up as early as 5 a.m. to get their haircuts from him. Edward Chalmers, a long-time customer at Central Barber Shop, described Iannacone as an “old-school” barber whose business became a “melting pot,” with first responders, retirees, and Harvard affiliates all flocking to his storefront on Massachusetts Ave.
“He had people from all walks of life,” Chalmers said of Iannacone’s clientele. “It didn't matter whoever was in that shop at that time. You were comfortable being down there.”
Chalmers recalled that he first met Iannacone when his father took him to get their hair cut. Since then, he has visited Central Barber Shop with his own children to receive a “classic barbershop” experience — complete with lollipops for kids and a few “older gentlemen sitting around all the time.”
Iannacone’s son, Steven Iannacone, said his father fell in love with his job after graduating Medford High School. While his peers entered the lucrative real estate business in the 1960s, Iannacone entered barber school to earn a barber license.
"[His friends] used to always joke with him that maybe [he] should have went into the real estate. That's where all the money is,” Iannacone said. “And he's like, ‘No, I love what I do.’”
“He loved his people. He loved his community.” Iannacone added. “He loved running a business and he was very content with that.”
Just a block away from Harvard Law School, Central Barber Shop is a popular spot among law students. Fred Iannacone’s daughter, Rhonda Landers, said he used to “hold court” on Mass. Ave.
“He liked the intellectual capacity of the clientele there,” Landers said. “He liked to talk about things that were going on in the world.”
Chalmers said Iannacone could chat about anything from local news to sports at Cambridge Rindge and Latin School.
“When you sat in his chair, it’s like you were reading The Boston Globe,” he said.
Despite health issues toward the end of his life, Iannacone will be remembered by his customers for his punctuality and consistency.
Anthony J. Salvati, a co-worker at Central Barber Shop, said that Iannacone’s commitment to his craft was unparalleled, recalling a day when Iannacone hobbled to work immediately after losing his toe due to complications related to diabetes.
“He wasn’t even worried about the toe! He was more mad because he had to miss work,” Salvati said. “And he told me how he had never missed a day of work — ever.’”
With Iannacone’s passing, Chalmers said Cambridge will lose someone who created a space that anyone could enjoy.
“You don’t realize it until you really think about it, but it’s a simple pleasure going to get a haircut and talk about the day,” he said.
—Staff writer Charles Xu can be reached at charles.xu@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @charles_xu_27.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The United States District Court of Massachusetts permitted a lawsuit against Harvard by a former student disciplined by the College for sexual assault to move forward Thursday on grounds of racial discrimination but dismissed his claims of gender bias.
The unnamed student filed a civil suit against Harvard in October 2018 alleging the University discriminated against him on the basis of race and gender in its handling of a Title IX complaint that accused him of sexual misconduct.
The suit came nearly a year after Harvard suspended him for four semesters when the Office for Dispute Resolution investigator Brigid Harrington found he had performed sexual acts on an intoxicated classmate. According to University guidelines, “when a person is so impaired or incapacitated as to be incapable of requesting or inviting the conduct, conduct of a sexual nature is deemed unwelcome.”
In his suit, the student, who is described as an African-American male, claimed Harvard and Harrington discriminated against him on the basis of race by denying his and his accuser’s request to resolve the complaint via an informal process.
He alleged that Harvard permitted white students to resolve complaints of sexual misconduct informally and that Harvard handled his request differently than requests by white students in similar situations.
U.S. District Court Judge Indira Talwani accepted the student’s claims of racial discrimination against Harvard.
“Plaintiff has provided a comparator group – Caucasian students accused of similar sexual misconduct – coupled with the allegation that the comparator group was treated differently due to their race,” Talwani wrote. “At this stage of litigation, Plaintiff does not need to do more.”
Talwani, however, dismissed his claims that Harrington discriminated against him on the basis of race since the student did not allege she was involved in the decision to deny his request to resolve the complaint informally.
Talwani also dismissed the student’s claims that Harvard violated Title IX and discriminated against him on the basis of gender by consistently giving greater weight to his accuser’s account of events throughout its investigation.
She wrote that while these claims supported a claim of bias against alleged perpetrators of sexual misconduct, they did not support a claim of bias based on gender.
“The complaint does not allege that similarly situated individuals, that is, individuals who are accused of sexual misconduct, are treated differently based on their gender and does not offer statements or other alleged actions by any Defendants showing discriminatory animus towards Plaintiff based on his gender, rather than his status as a person accused of sexual misconduct,” she wrote.
The plaintiff further alleged that the College’s refusal to grant informal resolution— in addition to its denial of an opportunity to respond to information obtained during the investigation — were both grounds for a breach of contract claim.
Talwani wrote that the College’s rejection of the informal resolution request did not constitute breach of contract since it failed to meet the “standard of reasonable expectation.” She cited FAS policy, which states that informal resolution is only permissible with the approval of the Title IX Officer in addition to agreement from the complainant and the respondent.
Talwani did, however, accept the plaintiff’s second allegation of breach of contract. She cited Harvard’s failure to grant him a follow-up interview prior to the conclusion of the investigation, which she wrote barred him from responding “meaningfully” to information turned up by the investigation.
“It is plausible that, as Plaintiff alleges, he had a reasonable expectation arising out of the language of the FAS Policy that he would be afforded a follow-up interview between his first interview and the conclusion of the investigation, and otherwise would have an opportunity to respond to additional information gathered in the investigation,” she wrote.
Talwani wrote that the lack of a follow-up interview also sufficiently substantiated the plaintiff’s alleged “breach of covenant of good faith and fair dealing.”
She also dismissed the student’s additional claims that Harvard’s adjudication of the alleged sexual misconduct and imposition of discipline violated his due process rights under the Fourteenth Amendment. She cited his failure to plausibly argue that Harvard or Harrington were transformed into “state actors” — entities who act on behalf of a governmental body, and is thus regulated by the Bill of Rights, including the Fourteenth Amendment.
Talwani dismissed the student’s allegations of negligence against Harvard and Harrington because neither owed him an “independent duty of care” beyond the contractual relationship between the student and Harvard.
Harvard College spokesperson Rachael Dane declined to comment on the case.
This case hearkens to a suit filed against the College in fall 2019 by former Harvard undergraduate Damilare Sonoiki ’13. Sonoiki — also a black man — contended Harvard should not have withheld his degree after three fellow students accused him of sexual assault. He alleged that the process was racially biased against him, specifically citing the fact that during the 2012-2013 academic year — when the Administrative Board adjudicated cases of sexual misconduct — none of its 30 members were black men.
Earlier this month, U.S. Secretary of Education Betsy DeVos released updated Title IX regulations, shifting the definition of sexual misconduct from “unwelcome conduct of a sexual nature” to “unwelcome conduct that is so severe, pervasive, and objectively offensive.”
DeVos’s new regulations require that an “impartial investigator” first evaluate sexual misconduct complaints in order to submit a “neutral report” that is reviewed in a live hearing, in which both the complainant and respondent are subject to cross examination.
—Staff writer Juliet E. Isselbacher can be reached at juliet.isselbacher@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @julietissel.
—Staff writer Amanda Y. Su can be reached at amanda.su@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @amandaysu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Cambridge will implement a pilot program allowing residents to walk, bike, and drive in both directions on select roadways, the City announced Thursday.
The Shared Street pilot, which will begin mid-June, is designed to support physical distancing as the city begins to ease coronavirus closures. Roadways designated as “shared streets” will allow pedestrians, cyclists, and drivers to share street space while remaining at least six feet apart. Drivers are expected to travel at low speeds and yield to pedestrians and cyclists.
Joseph E. Barr — Cambridge Director of Traffic, Parking, and Transportation — said city leadership is working to find transportation solutions that prioritize public health while responding to residents’ wishes.
“The City of Cambridge leadership is carefully considering how transportation patterns have changed and how they need to change, not just as we recover from this crisis, but to support a sustainable future,” his statement reads.
“We are striking a balance between being responsive to the community’s desires and concerns while balancing the vital need to prioritize public health,” it continues.
The initial shared street network will consist of three “key connector streets” — Garden Street, Field Street, and Bay State Road corridor from Concord Avenue to New Street; Harvard Street from Quincy Street to Portland Street; and Magazine Street from Green Street to Memorial Drive — according to the city’s announcement.
“Shared Street,” “Local Access Only,” and advisory speed limit signs will be posted at cross streets throughout the shared street network. Shared street designations will be implemented 24 hours a day, seven days a week during the pilot period.
Since Massachusetts Governor Charlie D. Baker ’79 issued a stay at home order in late March to stop the spread of COVID-19, Cambridge residents and city councilors have asked the City Manager’s office to close streets in order to create more space for social distancing.
During the Cambridge City Council’s April 13 meeting, Cambridge resident Yonah Freemark asked city councilors to identify streets that could be closed to car traffic.
“Cambridge is desperately in need of more space for its pedestrians and bicyclists,” Freemark said. “The idea that allowing pedestrians to walk in the street will cause more crowds is specious. Why is it acceptable to allow drivers to continue using the streets as if nothing has changed?”
Cambridge closed Memorial Drive to car traffic last Sunday, and will complete its second pilot closure on May 31.
The city plans to inform residents of the new program via phone calls, emails, social media, the city’s COVID-19 website, neighborhood distributions, and street signs.
—Staff Writer Maria G. Gonzalez can be reached at maria.gonzalez@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @mariaagrace1.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
