News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Broad Institute researchers identified a conference held by the Cambridge-based company Biogen in February as a “superspreading” event for COVID-19 that caused tens of thousands subsequent cases in the Boston area.
The study, which tracked occurrences of unique COVID-19 genomes from a dataset of the earliest known cases of the virus in Massachusetts, was led by researchers from the Broad Institute and various universities. The team used viral genome sequencing – a process of decoding the nucleotides within a given genome – to find over 80 separate introductions of COVID-19 into Massachusetts.
The team marked the Biogen conference as a COVID-19 superspreading event after discovering that a specific variation of the virus containing the C2416T allele had contributed to 35.1 percent of COVID-19 cases studied in the dataset. Using the frequency of the allele in four Massachusetts counties, the study estimated that around 20,000 cases in the counties could be attributed to the event.
Samples from the Boston Health Care for the Homeless Program also revealed that the COVID-19 variation introduced at the conference spread into Boston homeless shelters.
In a statement provided by a Broad spokesperson, Broad scientists Bronwyn MacInnis and Stephen Schaffner – members of the team – wrote that the event most likely led to even more COVID-19 cases outside the Boston area.
“This back-of-the-envelope calculation does not include other counties in MA or any other US states or any other countries,” they wrote. “It thus seems likely that this is an event whose impact is measured in tens of thousands of individuals, but a precise estimate of the total number involved is not possible with current data.”
The study also found that effective isolation processes had resulted in lower rates of COVID-19 spread. Schaffner wrote in a Broad website post that a skilled nursing facility studied by the group had a lesser impact on the general Massachusetts population than the Biogen conference.
“The outbreak in the nursing facility was devastating for those involved, but it occurred in a fairly isolated population,” Schaffner wrote. “As a result, it caused little transmission outside the facility. The outbreak in the conference, by contrast, occurred in a highly mobile population in late February and spilled out into the larger community.”
Although the study accounted for almost all early confirmed COVID-19 cases, Lydia A. Krasilnikova, a Harvard graduate student and member of the team, wrote in an emailed that asymptomatic cases were “not a focus of this study.”
“It is entirely possible that there were additional asymptomatic cases in Massachusetts, even in the Boston area, that were not captured in our sampling—indeed, I would be very surprised if we captured all cases from early in the Massachusetts outbreak,” she wrote.
Krasilnikova wrote that the team plans to continue its collaborations with the Massachusetts Department of Public Health and Massachusetts General Hospital while continuing to use genomic sequencing to better understand the virus.
“Genomic epidemiology, especially combined with traditional epidemiology, can show us if cases or clusters of cases are connected: this can, with enough sampling, determine whether disease is being continually reintroduced into a community or is spreading within it,” she wrote. “These scenarios require different responses; genomic epidemiology can equip leaders with the information they need to make difficult and urgent decisions.”
—Staff writer Ethan Lee can be reached at ethan.lee@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Former Crimson president and founding director of the John F. Kennedy Presidential Library and Museum Dan H. Fenn Jr. ’44 died earlier this month at the age of 97, leaving behind a legacy of public service fit for the history books he loved.
Born into a long lineage of Unitarian ministers, Fenn grew up in Boston and attended Harvard College, where his grandfather served as Dean of the Divinity School. At the College, Fenn came to helm The Crimson, his affection for which he described as that “of son for father, and father for son.”
While working at the paper, Fenn reported on sports and World War II with a keen sense of movement and drama.
“It was a very ordinary lazy Harvard Sunday afternoon,” he wrote on the day Pearl Harbor was bombed. “Then, with the suddenness of the attack itself, radio crackled out the fearful news.”
“He love[d] to describe action,” his son David Fenn recalled, though he added that his father saw the war — in which he himself served — as a “last resort.”
“My dad cared about the intricacies of negotiation,” David said. “The intelligence and the determination to avoid war — that was what it was all about.”
Fenn worked as a staff assistant to fellow Crimson editor and U.S. President John F. Kennedy ’40, who appointed him to the U.S. Tariff Commission in 1963. Years later, he became the founding director of the John F. Kennedy Presidential Library and Museum.
“He wanted a library that reached out to the community. He wanted a library that was going to receive academics, researchers from all over the world — which it did,” David said. “He was really proud of that.”
Fenn had a penchant for presidents — especially those from the colonial era. David said the family honored George Washington’s birthday with skits about his life put on by each of the children.
“It couldn't be about his false teeth, it couldn’t be about how he never told a lie — it has to be something unique. That was hard to do after a few years!” David said. “It was a great event, all in the name of history.”
He was also an active member of the Lexington Minutemen, whose mission is to honor the Revolutionary period through re-enactments, drills, and parades. He marched with the group in President Bill Clinton’s inauguration.
“He got me into it — when he had an idea he was pretty relentless in getting you to acquiesce,” his son Thomas Fenn said.
Fenn served the town of Lexington not only as a minuteman, but also as a tireless participant in local government.
“He was coming into his 61st year as a town meeting member,” Thomas said. “That's a long, arduous, and frustrating process, but he loved it because it's an opportunity for everyone to speak and give their ideas and opinions. It was democracy, and he loves that form of government.”
At the Kennedy School, where he taught in the Executive Education program, Fenn brought participants on trips to his beloved hometown.
“He would stand on the steps of First Parish on Lexington Green and fire off a musket, dressed up in his Minuteman outfit,” faculty chair of the Senior Executive Fellows program Dara H. Born said.
During Fenn’s decades teaching at the Kennedy School, he missed just a single program — and only because he was undergoing triple bypass surgery.
Peter B. Zimmerman ’68, Senior Associate Dean for Strategic Program Development at the Kennedy School, said Fenn helped “lift the veil on power and politics” for generations of professionals — engineers, scientists, lawyers, accountants, military officers, and more — who wanted to hone their leadership skills. He said it was “positively magical” for these participants to hear stories of Fenn’s time in the Kennedy administration.
“Dan was this living bridge to history,” Zimmerman said. “What could be more special than to have someone in our classes who could literally take us back into the Kennedy White House?”
Horace Ling, the Senior Executive Fellows program director, recalled that Fenn would joke he was the “only Harvard professor who ever fell asleep while he was teaching.”
“When he woke up, he saw the most confused group of students standing in front of him. And so he decided the best defense is an offense. So he just kept on teaching,” Ling said.
Ling also noted that it was tradition for Fenn’s students to give him hats, which he added each year to an ever-expanding collection.
“He had hats from Nigeria and Hong Kong and India and all kinds of places — he had hundreds and hundreds of hats,” Ling said.
Fenn wore many hats in a figurative sense, too, working to keep his college class connected in addition to his teaching and political careers.
“He loves the College, loves the University, spent almost his entire life involved in one way or the other with Harvard,” Zimmerman said.
Fenn was the longest-serving class secretary in Harvard’s history. In his 75 years of service, he launched the 1944 War Memorial Scholarship Fund and penned the class’s newsletter, “Encore ’44. He won the Harvard Medal for his devotion to the University in 2019.
“I met Dan in our sophomore year when we both volunteered for the Class of 1944 fund,” said his friend and former classmate Bertram A. “Bert” Huberman ’44.
Dispersed by the war, the two lost track of each other until they met again by chance in 1947.
“He said, ‘I'm glad I found you. I'd like you to run our first reunion,’” Huberman recalled. Since that point on, the pair has worked together on all of their cohort’s reunions, keeping the flame of class spirit alive despite the winds of change.
Mary Preston, who worked closely with Fenn in her former post as a Harvard College Fund officer, added that Fenn’s 1944 War Memorial Scholarship Fund “is still going strong today.”
“It supports about three students now in Harvard College every year,” she said. “That was a lasting legacy that will remain with him for forever.”
Fenn’s legacy will also live on in two Harvard-commissioned portraits: one with Kennedy, and one depicting him dressed in the Lexington Minuteman regalia he was so proud to wear.
“He loved that history and being a part of it,” Thomas reflected. “Before he died, he said that we would march together again.”
—Staff writer Juliet E. Isselbacher can be reached at juliet.isselbacher@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @julietissel.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard’s Office for Dispute Resolution determined that Anthropology professor Gary Urton made a sexual advance toward a student and abused his position as a teacher when he solicited then-graduate student Jade d'Alpoim Guedes to join him in a hotel room in 2012.
While ODR found that Urton violated Faculty of Arts and Sciences rules on interpersonal relations and unprofessional conduct, it did not investigate whether his conduct constituted sexual harassment because FAS policies in place in 2012 did not explicitly prohibit faculty from engaging in sexual relations with students under their supervision.
Only in 2016 did FAS begin to explicitly prohibit such conduct; the 2012 policies only noted that faculty members who did so were “liable for formal action against them.”
Using a preponderance of the evidence standard, ODR found that Urton subjected Guedes to a “sexual advance and/or liaison when he exercised power over her as a student,” which violated the FAS rules on interpersonal relations with students, according to a portion of the draft final report provided to Guedes that she posted on Twitter Wednesday.
ODR also determined that Urton had “abused or seemed to abuse the power with which he was entrusted as a teacher or officer of the University at a time when he had a professional responsibility” for Guedes, which violated the unprofessional conduct provisions of the FAS sexual harassment policy in place at the time.
Guedes and another former student, Carrie J. Brezine, accused Urton of sexual harassment in June after an investigation by The Crimson found that a different former student had accused Urton of pressuring her into “unwelcome sex” before writing her a recommendation letter in 2011.
In June, Dean of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences Claudine Gay placed Urton on paid administrative leave following The Crimson’s investigation. Urton announced plans last month to retire at the end of August, though it remains unclear whether he has followed through with those plans.
He did not respond to a request for comment on the ODR findings Wednesday.
Gay or a designee will ultimately review ODR’s findings and determine sanctions. If Urton retires, Gay retains the ability to strip him of his emeritus distinction, as step she took after former Government professor Jorge I. Dominguez retired while facing multiple allegations of sexual harassment.
FAS spokesperson Rachael Dane declined to comment.
In her Title IX complaint against Urton, Guedes wrote that she had agreed to go to lunch with Urton in July 2012, believing that he wanted to discuss her research.
The following morning, Urton emailed her from his FAS account asking if she wanted to “plan a time to have a tete-a-tete, daytime or nighttime, rather than leaving it to chance?”
Later that day, she received an email from Urton’s personal email account asking if she “would be interested in something more intimate.”
“I mean, lunch is still on offer, and would be quite pleasant, but, well, what if I got a hotel room and then we got a bottle of wine and spent an afternoon in conversation and exploration?” Urton wrote in the email.
Urton quickly followed up with an email asking Guedes to disregard his second message, calling the offer a “bad and inappropriate idea.” Guedes wrote in the complaint she was upset and shocked by Urton’s solicitation, but decided not to report it because she feared professional retaliation from Urton, who chaired the Anthropology department at the time.
Guedes said Wednesday that she was heartened that ODR had substantiated her allegations against Urton, but she felt the investigation revealed pitfalls of Harvard’s Title IX policies and procedures, particularly those that were in place prior to 2016.
“Even an egregious example like this of what is clear sexual harassment, they wouldn’t call it sexual harassment,” she said of the former policies. “They’ll say it was a violation of professional conduct, so I would wonder where they would draw the line — is rape not sexual harassment?”
“The way that they defined this in their policy really makes it extremely hard for any victim to seek justice,” she added.
Guedes said she hopes Harvard will consider taking action to retroactively change the policy, which it still uses to investigate allegations of conduct that occurred before 2016.
“It was really backwards of Harvard to define the sexual harassment in the way it did up such a late date,” she said. “That is something they should be ashamed and embarrassed of, and that they should actively be thinking about how to retroactively rectify that.”
“This is why institutions shouldn’t be allowed to determine what constitutes sexual harassment and what doesn’t,” she added.
Guedes said ODR asked her to participate in an interview during the investigation, but she said she refused because other women told her it was a “huge trauma” for them.
“Throughout these interviews, [the investigators] are questioning everything that they said — there was no way I could handle sitting through those interviews,” she said. “I consider them an intimidation tactic from ODR to try to get people to drop their claims.”
Guedes also said investigations into Title IX complaints should be handled by third party investigators not affiliated with the University, a step Harvard Graduate Students Union-United Automobile Workers has pushed for several years in negotiations with the University.
University spokesperson Jonathan L. Swain declined to comment.
Reva Dhingra, a grievance officer with HGSU-UAW, wrote in an emailed statement that Guedes’ case reflects “just how inadequate Harvard policies were in protecting student workers from harassment and the threat of retaliation.”
“With the Trump administration actively undermining Title IX, it is extremely important for student workers facing harassment to be able to obtain recourse through a neutral third party grievance procedure codified in the next union contract,” Dhingra wrote.
She added that it took years of activism to force the University to prohibit faculty sexual relations with students, and the union would continue to work to “fight for better definitions such as affirmative consent provisions instead of the ‘unwanted’ conduct standard.”
“Sadly, this case is by no means unique at Harvard,” Dhingra wrote.
—Staff writer James S. Bikales can be reached at james.bikales@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter at @jamepdx.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
It started as a series of tweets.
Adrian Wojnarowski and other journalists began reporting just before 4:00 p.m. that none of the players from the Milwaukee Bucks had taken the floor for warm-ups in advance of their Game 5 playoff tilt against the Orlando Magic. The actions taken in the ensuing hours, amongst NBA players and across the sports world, ensured that August 26, 2020 will be a date that serves as a watershed moment in the intersection of sports and society.
Prior to Wednesday night, there had only been one boycotted game in the history of the NBA — in 1961. But for the first time in 59 years, the Milwaukee Bucks simply refused to play. This was no meaningless regular-season game, or a pre-season scrimmage that the Bucks decided to sit out to prove a point. This was a playoff game, for the No. 1 seed in the Eastern Conference, and one of the favorites to take home the title. The Bucks were no stranger to confronting racial issues in America, with guard Sterling Brown writing a powerful op-ed in the aftermath of his tasering by Milwaukee Police in 2018, during a dispute stemming from the unarmed Brown parking in a handicapped space.
To be willing to sacrifice a playoff game, and accept a potential forfeit, was unprecedented. The Bucks announced that their players had decided to boycott Game 5, citing the shooting of Jacob Blake and their desire to bring additional attention to racial injustice in the Bucks’ home state of Wisconsin and the United States at large.
The hours that followed were perhaps even more unforeseeable than the Bucks’ action. First came the statement of solidarity from the Orlando Magic, the Bucks’ opponents, who refused to accept a forfeit and insisted on a postponement instead. Then came the rest of the teams slated to play in the playoffs Wednesday night, as the players from the Blazers, Lakers, Thunder, and Rockets all followed suit, collectively boycotting their crucial games and exchanging intense on-court competition for social justice-driven off-court collaboration.
For every positive Tweet that supported the players’ decisions, there seemed to be a rancorous one telling them to “just play” or to acknowledge their privilege and wealth and stay out of the “political arena.” Undeterred, the players organized a meeting at 8:00 p.m. for every single remaining player in the NBA bubble to discuss a path forward and to determine the best course of action to leverage their platform to create social change.
A similar story was unfolding 1,250 miles north of the Orlando NBA bubble. In Milwaukee, the Brewers were scheduled to host the Cincinnati Reds at Miller Park. Several photos captured members of the Brewers engaged in dialogue with players from the Reds, locked in intense conversation while scattered across the field for pre-game batting practice. Fewer than two hours later, the movement that began in Orlando had officially spread. The Brewers, who play a mere 30 miles north of Kenosha, Wis., where Jacob Blake was shot by police, had decided not to play on Wednesday night. In lockstep, the Reds followed the example set by the Orlando Magic, and refused to accept a forfeit, citing their desire to stand in solidarity with their NL Central Division rivals.
In a press conference with reporters, Brewers outfielder Christian Yelich was asked about the players’ thought process. “There comes a time where you have to live it, you have to step up,” Yelich said. “You can't just wear these shirts and think that's all well and good and then when it comes time to act on it, or make a stand or make a statement... you can't just not do it.”
Across the MLB, several other games were postponed, with players and entire teams refusing to play, instead imploring fan bases, ownership groups, and everyone involved in the sport to focus their attention on inequality and other systemic issues revolving around race. By the end of the evening, the impact of the Jacob Blake shooting and its aftermath was visible across the entire professional sports landscape.
Three NBA playoff games, three MLB games, five of the six scheduled MLS games, and the entire WNBA slate were postponed because of players’ decisions. Such action, especially collectively, is unprecedented. There are many that feel that these protests come from a place of privilege, citing athletes’ well-above average salaries as a reason that boycotting can somehow be considered tone-deaf. There are others that cite their beliefs that politics and social activism have no place in sports. Put simply, as Fox News host Laura Ingraham once told Lebron James, there exists a feeling amongst a considerable portion of the American population that players should just “shut up and dribble.”
What took place on Wednesday night across the world of sports was a resounding rejection of that perspective. As I reflect on these events, struggling to make sense of the power that sports can have in times of social turmoil, I remember a quote uttered by Washington Nationals reliever Sean Doolittle in an interview focusing on the return to sports amid the coronavirus outbreak.
“Sports are like the reward for a functioning society,” Doolittle said. While these words may have centered more on the global outbreak that have claimed nearly 200,000 Americans lives, Doolittle’s perspective is no less applicable in the aftermath of what occured in Kenosha, and the ways it has touched the lives of countless Americans, particularly those with darker skin. In his piece “2020 Vision,” published in The Crimson earlier this summer, Harvard men’s basketball Coach Tommy Amaker spoke about the pain and division present in the United States following the death of George Floyd.
As a life-long sports fan, I have spent most of my 22 years eagerly anticipating the next game, looking forward to the NBA playoffs and MLB regular season alike. On Wednesday night, I experienced a rare joy and pride in the decision taken by professionals across the sports world to cancel their competitions. To take a stand of their own. Naomi Osaka withdrew from a semi-final, citing her identity as an African American woman first and foremost, before her profession as a tennis player. Several WNBA players including Ariel Atkins, spoke heart-wrenchingly about the plight facing African Americans across the United States. These stories must be heard.
In the postgame press conference after a one-run win, New York Mets outfielder Dominic Smith broke down into tears. Smith had kneeled for the national anthem prior to Wednesday night’s game against the Marlins, which proceeded as originally scheduled, and was overcome with emotion in his Zoom with journalists. In a moving display of bravery, Smith attempted to compose himself while asking how the events of the past 72 hours had impacted him.
“I mean, I think the most difficult part is to see that, people still don’t care,” said Smith, with tears streaming down his cheeks. “For this to continuously happen, just shows hate in people’s hearts… and that just sucks, you know. Being a black man in America, it’s just not easy.”
I realize there may be some who disagree with the decisions taken by the Bucks, Brewers, and oh-so many other professional players and teams last night. But this movement is hardly over, however, as at least five MLB games and all of the NBA playoffs have already been canceled on Thursday. In fact, the NHL recently announced the postponement of several playoff games today as well, in recognition of the racial justice and social unrest across our country, a remarkable step for a league that is frequently viewed as lagging behind in addressing these types of issues.
I would implore those who do disagree to genuinely consider the raw emotions and experience told by people like Dominic Smith. Or read the story of Sterling Brown, addressed at the beginning of this piece, and understand how a mere parking violation led to a tasering at the hands of Milwaukee PD and a genuine fear for his life. Ask yourself why you disagree, and how those beliefs can fully co-exist with the lived experience of so many of our African-American residents.
One final thought to share has to do with that one previously boycotted NBA game that I referenced earlier, which occurred in 1961. Bill Russell and several other Boston Celtics boycotted a game against the St. Louis Hawks after several players were refused service at the team’s hotel because they were black. Russell decided to take a stand against racial inequality, despite the pleas of his coach, Red Auerbach. Russell and his three teammates were joined by three members of the opposing team, in the first and only NBA boycott prior to last night.
1961 was the year my father was born, two months prior to Russell’s boycott. Much has changed in the 59 years since then. Yet players are still boycotting for the same reasons — to address racial inequality. It’s true, the topic of conversation has shifted from players being refused service in hotels based on the color of their skin. It’s become about the way the police and our governmental safeguards treat members of our society differently, based on the color of their skin. In a way, isn’t it the same conversation, though? This feels sad, and somewhat ironic to me.
The events in Kenosha and so many others across our country have contributed to eroding the faith and hope that many hold in our institutions, values, and direction as a country. In a way, sports are merely a distraction from our daily lives, a diversion to take in after a long day of work. But they can also be much more than that. On August 26, 2020, I believe we witnessed the power of sports at their best. A vehicle to inspire others, and to speak up for those who feel unheard. One last bit of symbolic irony—on August 26, 2016, Colin Kaepernick began sitting for the national anthem, to protest racial inequality. Exactly four years later, his actions have been amplified on an unimaginable scale, even though they likely cost Kaepernick his career.
As of Thursday night, several WNBA, NBA, MLS, MLB, and NHL games have all been postponed in recognition of the circumstances currently facing our country.
I have had many incredible moments as a sports fan—watching my beloved Red Sox win the World Series, seeing Aaron Rodgers play in person, and covering a Harvard basketball triple overtime win, amongst countless others that I will never forget.
But last night was perhaps my proudest moment as a sports fan. Because for one night, across almost all of the major sports in our country, the players refused to just shut up and dribble.
The legendary civil rights leader Nelson Mandela recognized the power these athletes and institutions can have in our lives. “Sport has the power to change the world,” said Mandela, who had a keen appreciation for the ways in which rugby had served as a vehicle to address South Africa’s apartheid issues in the early 1990s. “It has the power to inspire. It has the power to unite people in a way that little else does. It speaks to youth in a language they understand. Sport can create hope where once there was only despair. It is more powerful than government in breaking down racial barriers.”
If the presence of sports can serve to inspire and catalyze change, perhaps its absence can do the same. I certainly hope so.
— Staff writer Amir Mamdani can be reached at amir.mamdani@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @AMamdaniTHC.
Sections
This summer, you’ve completed your internship, baked several banana breads, and watched “Hamilton” more times than you’d like to admit. Now, you’re moving to campus! We all know that this school year is going to be one for the books. The topic of COVID-19 has been hotter than any summer heat wave, especially because states have implemented strict quarantine rules upon arrival. If you are spending the fall semester on campus, here are a few useful things to do to pass time in quarantine fruitfully.
Organize your suite.
First and foremost, use this time to completely unpack your suitcases because let’s face it, if you don’t do it now, you never will. Choose where your laundry basket will go, whether you want to hang or fold your shirts, and how you want to set up your desk. Make sure that you have everything that you need for the semester, from pajamas to snacks to notebooks. Your parents will be so impressed!
Approximate time passed: 2 hours
Declutter your electronic devices. 
Delete unnecessary photos and screenshots from your phone, useless files from your laptop, and apps you never use. The less clutter your phone has, the smoother it will function, and you most likely won’t run into the problem of running out of storage at the worst time. In the meantime, set up your G-cal and download a note-taking app such as Notability to keep your life organized in the future.
Approximate time passed: depending on how much of a digital packrat you are (definitely yes if you have 6,000+ photos and videos) and how easily distracted you get, between 30 minutes and 3 hours
Make a list of classes you’ll take the rest of your semesters at Harvard.
Whether you’re a first-year student with eight entire semesters ahead of you or a senior and think you have it entirely figured out, it’s always nice to have a visual aid for your plans. Pull out a fresh new Excel sheet and fill up those grids with GenEd requirements, concentration requirements, and electives. If you’re feeling ambitious, color-code all the boxes. Even if you make changes to this later on (and you most likely will), it’s nice to have all your ideas laid out neatly in front of you.
Approximate time passed: 45 minutes
Call your family.
Amongst all the craziness of scheduling your meetings and the news about (what else?) COVID-19, your family members miss you more than you can imagine. Take some time to update them on everything going on in your life, from new friendly neighbors to how hot it is in Cambridge. Just hearing each other’s voice will do wonders.
Approximate time passed: literally anywhere between 10 minutes and 4 hours (you never know how long you’ll want to gush about your proctor’s adorable dog).
Do some workouts.
Sure, your friends back home may be catching some rays by the pool right now, but how much exercise can they possibly be getting from lying still for an hour? Invite your suitemate for more motivation, break out a sweat, and stimulate that brain cell development. This is also a great way to bond with someone if you haven’t talked much with them yet.
Approximate time passed: theoretically 60-90 minutes but I forgive you if it's looking like 15
Nap.
Who’s going to protest against this? You’ll be begging for it when classes start picking up. We promise we won’t judge you if the only thing you do is catch some z’s.
Approximate time passed: 1 week
Rather than listlessly moping around all week, you now have plenty of useful things you can accomplish with your time instead. If all else fails, you can always watch “Hamilton” on Disney Plus for the fifteenth time. We know there’s a million things you haven’t done, but just you wait...
