News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
It’s no secret that the United States is a deeply polarized country. According to a Pew Research study, the ideological gap between the median Republican and Democrat voter ballooned between 2004 and 2017. More troubling, political scientists like Shanto Iyengar and Masha Krupenkin have observed that voters today are more galvanized by hatred of the opposition than confidence in their own side, leading pundits on both sides of the aisle to worry about the nation’s long-term stability.
What happened? Social scientists have proffered several explanations. Iyengar and Krupenkin highlight the Balkanization of news media, which promotes partisan echo chambers that reinforce one’s biases. Another potential cause is what Bill Bishop terms the “Big Sort,” in which voters increasingly seek to live in communities mirroring their ideological commitments.
My preferred explanation, however, concerns the American method of voting: plurality rule. In a plurality rule election, voters select only one candidate for each position, and the winner is whoever nets the most ballots, no matter how small a percentage of the total. The upshot is that plurality rule is particularly vulnerable to strategic voting, in which participants vote against their preferences in order to achieve a particular outcome — e.g., if their favorite candidate is unlikely to be one of the top two vote-getters. In a trend known as Duverger’s Law, this results in plurality rule inclining inexorably toward a two-party, polarized system, crowding out third-party candidates by putting their voters at a strategic disadvantage.
And the polarization doesn’t end there. Not only is a bipolar party system tailor-made to generate candidates loved by one half of the electorate and loathed by the other, but social science data indicate that ideological groups in general incline toward extremism. Put bluntly, plurality rule polarizes the electorate, and human nature does the rest. The system feeds on itself.
All of this paints a pretty bleak portrait of plurality rule. But never fear! For decades, social choice theorists, who study voting systems and societal welfare, have advocated an alternative system of voting that steers clear of these pitfalls. The system, dubbed “Condorcet’s method” after its creator, has voters rank candidates in order of preference, then chooses whichever one beats all others in head-to-head contests. Unlike ranked choice voting, which starts with voters’ first selections before working down the ballot, Condorcet’s method treats all contests on equal footing — a feature that, as economists Partha S. Dasgupta and Eric S. Maskin have shown, makes it uniquely immune to strategic voting. Even if your favorite candidate is unlikely to receive a plurality of first-choice votes, Condorcet’s method renders it advantageous to list that candidate first, followed by your second favorite, and so on.
Within parties, there’s ample evidence that Condorcet’s method would be a safeguard against extremism: some have even argued that it would have stopped the nomination of Donald Trump in the 2016 Republican primary. But the real benefits would be in the more polarized general election. Since choosing among the two most popular candidates would no longer confer a strategic advantage, voters would be incentivized to vote their true preferences, circumventing Duverger’s law and yielding a wider array of viable candidates. And according to the median voter theorem, the outcome of a Condorcet election will tend toward the preferences of the electorate’s middle — cutting extremists out of the running.
Some voters might balk at the prospect of a centrist dynasty. But this instinct, I think, is misguided. It overlooks the fact that a centrist from Manhattan, New York will look very different than one from Manhattan, Kansas. And at the national level, the choice is not whether to have centrism, but how to have it: drifting with the consensus, or oscillating between extremes. On both sides of the aisle, the latter option seems to have given the country whiplash.
For all its virtues, Condorcet’s method is unlikely to be adopted anytime soon. Tradition is slow-moving, and for the presidential race, instituting Condorcet’s method would require abolishing the electoral college, which would take a constitutional amendment at the federal level — or, as some have suggested, a pact among the states. But as the fissures between Americans continue to broaden, it’s time to start considering concrete strategies to improve the situation. Somehow, we’ll have to learn to live together. We don’t really have a choice.
Patrick M. Magee ’21 is a joint Philosophy and Physics concentrator in Currier House. His column appears on alternate Thursdays.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
International students are under attack once again. A recent proposal from the U.S Department of Homeland Security seeks to eliminate “duration of status” classification: a policy which grants international students legal stay in the U.S for the entire time they are pursuing “a full course of study,” plus any authorized follow-up training. If passed, the DHS proposal would make student visas valid only for a fixed number of years rather than extending visa validity through the completion of a student’s studies by default — increasing restrictions on the already arduous visa process international students undergo. The measure would make it legal for international students on F-1 student visas, J-1 foreign exchange visas, and their dependents to be booted from the U.S. before completing their course of study — a major departure from current, long held DHS policy.
This new policy obviously threatens to impede the education of international students. Many factors could lead to a student’s course of study taking longer than their fixed-term visa might allow, including a global pandemic that disrupts all of higher education. But much more mundane explanations can complicate degree timelines as well: What if the experiments of a graduate student prove more laborious than expected, necessitating extra time?
This measure is hardly DHS’s first attempt to restrict the ability of international students to pursue their education in the U.S. In response to many institutions announcing that their classes would take place virtually this semester, the Trump administration tried to bar all international students on F-1 and M-1 student visas from retaining their residence in the U.S if they’d be taking online-only classes. It is because of such restrictions that no freshman international students have been welcomed to campus this fall.
DHS’s proposal should be viewed as a new development within a longstanding pattern of xenophobia disguised as efforts to enhance national security. As Harvard’s Vice Provost for International Affairs Mark C. Elliott remarked, it “seeks to fix a problem that doesn't exist.” Instead, the proposed measure creates a problem: it signals to international students that their presence and contributions are not welcome. The past year has brought students enough uncertainty and anxiety. That the DHS has chosen to propose obstacles rather than accommodating international students during this challenging time is telling.
Harvard has forcefully denounced the DHS proposal. This tracks; the University has a record of taking an appreciably active approach to combating Trump on immigration, be it on Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals or on the online-only fight this summer. Elliott makes clear that American higher education as a whole is worse for Trump’s anti-immigration platform. Under him, he says “Harvard has suffered.” 
We do challenge Elliott’s characterization that “[the] system is working fine,” made when commenting on the proposal at hand. DHS’s proposed rule change certainly isn’t remedying any actual issue that arose while “duration of stay” was the standard — to our knowledge, no such issue exists. But, if implemented, the proposed visa policies would only make a flawed system worse.
We hope future policymaking focuses on real problems in the immigration system: for one, money can serve as a barrier for less affluent international students studying in the United States. Harvard is one of only five four-year colleges that take a need-blind approach to international student admissions; other colleges can deny international students admission based on their financial need. The political environment international students enter is also openly hostile. The Trump administration has created a culture of fear for international scholars, leaving students wondering when their place in higher education might be challenged next. Tense incidents — such as when a Palestinian Harvard freshman had his visa revoked and was deported at Logan Airport last fall — are not easily forgotten, even when they end favorably.
Sadly, the vulnerability international student visa holders face is just the tip of the iceberg when it comes to the U.S’s cruel immigration politics. The 545 children intentionally and likely permanently separated from their parents by Immigrations and Customs Enforcement to deter Central American migration stand as the most sobering reminder of the morally bankrupt spirit with which the Trump administration has overseen immigration.
We hope the DHS’s most recent proposal to worsen academic life for international students doesn’t ever come into force. But, even if we dodge that bullet, the U.S immigration system needs urgent work.
This staff editorial solely represents the majority view of The Crimson Editorial Board. It is the product of discussions at regular Editorial Board meetings. In order to ensure the impartiality of our journalism, Crimson editors who choose to opine and vote at these meetings are not involved in the reporting of articles on similar topics.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
One hundred twenty injured. Police cars on fire. Dozens of arrests.
On April 15, 1970, Massachusetts State Police deployed tear gas in a crowd of nearly 3,000 anti-Vietnam War protesters in Harvard Square.
On May 31, 2020 — roughly fifty years later — police deployed tear gas on protesters in the Boston Common and Downtown Crossing area who were demonstrating against the police killing of George Floyd.
Months later, both moments are fresh in Cambridge City Councilor Jivan G. Sobrinho-Wheeler’s mind. Sobrinho-Wheeler sponsored a policy order to ban the use of tear gas by police in a City Council meeting on Oct. 26. He had witnessed the latter protest firsthand. “I think there’s a growing consciousness that this isn’t how we should be responding to things,” Sobrinho-Wheeler says. “In most cases, it serves to further escalate the situation and sow distrust and doesn’t promote public safety.”
Councilor Quinton Zondervan, Councilor Patricia M. Nolan and Mayor Sumbul Siddiqui sponsored the Cambridge ban with Sobrinho-Wheeler. The push has also found support from organizations like the Boston Democratic Socialists of America Healthcare Working Group, Cambridge Residents Alliance, Community For Us, By Us, and Our Revolution Massachusetts.
Katharine H. Nash, the leader of the Boston DSA’s tear gas ban campaign and a member of the Boston DSA Healthcare Working Group, sees the pandemic as an additional reason for urgency. “If someone is recovered from COVID, if they’re going to get COVID in the future, we don’t know what the tear gas exposure will do,” Nash says. “And because [tear gas] can compromise lung function and cause acute injury, this is really the time we have to push to get this ban in. I don’t want anybody to be exposed to tear gas ever, but especially during this pandemic.”
The need for a ban has been disputed, as Cambridge police officers currently carry pepper spray rather than tear gas canisters. “CPD does not carry or utilize tear gas, as it is not and has not been authorized for use under CPD policy,” Cambridge Police Director of Communications and Media Relations Jeremy Warnick wrote in an email on Oct. 28.
Nonetheless, Sobrinho-Wheeler argues, the police department’s internal restriction on tear gas might change in the future, especially if a new City Manager takes office. “By passing this ordinance, it’s making it legally binding and would require a council vote to change.”
In July, Cambridge Police Department found tear gas while compiling an inventory of its property. “If the police did want to change that policy, they could start using tear gas,” Nash says. “The City Council ordinance would codify that existing policy and then strengthen it, give it some teeth.”
In his statement Warnick claimed the tear gas found in CPD’s inventory had been given to the Massachusetts State Police and ordered destroyed.
Nash also sees Cambridge as an entry point for tear gas bans. “We think it’s pretty winnable here” she says. “And then if we win this ban on tear gas [in Cambridge] specifically, we can use that momentum to go to other cities and continue to build this up, with the goal being a statewide ban.”
The campaign is starting local: In tandem with Cambridge city councilors, councilors in Boston and Somerville are advocating for ordinances banning tear gas in their respective municipalities.
To Ben Ewen-Campen, the Somerville City Councilor who proposed the corresponding ban in Somerville, that city’s existing policy also falls short. “All of us saw tear gas being used by local law enforcement over the summer, and it was horrifying,” he says. “We’re far past the point where we can just, on a handshake deal, accept that our local law enforcement is not going to do that. It might have once upon a time felt like a symbolic issue, but it is now clear that local law enforcement agencies have a lot of leeway to do things that the general public may or may not agree with.”
Despite momentum from local efforts, a statewide ban remains a thorny topic. In July, Mike Connolly, the Mass. representative from the 26th Middlesex District, which includes East Cambridge and East Somerville, proposed an amendment to a police reform bill that would have banned the use of tear gas by police. Despite the overwhelming Democratic majority in the Mass. House of Representatives, the amendment failed 121 to 38.
“The perception of Massachusetts as a progressive state is really at odds with a lot of what we see from the state legislature,” Ewen-Campen says. “If anything, I think open debate on issues like this is good for state and local politics in Massachusetts because it helps the voting public understand where their representatives stand.”
The tear gas ban represents just one example of increasingly mainstream conversations about more substantial police reform. Police abolition and prison abolition in particular have gained traction among some local residents in the wake of the murder of George Floyd. Some abolitionists argue that contingent reforms — like banning tear gas — distract from real structural problems and are doomed to be ineffective.
“I know a lot of Somerville residents who consider themselves police and prison abolitionists, who really firmly believe that anything short of abolition is not worth doing, and I understand that perspective,” Ewen-Campen says. “But as a city council, we have to run the local government. And to me, it is totally unambiguous that we should be taking concrete, small steps at the same time that we’re also fighting for long term, large scale changes.”
Much of the debate boils down to a shared desire for basic public safety, Sobrinho-Wheeler says, and he believes that safety will come from mental health resources and community investment, not policing.
According to Sobrinho-Wheeler, the City Solicitor will need to draft an ordinance for discussion in the Ordinance Committee to define the terms of the ban and compare it with the ordinance banning tear gas in Boston. More generally, Sobrinho-Wheeler says a task force will form in the next few weeks to discuss models for a non-police emergency response.
“At the end of the day, people want to feel safe,” he says. “And the question is, does more policing and [do] certain tactics keep us safe?”
Sections
Yousuf A. M. Bakshi ’23 spent his Saturday night trapped in the elevator of Mather Tower. Having just finished a midterm paper, and needing a break before starting in on another, he decided to meet a few friends in Mather Courtyard. He grabbed his coat, left his dorm, and entered the Tower elevator. The doors closed. And then: nothing. He was stuck.
The Mather Tower elevator, for the unacquainted, has gray padding, a lingering scent of HUDS Taco Nacho Salad that comes from the trash can inexplicably placed in its corner, and an emergency phone that plays soft jazz as its hold music. (“I have an emergency. Why would the emergency button play elevator jazz music?” Bakshi questions.) For most people, a night spent in an elevator — especially this elevator — would be something akin to torture. Bakshi, though, claims that a night stuck in the elevator of Mather Tower turned out to be just what he needed. That metal box became something of a getaway, a good place for a mini vacation.
When the doors didn’t open, Bakshi’s first instinct was to call his suitemate. We should acknowledge, perhaps, that one of the writers of this story is Bakshi’s suitemate. But while trying to reach his knight in shining armor (yours truly), he ran into some trouble: “I pulled out my phone. And there’s no service, no WiFi, no data,” Bakshi says. It’s a veritable Gen Z nightmare. After a few seconds though, he walks back his claim; there actually was service, but it was only in this “one sweet spot in the top-left-hand corner.” Bakshi stood on his tiptoes, waving his phone in the air, desperate for cell service. He simultaneously pressed the middle finger of his other hand on the red emergency button and his index finger on “the siren” button for help. E.T. phoning home, if you will, by all methods at his disposal. “This was going to be an interesting ride,” Bakshi recalls. “Ride” is of course an interesting word to choose given that the thing about a stuck elevator is that, well, it doesn’t move.
Eventually, Bakshi heard a voice for “the first time in forever.” God? The ghost of Increase Mather? The Taco Nacho Salad Odor brought to life? No: the elevator’s telecom system. (When we press about the duration of “forever,” Bakshi clarifies that it had in fact been only 20 minutes.) The voice belonged to a serviceman who said, “We’ll have somebody come over to you right now.”
“Right now” turned out to be more like two hours. Bakshi waited and waited and even asked his blockmate to come to the hallway and wait outside the elevator doors. A set of metal, an Iron Curtain of sorts, divided the two friends. Bakshi said to his blockmate, “I need somebody to be with me in this unfortunate time.”
But it’s unclear how unfortunate his time in the elevator was at all. When the security guards and HUPD officer finally did arrive, their concern for Yousuf’s wellbeing, hunger, thirst, and bowels was unnecessary. Bakshi was fine: He was streaming Ariana Grande’s recently released single “Positions” on repeat and shooting TikToks a cappella.
“Not gonna lie, the padding on the side was very comfortable. I was contemplating, ‘I might not make it out tonight. I might as well just make myself comfy.’ And I actually did,” Bakshi recalls. He took a nap for ten minutes on the floor.
An hour and a half into the ordeal, the contracted elevator repairman finally arrived. He jimmied the elevator door open to reveal Bakshi sprawled on the floor — looking, paradoxically, both serene and scared out of his mind. Upon feeling the elevator move, he braced himself for a potential drop, and while the elevator didn’t, he could have, while getting out. In addition to Bakshi, the door had revealed a dark drop into absolute nothingness below him.
As the “elevator repairman” positioned the ladder, “one of the legs went down the shaft. Then they picked it back up,” says Bakshi.
While Bakshi processes the prospect of slipping and plummeting into the void, the adults remind him, “You're gonna have to do this yourself,” Bakshi steps down one rung and frantically leaps to safety.
After finally escaping from Mather Tower’s authoritarian steel cage, Bakshi remembers his first moments: “I didn’t know what to do and you know how when the plane lands and you don't know what to do and so people start clapping? I just started clapping.”
It was a bittersweet moment. Sure, he was stuck in an elevator on a Saturday night for two hours, but a metal limbo was just what he needed — a perfect break from reality. “I was having a bloody stressful week —” Bakshi, we should add, is quite British, “and this just made me realize I’m stressing over nothing,” he says. He’s also something of a philosopher, apparently. “Like, sometimes life could just be as simple as four walls.”
Of course, his ordeal started because he didn’t feel like walking down two flights of stairs. Bakshi didn’t feel like walking back up them either — he immediately took the other elevator up to his room.
— Staff writer Kevin Lin can be reached at kevin.lin@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @kevinlin0903.
Sections
Joseph K. Blitzstein — Professor of the Practice in Statistics and Director of Undergraduate Studies for the Statistics department — has taught STAT 110: “Introduction to Probability” since 2006, when the enrollment was 80. Since then, it has grown sixfold, becoming the third-largest course at Harvard this fall. (The class has essentially become a rite of passage among sophomores interested in an applied STEM field.)
In addition to teaching Stat 110 and various other courses in the Statistics department, Blitzstein co-launched Harvard’s first data science course in 2013 and a new, no-prerequisite data science course in 2020. He has won numerous awards for his teaching and advising, including the Fannie Cox Prize for Excellence in Science Teaching, which “honors exceptional teaching in introductory science courses”; students have also voted him a “Favorite Professor” in the Harvard College Yearbook 11 years in a row.
Blitzstein has always been popular, but during the pandemic, he has become something of an online phenomenon. Talking to current students about him, I heard the same theme over and over: In a time when communication is difficult, inequities are exacerbated, and students are isolated, Blitzstein feels the pulse of how students are doing in a way few professors can.
Posts on Harvard Confessions — an anonymous Harvard College message board — praising him and his classes are often the most popular content on the page. A much-liked post on the Facebook group “Overheard at Harvard” shows a screenshot of a text message saying “Who is joe blitzstein and why does everyone love him so much.” “Those posts are essentially a Joe fan club,” says Rachel X. Li ’23, a former Stat 110 student and current teaching fellow for the class.
Blitzstein frequently comments on students’ Facebook posts with advice and support. “There was a confession where my friend tagged me, and he’s like, ‘I’m currently dying for Joe in [Stat] 210.’ And Joe responded, ‘It’ll make you stronger. I won’t let you die,’” Li says. Li also tells me about a post where a student mentions how they were unable to find an advisor for petitioning for an internship as an independent study course. “My internship was supposed to start this September, and I’m not even sure if it’s possible,” the student wrote in their post. In Blitzstein’s comment on the post, he told the student to email him, offering to advise them.
Stat 110 has 462 students this fall but, as Li tells me, Blitzstein is actively trying to meet with every student in the class. The week after the midterm, he set up seven hours to dedicate to one-on-one meetings. After they filled up within ten minutes, he added more meeting slots. “He’s one of only a few bits of Harvard that we’ve gotten to keep [during the pandemic],” Natalka A. Bowley ’23 says. “Like, Blitzstein is a Harvard standby. A lot of people look forward to meeting him as part of the Harvard experience. The fact that he’s made such an effort to let us get to know him means a lot.”
On Facebook, Blitzstein has also contributed original statistics-related memes to the popular undergraduate group “Harvard Memes for Elitist 1% Tweens.” FM chatted with Blitzstein on Zoom about teaching during the pandemic, advising, Harvard Confessions and, of course, memes.
This interview has been edited for length and clarity.
***
AMC: What it was like to move one of the school’s largest classes online? What were some specific decisions that you had to make, and how did you make these decisions?
JKB: It’s something I thought about a lot. Last semester was a good test run, when Stat 111 had 200 students, and Neil Shephard and I had to put it online within a few days’ notice. I was talking to a few students over the summer who had not taken 111, but whom I had known from 110 or elsewhere, and some of them were telling me all kinds of horror stories about how awful that the spring was for their courses after it went online. And I felt really bad about that. But I also wanted to understand as much as possible about what went wrong.
We had more time to think about 110. We created a Slack, and Ed, which is kind of similar to Piazza. We tried to make sure that the TFs and students would have iPads, and Harvard was helpful in creating a program like that for courses with a lot of technical writing. I also tried to build some additional flexibility in terms of deadlines into the course — a balance between a pretty accommodating set of policies and some structure and deadlines to keep progress going.
So lots of little things like that to try to reduce stress levels, but not watering down the content. Because it’s an important prerequisite, not only for other Stat courses, but for a lot of other courses in other departments. I still wanted as best I can for the students to learn the same amount of material that they would have learned on campus.
AMC: I think Stat 110 is the biggest class of this difficulty — other big classes like CS50 or EC10 aren’t generally considered as difficult. And students come into this class from such varied backgrounds. What are some important considerations that you make when teaching such a big class, and making it useful for people from such different backgrounds?
JKB: What I try to do is structure the material in a way that it has interesting insights for everyone, but also doable for anyone who has met the math prerequisite and is willing to work hard.
I have many examples over the years where the students who did the best in the class only had Math 21a — or maybe even less — as background, and they have done way better than students who had Math 25 or some higher math class. And I think that the reason that they were able to succeed so much is through the fact that there are so many resources, practice problems, and awesome TFs. No matter how much math background you have, it should be possible to do very well with enough effort. That might be a large amount of effort, but it still should be within reach and reasonable.
And another thing I do is always pay attention to the common mistakes, so I can emphasize and warn about some of those things.
And then I try to make up problems that are just really, really interesting, so that the students will not only enjoy working hard on the problems, but also feel like they had a rewarding piece of insight or learned something that’s going to be useful to them in the future.
AMC: I remember when I was taking Stat 110 two years ago, one of the really important parts for me was going to office hours and being able to work with people. I’m wondering how in big classes, especially during the pandemic, how can we better help students in a situation where collaboration is a lot more difficult — and make sure that in these situations, teaching and learning can be as equitable as possible.
JKB: I’ve done a bunch of things in setting up the course to try to help with that. We have Slack and other places that we made available to help students find other students. In previous years, section attendance was highly recommended, and not required, and it was always just, you know, choose whatever section you want to go to and you just go.
This year I didn’t want to go as far as saying, here’s your assigned section that you must go to. But I thought that there would be more value than in a typical year to having a sort-of semi-assigned TF. So we ended up doing a survey. A couple other TFs and I thought about different algorithms, and we recommended a section to each student, and we said, we encourage you to attend this recommended one, but if there’s some good reason why you want to do a different one instead, that’s fine. The advantage there with many students attending their recommended section regularly is that the TF for that section can really get to know the students, and the students in the section can really get to know each other.
We’re trying to proactively check in on how students on doing. We’re also using breakout rooms fairly regularly in section, and I think a nice aspect is that students who didn’t already have friends in the class can collaborate together in sections. We’re trying to create as many opportunities as I can think of to help students get to know each other, as well as the TFs and me.
AMC: What are your main considerations when you’re advising students?
JKB: I think sometimes there’s too much of a tendency for advisors to just say take whatever you’re interested in and not be concrete. I’m not shy about saying my own opinions, positive and negative, about certain courses. Of course, I’ll say that it’s just my opinion and what I’m basing my opinion on. Since I advise a lot of students, I hear a lot about what they liked and hated in different courses.
A lot of it is a backwards-design type thing. I try to understand, what are the students’ goals? So it’s not just grad school versus industry, tech company versus finance. There’s a bigger picture goal of what you really want to do with your life after you graduate. And then the more I can understand that, the more I can try to work with the student on trying to work backwards. It’s like solving a maze, where sometimes it’s easier to start at the end then backtrack, and then figure out what you should be doing right now to make that future goal possible.
AMC: Do you have time for a few fun questions?
JKB: Yeah, of course.
AMC: How have the last eight months been for you? What has your quarantine been like?
JKB: I’ve been very busy. It’s been an extremely weird time for me, as well as for just about everyone, but I’ve been trying to go out on a lot of walks at Fresh Pond. And I’ve been trying not to look at the news too much, because it’s scary news every day, so I’ll go out on a walk to stop thinking about the news for a while.
AMC: Your memes on the Harvard pages on Facebook are among the most-liked content on these pages. I’m wondering how you come up with these memes.
JKB: I enjoy reading other [memes]. If an idea comes to me and if I feel like doing it, then I just do it. Do you consider Overheard at Harvard to be memes, because that’s just quotes? Did you see the quote that I had that was just empty quote marks?
AMC: And that got, like, 1000 likes.
JKB, laughing: That has to have some record for number of likes per character, but I don’t even know if I’m going to post on that page again because I don’t even know what to say after that anymore.
To me, that totally captured the sadness and poignancy of that moment, when everyone suddenly was being sent home to wherever they had to go. I live in Cambridge, so I’m not far from campus, and I’d walk around, and it was just really sad and deserted. So I have an empty quote because I hear nothing, and I was really crying when I posted that.
I’ve had other memes where it’s more a fun thing, where I saw certain memes, like in a certain genre, right? I don’t know if genre is the word, but you’ve got different genres of memes that I might enjoy. And I think, oh, this is, you know, a natural example from Stat 110 that fits that genre.
AMC: Oh, I wanted to ask you about AirPods, because your AirPods meme is my favorite meme that you’ve posted. What’s the best part about AirPods?
JKB: I used to always have earbuds where the wires always got tangled in my pocket, so I like that there’s no more tangles. I like listening to music, podcasts, and audiobooks, and I go on a lot of walks, and it’s really nice having those and not being tethered to the phone, or have everything tangled up.
AMC: Yeah, I got AirPods when quarantine started, and they have been so nice. I love them.
JKB: Yeah, me too.
AMC: What has it been like to read student sentiment on Harvard Confessions during the pandemic?
JKB: I found that it’s a very good way to stay in tune with what sentiment is like, and that’s something that I felt for years, that Harvard should have better places for that. Some could be anonymous, and some not, but better discussion forums so that you can see how everyone in this community is feeling, even in normal times. For eight years, I’ve been thinking, why is there no place where we can hear what people are experiencing? Harvard Confessions certainly has been a nice place to have some of that expressed.
It has its own biases, because you don’t know what sample of Harvard students or Harvard affiliates are there. It presents one lens, but I think it’s very helpful just as a way of seeing what people are feeling — not only in a time like this, but in other years too. There’s always some sort of crisis or problems. There are always things that could be done better, so there should be more places where people can talk, anonymously or otherwise. I think it’s a great thing if there are more forums for that.
AMC: How do you feel about all the praise you've been getting on Confessions?
JKB: I don’t know why there have been so many posts about me recently, but it means a lot to me that there seems to be a lot of appreciation for my efforts to help in various ways in this very difficult year. I’m not surprised there have been posts with a range of heartfelt reactions to the Stat 110 midterm (it’s a challenging class for almost everyone!), and a few of the TFs and I used that as an additional place to offer some heartfelt advice. And I was going to say it feels a bit weird having so many anonymous comments about me, but then I remembered that I read hundreds of anonymous comments about me and my courses in the Q Guide every year!
AMC: I have one last question. What’s something that students would be surprised to learn about you?
JKB: In high school and college, I was very, very quiet and shy. You might think that now, I’m pretty outgoing and like to talk a lot, but I was actually a pretty quiet person. And I never really worked on overcoming my shyness, because I was happy with who I was. And you know? Somehow, toward the end of grad school and starting as faculty, I became a lot more outgoing.
— Staff writer Alicia M. Chen can be reached at alicia.chen@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @aliciamchen.
Sections
When Cecilia Y. Zhou ’22 imagines the possibilities of social justice, she thinks in images. “I think the things we see shape the way we think,” Zhou says. “Visuality and visibility matter.”
In June of this year, the Black Lives Matter movement reached a new level of international visibility in the wake of the police killing of George Floyd. The storm of activism that followed saturated our visual fields with new images: We bore witness to protest, violence, sorrow, and rage.
When I think of this period of national reckoning, in my mind’s eye, I see a photograph captured in my hometown of Charleston, S.C. It documents the removal of a statue of John C. Calhoun, a former vice president and an ardent defender of slavery, from its 115-foot tall pillar in the center of the city. In the early hours of the morning, the sharp silhouette of the bronze Calhoun and the crane hooked to his neck and shoulders is set against an orange sunrise. The image it conjured is unmistakable — it is that of a man hanging from a noose.
Over the past summer, as similar monuments honoring the likes of Robert E. Lee and Christopher Columbus were taken down or toppled across the country, Zhou grappled with the question of what we will put in their place. The Monument Project, which she co-founded with fellow Harvard student Kiana N. Rawji ’22, aims to answer that question.
The Monument Project launched on Instagram on Sept. 2. The page, run by a group of ten Harvard students, solicits and posts student art submissions in response to specific “design challenges.” For example, one challenge prompted participants to submit their interpretation of “a monument to the future.” These so-called monuments, however, are not the stuffy bronze-and-marble statues one might expect.
One post, for example, features a beaked papier-mâché mask which mimics those worn by medieval doctors during outbreaks of the bubonic plague. When creating the sculpture, Paul D. Tamburro ’21 intentionally chose newspaper clippings which highlighted the “historical undertones of the current moment and the feeling that history is repeating itself,” including headlines about the coronavirus pandemic, the Black Lives Matter movement, and the Trump administration. “I truly hope that this work will not become a real monument to the future, but I fear it may be unless something seriously changes,” Tamburro wrote in the post’s caption.
Another entry is a series of self portraits taken by Rawji herself entitled “both and.” In the photographs, she poses with shards of a broken mirror which reflect fragments of her face. The images are overlaid with lines from an original poem. Rawji says the series is meant to explore the concept of “living in contradiction,” particularly in terms of societal “fictions” like race and how these constructs can “be reclaimed and distorted by the person they’re meant to distort.” Rawji sees the question of contradiction as relevant to the conversation about future monuments and how they must “chart the path forward without erasing the past.”
Other responses were equally out-of-the box, including paintings, poems, and songs. Rawji says this loose definition of “monument” is intentional; the goal is “to be very inclusive and welcoming of innovation.” Similarly, Zhou points out that “contemporary artists constantly challenge the tradition of say, photography, of painting, of sculpture.” In her view, we should reconstitute what monuments are. They should be just as inventive as any other art form – perhaps even more so, because of their unique importance in capturing “the values and stories of people that should forever be held in public memory.”
The Monument Project is actually a revised incarnation of a Harvard-based art festival that Rawji and Zhou planned for the spring of 2021. The festival was to be called “Just Art” and would have featured the works of college students from around the Boston area. Rather than give up this plan entirely after the coronavirus outbreak, Rawji says she and her peers chose to use social media “to pursue that same goal of capturing that intersection between art and social justice.”
Thus, the Monument Project was refined and brought to reality. Although the project is currently Instagram-based, Rawji says the group hopes to grow “into a larger kind of artistic accelerator.” This could mean creating a more collaborative online platform, as well as expanding the project to other colleges and cities.
For now, she says, the Monument Project exists on social media as “a call for students to lay down the building blocks – creative works of any medium – that will help us eventually create, together, some collective, tangible monument or exhibit of monuments on campus in the future.” To those who run the Monument Project, Harvard seems to be an especially appropriate setting for the kind of inclusive, socially-aware artwork which the Monument Project encourages, especially given ongoing conversations about the institution’s historical ties to slavery and racism. Rawji points out that these ties are embedded “in the buildings and the spaces and the statues on campus.”
The Monument Project’s latest “design challenge” directly interrogates the way this problematic history presents itself in Harvard’s physical structures. Commissioned by Harvard College ¡TEATRO!, a Latinx performing arts organization, the challenge prompts students to consider the origins of Harvard’s Agassiz Theatre. The theatre’s namesake is Elizabeth Cady Agassiz, whose husband, Louis Aggasiz, was a propagator of scientific racism.
Submissions are encouraged to imagine what “antiracist theater” might look like, through architecture, dramatic performances, costume design — “any medium you can imagine,” Rawji says. ¡TEATRO!’s president, Ryan D. Morillo ’23, sees reimagining spaces like the Agassiz Theater as “essential for the growth of the Harvard community,” claiming that it “sends a message to the University that we students are very aware of its hurtful past and demand some type of change.”
Change of this kind could have far-reaching impacts, Zhou points out. “The actions that Harvard undertakes as an institution do have a ripple effect,” she says. At the least, Harvard can help “initiate and sustain a meaningful conversation about monuments and their place in society and their place in the project of justice.”
Zhou and Rawji say they’re monitoring interaction with the Monument Project’s Instagram page to determine their community impact. The reaction will help shape how the project will look moving forward. Regardless, its broader goal remains to “interrogate public memory” and to “cultivate public imagination,” Rawji says. In a world increasingly concerned with the destruction of unjust systems, she and her peers seek to envision monuments as visual testaments to not only where we come from, but where we hope to go.
— Staff writer Roey L. Leonardi can be reached at roey.leonardi@thecrimson.com.
Sections
As the United States approaches the fiftieth anniversary of President Richard Nixon’s declaration of a “war on drugs,” the country faces a reckoning over its long history of racism and institutional violence. That reckoning has manifested most publicly in protests this summer. But a crucial, if less visible, part of the fight for racial justice are efforts to decriminalize controlled substances — including psychedelics — that have played a large part in enabling the mass incarceration of Black, Latinx, and Indigenous Americans.
On Election Day, voters in Oregon voted to legalize psilocybin, the active ingredient in “magic mushrooms,” while voters in Washington D.C. voted to decriminalize their use.
This ballot que: Could the legalization of psychedelic drugs help to unify and “save” America?
In a panel on Oct. 28, Harvard Law School’s Petrie-Flom Center sought to interrogate this very question.
The panel — titled “Can Psychedelics Help Save America?” — was conducted over Zoom and included a variety of questions posed by both moderator Mason Marks and the panel’s viewers. Some of the discussion was rooted in the history of drug prohibition in the United States, but most of the conversation was future-focused, considering the pros, cons, and logistics of psychedelic legalization.
Panelists noted that legalizing psychedelics will decrease incarceration rates and reduce the stigma associated with psychedelic use.
Part of the reason psychedelics have been made illegal, panelist Dustin Martin argues, is not because they are unsafe to use, but rather because they “make us question the nature of reality.” This questioning poses a threat to those in power, he claims
While many spiritually-inclined people appreciate the way that psychedelics allow them to explore consciousness, the panelists rejected the argument that there are viable legal grounds to legalize psychedelics on the basis of religious freedom. A legal test case would require “a plaintiff to consider psychedelics a sacrament,” rather than merely use them casually, Martin explains. He also mentions that, while the Native American Church made this case and was approved to use Peyote, it would be extremely difficult to achieve widespread legalization in this manner.
Much of the available information about the nature of psychedelic drugs comes from Indigenous communities, who have been using them for centuries. But the United States’ troubled history with Indigenous peoples calls into question whether the country can move forward and benefit from these substances while also making sure to protect and respect long-standing Indigenous practices.
Panelists say it is imperative that we look to Indigenous communities for guidance. For example, many Indigenous leaders request that Peyote use be excluded from current ballot initiatives, as the plant is endangered and has long been a sacred part of Native American Church ceremonies.
Although the criminalized nature of psychedelic drugs has limited the possibility of collecting useful scientific data on them, most panelists agree that there is enough anecdotal and survey data to suggest the safety of psychedelic use among most individuals. When compared to other controlled substances, psychedelics are relatively safe to use; they are non-addictive and it is not possible for users to overdose and die.
According to panelist Larissa J. Maier,, of the 40,000 people who have taken an online survey she has administered since 2014, almost all have reported being happier after they had used psychedelics for the first time. Panelist Ifetayo Harvey stressed, however, that psychedelics aren’t necessarily for everyone — despite a widespread conception in the psychedelic community that they are. For example, people who are suicidal, are taking certain medications, or who have particular physical ailments, would not necessarily benefit from psychedelic use.
That said, the panelists emphasized the importance of widespread education regarding psychedelic use and harm reduction practices given the possibility of legalization. Maier mentions, for instance, that it is not recommended to combine psychedelics with other drugs, such as marijuana or alcohol, and that heroic doses should be approached with additional caution. Factors to consider are the durations of use and the importance of the location of the trip.
Still, the question remains: Can psychedelics really save America? All of the panelists believe that, in some way, yes — they actually can. Psychedelic legalization could decrease incarceration rates of low-income Black, Indigenous, and Latinx people imprisoned for controlled substance violations, and those suffering from mental health ailments could have a new form of treatment. But reaping those potential benefits might not be such a simple feat for this ever-divided country.
— Staff writer Nicole B. Farina can be reached at nicole.farina@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @nicolefarinaa.
Sections
Professor William N. Friedman wants to help students establish a relationship with “the other.”
He defines “the other” as “the biological world that’s not human” — beings that, although alive, might not reciprocate actions or emotions. Friedman helps students interact with “the other” in his freshman seminar, “Tree.” In the seminar, each student is assigned a tree in the Cambridge area; students visit their trees once a week.
How did an arboreal course come to be? After eight years of teaching a seminar on Charles Darwin, Friedman wanted to do something different. His new seminar is unusual among Harvard’s entire catalogue.
For Friedman, developing “Tree” was natural as, well, trees. He directs the Arnold Arboretum, Harvard’s museum of trees. Arnold Arboretum is a 281 acre plot that contains trees from all over the world — over 15,000 plant species in all. Friedman described the arbor as “the best campus at Harvard.” His class arose from a desire to show more students the Arnold Arboretum, and to demonstrate that trees are a plentiful resource at Harvard.
“So, to your question ‘Why ‘Tree’?’ Trees are what I have,” Friedman says.
Though Friedman is a professor of Organismic and Evolutionary Biology, he does not consider “Tree” a science course. Biology is central, but students also read poetry and study legal papers. “Generally, this is a very free-form environment where we can be as poetic or technical as we want, and it’s a great opportunity to see how other people see the natural world,” Sebastian L. Garcia ’24, a student in the class, says. “I also really love biology, philosophy, and being out in nature,” Garcia adds. “This was the perfect combination of all these things.”
Another student, Brayden H. Orpello-McCoy ’24, emphasizes that “the way class has been structured allows for just the right balance between knowledge sharing, student collaboration, and thoughtful and extensive discussion.” Each class, for instance, allows for 40 minutes of conversation regarding the photos of students’ trees.
The most important part of this course are the weekly visits to the Arnold Arboretum and other local sites. There, students partner with an individual tree for the semester — and potentially after. They visit it, spend time with it, and photograph it each week. They take note of the way their trees change, similar to how an old friend may change between seeing them. As Friedman says, “Hopefully, each time they go back not only is the tree changed a little bit, but they’ve changed a little bit also.”
“Personally, my tree has become a place where I am comfortable and something that I am excited to share with others,” Orpello-McCoy says. “I’d venture to say that this is felt by most students in the seminar.”
The physical location of the students and their respective trees does not matter to Friedman. “If you were in South Korea, I would have probably reached out to some colleagues at the Korean National Arboretum, [and] we would have found a nice tree for you,” Friedman says. “It [doesn’t] matter where the students were in the world.”
“Tree” also touches on topics larger than individual relationships. Though the class does not often address climate change directly, Friedman’s emphasis on biodiversity and forming relationships with nature inherently touches on the issue. He explains that forming relationships with individual organisms makes people feel the effects of climate change more keenly.
“The individual relationships are my way of saying: This isn’t conceptual — it’s real,” he says. “Things are dying.”
Sections
I remember watching bestdressed, a popular fashion YouTuber, crack some self-deprecating jokes while she showed off her thrift shop finds. In the intro of her video she quips, “I’m a little bit congested and sick right now and kind of just feel like a spicy piece of trash, but when do I not?”
In the comments, one viewer exclaims, “shes so FUNNY i feel like beauty gurus / fashion vloggers never have a sense of humor but this girl is hilarious.” Another subscriber writes, “we love an intellectual youtuber that tackles & freely talks about actual issues instead of just calling everything cute like your basic youtuber 😔✊” People seem to love her — she’s “quirky” and “relatable.”
The way bestdressed talked about her mental health made me feel like I could joke in the same way. I understood the appeal of treating mental health humorously — if I closed YouTube and opened Twitter, a joke about suicide comforted me because it reminded me that I wasn’t alone. Jokes like these were acceptable. Each tweet gave me a model for expressing my own feelings and struggles with depression. Even if I was sad, I could be clever. My sadness became my goldmine; I could express myself through dark humor in a way that no other “basic” girl could.
After all, conversations about depression have entered the mainstream. Mental health matters! “Stressed, depressed, but well dressed” was a Tumblr 2014 aesthetic. “13 Reasons Why,” a show about suicide, was somehow miraculously renewed for four seasons.
But as the demand for popular media about depression has increased, the potential for thoughtless, easily marketable products about mental illness has increased also.
Take TikTok star Dixie D’Amelio’s autotuned opus “Be Happy.”
As she lounges in a bathtub with black water, D’Amelio repeats, “Sometimes I don’t want to be happy.” In the chorus, she continues: “Sometimes I just wanna be lonely / Don’t need you to hold me / If I’m low you don’t need to care / Let me be sad.”
In an interview, D’Amelio explains that, “When this song came out, everyone was really not happy and stuck their house so I think it meant a lot to everyone realizing that they didn’t always need to pretend like life was so perfect and they can have a bad day.”
Some might say that the song is meant to validate having emotional ups and downs, but to me, it feels like she romanticizes a diluted image of depression. If someone is truly stuck in a cycle of depression, should you listen when they say “let me be sad”?
When I was struggling with depression, I did just want to be happy. But having gotten so used to my toxic, cozy cave of sadness, I felt guilty whenever I felt happy. Dixie sings “If I’m down just leave me there / Let me be sad.” But when I was at my worst, I prayed that someone, anyone, would care enough to not leave me there, but instead to distract me with their positive energy and love.
Well-intentioned efforts to erase stigmas around mental health have inadvertently made mental health struggles almost a badge of honor for some. Having a mental illness means you’re edgy, having gone through trauma makes you funnier, insecurity demonstrates admirable humility. Although this has broken silences around mental health, it also has led to a desensitization of conversations about mental health disorders.
This desensitization can lead to people talking about mental illness flippantly: “I have two exams today. Ugh, I want to kill myself.” Offhand remarks like these are not always examples of someone using humor as a coping mechanism — they often come from individuals who aren’t willing to discuss suicide or depression seriously. In my experience, many of the people who make these kinds of jokes about suicide for minor inconveniences have not seriously struggled with suicidal thoughts themselves.
These seemingly inconsequential statements can feel like cruel mockery from those who have not truly experienced the pain they so easily perform as a joke.
The meanings of “depressed” and “struggling with mental health issues” have transcended their medical definitions. We shouldn’t use medical definitions to gatekeep a disorder from the masses — everyone experiences depression in their own way, and just because one person’s depression doesn’t fit a particular mold, that doesn’t mean we should invalidate their experiences. I know that the increased visibility of mental illness has created new paths for new people to be open about their struggles, and as more people come forward, less shame weighs on a word like depression.
Still, these popular representations of depression can also allow mental health issues to be adopted as an aesthetic or a personality trait, a trend that can be detrimental for actual improvement of public health.
Logic’s song “1-800-273-8255” populated radio waves everywhere in 2017. It is perhaps the twenty-first century’s best-known attempt at raising mental health awareness. I also hate this song with a burning passion.
His lyrics revolve around the repeated, painfully vague and general sentiment: “I don’t wanna be alive, I just wanna die, WHO CAN RELATE.” It strangely resembles an incredibly bad motivational speech. In the second to last stanza, Logic says “I finally wanna be alive” and “I don’t wanna die anymore” four times in a row respectively. In his lines, Logic references a sudden change that makes it seem like beating depression is as simple as a chorus shift.
The experience of suicidal ideation is more thoughtfully rendered in Joyner Lucas’s “I’m Sorry.”
Joyner sings, “Just make sure you tell my family it’s okay, I’m sorry/But it’s too late, I’m sorry, so much weighing on me/I don’t wanna live to see another day, I’m sorry.” The repetition of “I’m sorry” captures the heavy guilt that suicidal individuals often feel. Lucas doesn’t simply characterize feeling suicidal as “I don’t want to live.” He focuses on the perspective of someone who has family and friends, one who has struggled and fought. To me, Joyner’s song, in some ways, is about recovery. It acknowledges the complex ties that people have to their loved ones — ties that both inspire feelings of guilt and also produce a sense of compassion to help people stay alive. The song reveals the impact one’s suicide could have on others, and although it’s a painful idea, it’s an important one — it’s an idea that can give people a reason to live. I know it gave me one.
Which song was more popular? Logic’s.
In a way, Logic’s song almost reinforces the stigma of depression. It’s easy and simple: Just tell someone “they got everything to give right now,” and they’ll no longer want to kill themselves. Logic said that he wanted this song to be “an anthem,” but an anthem for whom? Is just saying “I don’t want to be alive” a bunch of times relatable or empowering for those who truly struggle? Through his lyrics, Logic has contributed to a confused and amorphous conception of what depression is — it becomes characterized as simply an affect, one muddled by sadness and thoughts of suicide. Songs like Logic’s that perpetuate monolithic ideas about what experiencing depression is like. Depression, in this formulation, is static — it’s about indulging in sadness.
I used to be almost too comfortable with my sadness. Dark humor enclaves of the Internet awarded those affected by mental health struggles with badges that declared “I’m not like other girls.” I fell deeper into an abyss of inescapable depression. I was even proud of my depression. I was proud of the fact that I had gone through difficult mental struggles, that I wasn’t perfect, that I was strong. I was proud that I wouldn’t put up a front of perfection.
As a sad, lost freshman in college, I just wanted to find my place. I wanted to know who I was. Throughout my first two years of college, I thought I had discovered who I was: depressed. What seemed like self-acceptance, though, was merely resignation. I was depressed, and that’s all I was. Because that’s what I believed, and others believed it too.
Although I encountered my fair share of mental health struggles in high school, I had never really considered myself “depressed.” I was mostly a super stressed, pressured, insecure teenager. But in college, I was exposed to cultures of Harvard students bonding over our stress, other college students openly cracking jokes about their severe mental health struggles, and edgy, moody kids smoking cigarettes solemnly. I began to catch every and any sad feeling and grab onto it. My humor was sad. My thoughts were sad. My clothing was sad, my attitude was sad. I had morphed into this big gray cloud that wasn’t who I really was. Obviously, I had struggled with intense feelings of sadness in the past, but when I did, I wasn’t just a caricature of sadness, one that I had enabled myself to become and one that other people saw me as.
The popularization of mental health talk on the Internet made me feel like I could adopt depression as a personality trait. But it’s not a personality trait. Depression doesn’t make someone interesting. It’s simply a part of their journey. It’s not who they are as a person. I feel happiness, and excitement too. I’m silly, I smile, and I laugh.
Realizing that my depression was not a personality trait helped to change my recovery and outlook. I don’t make as many dark jokes now, I feel more hopeful for the future, I feel positive about my life, I feel focused and grateful for the small things. My “bad life” simply turned into bad “moments.” And who doesn’t have bad moments?
What ought to be normalized is overcoming depression. I’m not advocating for blind optimism — I’m asking for a middle ground. Being depressed is not a good thing. It’s not something to be shameful about either.
Soliciting laughs at the expense of our struggles can be hilarious, but every now and then we ought to adopt a more positive outlook and foster actually productive discussions. The morose tunnel of dark humor can have a faint light at the end of it too.
— Staff writer Ejin K. Jeong can be reached at ejin.jeong@thecrimson.com.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
After the COVID-19 pandemic forced homeless shelters to reduce their capacities and left many homeless individuals without access to shower facilities, the City of Cambridge installed nine public showers in a Harvard Square parking lot in association with First Church Shelter.
The showers, which the City installed Oct. 19, are open weekdays from 1 to 4 p.m., though their hours may change based on feedback from those who use them, First Church Shelter Director Jim Stewart said. First Church Shelter staff sanitizes the showers after every use.
The staff are also trained to administer Narcan in case they encounter someone who has overdosed.
Because shelters in Cambridge are operated by religious organizations and nonprofit groups rather than the city itself, many had to reduce the number of people they accepted when the pandemic struck in March.
“Providers and homeless people themselves in the community were saying, you know, we understand why those shelters had to be de-congregate, but we have no way to address our basic hygiene survival needs,” Stewart said.
While talks of installing portable showers for those who had to leave the shelters began in early April, it took six months for the City Council to officially install them.
Cambridge City Councilor Marc C. McGovern said he understood the frustration homeless individuals and First Church Shelter staff felt about the delay.
“It took longer than anybody would have hoped. Certainly, if you are unhoused, and you’re not able to be clean, it took way too long. And I understand that,” McGovern said. “But the flip side of that is doing something like this in five to six months is actually rather quick for a municipality.”
Securing a location to operate the showers and finding shower systems to rent presented major obstacles to the project. The city initially considered other locations such as local hotels and the First Church property itself, but those plans ultimately fell through.
While homeless individuals and shelter staff waited for the showers to be installed, other organizations such as the Albany St. Shelter still offered unhoused people access to showers. In the meantime, the City Council fulfilled other requests, such as installing hand-washing stations, porta-potties, and electrical outlets throughout the city.
Cambridge City Councilor Quinton Y. Zondervan said he hopes the City will provide more than just public showers and bathrooms.
“Ultimately, we have to build more affordable housing and we have to stabilize rents. We can’t allow the market to just drive people out of their homes,” he said. “I really appreciate that the city made this accommodation for this community. But we have to keep doing more.”
So far, the showers have not seen much traffic, according to Stewart; though no one used the showers last Wednesday, he said more people are starting to trickle in.
“Until people in the homeless community hear from their peers that the place is safe and clean and people treat you with respect, it’s going to take a while for the clientele to build up,” Stewart said.
McGovern said the showers are a crucial step towards ensuring Cambridge’s homeless population are treated with greater dignity.
“As much as a public health issue, it’s a dignity issue,” McGovern said.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Paul Martini, an astronomy professor at Ohio State University, discussed the mystery of cosmic acceleration and his plans to test theories on this phenomenon at an event for the Radcliffe Fellows’ Presentation series Wednesday afternoon.
Cosmic acceleration refers to the increasing rate of expansion of the universe. The phenomenon was first discovered in the 1990s.
Martini compared the unexpected nature of the discovery to a ball flying up and away, thereby ignoring the constraints of gravity.
“This increase is the big mystery: what could be causing the universe to literally defy gravity?” Martini said.
Scientists call the energy that overcomes the force of gravity in cosmic acceleration dark energy. In his talk, Martini outlined three main theories that have been proposed to explain dark energy.
The first theory says that dark energy is a generic and inherent property of spacetime that is consistent with Albert Einstein’s theory of relativity. With the constant presence of dark energy, the more the universe expands, the more space there is — and the more negative pressure.
The second theory postulates that dark energy could be related to an unknown, undiscovered force that scientists call Quintessence. Quintessence would join the four fundamental forces — the strong and weak nuclear forces, the electromagnetic force, and gravity — to describe the universe.
The third theory proposes that Einstein’s theory of general relativity should be modified. Martini called this theory the “most prevalent explanation” and explained that it suggests gravity could change from being an attractive force to a repulsive force on very large scales.
Martini's current work aims to test these theories using the Dark Energy Spectroscopic Instrument (DESI).
“Absence of evidence is not evidence of absence,” he said. “All three of these ideas are exciting, and we need more tools and more data to test them.”
DESI is a four-meter-diameter telescope. Light is reflected through the lens, then focused onto fiber optic cables that transmit the light into 10 thermally controlled spectrographs. Spectrographs are highly sensitive, camera-like apparati that split light into optimized channels and disperse it with holographic grating.
Martini described the features of these fiber cables, including their extraordinary ability to transmit light signals and minimize expensive relay stations.
“All of these technology aspects were critical to design and build an instrument capable of measuring 35 million galaxies and quasars in five years,” he said.
Martini said DESI “dramatically surpasses similar projects” by aiming to measure 10 times more galaxies than previous tools and in a smaller amount of time.
Martini described the importance of designing sensitive equipment to measure photons, or particles of light.
“Every photon from our targets is precious,” he said. “We want to make sure that they do not go astray in the last few tens of meters.”
The DESI project shut down in March due to COVID-19, but it will be on track to restart in about a week, according to Martini. He added that he is looking forward to new experiments and unpredicted discoveries in the future study of cosmic acceleration.
“A lot of the most surprising discoveries [scientists] make are not the ones that they were initially designed to address,” he said.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard researchers found that octopi use a family of specialized cells called chemotactile receptors to “taste” using their sense of touch when employing their arms.
In a study published last week in Cell, the team, led by Molecular and Cellular Biology Professor Nicholas Bellono, showed that octopi use these receptors to sense whether or not a nearby object is poorly soluble in water. When an octopus touches a poorly soluble material, the receptors in its arms interpret it as potential prey, thereby activating the octopus’ sense of taste.
“The octopus seems to detect these poorly soluble molecules which couldn't travel well through water and be sensed at a distance, so it really has to insert its arm to the area where that molecule is present, because the gradient can be quite local,” Bellono said.
Bellono said the team had to first identify which of the cells located in the nervous system of octopus arms were responsible for sensing taste by touch. The researchers then exposed those cells to molecules from different octopus prey to understand what stimuli they responded to.
“For chemicals it’s much more challenging, because we don't know what the octopus cares about,” Bellono said. “And so what we did was, we ended up making extracts from its prey. So we would take ground-up prey and then separate some molecular weight, and then apply this extract – which is full of lots and lots of molecules – to the cells and ask if they do anything.”
While the biomechanical function of the octopus arms’ suction cups has been studied for decades, the molecular makeup and mechanisms of these arms is not well-understood, according to the study. Bellono said his team’s work could shed light on whether other cephalopods have similar sensors that can taste by touch, which could provide insight on the evolution of related creatures over time.
“Could it be that in other cephalopods, they're using similar receptors for distinct purposes, because the octopus explores with its arms and the sea floor, but the squid is in the open ocean and detecting greater distances and capturing with its chemicals which it extends out to grab prey?” Bellono said. “And so it could be a really nice system to ask about evolutionary adaptation.”
The team will expand on this research by investigating whether cephalopods such as cuttlefish and squid possess similar chemotactile receptors. The researchers will also experiment with other natural materials to further understand what stimulates the receptors, according to Bellono.
“We're trying to sample around natural products to see, what do the receptors detect? What do the animals detect? And then use those molecules as tools to understand how the receptors have evolved to suit that animal, detecting these ecologically relevant molecules,” Bellono said.
—Staff writer Ethan Lee can be reached at ethan.lee@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Two tickets consisting of two members of Harvard’s Undergraduate Council each — and, unofficially, a cat — are running to lead the UC this year.
UC Finance Committee Chair and Eliot representative Rukmini “Mini” Ganesh ’22 is running for president alongside UC Secretary and Winthrop representative Nicholas J. Brennan ’23; UC Treasurer and Dunster representative Noah A. Harris ’22 is also running for the presidency with Leverett representative Jenny Y. Gan ’22 as vice president.
Campaigning in the race officially began on Wednesday at midnight, but both official tickets held off on sending campaign emails for different reasons.
Harris and Gan were barred from campaigning until Friday because the UC Elections Commission determined they campaigned before the election period began.
Gan said they had asked friends to help them with their campaign, which they believed was normal practice in UC elections.
“That happened on campaigns going back three years at least,” Harris said. “We thought we were in the clear.”
Brennan said his and Ganesh’s ticket held off on sending emails Wednesday due to the contentious 2020 national election, which has left many students frazzled.
“We decided to take a pause for the sake of students’ mental health,” Brennan said.
Ganesh and Brennan said their platform focuses on addressing concerns that the student body has raised before, such as pushing the University to divest its endowment from fossil fuels and private prisons, as well as develop an ethnic studies concentration.
“There’s widespread support for Ethnic Studies, the Council’s not doing anything,” Ganesh said. “We have pathways to get [it] done.”
She added that the UC leadership must prioritize pushing the University to divest, “otherwise it’s not going to get done.”
Student wellness and police reform would also be a priority for Ganesh and Brennan if they were elected. Ganesh said the “wellness days” instituted by the College in lieu of a spring break for the spring term are “kind of a joke.”
“The wellness days need to have an assignment moratorium — a buffer of 48 hours after that day where nothing is due,” Ganesh said. “Otherwise it’s not a wellness day.”
Ganesh and Brennan are the only inter-class ticket on the ballot, and Ganesh said having the experience of both a junior and a sophomore is a strength.
“It’s impossible for me as a junior to kind of understand what it’s like for sophomores and first-years,” Ganesh said. “If two juniors run and win, you’re going to have two seniors who are negotiating about next academic year with administration. That’s not an accurate representation of the student body.”
Their opponents, Harris and Gan, are running to create “a Harvard that we can all be proud of, regardless of who we are or what our background is,” Harris said.
They have divided their platform into three categories: diversity and inclusion, student life, and health and wellness.
“Our main goal here is to hold Harvard accountable for its commitment to anti-racism and inclusion,” Gan said of their diversity and inclusion category.
Harris added that they plan to eventually “advocate and start working towards” developing a multicultural center for Harvard students, a longtime demand of student activists.
In regards to student life, Gan said she wanted to use a partnership with Lyft that the Council is piloting this year to “supplement intercampus travel” once students return to campus. Gan also pledged to subsidize internet services by partnering with an outside provider.
To improve Harvard’s mental health resources, Gan said she and Harris are pushing to expand Crimson Clear — the daily physical health attestation required of on-campus students during the COVID-19 pandemic — to include a mental health check-in. She added that they would expand on a spring semester pilot program with the meditation app Headspace, which provided 1,000 students with a free year-long subscription.
Meanwhile, Ana M. Mundaca ’22 has entered her cat Mr. Muffin into the race as a write-in candidate with human running mate Troy B. Appel ’22; Mundaca will act as a “surrogate” for Mr. Muffin, she said. The cat has two policy plans, Mundaca said.
“One, get rid of the Student Activities Fee,” she said. “Two, all student fees that are paid will be transferred to cat shelters and animal shelters in Boston.”
Mundaca said any remaining money would go towards funding free ahi tuna in the College’s dining halls.
Both of the official tickets are dealing with the struggles of campaigning virtually while most students remain off-campus due to the pandemic.
“It’s not like an ideal situation but we’re really trying our best to make the most out of it,” Harris said.
Brennan said he and Ganesh plan to focus on individual contacts and one-on-one outreach to student organizations.
While both official tickets said they remain positive about their chances of victory, Mundaca said Mr. Muffin was simply happy to be in the running.
“You know that meme about Plankton from Spongebob where he’s like, ‘I never thought I’d get this far’?” Mundaca said. “That’s kind of where I’m at with Mr. Muffin.”
—Staff writer Hannah J. Martinez can be contacted at hannah.martinez@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @martinezhannahj.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard’s police union filed a grievance with the University Wednesday alleging the force’s leadership violated the union’s collective bargaining agreement when it set in motion a new work schedule for officers, marking the latest episode in a prolonged conflict between the union and the outgoing chief of police.
Harvard University Police Department Chief Francis D. “Bud” Riley announced in May that officers would begin working an extra day each week effective Nov. 21. That announcement led the union to file a pair of grievances — one in June, and one on Wednesday.
In a Sept. 24 email, Deputy Chief Kevin Regan notified officers that the department anticipated holding a “bid” in October to determine officers’ on-duty shifts in light of the forthcoming work schedule. The union’s collective bargaining agreement stipulates HUPD can hold two bids per year during the months of February and August, respectively.
Harvard University Police Association Secretary Michael E. Davenport and Treasurer Louis W. Favreau claimed in the grievance that the department violated the union’s contract by holding a bid outside of those permitted times. Favreau and Davenport also alleged the department violated officers’ rights as outlined in their contract by not allowing officers to choose their preferred shift — including night, day, and evening — and on-duty days.
University spokesperson Jonathan L. Swain declined to comment on the union’s grievance.
The change in work schedule will affect the roughly thirty officers who work patrol.
Three of those officers, who spoke on the condition of anonymity for fear of retaliation, said the department’s unilateral actions will impinge on their home lives. Under the new schedule, officers will be forced to work five consecutive days per week — rather than four — followed by two days off. The new system will also deny most officers weekends off from work.
The June grievance disputes Riley’s claim that the department changed officers’ work schedules due to financial necessity.
Officers alleged Riley used the COVID-19 crisis as a pretext to retaliate against the union for filing labor relations complaints with the federal government and against individual officers who told The Crimson Riley perpetuated a racist and sexist culture within the department. Riley is slated to retire at the end of the calendar year.
The union will meet the University in arbitration beginning Dec. 18.
—Staff writer Ema R. Schumer can be reached at ema.schumer@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @emaschumer.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard professors analyzed how the 2020 presidential election revealed the domestic and international consequences of political polarization at a Weatherhead Center for International Affairs forum Wednesday.
Panelists included Government and Sociology professor Theda Skocpol, Harvard Kennedy School International Affairs professor Stephen M. Walt, and University Professor Danielle S. Allen. Michèle Lamont, the faculty director of WCFIA, moderated the event.
Skocpol began the panel discussion by predicting that the Democrats would clinch the victory in the presidential contest but lose its senatorial races.
“With the counting of mail-in and absentee ballots, Joe Biden is on track to get at least 270 Electoral College votes,” she said. “The Democratic Party and the pollsters that we all were following were dead wrong about what would happen beneath the level of the presidency. The Senate is not going to be in Democratic hands.”
Skocpol added that the governance of the United States will be “weakened further” in the coming years by environmental and racial crises and a stagnating economy.
While Skocpol predicted a grim outlook for the country, Allen discussed how the election emphasizes the importance of “local engagement and civic action” in combating political polarization.
“Mayors across America’s communities are in a really distinctive position responsible for knitting communities together across divides and delivering a foundation for a well-being at a local level that has to touch everybody in their community,” Allen said.
“We need to look to them for vocabulary and language that helps us begin to have a way of telling a story that gives us — rebuilds — the possibility of common purpose.”
Allen explained that mending the United States at the local level will be a “key political project” for the country.
“We have to really draw a circle around that local work of reknitting some type of shared understanding and common purpose as a key political project, one that is fundamental to the health of the nation generally, both domestically and internationally,” Allen said.
Walt explained that the presidential election evinced the deep political polarization in the country and weakened the United States’ position in foreign policy.
“The election has confirmed that the United States is deeply polarized, and this has serious consequences for government and serious consequences for foreign policy,” Walt said. “If I had to pick the big winner [for Election Day], I’d say it was Xi Jinping.”
According to Walt, Chinese president Xi Jinping “won” the election since political polarization leaves the United States more susceptible to manipulation from “foreign powers.”
“It’s going to make it very difficult for the United States to launch bold initiatives abroad, and it’s going to make it harder for other countries to put their trust in any commitments we do make,” he said.
In a Wednesday interview with The Crimson, Skocpol discussed how wealth inequality and the split between metro and non-metro voters will continue to intensify the country’s political divide.
“President Trump was selling an idea that we need to brush the virus off and get back to real life, which is quite appealing to people,” she said. “And it’s especially appealing perhaps to working-age men who might live in smaller communities. Trump has always been good at selling hope.”
In a written statement to The Crimson, Lamont wrote that the comments from the panelists were “insightful” and helped to contextualize the political moment.
“The comments from the three panelists helped the audience make sense of the situation in this moment of great uncertainty and anxiety,” Lamont wrote. “The election results to date shows us that the US will continue to be polarized. I believe we will need to pull together knowledge from our respective disciplines to figure out how to address the situation and implement necessary changes.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Assignments delayed. Lectures replaced by open discussions. Zoom cameras set to off.
With the 2020 election still up for grabs more than 24 hours after polls closed, sleep-deprived Harvard undergraduates are coping with the turmoil of a delayed result while going through the motions of online school.
“It’s been hard,” said Noah Harris ’22. “While I have, for the most part, been in the classes, it’s very hard to concentrate.”
President Donald J. Trump’s election in 2016 ground academics in many courses to a halt in the following days. This year, with students scattered across the country, changes to courses have varied class by class.
In Statistics 110: “Probability,” professor Joseph K. Blitzstein, who made class optional on Election Day, pushed back a homework assignment.
“In return,” Blitzstein requested in an email to students Wednesday, “if I am sleep-deprived in class tomorrow please don’t take it out on me in the Q guide.”
Talia M. Blatt ’23, who watched state returns come in from her home in Lexington, Mass. on Tuesday, was prepared for the possibility of delayed results. But following the long election night, in her 9 a.m. Chinese class, “I was just barely processing what was being asked and what was being said,” she said.
“It’s so hard to feel like any of my silly little tasks are meaningful when to me, it feels like I’m awaiting both the fate of our democracy, but also, for me personally, it’s the climate change issue that matters most,” she said. “If our planet is doomed, then it doesn’t really matter if I finish my Chinese homework, and it’s hard to convince myself that it does.”
Blatt, who worked as a fellow on U.S. Senator Edward J. Markey’s (D-Mass.) winning campaign, said there has been “a fair amount of understanding” on the part of teaching fellows and faculty.
“In a strange way, the pandemic has really primed at least my friends and classmates that I’ve spoken to,” she said. “I think the general sense about this year, and this time, as being absurd and tumultuous and frightening has prepared us for an election that is absurd, tumultuous, and frightening.”
R. Elizabeth Hoveland ’22, who has been working as a volunteer organizer in her home state of Montana, said faculty have been accommodating around the election.
In Gened 1036: “Global Feminisms,” one of Hoveland’s classes, discussion posts were delayed and lecture became a discussion space Wednesday.
“Harvard faculty and Harvard grad students have been phenomenal with accommodating students who are currently performing two rolls — one as a student and one as an activist,” she said. “And I’m very proud of at least the faculty that I’ve had, at how understanding they’ve been.”
As the race remains in flux days after Nov. 3, its results loom large for many students.
“I don’t know anyone who’s confident that we are going to 100 percent win this thing,” said Hoveland, a Biden supporter.
Harris, a Mississippi native living in Lexington, Mass., for the semester, said he is “cautiously optimistic” about Biden’s chances going forward.
“It’s very hard after last night to be optimistic because the polls were suggesting this was going to be very much an electoral college landslide, at least — if not just a reshaping of the presidential map entirely,” he said.
Speaking as results rolled in just after 1 a.m. Wednesday, Michael B. Baick ’22 said “there are two ways to think about school” while the election remains uncertain.
“The first way to think about school — the obvious one — is, I’m too stressed out to do anything about school,” he said. “The way that I’m going to try to convince myself to think about school over the next few days is the search for something resembling truth — search for a framework that I can believe in. The search for stories that can inspire me and more importantly can inspire others has become more intense than ever.”
—Staff writer Jasper G. Goodman can be reached at jasper.goodman@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @Jasper_Goodman.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Do you get tired of seeing the same old backgrounds every class? Don’t worry, you aren’t the only one. To spice up your Zoom calls, explore some new locations to Zoom from.
Widener Steps
Since the Widener Library steps seem to be the new hangout spot for those on campus, why not Zoom from there instead of your dorm room? Though it is starting to get a little chilly as winter approaches, its beauty makes up for the cold. And as an iconic campus location, it’ll give people who aren’t around a bit of a nostalgic glance at Harvard. So, zip up your jacket and haul yourself over to those steps.
Playground
Bring Zoom to the nearest playground near you. Maybe even bring your family, pets, or friends and play some socially distanced tag during those awkward 15 minutes in between classes. There’s no reason why you shouldn’t be able to relive your childhood memories, especially if you’re Zooming from home.
El Jefe's vs. Felipe’s
Settle (or spark up) the El Jefe’s vs. Felipe’s debate by showing everyone in your Ec10 class where you stand on this important question. And, no, this is definitely not a means of justification for eating out again. But, yes do get a burrito or quesadilla while you’re at it. (Use a Zoom background if you can’t access these sacred locations.)
John Harvard Statue
Forget about sitting on one of those colorful $700 chairs in the yard when you can sit on John Harvard himself. Get a nice panoramic view of the entire yard while also feeling like a true intellectual. It’ll also serve as great practice for when you decide to complete one of the Harvard traditions. (For those on campus, please do not actually try this.)
Under the Table
You swear that it’s not lecture that you dread going to; it's having to sit at the same desk and chair every. single. day. And, don’t worry, we believe you. Even the chair is starting to look a little worn out. Time to bring Zoom to, drum roll please, under the table! Repurpose your desk as a fort, and suddenly, there's a new, fresh feel to it. The best part: being at your desk, but also not really being there.
Bathtub
Unable to go outside? Not a problem. Bring Zoom (and your blankets) to the bathtub. It’ll not only be a good change in scenery, but will also keep everyone guessing where you are. Do not underestimate the power of bathtubs; it may even be just as comfortable as your bed.
The Zoom burnout is real. We all want to change up our normal backgrounds and get off of the office chairs that have been giving us back problems. Let us know if you do decide to try one of these locations, and more importantly, be sure to wear a mask and socially distance!
