News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard University is currently reviewing its philanthropic relationship with now-deceased convicted sex offender Jeffrey E. Epstein. In January, MIT released a similar fact-finding report on its relationship with Epstein. We hope that Harvard does not overlook three crucial areas in which the MIT review fell short — failure to hold administrators accountable, opacity in fundraising policies, and stalling of student and staff concerns. For this review to be useful, it should also list and investigate all current donors with sexual assault accusations and convictions.
The MIT report found that a robust relationship between Epstein and two MIT faculty members led to $850,000 in contributions to the university. While some administrators were aware of Epstein’s criminal past, they arranged verbal agreements to continue receiving funds in small, anonymous donations. Staff and students who raised their objections to Epstein’s funds and presence on campus were repeatedly dismissed. As there was no university policy on accepting donations from controversial donors, technically there was no policy violation. 

The first omission in the MIT report is that it does not hold administrators accountable. While one of the faculty members resigned and the other was placed on leave, the administrators were deemed to be “acting in good faith.” Yet the MIT report provides painstaking details of objections raised by staff at the MIT Media Lab, which received the bulk of Epstein’s funds. Media Lab staff members’ discomfort with MIT’s relationship with Epstein was clearly conveyed in meetings and via emails. In the entire cast of characters, the locus of moral leadership appears to be only with Media Lab staff.
The Media Lab faculty member who was raising funds from Epstein continued as usual, after receiving approval from his superiors, who agreed on three conditions for the Epstein donations: that they be anonymously recorded in the MIT database, accepted in small amounts (less than $5 million annually), and not publicized by Epstein. In fact, Epstein publicly boasted of coordinating large donations by others as well. Even if continuing to accept funds from Epstein was deemed “acting in good faith,” that MIT administrators allowed a violation of its own terms and conditions is negligence. Harvard’s investigation would do good to hold administrators responsible for any oversight failures.

The second omission regards missing details on university due-diligence processes to vet potential donors. The report states that no administrator or even faculty member was found guilty of violating policy, because no policy existed. Although there was a one-page MIT Gift Acceptance policy and a Gift Policy Committee, the former was silent on donations from controversial figures, and the latter was defunct. Harvard should adopt transparency in its existing fundraising needs and policies, including any quotas faculty members might need to achieve. If no policy exists, Harvard should disclose clearly its norms and modus operandi about who is expected to fundraise, how much, and under which vetting principles. Such a policy should also clearly state the consequences of being unable to fundraise. An intentional lack of principled vetting can only be read as a purposeful lowering of the bar to increase acceptable donations.
Finally, the MIT report fails to acknowledge what really made it take notice. The transition of Epstein from a prized donor to persona non grata was not because of some internal check and balance that worked. It took an external New Yorker article in September 2019 for the university to finally act, even as staff and students associated with the Media Lab regularly raised concerns. Far from inspiring an internal review, before the bad press administrators corresponded with Epstein to check his preferences, such as coordinating his attendance at a memorial ceremony out of the public eye.
Peppered throughout the MIT report are references to Epstein’s alleged donations to Harvard. At various stages when questions were raised internally, MIT administrators used Epstein’s donations to Harvard to justify his continued contributions to MIT. In June 2013, when the head of the Media Lab asked an ex-member of his advisory council (and the person who introduced him to Epstein) for advice in handling staff objections, she replied, “He’s given a tremendous amount of money to Harvard ... Good to show that list.” Such thinking only changed after external press reports began appearing in the summer of 2019.
Harvard should take this opportunity to display the leadership upon which its prestige is founded. Given this clear evidence of its status being used to launder donor reputations, Harvard must do more than conduct a redundant review of Epstein’s donations. It should also quickly and conscientiously arrive at a revised official gift policy. Harvard’s review, led by its Office of the General Counsel, should validate and act upon student and staff concerns regarding current donors accused of sexual assault and other abhorrent behavior.
True moral leadership would require a review of all problematic donors hiding in plain sight, not just the ones who are already hot potatoes. Such donors include those tied closely to Epstein at the Kennedy School to which several students and staff have been raising objections. A report that delivers anything less is just saving face.
Rebecca M. Mer, Inayat A. Sabhikhi, and Mike Yepes are graduate students and Dubin Graduate Fellows for Emerging Leaders at the Harvard Kennedy School. 
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
On April 22, the entire globe celebrated the 50th anniversary of the first Earth Day. Just as it has with everything, the coronavirus pandemic altered celebrations, and nearly 100 members of the Harvard community participated in a virtual Earth Day rally to mark the occasion.
As we live through a seemingly existential crisis, Earth Day reminds us we are living through another — the looming threat of climate change. Both crises require decisive action. This Earth Day, Harvard attempted to deliver such action by announcing its commitment to maintaining an endowment producing net-zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2050.
By aiming to achieve greenhouse gas neutrality in 30 years, the University has set its sights far too low. Though better than nothing, this action cannot be considered enough, particularly in light of peer institutions taking far bolder steps. For example, on the same day, Oxford University committed to fully divesting from fossil fuel companies and requiring proof that companies across its investment portfolio are working towards becoming carbon neutral.
Waiting until 2050 when more immediate action is clearly feasible seems timid and incremental. It is this very attitude that has led us to a situation where only increasingly drastic action can save us from the most devastating effects of the climate crisis.
In aiming for only neutrality, the University seems to indicate that it might maintain its investments in fossil fuel companies as long as other, carbon-reducing investments counteract these. However, we believe that it is repugnant that our education is being funded by companies actively destroying the environment and inciting humanitarian crises. No positive investment can atone for continuing to invest in a system that can push more than 120 million more people into poverty by 2030, and force many to choose between starvation and migration.
We appreciate that Harvard is inching in the right direction. Developing methods to measure portfolio emissions is an essential step forward. But we implore Harvard to look to some of its peer institutions and aim higher. Divestment from fossil fuel companies has always been possible, and it has now been implemented; in addition to Oxford, the University of California system, Georgetown University, and Brown University are all among the 182 educational institutions that have partially divested their holdings in companies that cause environmental harm.
Harvard can act with urgency; all of us who packed up our lives to minimize the devastating effects of the coronavirus can attest to this. We urge our University to act as decisively when it comes to confronting the climate crisis and to divest its fossil fuel holdings. One existential crisis makes another feel all the more real and urgent. The cataclysmic effects of climate change pose a global crisis of even greater proportions than the pandemic, and they demand greater action and moral leadership than what Harvard offered this Earth Day.
This staff editorial solely represents the majority view of The Crimson Editorial Board. It is the product of discussions at regular Editorial Board meetings. In order to ensure the impartiality of our journalism, Crimson editors who choose to opine and vote at these meetings are not involved in the reporting of articles on similar topics.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
If you scroll a couple panels downwards on the Bodhi Parts website, you’ll see Kelsey Chen ’22 perched atop a refrigerator in ripped jeans and the fashion brand’s newest product: a COVID-19-inspired “empathy hoodie.”
The white hoodie features an embroidered design: a blue and red anatomical heart intertwined with a jagged outline of a virus — and under it, the word “pathologize” crossed out and replaced with the word “empathize.” This hoodie’s design is Bodhi Parts’s response to the increase in anti-Asian racism following the spread of the coronavirus.
Bodhi Parts, Chen’s progressive-branded fashion start-up, originally grew from her passion for upcycling thrifted clothes. Chen would post her creations on her personal Instagram — black jeans with “tease” painted on them in lime green gothic font, and bright orange cropped shirts, among others. Last year, after receiving attention on campus for her designs, Chen decided to turn her passion into a clothing line. Her brand now has its own website and Instagram page and has grown to include a team of eight people.
Originally, Chen planned to release Spring/Summer and Fall/Winter collections for 2021. However, the coronavirus pandemic set the stage for an earlier opportunity to merge fashion and social change into a cohesive product, its first major item for sale.
“There was a lot of thought behind this design of communicating how the current virus is exposing this other virus that’s also taking over — not just people physically, but also their mentality towards Asian Americans,” says Samuel Y. Leung, a first-year Rhode Island School of Design student and co-designer of the hoodie.
“We are finding a very disgusting resurgence of a lot of yellow-peril-age rhetoric which speaks about Chinatowns as dirty places, which criticizes ‘Asian eating habits’ as disgusting and illness-inducing,” Chen says. “And we just think that it’s so important at this time to not be scapegoating, to not be pathologizing and to have some empathy towards people that are suffering.”
According to a San Francisco State University report, researchers documented a 50 percent increase in the number of news articles related to the pandemic and anti-Asian discrimination between Feb. 9 and March 7. Other reports of violent attacks on Asian Americans have emerged across the country.
Through the sale of the hoodie, the brand hopes to counter these threats. Chen believes fashion provides a uniquely visible vessel for tackling social issues. “The first thing that someone is going to see when they see me is me and the clothes that I’m wearing,” Chen says. Clothing is an integral part of “interpersonal interaction,” and constitutes a space for contesting “systems of domination, like racism.” According to Bodhi Parts, buying and wearing the empathy hoodie is one way to contest and interrupt racism.
The sale of the hoodie will also support those affected by the pandemic. The brand will donate 80 percent of its profits from the $60 hoodie to COVID-19 relief groups, including Doctors Without Borders, Futures Without Violence, Feeding America, Meals on Wheels, Wuhan Task Force, and homeless shelters in hotspot cities.
This particular intervention in the pandemic is reflective of the brand’s broader mission: On its website, Bodhi Parts defines itself as “a luxury, high-end streetwear brand that is dedicated to enacting an anticolonial future,” and, according to its Instagram page, it seeks to “unmake aesthetic and material hegemonies.”
Chen cites the dominance of Western silhouettes in mainstream fashion is one example of this regime, as reflected in the global standardization of Western business and evening attire. She points to ubiquity of the three-piece suit as well as Parisian-style dressmaking as exemplifying these aesthetic hegemonies in the modern day.
“Western business attire is a standard of any professional practice — why is that?” Chen asks.
“The fashion industry is such a site of disgusting racism and cultural appropriation,” says Chen, citing as examples white celebrities wearing dreadlocks and the fetishization of the traditional Chinese qipao dress. Particular communities that inspire fashion designs often do not enjoy the profits from their sales. Leung echoes this sentiment: “There’s so many people involved in this process that are forgotten about.”
To mitigate this exploitation, Bodhi Parts hopes to engage in “ethical consumption.” For Chen, this means choosing designs that don’t tokenize cultures, committing to rerouting some profits to communities in need, and sourcing production from a Pakistani company she says is “environmentally sustainable and socially sustainable.”
But Chen also recognizes that ethical consumption can sometimes run contrary to accessibility. Chen says the brand recognizes the challenge of working “within a capitalist market system and needing to think about the sustainability of the business practices that we’re doing, and also simultaneously having a very insurrectionary, revolutionary spirit.”
Christian P. Lansang, a law student at the University of Pennsylvania who helps with the business side of the company, believes this tension can be reconciled. “Something good about having a motivated, mission-oriented team is that we’re really willing to be super nimble with the business model of each specific drop that we do.”
The empathy hoodie’s steep $60 tag, he says, is only priced as such to provide as much immediate support as possible for relief efforts. He points to the brand’s “nostalgia crewneck,” which is priced on a sliding scale, above a base fee to cover the cost of material. The “HRVRD”-embroidered crewneck has a suggested price of $80, but allows customers to pay what they can, as long as it is above the minimum of $30.
Beyond the financial, Lansang recognizes that Bodhi Parts is unique in explicitly combining fashion with social change — and in using terms like “material and aesthetic hegemonies.” The brand’s website features a “Manifesto” page, which outlines ten demands, above a graffitied photo of Michelangelo’s David. One demand states: “We will murder a Michelangelo. We will make a Frankenstein from it. We will graffiti it and then we will give the finger.”
Scrolling through the page feels like happening upon some kind of performance art. Chen explains that at the outset, “the creation of this brand was very much a performative thing for me. I wanted to make a statement.”
Despite the highly academic language of the brand’s mission, Lansang hopes it will still be accessible and attractive to consumers. “Language that we’ve deliberately chosen to use on the website can hopefully be articulated and communicated in a way that’s not speaking from an ivory tower and comes out in our work — that we actually do care about the people that we write about, and that we design clothes that are inspired by these communities,” he says.
Chen hopes that the empathy hoodie will provide crucial insights about the brand’s reach and consumer base. “We think that this current drop will be a good gauge for interest as well as help us reorient ourselves in terms of what we want to produce, and when we want to produce, and how much we want to produce. And I think that will really impact where we want to take this brand in the future.”
As of a week after the empathy hoodie’s release, the brand is hopeful. “It’s always tricky to get sales, but given where we are and where we started, we’re very happy with the response that we’ve seen so far,” says Lansang.
For Chen, the social theory language in the brand’s mission comes from her own creative process. “It made a lot of sense for me to be using language that rendered this project as a whole as an act of poiesis for myself,” she says.
Tentatively, the brand hopes to release an Asian-American-inspired collection in the future, although none of the designs have been finalized. They’re thinking about rerouting some profits from that collection to anti-gentrification and arts efforts in Boston and San Francisco’s Chinatowns. At the same time, “I do want to note that we don’t want this just to be an Asian brand that is dedicated towards an Asian audience,” Lansang says.
Chen admits it is difficult to represent culture in her designs while avoiding the appropriation the brand protests against. “I’m not sure if there is a good answer or if there’s ever going to be a good answer to how I can produce Asian American things without self-Orientalizing, because I think that there is something about the subject position of being Asian American that will make every creative production, everything that I make subject to a certain kind of Orientalism when subjected to the white gaze.” One solution she is considering is placing traditionally Asian motifs in new spaces, such as designing qipao-inspired evening wear to challenge the dominance of Western evening wear.
The brand’s name, Bodhi Parts, comes from a Chinese translation of a Sanskrit word meaning “enlightenment,” a concept central to the Buddhist tradition. “I definitely grew up in a cultural Buddhist background,” Chen says. “And one of the things that my parents constantly said to me that I loved was that breaking something would release you from a future trauma.”
— Magazine writer Maliya V. Ellis can be reached at maliya.ellis@thecrimson.com.
Sections
I hold the frail, ringed fingers of the gray-haired woman to the left to me; my other hand sweats in the warm grasp of the person to my right. We smile at each other sheepishly, waiting for the klezmer to start.
As the crowd forms a half-hearted circle, I study the room: a square dancing skirt worn for the occasion; a man with an arched back clutching the hand of a college student with shorn hair; a plethora of name tags scrawled with they/them pronouns; my friend Saul speaking, armed with a semester’s worth of Yiddish, to the person on his left. At the sound of the clarinet, we pick up our feet, heading to the right. We stumble over our socked toes as we are instructed to shuffle and sidestep. In the corner, two flannel-wearing men concentrate on their accordion and clarinet, the klezmer seeping into the walls of the Boston Workers Circle.
My foray into Yiddish folk dance began on a rainy November night. Saul and I missed the first 66 Bus and arrived late; I probably had to be convinced to go, worn out on a Thursday and wary of the trek to Brookline. We arrived in the warmth of the Workers Circle, which has the feel of a renovated rec center: yellow hardwood, fresh paint, walls papered with drawings by the afterschool kids. A red pennant hung on the wall, a vestige of the Circle’s heyday as the center for Jewish life in Boston in the early 20th century. Other attendees began to file in, leaving their dripping raincoats by the door, inking name tags, introducing themselves. Some were elder members of the community, mainstays of the Circle; others were recently graduated college students who’d found out about the Circle from its “raucous & radical” Purim party, Gragger.
Saul and I had come to the class on the recommendation of our Yiddish professor, who arrived armed with dance shoes and shalom aleichems for many in the room. I felt shy among this crowd, but Saul, ever-gregarious, began to strike up a conversation with an elderly classmate about her family’s Communist roots. The room quieted as Adah Hetko, a local klezmer and Yiddishist, herded us together. In choreography derived from leftover traditions, she guided us in our first freylekh, a simple circle dance. My shyness loosened; I fell in line with the music. Each of us carried the other, leading and following in a chain. Around 10 p.m., sweat breaking on my brow and cheeks pained from smiling, the class ended. Saul and I stumbled out into the damp night laughing, giddy from endorphins.
***
I’ve long been a proponent of bedroom dancing. It’s easy: Play music as loud as you can and start jumping, flinging your limbs outward. I began this practice in middle school, when I’d come home from sixth grade and blast the Yeah Yeah Yeahs on my CD player, expelling my 11-year-old angst alongside Karen O’s shrieks.
At 11, I spent a lot of time seeing myself through the eyes of others; this is the nature of tween insecurity. Bedroom dancing is designed to get you out of your head and into your body. This notion — that moving your body is a good way to release anxiety — might be obvious to athletes or, I suppose, people who have exercised more than once. I do not count myself among those people. But I get the sense that there are rules to sports and to exercise at large: ways to do it right and ways to do it wrong, ways to improve. Such standards do not exist in bedroom dancing. The only rule is to feel good while doing it.
Bedroom dancing has one shortcoming: You dance alone. This can be good. You don’t dance like nobody’s watching; rather, you dance and nobody’s watching. For many years, I had no reason to dance with an audience. Then, seventh grade arrived, and I was compelled toward another variety of Jewish dance floor: that of the Bar Mitzvah. This was a terrifying prospect for 12-year-old me, who danced comfortably in her bedroom precisely because it was beyond the gaze of her peers. Suddenly my Yeah Yeah Yeahs dance moves were transplanted to the soundtrack of Macklemore and Lupe Fiasco, and I was wildly uncomfortable: Thrashing and jumping does not a cool girl make.
Yet by the time I arrived at college, I was a dancing evangelist, eager to spread the word. In high school, I realized that among friends, I wasn’t so self-conscious. Dancing comes easy when you’re with those you feel comfortable around — I ask only for a group of friends eager to look ridiculous. Among the strangers at the Workers Circle, I was out of my element.
Dancing requires a level of surrender. I, at least, cannot account for what my body will do or how it will appear: whether I will look graceful or goofy, deliberate or clumsy. To dance with other people guarantees openness, some amount of trust. This openness comes from giving yourself up to the music, to the room, to the inherent fun of moving your body. When we are less self-conscious, we connect with others.
At the Workers Circle, I surrendered myself to dancing. By doing so, I hoped the room would be closer for it — and it was. Each person offered themselves as they were, with weak knees and bad rhythm and uncooperative limbs. By the last class, we hadn’t improved much as dancers, but all self-consciousness had dissolved.
This closeness and community has significance. If we don’t dance in the tradition of Yiddish folk, if we don’t enliven it with our poorly coordinated feet and animated ‘shining,’ the tradition may perish. And the reason we carry it on is the same quality that saves it: this feeling of closeness, of community, of remembrance, recalling the joy our dancing-forebearers might have felt in the shtetl, dancing the same dance.
***
On a recent Friday evening, in the thick of social isolation, I found myself in an utterly 2020 community: a Minecraft concert, titled Square Garden, held by the electronic duo 100 gecs. They’d created an elaborate castle-garden landscape to stage the virtual concert, whose headliners included Kero Kero Bonito and Charli XCX. At the center of this moonlit fortress sat a virtual stage, accompanied by a virtual mosh pit, where pixelated avatars collided in an attempt to simulate moshing. You might think moshing, with its intense proximity, would be the ultimate form of togetherness in dance. In a mosh pit, one embraces the sweat and the elbows of a crowd, allowing strangers to propel them toward other strangers. The downside of this, though, is often a male-dominated context where those with the most body mass reign.
On that Friday night, I imagine I danced in a way that trumped moshing in terms of intensity, vulnerability, and — dare I say it — sheer thrill. On a Zoom call with three of my friends, we watched the concert. And we danced. To an observer, each of us would have appeared to jump silently, awkwardly, alone in our rooms. But in this strange virtual realm, we sacrificed the solitary comfort of bedroom dancing, finding something closer.
—Staff writer Olivia G. Oldham can be reached at olivia.oldham@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter at @allpalaver. This is the second installment of “Recess,” her column about play.
Sections
“What was it like to be a 19-year-old, and on a Tuesday morning, you get told: ‘Hey, by Sunday at five, you got to move out — everything. All your stuff has to be out. Goodbye!’” History Department lecturer Zachary B. Nowak asks. As a professor, he can only imagine. But his students have stories to tell, and Nowak wants to preserve them.
On April 7, Nowak created “A Coronavirus Diary,” a journaling project that aims to record and archive how the COVID-19 pandemic affects Harvard students. When Nowak first sent out a Google Form to his history students, he hoped to get a modest 30 sign-ups. But the form soon spread. Eventually more than 200 students signed up (and one staff member, too). Nowak emails out biweekly prompts for students to mull over, jotting down their experiences with everything from campus eviction to Zoom classes.
Nowak hopes to print student entries on archival cotton paper and store them in the Harvard Archives for subsequent generations of students and historians to reference. He himself plans to use select student responses in a book he is currently working on with the working title “A People’s History of Harvard College.” His final chapter, entitled “Commencement,” chronicles today’s Harvard affiliates during this unprecedented pandemic.
The Coronavirus Diary launch was partly inspired by Nowak’s struggle to find diverse student perspectives in Harvard’s historical tomes after countless sweeps of the archives. He proposes a hypothetical assignment, only half-joking: “I can give you two weeks of historical instruction. We can go to Houghton [Library], and you can hole up in Houghton for six months, and you could write a passable biography of Teddy Roosevelt.”
“It is not difficult to write the biographies of elite white men,” Nowak continues. “But if I say, ‘now write me a biography of Teddy Roosevelt’s butler.’ What was his [experience] being at Harvard?” Documenting the students’ point of view expands the scope of the archived perspectives and fills gaps in the University’s living history.
Sophie C. DiCara ’20, who has taken classes with Nowak in the past, is now participating in and helping to publicize his project. As a history concentrator, she has personal experience with the limitations of traditional resources.
“The documentation of historical events is often really unbalanced, so archives contain lots of silences. Most archives tell you a lot about the people in power and comparatively less about other groups,” DiCara says. She hopes these diary entries will allow future historians to draw from students’ perspectives, not just administrators’. She plans to donate her own diary to the archives with a time hold of several decades so that it can only be viewed after her public career is over in order to produce more honest records.
In the Microsoft Word document where she types her entries, DiCara reflects on her last days with friends on campus and the untimely end to her senior year. Beyond her academic interest in contributing to the archives, journaling has provided her with an outlet to work through these personal experiences.
“You expect to have eight to ten weeks of senior spring to…go through these series of rituals, in which you say bye to Harvard and Harvard says bye to you,” she says, describing how jarring it was to have her time on campus cut short. “I think writing has helped me process it, has helped me say goodbye.”
Other participants’ entries are more lighthearted. Francesca M. Hess ’20 fills her journal with paintings, Polaroids, and other knickknacks, including the invitation to commencement that arrived in the mail the same day she arrived back home. She frequently deviates from the prompts to record recipes she enjoys or conversations with her parents over dinner.
“I talk about all sorts of silly things,” she says. “I think there’s something quirky and enjoyable about that that I would love to add, that sometimes get silenced from the archives because people don't think it’s ‘important.’”
Nowak admits that diaries, intimate and partial by nature, aren’t authoritative. Instead, they’re individual pieces that scholars can use in order to more accurately reconstruct historical puzzles. Diaries can offer a counterpoint to many histories where student perspectives are overlooked and “the titles of the chapters are the names of Harvard presidents.”
“Take the diary of someone who went back home to their luxurious Manhattan apartment, and then the diary of a student who is sleeping on her mother’s couch. If you can put those two diaries next to each other, you can triangulate and get a pretty decent idea of what the broad variance of Harvard students was,” Nowak adds.
Nowak knows that even without his prompts, students will keep on writing. His worry was never that students wouldn’t record their pandemic experiences, but rather that the information would be ephemeral and inaccessible — locked up in Snapchats, private Facebook posts, and long-since-deactivated school email inboxes. Instead, the Coronavirus Diary centralizes, publicizes, and archives stories that otherwise might not be heard.
— Magazine writer Simon J. Levien can be reached at simon.levien@thecrimson.com. Follow him on twitter @simonjlevien.
— Magazine writer Sophia S. Liang can be reached at sophia.liang@thecrimson.com.
Sections
First, I want to come clean: My initial intent in writing this photo essay was selfish. I knew that Harvard held a scattering of libraries around Cambridge and Boston; I knew that these libraries have old, strange, beautiful, and surprising things in them. A photo essay seemed like a good excuse to see them, and under that pretext, I pitched this project to my editors. They kicked it to the mag, but still – an excuse is an excuse. My scheme afoot, I asked the librarians at each collection to select a favorite or most under-appreciated piece from their stores. This was a convenient way to avoid having to do any research or curatorial work of my own; instead, I could profit from the knowledge and expertise of others. In essence, I had created for myself a private tour of the Harvard libraries.
But as soon as I started reporting the “piece,” I learned that my strategizing was unnecessary. Each librarian I talked to was delighted to show off their collection. Each emphasized their availability to all Harvard affiliates and often to the general public, not only for help with research on specific topics but also simply to show off the kinds of works I was seeing for their own sake. Another thing I learned — because I heard it at every collection — is that asking a librarian to pick a favorite piece is like asking a parent to pick a favorite child. Often, rather than choosing one, they presented me with several options. Because of the (admittedly self-imposed) rules governing this essay, I made them pick a single one. But that means that there are many more strange and wonderful items still buried in the stacks than I could present here. I would encourage anyone who can to go to the libraries in person at some point and ask to see them.
Which brings up one final note: I realize it might seem strange to publish this piece about the Harvard libraries, for which I did the interviewing in the Before Times, now that in-person encounters like the ones described here belong to the past and (we hope) near future. Libraries must be far from most people’s minds at the moment. In another sense, though, I’d like to suggest that this is a perfect moment to explore their hidden treasures. Libraries have documented a continuously and unpredictably changing world for centuries. They have been constant sources of knowledge, beauty, and historical continuity across moments of crisis and rupture. So, until you can visit them in person, please accept this virtual tour of some treasures from the Harvard libraries; and from the past, take some enjoyment for the present and some hope for the future.
Harvard-Yenching Library: Ehon Don Kihote, Serizawa Keisuke, 1936. 
Presented by Kuniko Yamada McVey
Kuniko Yamada McVey, librarian for the Japanese collection at the Harvard-Yenching Library, chose to present a picture-book version of Don Quixote created in Japan by the prominent Japanese artisan Keisuke Serizawa in 1936. Serizawa’s illustration style was based on traditional Japanese techniques – creating stencils for his images and then coloring them in free-hand. In this typically modern work, integrating old techniques and stories from around the globe with new methods and themes, it seems fitting that “Don Kihote” jousts with water wheels instead of with windmills.
The history of the work itself is also uniquely cross-cultural. In the 1930s, the curator of oriental art at the Fogg museum invited Yanagi Soetsu, the father of the Japanese arts and crafts movement, to a conference at Harvard. There, he met a wealthy collector of Don Quixote works who asked him to commision a Japanese arts-and-crafts Don Quixote. Back in Japan, Soetsu found Serizawa through a mutual acquaintance and commissioned the work. This history is part of the reason why Yamada McVey chose to feature the piece – “because of this special connection to Harvard,” she said. “Without these interesting interactions of people at that time, 1929, this wouldn’'t happen. So this is a very special result of a nice human touch.”
Fung Library: Soviet model airplane
Presented by Svetlana Rukhelman
Svetlana Rukhelman, the librarian for the Davis Center Collection at the Fung Library, presented a Soviet model airplane of the Tupolev Tu-144, a supersonic jet designed to compete with the Franco-British Concorde. “The most fascinating thing about this plane is that it’s the embodiment of the Cold War and the focus of a less well-known but equally fascinating space race,” Rukhelman said. From the registration number printed on the plane’s side, SSSR-68001, we can tell that this is a model of the first working prototype of the plane. Its real-world counterpart was destroyed in 1985; all Tupolev Tu-144s were decommissioned in 1999.
The model came into the library’s collections when it was donated in the 2018 by Soviet literature scholar John Garrard, who had found it while doing research in the Soviet Union. Rukhelman said that even aside from the history of the plane it models, the history of the model itself tells a complex story of the Cold War era. “It's a great testament to both the tensions between East and West that define the Cold War era and also the moments of cooperation as when someone from the USSR was able to give these to the American scholar who was eventually able to pass them on to a library in the US.”
Loeb Music Library: “William Tell” manuscript
Presented by Sandi-Jo Malmon
Sandi-Jo Malmon, the librarian for collection development at the Loeb Music Library, presented one of Gioachino Rossini’s original manuscripts of one of his most enduring operas, “William Tell.” Strangely, the manuscript is missing the most famous part of this opera: the overture, familiar from its ubiquitous borrowings, for example the opening theme of the Lone Ranger and in the 1948 Looney Tunes classic, “Bugs Bunny Rides Again.”
Malmon said the missing overture was one of the principal reasons why the library acquired the document. “We thought it was interesting because the overture was missing, actually,” she said. “Often all you get is the overture. That’s what you see all the time. So we thought this was fascinating.” The manuscript’s history before it arrived at Harvard is also striking: From the nameplate inside the cover, we can tell it belonged at one point to the Italian bass virtuoso Domenico C. M. Dragonetti.
Gutman Library: “The Freedman’s Spelling Book” and “Friends in the City”
Presented by Carla Lillvik
Carla Lillvik, a special collections and research librarian at the Gutman Library, chose to present two works from her collections in dialogue. The first, “The Freedman’s Spelling Book,” was a reading manual designed in Boston in 1865 to be sent to the south to teach formerly enslaved people how to read and write. “This is a representation of when people were freed and were allowed to read in the south and efforts to teach them to read,” Lillvik said. In addition to teaching spelling, the book tried to transmit lessons about evangelical Christian morality. “This is an evangelical society trying to teach values and at the same time trying to teach reading,” she said. “You have people from the outside of a community designing a textbook to be sent to a community without real knowledge of that community, with certain goals in mind.”
The second book, “Friends in the City,” is a childrens’ reader published by the Detroit City Schools district in 1966 for its own students. “The idea was for children to see themselves in the readers,” Lillvik said. “You have people from a community designing a textbook for their own community, with understanding who their community is.” In this reader, the example sentences deliberately feature children and families from the large variety of different backgrounds that made up the school district. By putting the two readers in dialogue, Lillvik said, she sees “a wonderful, amazing, complex journey.”
Harvard Fine Arts Library: “Memory and Landscape: Unveiling the Historic Truths of Chile, 1973 to 1990.”
Presented by Jessica Evans Brady
Jessica Evans Brady, research collections librarian at the Harvard Fine Arts Library, presented an art book entitled “Memory and Landscape: Unveiling the Historic Truths of Chile, 1973 to 1990.” The book was created by María Verónica San Martín, a Chilean artist currently living and working in New York. It documents some of the human rights abuses and terrors of Chile’s military government under the rule of Augusto Pinochet. It’s an example of how San Martín conceives of the “the artist’s book as a memory site,” Evans Brady said.
The first part of the book is a chronology of events under the Pinochet regime and has a list of people who disappeared or were executed during that time. For the second part, San Martín included illustrations of the events and a series of portraits of the disappeared. “She uses a silk screening process with charcoal powder, and it’s really striking how that process is reminiscent of the idea of disappearing,” Evans Brady said. “The image itself sort of seems to be disappearing from the page. It’s visually powerful.”
Andover-Harvard Theological Library: Altarpiece Triptych
Presented by Nell K. Carlson
Nell K. Carlson, the curator of historical collections at the Andover-Harvard Theological Library, presented an altarpiece triptych portraying the Bible story of Veronica’s Veil, in which the image of Jesus’s face remains imprinted on the cloth a woman uses to wipe it. The altarpiece was found in the 17th century in Germany on the battlefield of the second battle of Breitenfeld. Because the prayer known as the Lord’s Supper is written on the altarpiece in Latin, Carlson said she and her colleagues think it was used to give Catholic mass on the battlefield.
The altarpiece is interesting to Carlson in large part because of how much of its story is unknown. After being found on the battlefield, it came into the possession of a Catholic chaplain, then a Swedish supply master, then a Protestant chaplain, and then finally ended up in a church in Dahlewitz, Germany. “And from then to now we have no idea what happened to it and how it got here, or even who donated it,” Carlson said. An anonymous “friend of the library” lent it to the Divinity School Dean’s office in 1991. “This is what we call a research opportunity,” Carlson said. “We hope that once people see it, the little tidbits that we do have are enough to pique interest and to have further examination of the actual piece.”
Frances Loeb Library: Original Drawing of Sillon BKF Chair
Presented by Ines Zalduendo
Ines Zalduendo, the special collections archivist at the Frances Loeb Library, presented the only known drawing of the Sillon BKF (sometimes known in English as the Butterfly Chair), the chair that became one of the 20th century’s most recognizable design icons. “I like to show this because it’s sort of paradigmatic of the modern object,” Zalduendo said. “Everyone can recognize it; on the other hand, nobody knows who designed it, where it was designed, or when it was designed.”
The Argentinian designers Antonio Bonet, Juan Kurchan, and Jorge Ferrari Hardoy designed the Sillon BKF in 1939 in Argentina. It consists of two simple parts: a continuous metal rod for the frame, sketched in green in the drawing, and a leather sling for the seat. The designers hired a saddle designer to make the prototype of the sling – a decision which, in Argentina, “makes a lot of sense,” Zalduendo said. “It’s a very local design that later gets reproduced and distributed throughout the world.” Zalduendo said Urban Outfitters recently produced the latest iteration of the chair. This drawing shows the very beginning — a “magical moment,” Zalduendo said. “This is showing that first moment of preliminary understanding of what the chair was going to look like.”
Baker Library: Ansel Adams Photographs
Presented by Jennifer Quick
Jennifer Quick, a research curator for the special collections at the Baker Library, presented photographs taken by Ansel Adams as part of his consulting work for Polaroid. Adams worked with Polaroid for 36 years, testing camera and film prototypes. The Baker Library acquired these photos as part of the Polaroid Corporate Archives.
Adams took the self-portrait in color in the 1970s. Quick said this picture stands out among Adams’s work. “This was an interesting project for him because he wasn’t a color photographer and he never worked in color,” she said. The photo of the dancing doll dates from the 1950s, when Adams was experimenting with black and white film. “He was looking at how well it registered subtle grays, blacks, whites,” Quick said. “That was really important to him. He was well known as a black and white photographer who cared a lot about print quality.” Adams jokingly framed the photo as a Valentine’s Day card to a researcher at Polaroid, Meroe Morse.
Harvard Law School Library: Copy of the Magna Carta, 1298
Presented by Karen Beck
Karen Beck, the manager for historical and special collections at the Harvard Law School Library, presented a copy of the Magna Carta from 1298. The Magna Carta is a landmark document in the history of Western constitutionalism; it established the authority of the law over all English people, including the King, and the rights to justice and fair trial.
This copy is an abridged version, written in English rather than in Latin. It was owned by a town’s head law-enforcement figure, the sheriff. “It’s designed to be taken into the town square so the sheriff could read it aloud four times a year so people would know their rights,” Beck said. One of this version’s particularities is that it shows signs of use: creases from being rolled and unrolled, and marks from the inclement English weather. For that reason, Beck said, it stands out among the library’s other copies of the Magna Carta. “This one I love in particular, because it is so humble in a way,” she said. “You could see how a lawyer used it or see how the sheriff took it out in the rain. That’s why this one is particularly meaningful.”
Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics: Notebooks by Étienne Léopold Trouvelot
Presented by Daina Bouqin
Daina Bouquin, the head librarian at the Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics, presented a set of notebooks by the French astronomer Étienne Léopold Trouvelot. The notebooks were discovered by accident during an ongoing project to digitize the notebooks of women astronomers who were at Harvard during the mid-19th and early 20th centuries. Bouquin said that Trouvelot was a man of many interests: He was also an amateur entomologist and introduced gypsy moths to America. “So he’s the person we can thank for the gypsy moth infestation, which is pretty fun. But more importantly, probably in this context, is that he was a pretty brilliant astronomer.”
That brilliance is manifest in his vivid sketches of astronomical objects and phenomena like solar flares, moons, planets, comets, and sunspots. Bouquin said the sketches serve as a valuable reminder both that the process of scientific observation involves interpretation and that aesthetic interpretation is of scientific value. “Sometimes the more you look, it’s really an artist’s interpretation of what’s going on. That’s not to say it’s not true. It’s absolutely true,” she said. “The stuff that people are doing now with our modern telescopes, that’s science. But in 150 years, it’s going to be the equivalent of this. I don’t think people remember that often enough,” she added.
Correction: May 12, 2020
A previous version of this article incorrectly stated that Svetlana Rukhelman is a library and special collections assistant. In fact, she is a librarian.
Correction: May 12, 2020
A previous version of this article incorrectly stated that John Garrard donated a Soviet model airplane in the 1970s. In fact, he acquired the airplane in the 1970s and donated it in 2018.
Correction: May 23, 2020
A previous version of this article incorrectly quoted Jessica Evans Brady as discussing "“the artist’s book as a memory fight." In fact, she discussed “the artist’s book as a memory site."
— Staff writer Oliver L. Riskin-Kutz can be reached at oliver.riskin-kutz@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @OLRiskinKutz
Sections
Two days after the U.S. reported its first death from COVID-19 but weeks before it issued mandatory stay-at-home orders and shut down schools, Dr. Vivian G. Shaw, a Harvard College Fellow in the University’s sociology department, tweeted, “I’m starting a new project documenting xenophobia and racism related to coronavirus. If you have stories, perspectives, or other info to share please feel free to send to me... Planning to expand this into an interview-based project at a later date.”
The tweet garnered hundreds of retweets and likes, and Shaw received an influx of personal anecdotes and potential leads for her research. Soon she realized that the scope of the project had expanded beyond her alone. “If I wanted to research this phenomenon well, I would need to bring on more people,” Shaw says.
Now, the AAPI COVID-19 Project, housed at Harvard’s Department of Sociology, comprises a team of eight researchers from multiple universities. Under Shaw’s leadership, they seek to investigate how COVID-19 — as both a virus and a social construction — is impacting Asian, Asian American, and Pacific Islander (AAPI) individuals and communities.
After the project team came the project infrastructure. The “architecture” of the project, according to Shaw, focuses on six main areas: labor and the economy, community-based organizations, health, education, caregiving and family, and online space — the last category inspired by a story she received about an Asian man on a gay dating website being referred to as “coronavirus.”
Anecdotes about people experiencing or observing racism drove Shaw to pursue the project. “I was also hearing stories about people worrying about their children,” she says. “[People worried] about how the pandemic was going to increase the risk of their children experiencing racism and xenophobia in very direct ways.”
These stories were not necessarily surprising to her — she has extensive experience, she says, “looking at social movements and racial politics after disasters.” At the conception of the AAPI COVID-19 Project, Shaw was in the process of developing a book manuscript from her dissertation, “Post-disaster Citizenship: The Politics of Race, Belonging, and Activism after Fukushima.” Based on ethnographic fieldwork, her dissertation examines the simultaneous rise of hate speech and activism after the 2011 nuclear disaster.
“Hate speech is a very extreme form of discrimination — not something that you would consider ‘everyday,’” Shaw says. Its visibility inspires action, often in the form of activism.
But Shaw is also interested in a larger, overarching question: “How is racism structural?” she asks.
“How is it embedded in how they can access healthcare, how they can vote, different types of legal ramifications?” she says. “That sort of stuff is maybe less exciting than hate speech, but it’s still there.”
Shaw found that galvanizing people to view hate speech as a symptom of ongoing, structural, and less sensationalized inequality was a significant challenge for post-Fukushima activism. “What you see happening is activists who are coming from relatively privileged backgrounds — maybe they’re Japanese, they’re male, they’re straight, they’re cis men — becoming more aware about inequality because they’re experiencing this insecurity more directly,” she says.
Shaw brings up the view, popular in the media, that the pandemic is an “equalizer.” But this crisis, she says, cannot be labeled so simply: COVID-19 has created a dynamic where privileged activists must reckon with “issues that people who have been living within this kind of marginalized status have known for a long time,” she says. Now, “they have to come together and figure out how to negotiate their different tools or different frameworks.”
Thus emerges a question central to Shaw’s interrogation of Fukushima, and, now, COVID-19: “How do communities deal with a problem that becomes more visible in a specific moment when that problem has been something that has been going on for a long time?”
While the social consequences of COVID-19 appear novel, their origins are all too familiar. “We're connecting existing and old problems to the current crisis,” Shaw says.
The AAPI COVID-19 Project aims to illuminate some of these “old problems” that “aren’t getting covered as much,” Shaw notes, like stories of shuttering Chinese restaurants, South Asians in the gig economy losing business, undocumented Asian immigrants losing access to healthcare.
Another such problem, less visible in mainstream coverage of this crisis — or any crisis — is the gendered component to hate speech, racism, and xenophobia. Much of Shaw’s past work on crisis activism revolves around how gender shapes a community’s vulnerability and social response to disaster — a phenomenon that undeniably manifests itself through COVID-19.
“For instance, a lot of care workers are women,” Shaw notes. “We’re looking at the gendered aspects of this pandemic — things like domestic violence, things like the burden of care, that is all gendered.”
Moreover, Shaw illuminates the necessity of intersectionality in community activism. “Oftentimes, the different types of vulnerabilities that Asian American women experience get sidelined and overlooked because there is a lack of intersectional analysis within the community,” she says. “I think in general many communities suffer from not necessarily having that sort of vocabulary or consensus about the importance of thinking intersectionally.”
While Shaw doesn’t “claim to have an answer” to the question of how communities should go forward, she does recognize the role that education can serve. It should be “something beyond just peer reviewed journal articles” inaccessible to the vast majority of such communities.
“If academics want to be part of the solution, we need to think about how to translate our work in ways that are understandable and also engaging for different audiences,” she adds.
Instead, education might look something like “Asian American Feminist Antibodies: Care in the Time of Coronavirus,” a zine that Shaw helped to edit. Published by the Asian American Feminist Collective, the zine includes essays and art that speak to the varied experiences of AAPI womanhood during the outbreak, as well as a section for community resources. Its authors highlight the intersections of violence exacerbated by COVID-19, from incarceration to disability activism; at the same time, Shaw says that it is most fundamentally a project of “revolutionary love and care.”
According to its introduction, co-authored by Shaw, the zine orients itself not toward the present but toward alternate futures. Intersectional crisis activism, for this zine, means the creation of “interdependent communities of resistance.”
— Magazine writer Elyse D. Pham can be reached at elyse.pham@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @elysepham.
— Magazine writer Kevin Lin can be reached at kevin.lin@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @kevinlin0903.
Sections
I am sitting in my childhood bedroom and looking up at the Pforzheimer belltower. Being sent away from campus in March was, perhaps, an outsized version of being quadded for the entire student body. Google Maps now tells me that the walk to Widener will take me an extra 70 hours, as opposed to the bonus 15 minutes from Pfoho that made my freshman year self shudder. As I sit at my desk, peppered with remnants of high school chemistry tests and college tours of yore, I nearly choke up at the sight of a pixelated Quad Grille.
I presume that this is precisely the nostalgic reaction that a group of tutors and students in Pforzheimer sought to create when they set out to build a scale replica of their house on a Minecraft server — affectionately dubbed “Minecrapft.” Elaine Kristant, a resident tutor in the house, recalls that the idea for the project began at a dining hall table during the madness of those last few days on campus.
“We were just talking about how people are going to stay connected,” she remembers, “and we just happened to be sitting with students that night that really liked playing video games… and we just mentioned, everyone should find a certain video game that they can play together.” Amidst the pandemic, Minecraft quickly became the group’s game of choice. As Kristant points out, “[it's] sort of the comfort food equivalent for video games.”
The project took off once everyone had departed campus and was looking for something to keep them connected to what Francisco Matos ’20, in an email, calls his “wonderful Pfoho pfamily.” Matos, along with Kristant and others, led the charge of students and tutors who spent, as Matos describes, “the next three weeks building the house, every day and night.” The endeavor required “over 10,000 blocks of brick to construct.” They completed the project entirely in the game’s ‘survival mode,’ which entailed collecting all the materials “by hand” — virtually mining, chopping down trees, and the like.
When the project kicked off, Erik Nook, a sixth year clinical psychology Ph.D. student and a tutor in the house, was busy writing his dissertation from the same floor of Pfoho that once bustled with student activity — a loss he called a “a major adjustment.” “Once I submitted,” he says, “I just spent a lot of time building because it was really fun. It was a nice decompression.” Matos echoes Nook’s sentiment that the game offered respite from the anxiety of the current moment, writing that the project “has personally helped me overcome tons of stress and keep in touch with a lot of my friends from Pfoho.”
In order to best simulate the spaces that house so many memories for Pfoho residents, Kristant took charge of making the replica as accurate as possible. She describes the process of pinpointing the house’s scale as a “mix of using the floorplans we have, Google Maps, and just some creativity.” The result is impressive: Not only did they build the large common spaces, like the Junior Common Room and the dining hall, with precision, but they also constructed all the student rooms — spanning three buildings and five floors — with near exact dimensions.
The Minecrapft team saw Housing Day as their deadline to complete the house. “We were really investing our time up until Housing Day,” Nook explains. By April 10, when freshmen received their housing assignments via ‘Zoom storming’, the house was ready for visitors.
That evening, Pfoho Faculty Deans John R. Durant and Anne Harrington ’82, who would normally preside over an in-person tour of the house, were able to lead first-years on a virtual tour through the halls of Minecrapft.
“We actually had a lot of people log on to watch the virtual tour which was very cool,” Kristant says.
The Minecraft world, composed of rough, earth-toned, 3D blocks, only allows for highly stylized recreations of real world spaces. However, as Nook leads me around the house, his tour reminds me that the majority of memory is composed of fuzzy recollections, not of moments as they precisely were. Night has fallen in the virtual quad as we walk through the memorable Pforzheimer gates, and I vividly remember a December night my freshman year, shivering underneath those arches — having been ejected from the Igloo in an outfit completely inappropriate for a bitterly cold Cambridge night. As we enter the Quad Grille, I recall the sigh which marked the futility of my mozz stick order as I ran to catch the quad shuttle back to my river home.
Creating these sorts of recollections for students is what Nook says has made the project so rewarding. “It really warms my heart when I just hear the connection and recognition in student’s voices when I show them this,” he says. “I just get the sense it brings back a lot of happy memories for them.”
I want to get an overhead screenshot of the house, and Nook tells me this will be best accomplished by harvesting enough wood to build a bird’s eye podium. As we walk to chop our wood, we encounter a few monsters and multiple sheep, no doubt abnormal April afternoon occurrences in the Radcliffe Quadrangle. After building and ascending our podium, it begins to rain profusely in our virtual world, obscuring the house from our view. We chat for a few minutes about the intricacies of defending a dissertation, but the cyber rain will not let up and virtual night time is closing in on us again. I log off, content with the moody aesthetic of the pictures I did capture.
Thirty minutes later I receive an email from Nook, containing an attachment with ‘daytime,’ rainless, pictures of the house. This community spirit — waiting for a virtual downpour to let up in support of someone else’s work — it seems, is exactly what endeavors like Minecrapft can help recreate when we are all flung from the spaces where camaraderie might come more naturally.
— Magazine writer Olivia E. Gopnik-Parker can be reached at olivia.gopnik@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @GopnikParker.
Sections
“There’s an interesting range of accusations that I’m both a Communist — that might be most common — but also a Fascist, a Nazi, and, in a recent email, [a member of the] KKK,” recounts Elizabeth Bartholet, a Harvard Law School professor and the director of the Law School’s Child Advocacy Program. The comments are a part of the tidal wave of impassioned responses she received regarding her recent article published in the Arizona Law Review calling for more strict regulations on homeschooling.
Although many responses have been earnest complaints from students who had positive experiences with homeschooling, others write that they “hope I die an early but prolonged and torturous death,” she says. “The expressions of racism, sexism, homophobia, and ageism are constant in these emails.”
Her original article claims that the lack of regulation on homeschooling poses a danger to children, because it risks depriving them of an adequate education, exposure to a diverse array of ideas, and protection from potential child abuse. In the 80-page document, she writes that only ten states require minimum education levels for homeschooling instructors, and no states require background checks for past child abuse.
Above all, she says she fears for the children taken out of public schooling due to their parents’ religious beliefs, often those of conservative Christianity. Estimates place the fraction of parents who homeschool for religious reasons from “over half to 90 percent,” she writes. In the article, she argues that children in these situations lack exposure to beliefs and ideas beyond those held by their parents; she is particularly concerned about the children of homeschoolers who “question science and promote female subservience and white supremacy.”
“[Children] have a right to an education that provides them with access to a variety of viewpoints and attitudes, so that when they grow up, they have some genuine autonomy in terms of making their own choices about religion, culture, and employment,” Bartholet says. “Having children exposed to fundamental values in our society, including tolerance for other peoples’ views, is important.”
Bartholet ultimately calls for a “presumptive ban” on homeschooling throughout America, one in which parents who choose to homeschool must prove they are capable of providing an adequate education in a safe environment.
In response to her article, many critics have taken to virtual message boards and online publications to speak out against her views. A quick Google search yields headlines like “Harvard’s Lazy Attack on Homeschooling” in Forbes, “Harvard Law School Professor Shows her Prejudice Against Homeschoolers” in the Wall Street Journal, and “Harvard Professor Wants To Ban Homeschooling Because Christians Do It” in The Federalist.
These responses, among others, take issue with Bartholet’s critiques of the role of religion in homeschooling and claim that parents have the right to raise their children as they see fit. James R. Mason, the Vice President of Litigation and Development for the Home School Legal Defense Association, says Bartholet’s proposal “comes from a worldview that’s kind of antithetical to traditional notions of liberty, especially the right of parents to raise, nurture, and educate their children.”
Some reverse this attack and posit that banning homeschool threatens American pluralism. Others argue that eliminating the choice for religious schooling exemplifies exactly the kind of narrow-minded pedagogy Bartholet hopes to abolish.
However, Bartholet feels that these rebuttals miss her intended message. “There’s no way I’m for indoctrinating children in some universal majority culture,” she says. “I think parents absolutely have the right to raise their children within their own religion.” She pauses. “I just don’t think parents have a right to isolate their children from the larger culture.”
Bartholet’s article has also sparked a conversation about the idea of government intervention in schooling — as well as Harvard elitism. U.S. Senator Ted Cruz (R-Tex.) tweeted, “[Harvard] publish[ed] a cover story attacking home-schooling & people of faith. Elitist condescension looking down on the rest of America doesn’t wear well, even in crimson.”
“Sen. Cruz believes school choice is the civil rights issue of the 21st century and that the federal government should not get in the way of parents’ efforts to ensure their children receive the very best education possible,” a spokesperson for Cruz writes in an email. “Far too often, Democrats and Ivy League elites look down on those who make the decision to homeschool and attempt to impose on families a one-size-fits-all approach to education.”
Bartholet, however, says that a lot of emails she has received are from parents who believe “that they have an absolute God-given right to control their children. So one email after another will talk about, ‘These are our children, we gave birth to them — the government has no right whatsoever to interfere with our parenting,’” she says. “I do disagree with [parental absolutism]. It’s fine if parents want to withdraw their children because they want to emphasize their own beliefs and religion, so long as they can provide an adequate education, which for me includes exposing children to ideas other than those that the parents hold.”
Beyond ideological arguments, there stands the practical issue of whether public schools remain a better option than homeschooling. Bartholet says many parents have emailed her to explain that they choose to homeschool their kids to avoid bullying or because homeschooling provides a more specialized or better education than an underfunded and overcrowded public school.
Cevin Soling, a supporter of homeschooling and a current student at the Harvard Kennedy School, says Bartholet’s “views on the matter are uninformed, and her positions are irrational.” He says he is particularly troubled by Bartholet’s failure to recognize the downsides to compulsory public schooling.
“[Compulsory school] is the last place that you want to send kids. Students’ rights or other civil rights are abusively trampled in compulsory school environments. They have all sorts of diminished freedoms: diminished [freedom of] speech, diminished due process, diminished search and seizure protections,” he says. “Their privacy is limited, and they’re tamed such that the flight impulse is diminished. And there’s all sorts of psychological, physical, emotional consequences that come from being placed in captivity.”
Bartholet agrees that homeschooling may provide a better education for some, but she adds,“I think we would do far better as a society putting effort into reforming and improving the public schools; they definitely have lots of problems, including [failing to provide] adequate civic education.”
With almost all schools moving to online classes in light of COVID-19, homeschooling, or at least schooling while at home, has become the norm for students nationwide. While Bartholet agrees that keeping education online is necessary for public health, she is concerned for particular groups of students.
“One group of children — a very small set that are subject to actual maltreatment — I am very worried about them. In terms of the larger group that is going to be subjected to very limited education, I’m worried about them in terms of the long term.”
Bartholet, in a recent op-ed published in the Boston Globe, cites research that may indicate students are more at-risk for abuse and neglect now than before quarantine.
“Reports of child abuse and neglect have plummeted by 50 percent nationwide, by 60 percent in Massachusetts. Most experts on child abuse think that there’s very likely way more child abuse and neglect going on now as families are locked into their homes,” she says. “So nobody thinks this plummeting in abuse and neglect reports indicates kids are safer, they’re almost surely in greater danger.”
Bartholet hopes online classes will provide future insights into the effects of homeschooling.
“I would like to think there will be some good research during this period where we may get to learn more about both the positive and negative impact of homeschooling,” she says.
— Magazine writer Scott P. Mahon can be reached at scott.mahon@thecrimson.com and on Twitter at @scott__mahon.
— Magazine writer Rachel Chen can be reached at rachel.chen@thecrimson.com.
Sections
Only a few hours after Celine Cuadra ’22 and James N. Garavito ’22 launched their Instagram-based thrifting business venture @they.them.their.closet, they were darting across campus to meet new customers in dining halls, study spaces, and even their suite in Mather House. By the end of the night, they’d sold more than $100 of thrifted clothing.
Cuadra and Garavito created @they.them.their.closet in late February. “We’re looking to make a few bucks thru selling our thrifted finds,” the caption of their first Instagram post reads. “Our goal is to become a means with which low-income QTPOC in the Cambridge/Boston area can fashion n dress themselves, all while staying baller on a budget.”
“We started They.Them.Their Closet purely based on the fact that we have great friends who were gassing us up on our outfits, so we bonded over both of our senses of fashion and thrift shopping,” Cuadra says. “Our friendship has derived from that shared love of fashion and identity as low-income, first-gen students. We’re also very into thrift culture, and I thought that it was a shared skill that we could turn into a profitable, locally-sourced business.”
They.Them.Their Closet gives Cuadra and Garavito an additional source of income, while simultaneously promoting accessibility and inclusion.. The costs of all items are up for negotiation, but prices on the page typically range from $5 to $20, with nothing exceeding $50. Cuadra and Garavito also try to subtract gender from the way they sell clothing, showcasing thrifted finds in a wide variety of sizes and styles, from size extra small bodycon dresses to large coats and jackets.
“I can remember going to a store when I was younger and seeing the men’s sections and looking over at the women’s section and saying, ‘I want to wear something on that side of the store,’” Garavito says. “I think we wanted to take away the gender from the clothing and present it as just clothing.”
Cuadra recalled similar experiences with exploring both gendered sections while thrift shopping. They note how their mission of accessibility, as well as their personal identities, influenced the closet’s name and their selling methods.
They hoped to use their personal style and fashion influences “so that people could find space in our closet where they could just look at clothing as clothing,” Cuadra says. “As nonbinary people, we felt like They.Them.Their Closet was a fitting name, just because it captured the intersection of our identities and our mission pretty succinctly.”
Though they toyed with the idea of opening a shop on Depop, a social shopping app where users individually price and sell their items, Cuadra and Garavito ultimately decided that Instagram would be the easiest and most direct way to reach their intended audience of low-income, LGBTQ+ students. By thrifting their items locally and targeting their college-aged peers, Cuadra and Garavito hope to create a personalized shopping experience for their customers.
“When we were creating They.Them.Their, we thought about how busy Harvard is and how busy college is in general, especially for first generation, low-income students and queer students. Not everyone has the time to go out of their way to buy an outfit for the weekend,” Garavito says. “I always found myself saying, ‘I don’t have time to go out and buy something for myself. I wish I had something like a thrift store that was closer to me that I could purchase clothing at.’”
Thrifting’s rising popularity among wealthier people has raised questions about who ought to be prioritized in such spaces. Some have argued that this trend conflicts with the mission of many thrift stores like Goodwill, which explicitly seek to prioritize those less well off. While Cuadra and Garavito emphasize that their primary aim with They.Them.Their Closet is to sell clothes to low-income LGBTQ+ students, they recognized that members of those communities wouldn’t necessarily be their only customers.
“While we were trying to make our prices reflect what we think FGLI students can afford, we were ultimately okay with the fact that other people were shopping from us,” Cuadra says.
They explain that they were glad that many people could enjoy their Instagram-based shop.
The venture was ultimately cut short by the COVID-19 pandemic — Cuadra and Garavito express concerns about working on the closet remotely and the potential barriers of shipping costs. They remain excited by the prospect of continuing and expanding their projecte upon returning to campus, and they recall the fulfillment that they derived from bonding with a variety of Harvard students who they would not have met otherwise, shopping for the closet at the Davis Square Goodwill, and presenting fashion in a gender-inclusive and economically accessible way.
“We aren’t pretending to be some sort of charity or community service organization that’s meant to empower and specifically serve first generation low-income people,” Cuadra says. Both Cuadra and Garavito are involved in other campus organizations that focus on those communities, and they don’t see the closet as a direct service. “We’re just trying to be an accessible and easy way for our friends within these communities to connect with us and shop.”
— Magazine writer Josie F. Abugov can be reached at josie.abugov@thecrimson.com.
Sections
Shannon R. T. Copeland was up late. Her eyes were fixed on the baby photo that had appeared on her computer screen, and she found that she had goosebumps on her arms — chills induced by the anxiety of making a life-changing decision, and the relief of discovering exactly what to do.
She ran up the stairs. Her husband was watching TV. “I found her,” she said. “I found the one.”
The intending mother had finally found, on the website of the agency MyEggBank, the egg donor who would serve as her child’s biological mother.
“I’ll never, ever, ever forget that night,” Copeland says. “I’ll never forget it. It makes me teary. It was like winning the lotto.”
Copeland had been looking for a donor with a Greek background like her own, but ethnicity wasn’t her only criterion. “If it wasn’t my egg and my gene, I wanted to make sure that the genetic mother had a strong intellectual background,” said Copeland, who, at 41, is pursuing a doctorate in nursing. She was the first woman on both sides of her family to pursue a bachelor’s and a master’s degree, let alone a Ph.D.
Copeland, who lives in Vancouver, has two older boys from a first marriage, but she says it doesn’t look like they will follow an academic path — both struggle with different learning challenges, like Copeland’s maternal grandmother did. She says her current husband’s mother also had cognitive development issues. Thus when Copeland and her husband decided they wanted to have children and realized they would need to turn to egg donation to conceive, Copeland seized upon an opportunity she thought could give her future child a different genetic start: seeking a donor with demonstrated intellect.
“I mean, it sounds silly, but it was really important to me,” she says. “It was a genetic consideration.”
The donor Copeland ultimately chose, an American, graduated from college cum laude with a degree in neuroscience and wrote in her donor profile that she hopes to earn her doctorate in the field and pursue a research career. She had a 3.75 GPA and high test scores, a fact Copeland found herself “quite hung up on.” Even her maternal grandmother had a bachelor’s degree, something Copeland found unimaginable.
While Copeland acknowledges that intellectual fates are not inscribed in embryonic DNA, she does believe genes matter as much as environment. She’s captured photos of her daughter, now over a year old, lying in piles of her academic papers. “Even at 15 months old I see a difference with my little girl,” Copeland says. “Epigenetics and genetics — both very important.”
The names of anonymous donors’ universities are rarely available to parents. But had Copeland been able to access that information, she might have found it meaningful. “If it had been Harvard I’d be like, ‘Oh my gosh, holy — like, bragging rights, right there!’” A brand-name school “would matter,” she confirms. “Yeah, for sure.”
The premium some intending parents place on elite education has great import in the U.S. fertility industry, which to a great extent is governed solely by the demands of the free market — a stark contrast to the situations in other countries, like Canada, where it is illegal to compensate egg and sperm donors beyond reimbursing any expenses they incur. On their websites, American sperm and egg banks tout as badges of honor the names of their donors’ prestigious colleges and universities — including, in nearly all instances, Harvard’s.
Intending parents, meanwhile, are willing to pay. While it’s illegal to sell human tissue in the U.S., compensation for gamete donation is legally taxable income. Five-digit compensation sums for egg donors with specific traits, like extensive or brand-name educational backgrounds, are fairly established practice, with some compensation values edging up and above $100,000. Sperm donors, who often donate continuously over several months, are usually compensated by-donation and can earn $1,000 or more per month.
The high price tags of these exchanges generate myths and taboos on campus, yet behind each is a human interaction wrought with the emotional complexity of any family-building story. But the introduction of market forces into this process casts in sharp relief the moral dilemmas often overlooked in the creation of families. Parents and donors must grapple with their place in a society that prizes — and prices — certain traits above others. And while some see trait-selection as a means of respecting individuality, for others it is a site of modern-day eugenics.
Nine-fifty Mass. Ave. is an anonymous brick building a few blocks outside the perimeter of the average Harvard student’s stomping-ground — past Boston Burger Company and Cafe Sushi toward Central Square. Even a visitor to Dumpling House, located right next to the building, might never pay it more than a glance. They might never glean from its exterior that it is a sperm bank.
California Cryobank’s Cambridge location, conveniently located between Harvard and MIT, opened in 1993 and is one branch of four: The sperm bank, founded in 1977, has another location in New York City and two in California, near Stanford and UCLA. It has registered 75,000 births since its inception, making it one of the world’s largest reproduction agencies.
As a junior at Harvard, Brandon applied to be a sperm donor at California Cryobank after seeing an advertisement on social media. When he was accepted a few months later, he easily worked the two or three weekly detours off campus into his routine, taking brisk walks toward Central Square on mornings he didn’t have class. (Brandon is not his real name — he, along with the other egg and sperm donors quoted in this article, asked that The Crimson use a pseudonym to protect his privacy.)
California Cryobank has long sought donors like Brandon: “[We have] 40-plus years of experience of having people tell us that educated donors are something that’s important to them,” says Scott F. Brown, the Director of Client Experience and Communications at California Cryobank. “That’s why we are set up near major universities.”
Besides strategically locating its real estate near colleges and investing in advertisements targeted toward students, the agency has limited power to select for the Ivy League brand. Most applicants are immediately screened out due to health-related factors and family histories, and other physical criteria like height — donors must be at least 5’10’’, or 5’8” if they’re from racial backgrounds under-represented in California Cryobank’s pool.
Overall, only one percent of applicants become donors — an acceptance rate far lower than Harvard’s.
The lucky ones who make it through the selection process can donate at the sperm bank up to three times each week. Those who hit this maximum make an average of $1,000 to $1,400 a month. Their “terms” expire after about a year to limit the dispersal of their genetic material, and they receive a flat fee for each donation, with a slight scale in compensation based on the volume of the sample. In spite of its desire for Ivy League donors, the agency does not compensate them more generously than others.
The prospect of the pay is certainly alluring: “I think about it a lot,” says Michael, a junior, who is friends with a California Cryobank donor. “What if I didn’t have to work and I could just, like, get enough money to, you know, go on fun spring break trips all the time?”
Michael considered becoming a sperm donor, but while filling out preliminary online forms, he started imagining which aspects of himself might or might not be considered desirable. He ultimately backed out because of the discomfort in “see[ing] yourself being objectified.” Michael is not his real name: The sensitivity of the topic, in his view, motivated his request for anonymity.
He’s not alone among Ivy League students who feel averse to the prospect of donating their genetic material. Ismael Jamai Ait Hmitti, a sophomore at Yale, recalls seeing a poster soliciting sperm donations hanging at Durfee’s, a bustling campus convenience store. Unlike California Cryobank, the bank offered extra compensation for donors with a GPA over 3.7.
Jamai Ait Hmitti found himself immediately averse to the conception of a genetic hierarchy made implicit by the advertisement, but also more broadly to the idea of donating sperm to a stranger. He states that he would only ever donate to a close friend; he would want to “know that the kid was there, because I feel a kind of responsibility towards it.”
Not everyone feels this way, of course. Brandon felt comfortable becoming a donor because he believes that donors aren’t parents: “Parenting is more of a nurturing kind of relationship than it is a genetic relationship,” he says. When Brandon asked himself whether he would feel a sense of obligation to resulting offspring, “the conclusion I came to is that I really wouldn’t.”
Still, Brandon felt strongly that any offspring should be able to connect with him if they so choose. While California Cryobank now requires all donors to sign a disclosure agreement entitling their offspring to contact them at age 18, the policy went into effect after Brandon applied; instead, he opted into the disclosure policy (which came with a monetary bonus).
California Cryobank’s donor disclosure policy ensures that Brandon won’t meet any potential offspring until over 18 years from the time he started donating — almost a whole lifetime away for a college student.
“It’s definitely hard to imagine exactly how that would pan out, and it would depend on the person who’s doing it,” he says. “I’d definitely be open to meeting them or whatever. It’s not something that really bothers me.”
For Brandon, California Cryobank remains just outside of the Harvard landscape, both literally and figuratively. The semi-weekly trips down Mass. Ave. were, to him, “just a fun little detour of my Harvard experience.” Knowing nothing of any potential offspring, sperm donation ultimately remains to him, “kind of inconsequential.”
To many, sperm donation resembles “shift work,” except with unusually high pay. And California Cryobank advertises it as such: An ad on Facebook doesn’t seek to attract the deadened eye of the social-media scroller with a dazzling image of a happy, fulfilled sperm donor. Instead, accompanying the text is an image of a tanned woman, her mouth falling open as she fans out a wad of twenties to the presumably male viewers of the ad. Sperm banks commonly use easy money over altruism as their primary draw, a trend Rene Almeling charts in her 2011 book about the fertility industry. The “get cash” ad even highlights the irony of the so-called donation with the boastful quip, “Get Paid to Donate?”
The reputation of sperm donation as transactional undoubtedly generates a taboo on college campuses, but for some young people, especially those with a significant amount of college debt, it is a crucial source of income.
Connor, a recently on-boarded donor at California Cryobank, says he was “grateful” to be part of the selected one percent of applicants. “I was able to keep my head above water with the money I got,” he explains, although donation has now been put on pause due to the coronavirus pandemic. He is already feeling the effects of this loss of income: “[I’m] slightly concerned over the future and how it might affect [my family.]”
Emily, like Brandon, decided to donate her gametes as an undergraduate at an Ivy League school, but her donation required that she trek farther than ten minutes off of her campus. She travelled to California for a preliminary, one-day screening appointment that she scheduled for a Friday, when she didn’t have class, flying across the country that Thursday night. Besides the travel, she had to manage doctors’ appointments, numerous exchanges with her agency, and the medical procedures themselves.
While the factory-like nature of sperm banks makes it logical for an agency like California Cryobank to use a standardized compensation system resembling hourly wages, egg donation has an entirely different compensation model that aligns with the complexity of the process. Donors must inject fertility medications into their stomach or thigh once or twice daily, regularly visit a physician’s office to monitor developing eggs through blood tests and ultrasounds, and finally undergo surgery to retrieve the eggs.
These procedures, which can result in side effects from mild discomfort to serious medical complications, last about two weeks. The screening and donation process as a whole can take up to 16 weeks.
The ads placed for egg donors tend to shift the balance away from quick cash and toward the altruism of helping build a family, Almeling writes in her book, but they do not shy away from prominently featuring large sums. Moreover, the chipper advertising targeted toward college students makes both the process seem alluringly simple. An “Egg Donor Needed” advertisement posted to The Crimson’s website by the agency A Perfect Match displays a stock photo of a slim, blonde woman traipsing breezily through a wooded field at golden hour — an ideal that can be fulfilled, presumably, by securing the $60,000 that the ad promises to the successful donor.
How much compensation this process warrants, and how it is determined, is an object of contention. The American Society of Reproductive Medicine wrote in their 2000 guidelines that compensation above $5,000 should require special justification and that payments above $10,000 are never appropriate. These guidelines had no legal clout, but fertility service providers largely followed them when they were in effect. Their goal was to prevent “exploitation,” especially of women in financial need who could be effectively coerced by the sum into making a choice they otherwise would not make.
But in 2016, the ASRM settled a lawsuit in which a group of donors claimed that the compensation guidelines generated an unfair price-fixing practice. As a result, the Ethics Committee removed prescriptions for specific compensation sums from the 2016 version of its recommendations.
The ASRM still stands by a belief that society ought “to avoid putting a price on human gametes or selectively valuing particular human traits.” To this end, the 2016 opinion by the Ethics Committee states that “compensation should not vary according to…the outcome of prior donation cycles, or the donor’s ethnic or other personal characteristics.”
But in practice, these are exactly the factors that often determine egg donor compensation, which consistently rises above the ASRM’s previous limits. Some agencies offer premiums for desired traits like Ivy-League attendance or high GPA, and boutique agencies have arisen to mediate agreements between donors asking for steep compensations and parents who can oblige.
Extraordinary Conceptions, an international egg donation and surrogacy agency based in California, includes on its website a page for “Donors in Demand.” Scrolling past equally spirited calls for Asian and Canadian participants, a prospective donor reaches the message, “We are currently in need of Ivy League donors!” followed by the enticement that “well-educated donors can receive higher compensation for their time.”
Candace A. Mahieu, a department supervisor at Extraordinary Conceptions, explains that while donors can negotiate compensation, the agency tries to keep its upper limit around $10,000 or $12,000 — close to the former ASRM cap. But first-time donors receive about $5,000 for a cycle with this agency, while a history of successful donation can earn a donor up to about $8,000. The agency does deliver on its “Donor in Demand” promises: According to Mahieu, those from Ivy League schools tend to receive $2,000 more than their first-time peers.
The agency Emily used, A Perfect Match, provides consistently higher compensations than Extraordinary Conceptions. Darlene Pinkerton, the company’s CEO, told Wired Magazine last year that the typical first-time donor with A Perfect Match receives about $15,000, while those with in-demand traits such as Jewish, East Asian, or Indian ancestry can make $25,000.
Emily, a first-generation college student, says financial compensation was certainly an important benefit. It was a targeted Facebook ad from A Perfect Match — which she believes appeared on her feed based on her affiliation with a prestigious college — that first alerted her to the possibility of donating, but it was talking to a friend’s sister who had gone through a struggle with infertility and eventually had a child through egg donation that sealed the deal.
When Emily spoke with the agency, it emphasized that her ethnicity — Asian — and her educational background — Ivy Leaguer — were in high demand, and she was heartened to know she could fulfill a parent’s desire for a particular unlikely match. She was compensated with $17,000 — she had initially asked for more, but was willing to lower the amount to help the parents afford the donation.
Some parents are willing to do even more to ensure they can recruit a donor that has the traits they are looking for. TLC, a boutique agency founded in 2015 by Tiffany H. Crook, works primarily with well-educated parents seeking donors with similar backgrounds. She creates matches based on lists of criteria desired by the parents and the compensation amounts that each party proposes.
Compensations around $100,000 are a fairly established upper boundary in Crook’s experience, but she notes that rare cases shoot far above that. She says that “top-tier” or “Ivy League” educations tend to generate these high-end price tags. “Usually the people that are asking for this have that level of education or higher,” she explains.
Besides the genetic considerations behind the desire for evidence of a donor’s intelligence, Crook says that intending parents often value being able to relate to a donor who has an educational background similar to theirs. Even if they never meet in person, she says, the parents may be seeking a “bond of sharing a mutual experience in some regard” with the donor.
In any case, why parents pick their criteria doesn’t concern her, nor does she pass ethical judgment. “I don’t necessarily feel either way on this request,” she says. “I believe in mutual matching, and if [extensive or brand-name education] is something that really is important to you, then I’m certainly happy to try and find somebody that fits that criteria.”
Crook’s commission doesn’t increase as donor compensation does — for its services, the agency charges a flat fee, which Crook declined to disclose. The boutique model seems to operate on the principle that allowing parents to offer as much compensation as they please and allowing donors to ask for it taps into market forces that produce precise matches. Of course, that market is one that generally leaves only the very wealthy with their detailed wish-lists fulfilled.
Crook recounts that a colleague from another agency made her aware of an ad they were placing on behalf of a family offering a compensation value of $250,000 — $200,000 directly and $50,000 that the donor could choose to give to charity or use for egg preservation for themselves. Their desired donor would have an “Ivy League or top tier education, clean bill of health, no cancer, no Alzheimer’s, no mental illnesses, no history of substance abuse… And they were also looking for somebody over 5’6,” blond-haired or red-haired and blue-eyed.”
A tall order, but Crook expressed optimism about this family’s prospects. If someone were to meet the criteria, the amount on offer would likely be enough to shore up any deficit of motivation.
Besides her mother and sister, a couple of close friends at school, and two more back home, no one knew that Emily was coordinating an egg donation alongside her academic and social life. Similarly, Brandon did not discuss his routine treks down Mass. Ave. with most of his friends — he plans to tell his parents eventually, but he hasn’t yet.
Emily didn’t feel that she would be actively stigmatized for her donation. But given passing experiences like hearing male peers talk about sperm donation with an air of judgment, she preferred to keep her decision private. “To do that in exchange for money, I think makes people feel — like, they’re weirded out as a whole,” she explains.
Considering the morality of this “transaction,” Emily recognizes that the free-market forces driving the industry disadvantage low-income individuals struggling to have children. But she also remarks, “To not have compensation attached to that, because there’s a lot of unknowns, I think is too risky.”
Within the industry, there seems to be broad consensus that parents should be able to choose the source of their future children’s genetic material according to their personal criteria — disagreement persists mostly about the extent to which money should be involved in that process. For instance, while Brown, executive at California Cryobank, and Crook, CEO of TLC, both believe parents should pick the traits they want, Brown explains that California Cryobank charges parents the same fee for any donor because “we don’t quantify the value of our donors,” while Crook allows money to play its role in matching.
But outside the industry, there is debate about whether trait selection for reasons beyond basic health is ethical at all. This debate is especially active on college campuses, where potential donors and ethicists argue over to what extent selecting for traits such as hair color or intelligence resembles a form of modern-day eugenics.
Harvard Law School Professor I. Glenn Cohen, a leading expert on bioethics, says the preferences intending parents have for certain traits in donors raise broader questions about “intimate discrimination” — things like racial or ableist preferences in dating.
Cohen argues that preferencing traits in offspring is ethically similar to selecting those traits in sexual partners. He warns against an instinct to “exceptionalize the reproductive encounters” of those who cannot conceive on their own. As for remuneration, the fertility industry is just one of numerous places where “going to Harvard [might] net you more compensation than somebody else,” Cohen says.
But not everyone sees trait selection of gamete donors in this way. Renowned ethicist Michael J. Sandel, a government professor at Harvard, draws parallels between trait selection and eugenic practices. In a 2004 article in The Atlantic, Sandel made the case against genetically engineering offspring for purposes beyond curing illness. He wrote that gamete donor selection “offers a good example of a procreative practice in which the old eugenics meets the new consumerism.”
Sandel offers the examples of California Cryobank, which accepts only college-educated donors because of client preference, and a defunct sperm bank that attempted to collect the gametes of Nobel laureates and use them to inseminate intelligent women for expressly eugenic purposes.
“What, after all, is the moral difference between designing children according to an explicit eugenic purpose and designing children according to the dictates of the market?” he wrote. “Whether the aim is to improve humanity’s ‘germ plasm’ or to cater to consumer preferences, both practices are eugenic insofar as both make children into products of deliberate design.” They undermine a society’s commitment to “humility, responsibility, and solidarity.”
This sentiment is partly what colors Jamai Ait Hmitti’s aversion to the Durfee’s poster offering greater compensation for donors with higher grades. He agrees with Sandel that only health should matter for donor selection and worries that seeking out an educated donor implicitly signals to a child that “he was made in the goal of being smart.”
Varying compensation according to certain traits “encourages a kind of thinking that there is some kind of genetic material that is better than others, and that takes away from the inherent value of life,” he continues. “It’s just the fact that [GPA] is a number and that it says nothing about the identity of that person.”
But whether one views intelligence as a part of a person’s “identity” is deeply shaped by one’s values. Copeland, the new mother from Vancouver pursuing a nursing Ph.D., remarks that she is still reflecting on why choosing a “smart” donor was important to her. “People have said to me, ‘Well, who cares [if she’s smart?] Like, say she’s not kind…’” she recalls.
“But I care,” she says.
Michelle, another donor who worked with A Perfect Match, is adamant that her experience with egg donation did not begin with an advertisement. “It’s not like I was solicited from, you know, an ad, looking for Ivy League donors — and they do have those ads — I actually signed up independently with an agency,” she says.
Indeed, she was staunchly resistant at every stage of the process to taking on the role of commodity rather than moral agent.
“My motivations were to help gay men start their families,” she explains.
She remembers that the timeline of her journey was intertwined with the history of marriage equality in the United States. “The court case was in California when I started to sign up. And then right before the moment it was at the Supreme Court... I finalized my application. I was chosen by a gay couple in San Francisco, I don’t know, within — two days?”
She ultimately donated five times for four different families, returning to one of them for a sibling cycle.
Following a free-spirited, post-high school stint in Texas and the Virgin Islands, she enrolled at an Ivy League college, intending to go the straight and narrow. Her plan was to study economics and work as a consultant — she even had a firm picked out. But after taking a leave of absence for multiple surgeries, she decided not to return. As she was making this decision, she turned to egg donation.
“It started to make a lot of sense to me,” she says. “You know, that this was something I wanted to do, something I felt passionate about.”
Yet Michelle concedes that money was important. “I’m not gonna lie and say that it doesn’t allow me to live a certain lifestyle,” she says. She received between $20,000 and $30,000 for each of her five donation cycles — a “nest egg to start moving around and writing,” she explains.
Michelle proceeded to travel the world and is currently in Papua New Guinea working on a “post-postmodernist” novel with a female protagonist. She never returned to graduate. While donation services compete to recruit Ivy Leaguers, sometimes, what they offer outcompetes an Ivy-League path.
Nonetheless, her affiliation with the school played a central role in her donation. She confirms that all the couples she matched with were looking for donors from “top universities.” Some prospective parents took an interest in the preschool and kindergarten testing she shared with them, which demonstrated her precocious childhood development. But Michelle says she felt that the parents also saw her as “someone they could connect with intellectually.”
She recalls that one couple was “Ivy League-educated — extremely successful. And I think they were looking for someone who kind of had similar traits to what drew them to each other,” Michelle says, echoing the parallel that ethicist Glenn Cohen draws between choosing donors and choosing mates.
“But they also told me that their number one criteria — after making sure that I was intelligent and, like, came from a good family — was that I was a nice person.” Michelle says that parents choose her not only based on traits that could be conveyed on paper, but also because of an affinity for her as an individual.
A Perfect Match collected extensive documentation from Michelle, from health records and family history to test scores and transcripts. But the process did not ensure that Michelle knew even a fraction as much about intending parents. Michelle, dissatisfied with this disparity, rejected the possibility of anonymous donation and further stipulated that she would consider a match only after a conversation with the parents.
The talks served as her own vetting process, by which she could ensure her genes were in good hands. “I feel like there is a responsibility on the part of the donor. I don’t think reproduction is something that people should just take lightly,” she says, though she does not consider herself a mother to the children. “I need to make sure that the people who are receiving my genetics are good people whose values I agree with, who... can nurture things that I may pass on to their children.”
For this reason, Michelle stipulates that intending parents must be financially stable. Like Emily, Michelle acknowledges that the poor are disadvantaged when the rich can drive up market prices. But the consequences, she suggests, provide a pragmatic benefit. “I don’t particularly like the way it sounds. But for me it [was] important that the parents I donated to didn’t have issues paying for the whole thing out of pocket,” she says. “I would like for my genetic children to have at least the standard of living that I had growing up, and hopefully better.”
As Michelle reminisces about meeting the two children born from her sibling cycles, her voice fills with an excitement that transitions into solemnity. “They’re so cute. And smart. And, I mean, they definitely look like me,” she says. “And, you know, it’s just so wonderful to see something I’ve done bring so much happiness to a family.”
Emily, who receives emailed updates about the child born from her undergraduate donation but has never met her, says she also finds it fulfilling to witness the family’s growth, even from afar. She has since donated to another family but has not yet found out if any children were born. “I also haven't been super proactive in finding it out,” she admits. “I kind of, like, check every month or so, depending on how busy I am when it crosses my mind.”
Though she knows more about her genetic offspring than Brandon, on the whole, Emily’s gamete donation, like Brandon’s, was not a way to change the course of her life, but rather an interlude of her college experience — a mutually beneficial arrangement for the separate lives led by her and the intending parents.
Not so for Michelle. Her donation, she concludes, was “probably the most meaningful thing that I’ve ever done in my life.”
“I have this monkey on my back, and this guilt,” Shannon Copeland confesses.
She had found the perfect donor and she is raising a beloved daughter. She has just one profound regret: She should never have agreed to an anonymous donation.
Even Michelle, who, as donors go, made sure to have plenty of contact with the families that received her eggs, waxes wistful at the prospect of further connection. “I wish I’d been more involved, to be honest, with getting to know them and such,” she says.
Copeland is currently trying to trace the donor, hoping that she may, like Michelle, be open to having more contact. Given the donor’s youth when she decided to be anonymous, Copeland reasons she may have a change of heart.
The guilt she feels, though, is mostly towards her child. “In the beginning of all of this, we were never going to tell her [that she was donor-conceived],” Copeland says. Yet after coming across “all the evidence that shows your child knowing of their genetics early makes for a healthy child, makes for a healthy family unit,” she explains, “my mind changed.”
Since that moment, Copeland has employed every method: running her daughter’s genome through the database of genetic testing company 23andMe to find relatives, asking the agency through which she found the donor if she had other eggs available, searching a registry for other people who used the donor — so far, all to no avail.
“I have to stop and breathe and think, ‘Okay, we still have a lot of time,’” Copeland says. She has high hopes that one day her daughter will find her genetic family. When she does, Copeland is confident that she will find “just more people to love her.”
For now, there’s one thing she knows she can do: “I always advocate for erasing stigma around egg donors and how you came to be into this world. I think there is a stigma around this,” Copeland says. “And I will always be a voice.”
— Magazine writer Sonia F. Epstein can be reached at sonia.epstein@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter at @Sonia_Epstein.
— Magazine writer Polina N. Whitehouse can be reached at polina.whitehouse@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter at @PNWhitehouse.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Harvard Semitic Museum has changed its name to the Harvard Museum of the Ancient Near East, the museum announced earlier this month.
The name change was intended to make the focus of the museum clearer to the public, Museum Director Peter Der Manuelian ’81 said. Opened in 1903, the museum’s collections cover an Eastern Mediterranean group of ancient cultures whose languages were all in the Semitic language family, including the Israelites, Assyrians, Babylonians, and Egyptians, among a number of other civilizations.
Now, though, the word “Semitic” is rarely used the same way, Manuelian said.
“People are familiar with the term ‘anti-Semitic;’ they're less comfortable with what ‘Semitic’ refers to,” he said.
The process to change the name began several years ago, when the museum received a grant to consult with faculty and other affiliates from across the University on a potential rebranding. Manuelian said people from the Business School, the Law School, the University Provost's office, and the Faculty of Arts and Sciences got involved in the effort.
To gather even more perspectives, though, he and his team canvassed students and people passing through the Yard.
“We were asking these basic questions – ‘What would you expect to see in a Semitic museum?’” Manuelian said. “Most of the answers came back either ‘I don't know,’ or ‘Is that a Jewish museum?’”
“I wanted as many different perspectives as possible,” he added.
The new name is meant to reflect the geographical area from which the museum’s collections come. Manuelian said even the updated name isn’t perfectly accurate, but that it does a better job at conveying the collections’ unifying theme.
“If you're living in Japan, for example, Egypt doesn't seem particularly Eastern,” he said. “But since our building and our museum is located in Cambridge, we believe that we can do no better than that.”
Shaye J.D. Cohen, a Hebrew Literature and Philosophy professor, said in an interview he welcomed the museum’s name change, calling it “long overdue.”
“If we were to build the museum today, it wouldn't occur to anybody to call it the Semitic museum,” he added. “It's not a Semitic museum – it's a museum of the Ancient Near East.”
Both Cohen and Manuelian said this position has been unanimous among faculty and museum staff.
“No one has come forward and said ‘This is a really bad idea,’ or ‘This doesn't make sense,’” Manuelian said. “So the reactions have been pleasantly positive.”
In order to encourage people to begin using the new name, Manuelian and his staff have been testing various abbreviations, including “HMANE.”
Still, he said, he believes it will take time and effort before the new name is widely adopted.
“It'll be like the artist formerly known as Prince,” he said. “It's going to take a while, but we'll get there.”
—Staff writer Oliver L. Riskin-Kutz can be reached at oliver.riskin-kutz@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @OLRiskinKutz.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Prospective College freshmen often have to weigh a long list of concerns when deciding where to matriculate — location, academics, housing, social scene. Entrants to the Class of 2024 have one more: how their school of choice will handle the coronavirus pandemic.
Admitted students have until May 1 to make a college decision. No Ivy League school has made the decision to postpone its reply deadline, as some U.S. colleges and universities have.
Prospective freshman and Los Angeles, Calif. resident Abigail C. Leyva said schools closer to home have become a more attractive option as the coronavirus continues to spread.
“I think I'm going to feel happier at a place that's closer to home. There's like a peace of mind that I'm not too far,” Levya said. “My decision is influenced a lot by my family, just because my mom is just really fearful of me going far away.”
Admitted student Penelope M. Alegria, who lives in Skokie, Ill., said she felt the financial stability a school offered was more important than the distance from home, especially during a time of uncertainty.
“Having that financial support made me feel really good about these next years. Even if my family income does go down, me being able to go to college,” Alegria said. “I was asking low-income students about their experiences at Harvard and how it was when they were forced to leave to go off campus with shipping their stuff back home, having their flights paid for — and kids who couldn't go home for whatever reason, the university taking care of them and giving them a place to stay.”
“Whenever there is a crisis, [Harvard’s] administration wouldn't just put kids on the back burner,” Alegria said.
Prospective freshman and Bangkok, Thailand resident Fresh Pisuttisarun said he had always considered going to college abroad, and that the pandemic did not change his decision. In fact, as an international student, Pisuttisarun said he appreciated Harvard’s now-online welcome events.
“Although it's devastating that they've been moved online, I think in some ways it's good for international students too, as they can access lots of different admitted events, and that would be financially and just practically feasible,” he said.
Patrick J. Kim, an admitted student from Los Angeles, Calif., said he is leaning toward attending Yale over Harvard, adding that his experience with Harvard’s Virtual Visitas and Yale’s virtual Bulldog Days played a significant role in his perspective of the two schools.
Virtual Visitas and Bulldog Days are month-long, online orientation programs Harvard and Yale held in place of their admitted students’ weekends.
Several students said they continue to weigh normal considerations, like whether Harvard is the best school for their intended path of study, as they decide where to commit. Still, several prospective freshmen said they followed schools’ responses to the pandemic in the weeks before the reply deadline.
Kim said that, though schools’ responses to the coronavirus pandemic have not significantly changed his perspective, he did pay attention to how they handled grading system changes.
“Both schools had pushes for ‘Universal Pass,’ so I've been tuning into that a little bit,” said Kim. “Just seeing how they were being dealt with at those schools gave a little bit more perspective.”
Boston, Mass. resident Gianfranco L. Yee said he valued other admitted students’ response to the coronavirus pandemic, citing an open letter other members of the Class of 2024 sent to University President Lawrence S. Bacow urging Harvard to postpone the fall semester rather than continue with online school.
“I feel like it's brought out some of the best in my own fellow class. In a matter of days they drafted a letter together to send to the president of Harvard, urging him to delay the first semester rather than do all online classes,” Yee said. “I've tried to spark a conversation in my other group chats in the other schools I was really strongly considering, and it just hasn't gained as much momentum as it has in the Harvard group chat.”
University Provost Alan M. Garber ’76 wrote in an email Monday that Harvard will hold classes this fall, whether online or in-person. The announcement sparked speculation among admitted students about what their first semester might look like if they commit to Harvard before Friday. Despite the uncertainty, Levya, Alegria, Pisuttisarun, and Yee all said they would not consider a gap year, though they preferred not to have online classes.
At least one student said the possibility of a virtual entrance to college might spur him to take a gap year. David Li, a prospective freshman from McAllen, Texas, who has yet to commit to a school, said he is considering a last-minute delay but is uncertain of what he might do while taking time off.
“It's been kind of looming over in my mind, and I'm not sure yet,” Li said. “Things like this will always happen, and sometimes, difficulties make for great opportunities. Taking a gap year is always an option, but I don't know if that will be specifically what I will do.”
—Staff writer Benjamin L. Fu can be reached at benjamin.fu@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @BenFu_2.
—Staff writer Dohyun Kim can be reached at dohyun.kim@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @dohyunkim__
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
After Harvard administrators announced Monday that the fall semester may take place online, faculty have begun preparing in earnest for the possibility of continued remote teaching.
This spring, instructors had less than two weeks from the day the University announced all classes would move online to the first day of online classes to transition their courses to a virtual format. If classes continue remotely in the fall, several department chairs said the summer would give them time to develop a more robust online educational model — but added they may also have to cancel or postpone certain classes centered on in-person experiences.
While many faculty said earlier this semester that they felt prepared to deliver classes online, they also encountered unforeseen difficulties after the transition happened. Faced with the task of remotely proctoring students in different time zones, many shifted to open-note examinations, placing faith in the College’s Honor Code to prevent cheating.
But now — after Dean of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences Claudine Gay told faculty in a Monday email to immediately begin planning for a possible online fall — professors must figure out how to deliver an excellent and equitable learning experience for all students amid the pandemic. Gay previously said that doing so would require “rigorous and creative” solutions.
So far, around 300 faculty have sought out resources from the Derek Bok Center for Teaching and Learning — the FAS’s teaching support center — to help transition to online instruction, according to the center’s faculty director, Robert A. Lue.
To meet the demand, the Bok Center offered faculty a variety of consultations, workshops, self-paced modules on online learning, as well as an option to request that Bok Center staff observe their courses and provide feedback.
Lue said the Bok Center is preparing for multiple different scenarios next fall and may work with several academic departments, as well as instructors of large courses, to help them plan over the summer.
“One thing that’s crucial is that the Harvard curriculum will be excellent. Everyone is committed to that,” he said. “We’re going to be working super hard all summer long.”
Comparative Literature chair David N. Damrosch said he and nearly all of his colleagues in the department have used Bok Center offerings to transition their courses online. He plans to encourage faculty in his department to go back to the center over the summer to develop their courses.
“If in the fall, we’re doing a full Zoom semester, that will take some extra thought, though I think we’re three quarters of the way there now,” Damrosch said.
Economics department chair Jeremy C. Stein said the transition has exceeded his expectations for what could be achieved online.
“When the news first came out, I was like, ‘Oh my gosh, I don’t even see why we would continue the class,’” he said.
Stein added that getting to know his students in person in the first half of the semester made the process of moving online easier.
“It is obviously a much more challenging proposition to do a semester from start to finish online,” he said.
Other departments, however, have run into conundrums in attempting to conduct laboratory courses online.
Physics chair Subir Sachdev said his department will not be able to offer components of some of its classes — or even entire courses — if students are not able to return to campus this fall.
Sachdev said he is already considering what to do about fall courses that would typically be taught exclusively through labs, such as Physics 191: “Advanced Laboratory” and Physics 123: “Laboratory Electronics.”
“If the fall is entirely remote, then we may have to completely redesign that course or offer something else in the hope that the students would take that course when they eventually come back,” Sachdev said. “There’s no completely online substitute for a complete lab course like Physics 191.”
Director of Science Education Logan S. McCarty ’96, who has been helping faculty across the Sciences division transition their courses online, said some Chemistry courses that work with toxic materials — such as Chemistry 145: “Experimental Inorganic Chemistry” — would likewise have to be postponed.
One possible solution may be to offer students three credits for taking the lecture portion of a four-credit course in the fall, then one credit for the lab component once campus reopens, McCarty said.
McCarty said the summer will offer time to transform lecture-style courses from a hastily-planned Zoom course to a “high-quality Harvard X-type course,” referring to Harvard’s online education platform. He said such courses could include filmed science demonstrations, quizzes, and guest speakers.
“We could create a highly produced, polished, really good experience, where the lecture part of the class would be far superior than what we’ve been able to throw together on Zoom,” McCarty said.
Physics professor Amir Yacoby, who helps teach the laboratory component of Physics 15b: “Introductory Electromagnetism and Statistical Physics,” wrote in an email that the lab staff was able to meet most of its learning goals this semester despite the remote format. The staff recorded videos of themselves conducting experiments before campus closed, and students remotely analyzed the video data, wrote papers, and participated in discussions.
“This was not a typical semester. However, we have maintained active student engagement, enthusiasm, and learning despite the remote modality,” Yacoby wrote.
The lab staff are discussing ways students may be able to collect data at home in the fall, Yacoby said in an interview. He added that his course already focuses on creating simple models that allow students to puzzle through phenomenon on their own.
“Overall, I believe that we can replicate our activities and maintain 95 percent of our goals remotely,” he said.
—Staff writer James S. Bikales can be reached at james.bikales@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @jamepdx.
—Staff writer Kevin R. Chen can be reached at kevin.chen@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @kchenx.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
It’s safe to say that COVID-19 has changed our lives completely — and will probably continue to do so. While we can’t exactly predict what the future holds, we can try to predict Harvard’s course catalog! As Harvard boasts courses as “the kind students will never forget,” these fake future courses are bound to be engaging — or at least give students in 2080 an intense intro to quarantine.
GOV 420: The History of the Corona-Revolution, Or How Coronavirus Caused the Worldwide Takeover of Communism
The economy is crashing, the CDC is failing, Tiktok has replaced all human engagement, and my best friend just gave herself bangs. What better time to topple the bourgeoisie than this time of pure chaos? In this course, learn how COVID-19 facilitated Karl Marx’s dream of an all-communist world and implement your own proletariat revolution from the comfort of your dorm.
Life Sciences 3: An Integrated Introduction to Viral Pandemics: A Closer Look at COVID-19
For those of you who weren’t satisfied by LS1a and LS1b, take this class to learn more about COVID-19 through the ~integrated~ lens of biochemistry.
Math 22c: Vector Analysis and Linear Algebra: Using Matrices to Model Just How Much Bread was Baked During Quarantine
We’ve all been churning out pastries and sourdough loaves, but this class will give you the insider info about exactly how much homemade bread was made in the U.S. — all through the lens of linear algebra and vectors, of course.
HIST 2020: Intro to Harvard History: A Day In the Life of a COVID-19 Student
It’s 2080 and students can now take a half-semester long course where you reenact quarantine. All students enrolled will be forced into self-quarantine halfway through the semester and complete the rest of their courses online for a truly immersive academic experience. This course will be lotteried, enrollment limited to 19.
AFVS 2019: It’s Corona Time: The History of the COVID-19 Memes and the Rise of Tik Tok
2019 and 2020 will forever be remembered in history as the years of the COVID memes and the global takeover of Tiktok. In this course, students can make their own antique TikTok, inspired by Charli D’Amelio, and curated meme portfolio while analyzing history through the lens of Twitter.
Even though students in 2080 won’t have lived through this pandemic, they’ll get to learn about it in the future. And if these exact classes aren’t offered, Harvard will definitely have some good ones — and, hopefully, memes will still be involved.
