News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
I was shaking at my core to return to Harvard this time. Since graduating from Harvard Law School in 2016, I have returned several times to speak to students about my practice as an anti-corruption lawyer. But on March 9, I returned to share a deeply personal story about my brother Ekpar Asat, a prominent Uighur tech entrepreneur who has been arbitrarily detained since returning to China from the United States in spring 2016.
Making myself vulnerable at a time when academic freedom is under constant attack concerned me. But I couldn’t think of a better venue to share my brother’s story by the side of my mentor, Law School Professor William P. Alford, who is well known for his genuine care for students and colleagues. In some ways, it was therapeutic as the faculty and students were rooting for me. It felt like my homecoming.
Harvard’s motto, Veritas, means truth. I returned to my alma mater to speak the truth, even if my voice shook.
The hero of this story is my brother, Ekpar Asat. My anchor, my mentor, the greatest man that I have ever known. It all began almost four years ago when I was a student at the Law School. Around late January 2016, my brother told me that he would be coming to the U.S. He had been accepted to the State Department’s International Visitor Leadership Program — whose alumni include New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern and the United Nations Secretary General, Antonio Guterres, among other world leaders. Many Han Chinese have also benefited from similar State Department programs, including Xie Feng, the Foreign Ministry’s commissioner in Hong Kong.
My brother is a tech entrepreneur and philanthropist. While in college, he founded a large social media platform for Uighurs. He was aware of the risks of doing media business in China, and he has been very cautious with the content published and strictly complied with the government’s censorship policies. Chinese state media praised him as a positive force, bright star, and bridge-builder between different cultures.
I was beyond excited for him that he got into such a prestigious program. Never would I have thought this nomination would not be a blessing but a curse! Within weeks after returning from this trip, my brother was detained, and his whereabouts remain unknown. One thing became clear to me after my brother disappeared — as long as you are Uighur, none of your contributions matter. The Chinese government can make you vanish as if you are nobody and no one can seek ownership of you. It pains me that I cannot even ask my family if my brother is alive!
Many of you know Professor Michael J. Sandel’s famous course “Justice,” in which he analyzes questions of morality, such as whether sacrificing one life in order to save another five is right. I have thought about this question when, over the past few years, I chose not to speak out, fearing retribution against my other family members. Obviously, there is a difference in my case, as it was the state that unjustly took my brother away. Nevertheless, despite my Harvard Law background and my experience as an attorney, I chose them over my brother and left him hopeless.
Yet just like my brother, I have been committed to the betterment of the world. In particular, I hoped to promote the relationships between China and Turkey. In 2012, I co-organized a landmark conference that brought Chinese lawyers and academics to Istanbul to engage with my Turkish colleagues. Featured speakers included the Chinese General Consul in Istanbul and the Deputy Prime Minister of Turkey. While I worked as an attorney in Istanbul, I was also committed to my own pro-bono work and desired to improve the lives of Syrian refugees. That is the beauty of being an attorney — you can change lives. However, when it came to my own brother, I felt so powerless. As an attorney who lives and breathes to find a solution, I feel so helpless in the face of injustice committed by such a powerful and authoritarian country against my own brother.
Furthermore, over the past few years, I have used other forms of advocacy, such as meeting with officials from the State Department, to fight for him. None of these efforts have yielded a positive result. I realized that speaking out is the only powerful form to raise awareness and bring change. My brother will continue and has already become one of the human faces of the Chinese government’s ongoing atrocities in the Xinjiang Uighur Autonomous Region.
I am sharing my brother’s story, a story of courage, to send a message to my Harvard and fellow Harvardians. Many of you will be shapers and movers of our society. Your words carry weight. Therefore, I ask you: Join the fight, be the light, be the integrity, be the voice for my brother, and my people. Because you are my people too.
Rayhan Asat is a graduate of Harvard Law School.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
“We were really hoping that this year, we would have had it figured out. There were full plans. Obviously, that didn’t go as proposed.”
For Sahar M. Omer ’20, the president of the Harvard Islamic Society, the sudden evacuation of Harvard’s campus in March meant more than the transition of classes to Zoom. The month-long Ramadan celebrations that Omer had planned with multiple committees of peers and faculty at Harvard were suddenly called off. Even a pilgrimage to Mecca, set to take off from Boston Logan airport only days after the University’s announcement, was canceled by Harvard’s Muslim chaplain Imam Khalil Abdur-Rashid within hours. At Harvard and around the world, faith, along with the rest of life, shifted home.
The month of Ramadan began on the evening of April 23 and concluded at sundown on May 23. For Muslims around the world, it marks a period of fasting from sunrise to sunset. Each day’s fast is broken by iftar, an evening meal that traditionally begins with eating dates, followed by a communal feast and prayer.
Typically, people would gather together for iftar. “Just having your community around you every single night for a month has always meant a lot to me,” Omer says. “If you go to other places that have very big Muslim communities, it can be thousands of people that you don’t normally see, all congregating together.”
Much of this has been lost in quarantine, as the shared tradition of fasting loses the nightly gatherings that make the celebration communal. “Ramadan is more than just not eating,” Janna E. Ramadan ’23 says. “It matters a lot, especially because I’m not living in a Muslim-majority country. I’m in the U.S — spending Ramadan with other Muslims was the best way to make that up. And you can’t really do that besides with your family now.”
After each meal comes tarawih, a special series of prayers for Ramadan. “Those prayers are the time where you come together with your community. It takes a while — it can be up to an hour — but at the same time, it’s always strengthened me to be with a community of people,” Omer says. Now, however, it’s “me, my dad, my mom; we get up and pray together. And it’s fine; it’s great, but certainly not the same.”
“I feel Ramadan most when I am fasting and still doing the normal things that I would do,” Ramadan says. “If you’re just sitting at home, not eating, it doesn’t feel as impactful. The whole point of Ramadan is that you fast to feel like people who are less fortunate and don’t have access to food consistently.”
In Harvard’s own residence halls, some students continued to endure the statewide shutdown in Massachusetts while isolated from their families, as travel restrictions, fears of spreading the coronavirus to vulnerable family members, and other exigencies prevented their return home. Ramadan, however, says that she’s heard from friends still on campus that a sense of community still persisted at Harvard: “It’s been nice that some of them are still getting together, which is as close to community building as you can do.” For this Ramadan, the bags of halal food served by HUDS at dawn and dusk had to make up for Ramadan apart from family.
But Ramadan says that social distancing guidelines around the world have led to an unexpected effect: The differences between the lifestyles of Muslims in Muslim-majority countries and those living as minorities in other countries have largely evaporated. During a typical Ramadan in Muslim-majority countries, “everything shuts down,” Ramadan says. “The courts will close, government buildings will not be as open as often as they usually are. Restaurants are all closed. Schools take time off. It’s a time where you spend essentially a month fasting at home with family and friends.” This is now the reality faced by Muslims regardless of the country in which they live: “Now it’s how I imagined my family celebrates Ramadan overseas: You’re at home, you’re cooking, you’re doing whatever you have to.”
The Harvard Islamic Society had planned celebrations for Ramadan, but they were cancelled as the student body quarantined itself in homes and dorms. Last year, when the month of Ramadan fell within the academic calendar for the first time in almost a decade, the University organized spaces for iftar and expanded dietary options at morning and evening.
Abdur-Rashid, Harvard’s Muslim chaplain, recounts that last year’s Ramadan celebrations were a resounding success. On the first night, “the line for food went up the street, down the block. Originally there was pizza ordered for 150 people; that ran out in the first 35 to 40 minutes,” Abdur-Rashid recounts.
The iftars that followed continued to draw over 100 people each night. Students and faculty routinely dined side-by-side. Participants were hardly limited to practicing Muslims — “By nature, by intent, every single night it is radically interfaith,” Abdur-Rashid says.
This year, celebrations obviously had to look different. Planners of this year’s Ramadan events at Harvard found help from other faith groups, who gave advice on how to adapt a religious observance to the era of social distancing. With Passover and Easter occurring shortly before the start of Ramadan, the online alternatives that Jewish and Christian faith leaders utilized — such as virtual sermons and remote events — helped inspire the religious programming that Abdur-Rashid and the Islamic Society put on throughout Ramadan.
“Noticing that other religious communities are also trying to navigate this definitely gave us some perspective on what we could be expecting, but also just showed me how people really do come together at times like this and try to make it work,” Omer says.
Each night, after families completed iftar and evening prayers, Abdur-Rashid offered a 30-minute session on the spiritual and ethical values in Islamic scripture, which proved popular with both students of Harvard’s Muslim community and families watching by their side.
“He’s making it honestly as accessible as possible,” Ramadan says. She notes that the organizers understand the difficulties of attending events from home. “They know that people can’t sit around on Zoom for an hour and a half… so they’re making it short.”
“That way, you’re not really taking too much time away from your family,” she continues. “But you’re also able to tune in, have that religious aspect, learn something or review something, and then go back to whatever you were up to.”
Beyond nightly sermons, Harvard’s Muslim community came together during Ramadan via other virtual events — both within and outside of Harvard. These ranged from weekly game nights hosted by the Harvard Islamic Society, to public webinars featuring imams, members of Congress, and recently, the mayor of Cambridge, Sumbul Siddiqui.
Despite the efforts to maintain the community that accompanies Ramadan, it’s difficult to replace real company. “It’s good to see people’s faces over video, but it definitely is not the same,” Bilal Wurie ’21 says.
“Absence makes the heart grow fonder,” he continues. “I’m counting the days so I can get back to campus and see the community again.”
Worldwide, however, it appears that a balance must be struck between community and caution. The typical tagline on Arabic television during Ramadan is “May Ramadan bring us together.” This year, there’s an addition: “but keep yourselves at home.”
— Magazine writer Samuel D. Buckley-Bonanno can be reached at samuel.buckley-bonanno@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @sbuckleybonanno.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
As protests against police brutality unfolded in the middle of a pandemic that has claimed over 373,000 lives globally, representatives from Divest Harvard and Harvard Forward convened a livestreamed discussion Sunday afternoon to ask what Harvard’s responsibility is to a world in crisis.
The event was originally billed as a discussion of crises related to “consequences of humans’ treatment of the natural world,” including climate change and pandemics. However, speakers frequently touched on the ongoing demonstrations following the murder of a black man, George Floyd, at the hands of a white Minneapolis police officer last week.
Chloe S. Maxmin ’15, a co-founder of Divest Harvard and a member of the Maine House of Representatives who moderated the event, began the event with a moment of silence for both the victims of the pandemic as well as victims of white supremacy and police brutality.
Caleb D. Schwartz ’20, a former Crimson multimedia editor and a member of Divest Harvard, criticized the University’s response to climate issues, linking climate change to racial injustice.
“Other leaders can speak far better than I can to police and prison reform. But I do now have a three-day old degree in environmental policy, so I’ll try to speak to that today,” Schwartz said.
Schwartz criticized the University’s net-zero greenhouse gas emissions endowment plan, saying that fossil fuel companies “celebrated” Harvard’s decision to include them as potential partners in the plan.
“With every defense of the industry, Harvard normalizes its supposed imperative to profit from the things that are destroying us,” Schwartz said.
University spokesperson Jason A. Newton declined to comment, referring to University President Lawrence S. Bacow’s April announcement of Harvard’s greenhouse gas-neutral endowment pledge.
“We appreciate that advocates for divestment from fossil fuel companies may not be satisfied with this approach, but we believe that divestment paints with too broad a brush. We cannot risk alienating and demonizing possible partners, some of which have committed to transitioning to carbon neutrality and to funding research on alternative fuels and on strategies to decarbonize the economy,” Bacow wrote at the time.
Following Schwartz’s remarks, Maxim began a panel session featuring William E. McKibben ’82, an environmentalist and former Crimson president, and Adrienne L. Hollis, Senior Climate Justice and Health Scientist at the Union of Concerned Scientists.
“This Sunday, the smoke that’s troubling us most comes not from wildfires or even from power plants, but from cities, where people are rising up for some kind of justice,” McKibben said.
McKibben cited a study likening the long-term health consequences of police brutality to the long-term consequences of pollution exposure.
“When the threat becomes recurring and persistent, the survival process, the hormone response becomes dangerous and causes rapid wear and tear on body organs,” McKibben said. “The same communities that deal with wretched policing deal with coal-fired power plants sitting in the neighborhood, or refineries — they’re the communities that are always at risk, and they’re the same ones that have been paying the toll from coronavirus.”
McKibben said that Harvard’s resources place the University in a position of responsibility to address these crises.
“Harvard is the greatest example of establishment that we have in our country, the purest example of money, and power conferred on an institution and the people conferred on it,” McKibben said. “It is way past time that Harvard started trying to do something with all of that accumulated power and prestige.”
The panelist closed their portion of the event by discussing the role of academic institutions in relation to ongoing “structural crises,” including climate change and COVID-19.
McKibben praised research and activism by Harvard’s faculty and students but condemned the University’s financial ties to the fossil fuel industry.
“There is a trillion dollar industry whose business model demands that we not take climate change seriously, and it's that business that Harvard’s chosen to partner with over and over and over again,” he said.
Hollis said that academic institutions should talk to and engage with communities to find out what they need and to tangibly improve their circumstances.
“Communities are no longer willing to allow universities the behavior that they’ve had in the past, where they come to a community, and do something to them, and then take those results, publish them or whatever, and the community never hears from them again. Now it’s about what the community needs,” Hollis said.
—Staff writer Ellen M. Burstein can be reached at ellen.burstein@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @ellenburstein.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Following the murders of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor, and Tony McDade, Harvard College students have mobilized to condemn anti-black police brutality and call for racial justice.
The recent spate of police brutality, which comes on the heels of Ahmaud Arbery’s shooting, has spurred citizens across the country to protest institutionalized anti-black violence. Dozens of cities, including Boston, have erupted in demonstrations. At one such protest, held in Columbus, Ohio, recently graduated student and former Harvard men’s basketball player Seth E. Towns ’20 was detained.
Beyond physically participating in protests, undergraduates have also harnessed on-campus organizations to demand justice for Floyd and other victims of police brutality, raise funds for arrested protesters, and promote coalition-building among minority groups.
A contingent of Harvard undergraduates involved in campus arts organized an online variety show Saturday evening to raise funds for organizations combating racial injustice. Drawing more than 300 attendees, the event — dubbed Freedom Fundraiser Show — featured 20 performances from student musicians, singers, and stand-up comedians.
Throughout the show, audience members donated sums of money to organizers who plan to distribute the funds to organizations such as the Black Visions Collective, Reclaim the Block, and North Star Health Collective. The fundraiser ultimately raised more than $12,500, surpassing the organizers’ original goal of $2,000.
Jasiel D. Lampkin ’20, who co-emceed the show, said she decided to help organize the event because she wanted to meaningfully use her platform as a recent Harvard graduate.
“There's a lot you can do as a Harvard student in terms of organizing, getting people together, and accessing resources that a lot of people just don't have access to,” Lampkin said. “I have always been looking for ways to be more active in my use of that network.”
“This felt like a very simple way to have a big impact,” she added.
Travis L. Harper II ’23, who performed at the show, said much of his organizing involved inviting black cultural organizations such as the Black Students Association and the Black Men’s Forum to co-sponsor the event.
During the show, Harper performed a cover of the song “A Change is Gonna Come” by Sam Cooke, which he said has a personal significance.
“My grandfather who came of age during the Civil Rights Movement in the 60s, this is one of his favorite songs by his favorite artist,” Harper said. “It was also just striking to me that this is such an old song — it was written in 1964 — and yet the lyrics are just still incredibly pertinent.”
“Most importantly, I think that song incorporates the feelings of despair and pain that comes along with racial injustice, but also it has just such a beautiful sense of hope,” he added.
Harper said that while it was a “very emotional experience” to share his art with other Harvard students, he felt vulnerability was integral to his performance.
“It's important for all of us to see how this is affecting us not just in terms of the statistics but the everyday emotional labor that we have to go through, and how it's actually affecting the mental health and lives of so many black people around the world,” he said.
In recent days, student organizations have also mobilized in other ways. The Harvard College Democrats organized a phone banking event via Zoom on Saturday. During the event, phone bankers called the offices of police departments, attorney generals, mayors, and lawmakers in the cities and states where Floyd, Taylor, and McDade were killed.
The group, along with 22 co-sponsoring organizations, compiled a resource guide with phone banking scripts, facts and figures about police brutality against black people, a list of funds to which people could donate, and mental health resources.
Nearly 400 people signed up to participate in the event, according to College Democrats president Menatallah N. Bahnasy ’22.
“We figured that mobilizing people to be able to do it together in one space, especially because phone banking isn't super easy when it's your first time to do it, and having resources that can guide people through it would be a really special opportunity,” Bahnasy said.
The Harvard-Radcliffe Asian American Association, which also co-sponsored the phone bank, published a statement in solidarity with Floyd and all other victims of police brutality on Friday.
“One of the officers complicit is an Asian American man, who stood by as his partner brutally pinned George Floyd down in a chokehold up to his last breath. This instance is one example of Asian American complicity in systems of white supremacy,” the group wrote.
“We cannot be compliant in perpetuating the ‘model minority’ myth by staying silent,” the statement added. “We urgently need to recognize how Asian Americans can and have reinforced this myth by both committing and ignoring instances of anti-Black racism.”
AAA co-president Evelyn R. Cai ’22 said that the group was committed to rising above “performative allyship.”
“We really wanted to include action steps in our solidarity statement. So we included places to donate,” she said. “And we also included resources for Asian American specifically to read about how they can support the black community and recognize anti blackness within our own community.”
She added that the association’s educational-political chairs have started planning a fall event with Asian American and African American Studies professors to discuss how Asian Americans can champion the black community.
“We're hoping to ride this wave of awareness and extend it and keep it going and make sure it's not just this flash of performative allyship that disappears,” she said.
Harvard Fuerza Latina also released a statement to members Saturday asserting that it stood with the Black Lives Matter movement, calling upon its members not only to demand justice for Floyd but also to “fight anti-blackness” within and outside of the Latinx community.
Fuerza co-president Sheila De La Cruz ’22 said the Black Lives Matter movement is relevant to many members of the group, a number of whom are of African descent.
“It's really important to realize that we have a great diversity of students in our organization. And so Black Lives Matter really hits home for a lot of students in the Latinx community,” she said.
Fuerza co-president Luz A. Ramirez-Ramirez ’22 agreed, explaining that a group of Dominican undergraduates founded the organization.
“We were founded initially by a group of students that have ties to a country that is very much centered on African roots,” she said, adding that the group’s solidarity statement in part honored its history and founding members.
Harvard Expressions Dance Company also wrote to its members in support of the Black Lives Matter movement.
“As a hip hop company with Black American roots, and as a student organization that believes in the welfare of all individuals, we cannot stay silent in the wake of the wave of police brutality against Black Americans,” the directors wrote.
Co-director Nina S. Uzoigwe ’21 said black talent is central to the dance company’s character and success.
“We want to show that we really celebrate and understand where we've come from in terms of how the black community has contributed both their talents and leadership, and all of their creative ability toward making our company what it is today,” she said.
The Black Students Association has announced that it will hold a town hall on “solidarity, allyship, and activism” Monday evening in collaboration with the UC Black Caucus and other campus affinity groups, including AAA and Fuerza.
Harvard’s Generational African-American Students Association is also hosting a “5 Days of BLM Solidarity” event starting Monday. Throughout the week, the group will encourage Harvard students to sign petitions, make calls to politicians, and donate to health collectives and bail funds.
College administrators also responded to the murders over the weekend.
Dean of the College Rakesh Khurana wrote to undergraduates in an email co-signed by Dean of Students Katherine G. O’Dair Sunday that they stood with students in their “outrage and frustration.”
“All of us who believe in our College’s mission must transform our outrage and pain into action. We must ask ourselves how Harvard College can be a place that contributes to a more informed and honest conversation about the inequalities both within Harvard and in society,” Khurana and O’Dair wrote, adding that current events called for re-evaluation around the College’s programming and support systems.
“Whether you are an incoming or returning student, we look forward to hearing from you in the coming months about how we can work together to create positive change, both on campus and beyond,” they added. “Black lives matter, and we must do better.”
Beyond the immediate events and statements, several students said they believe people must contend with the realities of racial injustice on a daily basis.
Harper said he believes that beyond changes in policy, the most consequential and necessary first step to rectifying racial injustice is normalizing discussions about race and privilege.
“We refuse to acknowledge racial injustice until a life is lost, or until we have to see a video of someone dying before our eyes,” he said. “But any black person knows that racial injustice is always happening. It's always occurring. And we have to be constantly calling it out. I take it upon myself, to always talk about issues of race to always bring it up because we can't forget about it.”
Lampkin said she urges her peers — and Harvard affiliates more broadly — to recognize their particular responsibility to educate themselves and others about issues of racial justice.
“I think we're in a very privileged position of having gone to one of the most prominent universities in the world. We have been given the tools to write and think about these types of issues in a very critical and educated way,” she said. “For us to not understand these issues and understand the history behind these issues would be a disservice to the education and the privilege we've been granted.”
—Staff writer Juliet E. Isselbacher can be reached at juliet.isselbacher@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @julietissel.
—Staff writer Amanda Y. Su can be reached at amanda.su@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @amandaysu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
