News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
I am not one to bite the Harvard hand that feeds me, but sometimes I want to eat the sweets that the hand doesn’t offer me.
As an incoming freshman, I was given a “choice”: move on-campus or stay at home. Well, going on campus had its perks, like the possibility of making new friends, the chance of having a (somewhat) normal first-year experience, and the atmosphere of Cambridge. However, staying at home also had its perk: $5,000.
As a low-income student, the question turned into whether I wanted to bring $5,000 back home to support me and my mother or venture on campus, spending money on transportation and food costs.
For reasons not so obvious to other students, I chose to stay home. Thus far, $2,100 has been used to cover the month’s rent, purchase groceries, fix car issues, and swap out a 16-year-old, hand-me-down bedroom suite for a new one that would make learning from my room more bearable. The $5,000 not only made learning from home a possibility; it made home a possibility.
For some low-income students like myself, the choice was never really a choice. It became clear what the moral imperative was — stay home and support your family. I still have a sophomore, junior, and senior year ahead of me. But my mom, a school bus driver, may not always be able to afford a roof over her head.
Yet, as I sit in my newly furnished room with Wi-Fi capabilities and a laptop in front of me, I cannot help but think of what would have been if the option was never given to me. I would be on campus right now, getting regular COVID-19 tests and bonding with other freshmen over the online learning experience. While I am grateful for the generous hand of Harvard, part of me wishes it never would have offered me the too-good-to-turn-down, green money and would have only offered the sweet, nectarine possibility of an on-campus first semester.
Am I selfish for that? Yes.
If I was on campus, I would not have to see my family struggle; to me, their struggles would essentially not exist. But moving to Cambridge would still allow me to separate myself from home. To focus on schoolwork, not on bills. To think about extracurricular activities, not on how I will eat tonight. While I hold guilt for having this feeling, I do not know of many students who want to stay in a broken home rather than experience college life, especially at an institution they had once only dreamed of attending.
The $5,000 from Harvard was definitely a gracious plenty, but it did nothing to help me wedge myself out of that rock and a hard place. Instead, it has me looking forward to what summer school could be like, a consolation offered to students who choose to stay home for the year, which, sadly, has only increased my feelings of guilt as I count down the days until I am able to be on campus.
As my mom and I become dependent on that $5,000, I worry what will happen when it is all used up. Yes, we work. And no, we have no plans on quitting our jobs. But the safety and comfort that the $5,000 has provided is currently a blessing that will, in the long run, seem more like a curse.
Ultimately, I do bite the hand that feeds me. I bite the hand because I am frustrated, but I will also be quick to give it a band aid and a handshake for all that it has done for me. However, the slap of having a starkly different freshman year than my peers due to factors out of my control will leave a lasting mark, as it has for many other low-income students. And the sting will be felt as we continue to watch others have that college experience of which we also only dreamed.
Jordan R. Robbins ’24 is a Crimson Editorial comper.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
For much of this year, COVID-19 has been shining a bloody spotlight on the racial and economic inequities racking the country. Nationwide, people of color are nearly five times as likely to be hospitalized, while in New York City, those living in the poorest neighborhoods are over twice as likely to succumb to the virus. In any country, these inequities would be deplorable; in ours, they are scandalous. In a country home to 15 percent of the world’s GDP, it seems unthinkable that we lack the resources to adequately address these issues.
That’s not to say that there’s some grand conspiracy to keep things this way. What there is, though, is a conspiracy of silence. For most Americans, there’s simply no need to think about these inequities in day-to-day life. Sure, we might feel a pang of guilt when we pass those clearly less fortunate in the street, but this discomfort is easy to ignore and even easier to forget. And when push comes to shove — say, when one’s wallet is on the line — it’s tempting to assume that it’s all okay, that a real solution to the problem will require the government anyway, and that all my efforts would only amount to a couple Jeff Bezos-seconds worth of income. Which, I’m willing to concede, are fair points. But when those Bezos-seconds are instead going towards Uber Eats and Netflix and AirPods, it’s not hard to wonder if one’s priorities are misplaced.
Nowhere is this conspiracy more apparent, I think, than in the case of nursing homes. The horror stories are all too familiar, from the sky-high death rates in New York to the sacrificial rhetoric in Texas. But as with the prior inequities, it would be a mistake to conclude that COVID seeded these problems. The dire state of American nursing homes, and the attitude toward the elderly they symbolize, long preceded the pandemic. And while economic and racial justice are slowly gaining the recognition they deserve, the problems facing America’s elderly continue to be ignored. It’s not that these problems are invisible. In fact, they couldn’t be clearer.
Consider the following statistics. In 2014, of the estimated 1.5 million Americans in nursing homes, roughly half were depressed. In the early 2000’s, 38 percent of nursing home residents received visitors less than once a week, and 9.3 percent none at all. And care remains chronically underfunded: most nursing aides make less than $30,000 a year, well under the national average for personal income. Now, if you’re like me, these statistics aren’t surprising at all — which is exactly my point. It’s not really a secret that nursing homes are lonely, underfunded, and literally depressing. What’s astonishing is that Americans have known these facts and simply ignored them.
This all may sound overly harsh. It would be wrong, of course, to neglect the scores of volunteers, relatives, and nursing assistants working tirelessly for the elderly, often in the most emotionally draining of environments. But it’s hard to visit an American nursing home without catching the stench of neglect. Even the most basic elements seem to be designed without thought for the residents. At one center my grandfather stayed at, the panic button had to be yanked out of the wall to call for help — an odd choice for the aging patients, many of whom barely had the strength to lift their arms. And at the many nursing homes I’ve been to, the most debilitated patients have always been in the upper floors, while the more mobile residents are granted ground-floor access. I’m sure there’s a reason for this counterintuitive arrangement, but my cynicism tells me it’s to protect visitors from glimpsing residents with feeding tubes.
As with racial injustice, it’s tempting to lay all the blame for these inequities at the feet of those in power. And there’s some merit to this: it’s hard to argue that caretakers really need to be paid such low salaries when the CEOs of some nursing home companies (e.g. Genesis Healthcare) earn millions annually. But on the whole, this gets things backwards. Many administrators may be lousy, it’s true, but they’re lousy because we allow them to be. Even a semblance of public buy-in would render the current state unthinkable. The success of countries like Norway, where nursing homes are mostly funded by local municipalities and only a quarter of residents are depressed, suggests that if America is failing, it may well be for lack of trying.
All of which raises the question: how on earth can our society, advanced in so many respects, so flagrantly fail to care for its elderly? What does it say about us, that we find their situation so easy to forget? And—when our turn rolls around—how can we expect to be treated any different?
Patrick M. Magee ’21 is a joint Philosophy and Physics concentrator in Currier House. His column appears on alternate Thursdays.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Shamefully, David Kane will continue teaching Government 50: “Data” despite allegedly authoring racist blog posts under a pseudonym, which his students unearthed two weeks ago. Students linked Kane to the posts, which he has not denied authoring, by noting that he signed his real name and graduation year to one post filed under the pseudonym and created the blog itself.
One such post argues his alma matter, Williams College, should allow a Neo-Nazi group on campus, while another baselessly claims that almost every Black student at his alma mater was only there because of their race, challenging the validity of non-white students in higher education. By allowing Kane to continue teaching, the Government department has utterly failed its students, particularly those who now have good reason to believe that their preceptor views them as lesser than white peers. They have signaled to students and faculty alike that embracing white supremacy is permissible in their department.
Last week, we called on Harvard to back up its anti-racist rhetoric by firing David Kane, or at least removing him from the course while reviewing the case.
Instead, the Government Department announced in a letter to students on Thursday that — with professor Kosuke Imai taking over as the official course head (whatever that means) — Kane would continue to lead Gov 50 lectures, though they will be optional. Which provokes the question: Why keep Kane if his contribution isn’t essential to the course?
Blog posts filed under an author tag to which Kane has signed his name on at least one post fixate on genetic differences between races. In one, the author explicitly agrees with Charles Murray — a speaker Kane invited to the course, best known for arguing that the “underclass” (among them poor people, Black people, and women) are societally inferior due to genetic differences that render them lazier and less intelligent. The post reads: “Genetics has a huge influence on most personal characteristics. Those genetics differ across races. Therefore, . . .”
A follow-up letter sent to students on Friday — nearly two weeks after the posts came to light — offered a thin, overdue acknowledgment of the “pain and hurt” the posts have caused students. The same letter also went on to affirm Thursday’s decision, claiming the department had met “immediate educational demands” with a solution that “best serves all our students.” Is the department serious?
These two claims — that students are hurting, but that their needs have also been addressed by Thursday's decision — are inherently contradictory. Students’ hurt is their need. How does the choice to let Kane continue teaching address students’ needs, or alleviate their hurt? How are students — especially Black and other non-white students — ever to feel comfortable under the presence of a preceptor who condones and advocates racist sentiments? What will Imai’s oversight do to protect them?
Nothing has changed. And nothing will change until students’ needs are truly acknowledged by the Government department through decisive action. What they offered instead was a “sorry your feelings got hurt.” They can keep it; students don’t want it.
The only way for the Government department to wholeheartedly condemn Kane’s alleged moral failings would be to remove him from his position, demonstrating a complete intolerance for his racist views. Their current failure to do so serves as a tacit legitimization of the sentiments on Kane’s blog. That harms the well-being of Black and other nonwhite students who already struggle disproportionately with feeling like they belong within Harvard’s gates. And it sends a damaging message to academia more broadly about what academic institutions should tolerate in their pedagogues.
And this isn’t the first time that the Government department has failed its students. In 2018, The Chronicle of Higher Education revealed that Government professor Jorge I. Dominguez had been allowed to harass female colleagues and students for decades. Harvard knew in the 1980s. A year later students were still calling for an external review. A climate survey in early 2019 showed that a third of female students and faculty in the department felt that they were “limited” by their gender.
The toxic culture that has been cultivated within the department is deeply concerning and the recent events are only the latest reminder that students who are seeking a supportive and nurturing learning environment ought to consider looking elsewhere.
So we reiterate: Fire David Kane.
This staff editorial solely represents the majority view of The Crimson Editorial Board. It is the product of discussions at regular Editorial Board meetings. In order to ensure the impartiality of our journalism, Crimson editors who choose to opine and vote at these meetings are not involved in the reporting of articles on similar topics.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
The vaccine came together in 10 minutes.
Alone in a private laboratory in Boston, Mass., Preston W. Estep poured five ingredients into a beaker — salt, water, sodium triphosphate, the shrimp-based compound chitosan, and peptides from the novel coronavirus — which together coalesced into gel nanoparticles the size of the SARS-CoV-2 virus.
He poured the mixture into a spray bottle, raised it to his nose, and breathed in the mist.
Estep, then the Director of Gerontology at Harvard’s Personal Genome Project, had long been skeptical of the DIY biology movement— the push to bring biological experimentation outside of institutional settings. But in March, as he followed reports of elderly people dying unattended in nursing homes in Italy and Seattle, he decided not to wait 12 to 18 months more for a commercial vaccine. He believed his community of “leading citizen scientists and edgy academic and company types” could develop a superior product by the end of the year, without ever running a clinical trial or securing billions of dollars in funding: Instead, each member would test the vaccine on themselves.
Alongside three colleagues connected to Harvard Medical School, Estep launched the Rapid Deployment Vaccine Collaborative (RaDVaC) this spring to produce a vaccine based on an “extremely promising” but little-used technology he noticed again and again in research papers.
The team not only designed a novel vaccine — they also released it to the public. In a 59-page report now signed by five Harvard affiliates and 34 anonymous authors, the group lays out the rationale and protocol for its vaccine, disclaiming any guarantees of safety or efficacy.
Their website calls it a “necessary act of compassion.”
For Estep, putting the information online democratized it. “This kind of knowledge, this kind of privilege, is very restricted,” he says. “But if you work a little harder, you can give [people] access to privileges they normally don’t have.”
Two of the group’s co-founders, Alexander Hoekstra and Ranjan Ahuja, worked with Estep on the Personal Genome Project, a Harvard-based study that seeks to sequence and create a public library of the genomes of 100,000 volunteers. HMS Professor George M. Church founded the PGP in 2005, envisioning an undertaking that could accelerate the pace of genetics research and bridge the gap between scientists and citizens.
Upon its founding, the PGP was criticized for posing an undue risk to its participants’ privacy; many doubted that non-scientists could make informed decisions about whether or not to enroll. Today, it’s model is accepted by many — over 10,000 people have participated, and it has inspired offshoots in five separate countries.
Estep, Hoekstra, and Ahuja all drew parallels between the missions of RaDVaC and the PGP, arguing that both endeavors aim to bring science into the hands of regular people. Indeed, the questions the two projects ask are similar: What counts as a valid form of knowledge creation? How should scientists working within the walls of institutions relate to the people beyond it? And where is the line between accessibility and irresponsibility?
Estep hopes people will treat the RaDVaC report less as “the textbook on DIY virology” than as a launching pad for further experiments. He envisions amateur and professional scientists will soon “get under the hood themselves,” tinkering with the design to meet current needs — as well as those presented by future pandemics.
The collaborative initially shared the vaccine with family members, professional connections, and groups of biohackers. In June, as reporters learned that Church — somewhat of a mythic figure in the science world — had also taken it, RaDVaC started receiving heightened attention. Hundreds of people contacted the group expressing interest in the vaccine. The team has since fielded their questions by email and coached some through the protocol in person.
So far, around 50 people have taken at least one dose of the vaccine, with few reporting any symptoms aside from nasal congestion. Most are scientists and physicians, some of whom are at an elevated risk for COVID-19. One department head at a major U.S. hospital had previously considered designing his own vaccine, but found the task daunting. He now plans to modify the RaDVaC vaccine for himself and his wife.
While the group maintains it has a duty to mitigate the suffering caused by the pandemic, many in the scientific community believe its efforts are equal parts futile and irresponsible. Barry R. Bloom, an immunologist at the T.H. Chan School of Public Health, suspects the project will be “absolutely useless” due to its small sample size. More importantly, he fears it will exacerbate the public’s distrust of vaccines. Jacob S. Sherkow, a professor of law at the University of Illinois, says the potential harms are both “easily articulable” and “substantial,” ranging from health complications to false senses of security.
In part due to the outrage, Estep elected to take a leave from the Harvard-affiliated PGP. He remains steadfast in his position, though, and regularly shares a motto with the team: “Don’t be afraid of being controversial. Be afraid of being wrong.” He draws inspiration from Church, his former Ph.D. advisor and long-time mentor, who has routinely ruffled feathers while pushing the boundaries of genetic engineering.
RaDVaC stands out even among other citizen science projects for its ambition (and risk and prestige). At its core, however, it is driven by the same belief that governs efforts to produce cheap insulin and imagine new models of research like the Personal Genome Project’s: that our scientific institutions are not only slow-moving but dangerously insular.
On March 9, Estep sent a mass email to a list of associates he believed might be interested in working on a DIY vaccine. US government estimates that a therapy would take over a year to develop seemed painfully slow. “There is already sufficient information [online] to guide the development of a safe and likely effective vaccine,” he wrote.
Some responded, Estep remembers, along the lines of, ‘This sounds crazy, I don’t think I can be involved with it.”
But a few others adopted a different tack: “This sounds crazy; let’s definitely do it.”
Hoekstra, a former project manager at the PGP, read the message while attending what was to be his last in-person scientific conference. At first, he kept picturing the challenges they’d face producing a vaccine. But the more he thought about it, the more he was drawn to the idea. By mid-March, the pandemic had already spun out of control. Hoekstra felt that even if the project failed, it was “irresponsible not to act.”
Hoekstra decided to join Estep and two others— Ahuja, Director of Community at the PGP and Don Z. Wang, an HMS-trained immunologist— in co-founding RaDVaC. The four soon began their project in a rented laboratory unaffiliated with Harvard, working with commercially available reagents.
Within three weeks, the team had settled on an initial version of the vaccine.
Estep administered it to himself on March 28. He was skeptical, but says he had no reason not to take it — he didn’t believe it was dangerous. And as soon as he inhaled the solution, he felt he had taken a big first step towards “something important.” “I had this incredible psychological lift,” he recounted. “Every time I take it, I have that feeling.”
When he developed a stuffy nose later that afternoon, he took it as a promising sign.
The other three followed suit in April and June, taking one dose of vaccine every two weeks. When I spoke to Hoekstra, he said he was “already looking forward” to his next one. “It’s got some good CD4 T-cell epitopes in there,” he added, smiling.
In early July, the group published a white paper on its website detailing the specifications of its vaccine so others could make it themselves. Estep, Ahuja, Hoekstra, and Wang signed on as co-authors; a dozen other initial participants elected to remain anonymous.
According to Estep, it typically takes lay people around 25 minutes to make the vaccine. The recipe requires little lab equipment, and one can procure both the ingredients and materials required to make it from biotech sites and Amazon for less than $1400 in total.
Reading the protocol, I was surprised to see that it was simpler than some of the procedures I’d worked on in freshman year biology courses.
Soon after the publication of the white paper, Church enlisted as a guinea pig. For many observers, his choice brought increased attention, and scrutiny, to the project’s methods.
Onlookers have criticized RaDVaC for forgoing the typical model of a clinical trial, which usually consists of four stages that take place over the span of several years, with different stages testing for safety, efficacy, and rare side effects.
Estep and Ahuja claim this system is ill-suited to adapt to emerging pandemics, and that there are several reasons their model is superior to that of a clinical trial.
For one, they argue clinical trials don’t allow for vaccines to adapt to new research findings. Many of the vaccine designs currently in clinical trials were locked in when we knew less about COVID-19. Most of those vaccine candidates rely on similar strategies — delivery via injection and targeting of the spike protein, the receptor the novel coronavirus uses to enter our cells — risking mass failure. RaDVaC’s vaccines, by contrast, are delivered via nasal spray and include other peptides that might elicit an additional form of immunity; Estep and his team also adapt the RaDVaC vaccine as new information about the coronavirus emerges.
Church’s justification of RaDVaC is a bit more cautious. He says he believes the pandemic has opened the opportunity to try to answer the question of how to rapidly deploy a vaccine in times of crisis. Though he emphasizes the importance of clinical trials, he nonetheless believes the RaDVaC vaccine is safe in small numbers and will be taken largely by people who understand its risks.
He anticipates the vaccine will soon move to a study, where it will be regulated by conventional standards. He sees this informal experiment as a means to bring the team’s design into the running, since clinical trials often require billions of dollars.
Church isn’t taking the vaccine out of fear that he will contract the virus — he hasn’t left his home in five months. He is a true believer in RaDVaC’s mission. He thinks the project may demystify vaccines for those who are wary of them; he also believes the model of open access will get people excited about and engaged with science and realize “facts don’t just come from the sky.”
So far, Estep claims, the RaDVaC model has been safe. Church says that “it’s riskier to go to a supermarket than to take a few peptides by the nose.” Of the about 50 people who have taken the vaccine, Estep says, the most common symptom participants have exhibited is nasal congestion — which, again, the RaDVaC team takes as a positive sign, Estep explains, apologizing to me for sniffling as we speak.
It remains unclear, though, whether the RaDVaC team can generate meaningful conclusions from self-experimentation. Bloom argues that their studies will not be able to give them any conclusive results, since rare side effects only emerge in larger sample sizes.
But regardless of whether or not their data is meaningful, many critique how they obtain it.
The white paper detailing the instructions for making the RaDVaC vaccine is available to anyone on the internet. Estep claims that, because they outline the potential risks in the same report, anyone who takes the vaccine is participating in a model of “informed consent” — they have the information they need to make an informed decision about whether to participate.
But others, like Sherkow, question whether an average person, desperate for a cure and trusting of the Harvard name, can be expected to give informed consent. And even if they can, what happens if they make a mistake in assembling the vaccine? What happens if, as a result of taking the vaccine, they change their behavior in regards to social distancing? What if they decide not to sign up for clinical trials or take a commercial vaccine later?
Responses to questions of what exactly constitutes “informed consent” in this context vary. Hoekstra believes the specialized language in the white paper will limit the population of people who engage with the vaccine instructions to those who are “scientifically literate.”
Church puts it differently: “We discussed the possibility of publishing a little piece of it just as if it were a cookbook,” he says. “Like, ‘This is how you make brownies. And this is how you make RaDVaC. And oh, by the way, the RaDVaC recipe is a little bit easier.’ No, that's not the way we did it. We actually want people to, if they want it badly enough, they will read about it.”
Estep seems more optimistic about the idea of non-scientists benefiting from RaDVaC — he claims that the jargon in the report is not an insurmountable barrier, but simply a hurdle for those interested. “We all start off as non-scientists,” he says.
The group also rejects the notion they are recruiting participants or providing advice; they believe they are simply putting information online and allowing people to respond as they will.
The issues of informed consent, of bridging the gap between the general public and the ivory tower of scientific research, have their roots in the Personal Genome Project. Three of the four RaDVaC co-founders were members of the PGP, and several of them drew analogies between their work at the PGP and their work at RaDVaC.
Hoekstra called the PGP “an act of re-empowering people to contribute their data to something much larger than a single project,” and claimed that the philosophies of the PGP “translated very easily and really helped empower or shape what RaDVaC became.”
Estep said that the motivations behind the PGP — and his participation in science in general — are rooted in increasing citizens’ “engagement in real-world science.” He says, “This is something that George Church and I have always sort of been aligned on, and that he’s really pioneered: creating infrastructures for people to contribute scientifically outside of the normal channels.” In Estep’s eyes, RaDVaC is another one of those infrastructures.
Estep also says the PGP has helped him to think about how to responsibly operate RaDVaC. “PGP has given us a unique perspective and the deep understanding of how to conduct citizen science,” he says. “We know the complexities of the kind of open and informed consent that we’ve employed at RaDVaC.”
So who is “science” for, really?
In 1993, time was running out for Estep to settle on a laboratory for his Ph.D. thesis. He had found his past two rotations unfulfilling, and hoped, with the third, to finally find a place where he could combine his interests in biology and computer science — cutting-edge stuff for the time.
His advisor said one man might fit the bill: a young assistant professor named George Church. “If he’s not weird enough for you, then there’s nothing for you at Harvard,” Estep remembers her saying. “This is the most out-there stuff that we’ve got.”
The first time he heard Church speak, Estep was “in heaven.”
“It was the most mind-blowing stuff I’d ever heard,” he recounts. Within five minutes of meeting Church, he knew he wanted to work with him. He thought, “my life is changing; my life has just changed.” Church has had a “profound influence” on him as a scientist and as a person. “I don’t remember the old me anymore,” he says.
Church is something of a celebrity in the world of genetics. The details of his biography paint a picture of a man who has never followed the rules— after graduating from Duke in two years, he flunked out of a graduate program for spending too much time in the lab and forgoing his coursework. But he was later accepted to Harvard’s graduate school, where, in 1984, he devised the first-ever direct DNA sequencing technology.
In 2005, when Church had been a professor at Harvard for 19 years, he had the idea to sequence the genomes of 100,000 strangers. At the time, the ethical standard for genomic research was to recruit a cohort of people to study one condition, get them to sign a consent form, promise not to use their data for anything else, and then never contact them again. Because researchers needed to protect the privacy of their participants, they couldn’t ask for too much information and they couldn’t share data sets. If they learned anything that could be of use to the participant (such as a genetic risk), they weren’t allowed to communicate it.
Church felt this was absurdly inefficient and pointless, especially because many scientists knew they could not truly protect the privacy of their study participants — the information they gave was enough to be identifying — and yet relied on boilerplate consent forms anyway. Having participated in many psychological studies himself as an undergraduate, he felt transparency would breed trust.
He imagined researchers could upload participants’ genomes and medical records for wide public use. Instead of one research team keeping the data to themselves, they could share it in the hope that others would use the data to study all sorts of conditions. Breaking down the barrier between researcher and participant could be a win-win situation: In exchange for sending their biological samples and health records to various scientists, participants could then learn of any genetic risks they might have.
Church received a $10 million grant from the National Institute of Health to move his experiment forward — but when Harvard Medical School’s Institutional Review Board looked over his project, they paused it out of concern. The board feared that few participants would enroll in the study, which would open up the possibility of genetic discrimination by empoyers or insurance companies. Church says this worry has proven to be unfounded; such discrimination is not only now illegal but quite rare.
Church believes people were so hesitant to adopt his model for two main reasons: first, because Harvard feared the liability that might come from disclosing (incorrectly or correctly) someone’s risk factors, and second, because there was inertia among researchers who he claims had their own “fiefdoms” — they had worked hard to acquire their own data sets and didn’t want to share them.
Alongside an ethicist and a lawyer, Church created a new, open model of consent for this project, which became the Personal Genome Project — a model that is widely-accepted today. Participants have to receive a perfect score on a thorough assessment that tests whether they understand the potential risks of putting such information online.
Estep says it was only later that he fully realized the benefits of the open-consent model — it allows people to engage with the research, he claims, which not only makes them “more effective research subjects,” but also “more educated” citizens.
In describing the difference between the model of open consent and more traditional research models, Estep draws a comparison with RaDVaC, which similarly seeks to “empower” people with information, rather than “the very conservative and patriarchal biomedical practice people usually engage in where they’re like, ‘Okay, I’m going to stick this needle here and inject you with something. Trust me, It’s good for you.’”
It took a year for HMS’s Institutional Review Board to approve the project. It rolled out in phases, with the first volunteers being Church and other medical experts the Board believed could make informed decisions. In an interview conducted at the time, Church said the project “could be something very big once people tune in; not many people know about it so far.”
Today, more than 10,000 volunteers have joined the project, and it has inspired offshoots in five countries. Church and his family even did a road trip across Canada to meet participants who wrote to him about joining the study.
In 2012, Hoekstra was an undergraduate student at Michigan State University who had recently become so disillusioned with conventional scientific research — what he saw as a “toxic relationship” between scientists, their institutions, journals, and funders — that he considered forgoing plans to attend graduate school.
But then he learned of the PGP — then described as a zany project going on in Cambridge — in a footnote in a lecture on genomics. He was so captivated by it that he decided on a whim to come up to Boston and attend a PGP conference.
At the conference, he met Church and expressed his concerns about the scientific establishment.
“George pulled on his beard for a moment and said, ‘If that’s how you feel, you shouldn't continue, you should do something different. And if you'd like, you should come out and work on the Personal Genome Project,’” Hoekstra recalls. “That changed my life, changed my whole trajectory.”
It was so life-changing, Hoekstra says, because he finally found people who were willing to challenge the status quo. He believed he was among people who embraced “the idea of doing things differently, doing things that seemed radical, and to many people seem[ed] incredibly risky,” but that “had the power to change the way science is done and change the way we understand ourselves and the world.”
Ahuja describes meeting Estep and Hoekstra as a “blessing.” He felt an “instant connection” to them, which he says is “very rare” given his eccentric outlook. Working with them, he feels he can implement “ideas that have a chain reaction,” “ideas that change not just one thing but change the conditions going forward.”
Estep says that the spirit of the PGP — its commitment to engaging citizens in science and disrupting traditional models of science — persists in RaDVaC. One reason he decided to post the vaccine design online was that doing otherwise would be “completely contradictory to [his], and George Church’s, commitment to intellectual sharing and open science.”
Sherkow, the bioethicist, finds this comparison between the PGP and RaDVaC incomprehensible. He calls the PGP the “mirror image,” the opposite, of RaDVaC. Whereas the PGP requires a high standard of consent for a low risk project that is low risk, Sherkow says, RaDVaC sets a low standard for a high risk project. If people can mess up baking bread, he argues, they can certainly mess up manufacturing this vaccine.
And where the PGP, to some, met a real need, Bloom, the HSPH immunologist, believes scientists are already deploying a vaccine as fast as they safely can.
Whereas Church finds the analogy between the PGP and RaDVaC somewhat apt, others at the PGP have distanced themselves from the vaccine and declined to comment for this article. Jeantine E. Lunshof, the ethicist that helped Church conceive of the open consent model has called RaDVaC an “ego trip.”
And while Church’s lab has passed scrupulous institutional review, RaDVaC does not report to any regulatory body, and it does not yet require self-experimenters to report symptoms. All such steps in the protocol outlined in the white paper are labeled as “optional.” While the team does plan on creating a platform for people to discuss their experiences with variations of the vaccine, it is unclear what this might look like and when it will be open to the public.
Bloom also suspects few people will self-administer the RaDVaC vaccine, given that several commercial vaccines are likely to hit the markets by early next year.
The project exists in a murky legal space. The team could be subject to FDA crackdown if the FDA determines they are distributing the vaccine or its ingredients across state lines, though Sherkow says he believes this is unlikely, since the FDA so far has not taken any action against DIY COVID vaccines. Sherkow adds that because DIY biology has never been so common or so sophisticated, there aren’t many laws regulating it.
Scientific institutions have long struggled to balance profit and progress. Even today, Jones points out, people struggle to access the medications they need because pharmaceutical companies abide by commercial incentives, monopolizing certain drugs and not working on rare diseases. Some people who are drawn to DIY bio are simply desperate for another way out. By extending the same logic to COVID-19 vaccines, this team of Harvard scientists seems to suggest it’s time to work outside the constraints of the pharmaceutical and research landscape, and in the process are raising the question of what risk and responsibility mean in these circumstances.
Whether the RaDVaC team succeeds in their effort or not, they have at the very least attracted the interest of two startup biotech companies. While they have yet to sign any contracts, they are in advanced talks about moving a vaccine based on their original design, backed by a small amount of evidence, into a clinical trial.
Still, Estep and Ahuja stress that the initial goal of RaDVaC was not commercialization. Instead, Estep says, the project was borne out of the group’s commitment to take science out of its “walled garden,” to make its findings accessible to the public, to engage as many people as possible in the process of scientific discovery — despite the torrent of criticism.
Ahuja remembers that as he first prepared the vaccine, many thoughts rushed through his head. He thought about how his actions reflected a commitment to “participate in a certain path of inquiry” and to “push the bounds of scientific understanding.” He imagined what their effort represented for “science itself as an enterprise.” He felt a sharp sense of “duty” and “privilege” to “[help] move the practice of science forward.”
Then, he took a deep breath in.
Correction: October 12, 2020
A previous version of this article incorrectly stated that Preston W. Estep worked out of a laboratory in Cambridge, Mass. In fact, the laboratory was in Boston.
Correction: October 12, 2020
A previous version of this article incorrectly stated that RaDVaC coached people through their vaccine protocol by email and phone. In fact, they did so by email and in person. 
Correction: October 12, 2020
A previous version of this article incorrectly stated that the ingredients and materials required to make RaDVaC’s vaccine cost roughly $200. In fact, it cost roughly $1400.
Correction: October 12, 2020
A previous version of this article incorrectly stated that nasal congestion was the worst symptom vaccine-takers experienced. In fact, it was the most common symptom.
Correction: October 12, 2020
A previous version of this article incorrectly stated that Alexander Hoekstra was a graduate student at Michigan State University in 2005. In fact, he was an undergraduate in 2012.
Correction: October 12, 2020
A previous version of this article incorrectly stated that RaDVaC  received interest in their project from pharmaceutical companies. In fact, they received interest from biotech companies.
— Staff writer Saima S. Iqbal can be reached at saima.iqbal@thecrimson.com.
Sections
In his many years — and late nights — working as the creative director at the Brattle Theatre, Ned R. Hinkle has not yet experienced a haunting. Nonetheless, he remains convinced that “spirits” and “emanations” play within the theatre’s historic walls. “There are definitely people that have inhabited the Brattle for so long that their essence is imbued into the floorboards,” he says. “Anything can happen.”
The Brattle Theatre, housed in a 130-year-old red brick building in Harvard Square, has been operating as a movie theatre since 1953. Over the years, it has proven instrumental in establishing the art-house and avant-garde cinema scenes in the United States. Filmmakers such as Ingmar Bergman and Federico Fellini got their start at the Brattle before achieving widespread acclaim in the U.S. Other traditions, such as the Valentine's Day screening of “Casablanca,” which couples attend dressed as characters from the film, cemented the Brattle’s status as a community favorite.
Now, as COVID-19 casts doubt on the future of the cinema industry, the Brattle Theatre is working to re-imagine what a theater can be, both as a place to view art and as a community center.
In March, as the coronavirus spread to Boston, the Brattle Theatre shut its doors to the public. Since then, the theatre has pivoted to virtual screenings and events for its members. Hinkle, who sports a pair of thick-rimmed glasses and a hat emblazoned with a gazing eye, emphasizes the importance of community donations as well as a Paycheck Protection Program loan from the government: The non-profit Brattle Film Foundation was able to keep its entire staff on the payroll until the end of July, when the theatre first opened for private rentals. To prepare for re-opening, the foundation cut a deal with a local cleaning products company, from which the theatre now receives resources such as disinfectant services and hand sanitizer. The Brattle is a “drafty old building,” as Hinkle describes it — a chilly curse, perhaps, during the winter months, but also a blessing this year, as the staff have been easily able to maintain proper circulation and air quality.
The private screenings take place twice a day, Thursday through Sunday; a “pod” of up to 15 members can rent the 235-seat theatre to watch a film together, either hand-picked from the Brattle’s collection or played from a personal disc. Hinkle notes that though the Brattle’s screen isn’t enormous, it is significantly larger than what most people would have access to at home. “We’ve had everywhere from one person renting it for her birthday to . . . maxing out at 15,” he says. “It doesn’t come anywhere close to what we would normally be making from ticket sales but does give us some kind of income and provides a service to our community of cinephiles.”
Hinkle acknowledges that there is no way to replace the in-person moviegoing experience, but the Brattle has found some success in its “Virtual Programming Series.” Occasionally accompanied by a filmmaker Q&A or a special introductory segment, these are not “screenings” in the traditional sense of the word; rather, the Brattle browses through thousands of films on streaming services, looking for hidden “gems.” The titles are then shared online with audience members. The Brattle also has a virtual screening room, in which viewers can rent movies from various distributors, with a portion of proceeds going to the theatre itself.
In addition to a curated selection of movies available online, the Brattle is delving into its own archives and history to bring unique content to its members. Hinkle is working to bring the Brattle’s 16 mm film collection to the public through Instagram live streams. The Brattle inherited its collection from a now-defunct cinema-cabaret in Cambridge called Off The Wall. Hinkle admits that when he airs these reels on Instagram, he “might not know exactly what is on it,” but this element of surprise is one of the major draws for people to rediscover these eclectic short films, many of which have not been shown in decades and are not available anywhere else.
“We aim to be as diverse as possible,” he adds, “so we are often looking at the underground or the rarely screened films — those are the ones that we take the most pleasure in playing.”
Hinkle also discusses plans to highlight the theatre’s “magic moments” from its history: For instance, F. Scott Fitzgerald produced three one-act plays at the Brattle in the 1950s, and William Marston was inspired to create Wonder Woman after hearing a women’s suffrage leader speak there.
Despite the challenges facing the independent cinema industry, Hinkle remains hopeful about the future. The Brattle is working to diversify its sources of funding, he says, suggesting celebrities and Harvard graduates with “a fond feeling for the Brattle” as possible donors. He laments the general lack of government funding for theatres and performing arts venues but hopes that their fortunes will soon change at the local and regional level.
In the meantime, Hinkle is deeply grateful for the outpouring of community support: “We are fortunate that we’re a nonprofit. It’s gotten us this far, and we hope that it’ll get us through all the way.”
In the meantime, the Brattle’s annual traditions will likely have to wait. It seems to Hinkle that the moviegoers are willing to wait, too: “We really don’t have people banging down the door saying, ‘When are you going to start showing “Casablanca?”’”
Sections
Boston’s Symphony Hall, with its imposing 60-foot-high coffered ceilings, is widely considered one of the finest music halls in the world. For the first time in 139 years, it stands silent.
But elsewhere in Boston, the music missing from Symphony Hall is coming to life again. Since May, Benjamin Zander’s two-car driveway on Brattle Street has slowly filled with live music; the audience now reaches 200 guests, spread out across the driveway and down the street, all wearing masks.
Zander, the 81-year-old founder and conductor of the Boston Philharmonic, has a smile that takes over his face and a full head of white hair that floats like its own cloud. On a Saturday afternoon in May, Zander had an idea and called up the Boston Philharmonic’s Assistant principal cellist, Velléda C. Miragias. “Would you come to my house and bring your cello?” he asked. That day in Zander’s driveway, she played an hour of solo Bach Suites — her first time playing outside her home since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic.
“Something kind of miraculous happened, which is [that] people stopped. They gathered around to listen. Cars stopped, they put down their windows. I put out a few chairs,” Zander says. “And so we decided to do more of them.”
The spontaneous endeavor became a weekly affair. Since that first call in May, the Safe and Sound series — what Zander playfully calls “Live-in-the-Drive” — has had a total of 14 concerts featuring musicians in the area, including students from the Boston Philharmonic Youth Orchestra and world-renowned flautist Carol Wincenc. Listeners began arriving early to reserve spots in the driveway and others gathered in and across the road, all socially distanced, to hear the unfiltered music cascade down Brattle Street.
Beyond the physical guests, the live Facebook streams have reached virtual audiences of up to 13,000 with comments pouring in from countries around the world, including Scotland, Argentina, and Japan.
Zander’s house is no stranger to strangers. A sign outside his blooming front garden reads “More beauty in the back, please peek!” He welcomes passersby and concert guests to enjoy the flowers in his backyard, asking, “Why would I have such a beautiful garden and not want to share it?”
In one letter, neighbor Harold Nassau details his transition from visiting Zander’s gardens to discovering the concerts, thanking him for the experience.
“I cannot begin to tell you how beautiful and moving it was to listen to the music. These months have been so devastating, so inhuman, so painful for us all,” Nassau wrote. “As I listened to the music — so elegant and refined and beautiful — I felt awakened feelings that had seemed lost.” Nassau left in tears.
In numerous other letters to Zander, neighbors thank him for his warmth and generosity of spirit. During the concerts, he offers sweaters and pulls out sofa cushions for some older audience members sitting on the asphalt. Concerned by the noise of traffic, Zander even spent the most recent concert standing in the middle of his street, guarding the delicate sound of string instruments against the hum of motors and engines.
“I found that people drove slower because they didn’t want to run me over,” Zander says, laughing. “And then the traffic noise was a little less.”
For musicians in particular, the concert series has offered a respite from the complete discontinuation of live music during the pandemic. After five months of not being able to play with others, one performer burst into tears while playing for Safe and Sound.
“We [musicians] were probably the first to be cut off from the scene because of the nature of how we play — we’re so close to each other, and the audience is close, and we are probably going to be the last ones to be back on the scene,” Miragias says. “It is emotionally very difficult because our life is wrapped around playing together, for people.”
In addition to the emotional toll of not performing, many of Miragias’s fellow musicians have faced a complete loss of income, some having to relocate and file for unemployment, others even exploring alternate career paths.
“[There is] no end in sight. You have a guess and you hear some rumors — then you hear about the MET [Orchestra] canceling for two years, so then that just adds to the anxiety,” Miragias says.
***
The Safe and Sound Concert Series contrasts with classical music’s regimented, precise, and restrictive image. Musicians came each week with little to no rehearsal, dropping out briefly mid-performance as the wind blew or as pages needed turning. Sometimes bells would ring in the nearby Armenian church. On one occasion, everyone started to yell, “Run!” as a lightning storm fell.
“One of the problems with our lives is that [they have] become too predictable. Recordings of perfectly produced music have done tremendous harm to classical music,” Zander says. “Classical music is something that should be felt with excitement and warmth and love and inspiration, and [it should] not be too careful. And in these concerts there’s no chance we are too careful. It’s full of fun.”
One listener from Maryland felt the same way.
“What will we do without you?” Tony Hyatt writes. “You have opened my mind up to a whole new world of music. I have played many concerts as a woodwind artist, and played so starched and restricted. Now my own playing moves me in a different way.”
Zander describes himself and others — performers, musicians, conductors, and listeners — as having been “starved for classical music and for live music.” There’s something about live music in particular, he thinks, that cannot be replaced.
“Music is as omnipresent as leaves on the trees. But live music is something very different,” Zander says. “Everyone who is used to eating vegetables out of the can, and then eats corn off the cob, knows that it is a totally different experience.”
When asked about his role in the concert series, Zander insists that he did very little. He has just gathered an audience of shining eyes, as he puts it.
“The aim of all of this is to create shining eyes,” Zander says. “My definition of success is not wealth, fame, or power, but how many shining eyes do I have around me?”
Sections
Brooklyn-dwellers look cheerier than you might expect nine months into a global pandemic: A couple walks, hand in hand, carrying their baby in one free arm and grasping their dog’s leash in the other; a woman in a pink corduroy jumpsuit rides her ’50s-style bike in the street; a pair of friends gush over hand-made ceramic mugs in the doorway of an artisan shop. I’m astonished at the way positivity seems to be rolling off of these New Yorkers in waves. But then, I remember, it is a Saturday.
Every weekend since Aug. 9 of this year, local vendors have flocked to Greenpoint, Brooklyn to set up shop under canvas tents (all stationed six feet apart from each other, of course). The Greenpoint Terminal Market is organized by Lauren Nishi, who wanted to facilitate local commerce on summer weekends in hopes of easing the financial hardships that small businesses continue to face amid the COVID-19 pandemic.
With festivals cancelled until further notice, the DJ bumping “Get it Together” by Drake in the lot adjacent to this outdoor market is about as close as any of us are going to get to that “just dartied” feeling for a long time. But that doesn’t seem to cheapen anyone’s fun on this Saturday afternoon. Market-goers are beaming, strutting around in their newly purchased vintage jackets, squeezing lime into their al pastor tacos, and sniffing their hand-poured soy candles. For public health reasons, all smiles are hidden under masks and polypropylene filters.
Besides vintage and artisan-made goods, a large number of vendors are selling protective facemasks. Christian Rivera, the founder of Color, Prints, and Stripes Studio, is one of them, hawking masks that he has designed and cut by hand. He refers to this work as his “happy time within this crazy time,” explaining how the unfortunate circumstances have allowed him to work on this “passion project.” With each mask sold, he hopes to transform his joy into a public service by donating masks to New York City Public Schools. “You’ve got to create some happiness,” Rivera says. “And if you can spread that with people, why not?”
Rivera isn’t the only vendor using his passion to spread joy. Practically every single vendor present wants to share their enthusiasm for their craft with others. Mexican designer Renata Solis glows as she tells me about her brand Zulia & Huipa: “It all started a year ago because I am so in love with my roots and I wanted to bring them here.”
Solis collaborates with indigenous women in Mexico and Guatemala to create one-of-a-kind cowhide leather bags. She mixes the traditional Mayan textiles with leather, a by-product of the subsistence farms these communities run. The production of these bags, she explains, follows a custom of her heritage to use the entire animal, leaving no part unused or wasted. The same waste-nothing philosophy is used while crafting the other parts of the bags as well: Its cotton fibers are hand-harvested, hand-dyed, and hand-embroidered with natural fruit and vegetable pigments. Afterwards, the materials are fashioned, by hand, into Solis’ designs.
Solis believes that the sustainable nature by which her luxury bags are made is just as important to the customer as the beauty of the final product. “People want to know who is behind the brand,” she says, and explains how markets like this one have helped her gain visibility and connect with customers in a more authentic way than is possible through online shopping.
Daye N. Knight, the founder of Daye Night Candles, agrees. Greenpoint Terminal Market allows her to connect with customers in person and gain visibility as a small business. She believes that “as a customer, you can feel the happiness when you buy from someone [who handcrafts their merchandise],” especially during times of economic hardship.
“Your $50 means more to me than it does to Bath and Body Works,” she says with a laugh.
Knight, who started her candle business in February of this year, used her time in quarantine to perfect her craft in order to provide her customers with high quality candles that could stand up to the offerings of her corporate competitors.
“I started because I needed candles, but Bath and Body Works wasn’t having a sale, so, I was just like, ‘let me go ahead and just make some.’” Although online sales have been relatively slow, Knight is hoping that customers who have purchased from her in person will continue to come back for more. She hands out postcards with discount codes, hoping the in-person conversations she has had with customers will help boost her online sales.
Many vendors expressed uncertainty about where they might be able to sell in-person next. As fall turns into winter, Knight described the possibility of buying blankets and heaters for other outdoor markets — that is, if there are any in the colder months.
— Staff writer Nicole B. Farina can be reached at nicole.farina@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @nicolefarinaa.
Sections
“In January, Chinatown had seen a ton of racism,” Sabrina W. Chok ’20 says. “People were avoiding Chinatown, believing that if you went to an Asian-owned establishment that you would contract COVID. And so because of that, these restaurants were really suffering.”
Before there was a single confirmed case of COVID-19 in New York, the small businesses of Manhattan's Chinatown saw sales drop by 40-80 percent, according to the Associated Press. By mid-February Nom Wah Tea Parlor, Chinatown’s oldest restaurant, was nearly half empty during lunch hours.
Wanting to fundraise for the businesses affected by the pandemic, Chok, Caitlin Lam ’22, and Karen Chen ’22 decided to sell stickers. Stickers are, as Lam describes, a “super low-barrier way for people to have incentive to donate.”
“When you see [stickers] on someone’s laptop, you might ask about them. And so that was what we were really hoping for during these times,” Chok explains. “That you can have something that can spark an offline conversation and keep people reminded that these small businesses do exist.”
The group decided to partner with Asian American and Pacific Islander-owned restaurants to sell stickers of their iconic dishes or drinks, with 75 percent of proceeds going to the business and a charity of its choice — the goal being to both bring restaurants publicity and support community work.
And so Sticky Locals was born.
***
Lam drafted a couple of sketches for the brand and the group made a Squarespace account. Each founder contributed $50 to make the project happen. They sent out a large batch of emails overnight to AAPI businesses that they thought would be interested in a partnership and experienced an overwhelmingly positive response.
“More people wanted to work with us than not,” Chok says. “I think it was because we were college students, and we were interested in helping the community.”
The first charity Sticky Locals donated to was Heart of Dinner, a nonprofit established in January 2020 to deliver warm, home-cooked meals to elderly Asian American people in Chinatown who could not leave their homes due to the pandemic.
“Part of what made the first drop so special was that the work felt very personal,” Chok says. “I grew up in Chinatown and it’s a tight-knit community. It felt right to be doing this.”
After the first sticker drop, artists started to reach out hoping to partner with Sticky Locals in the future. Most were AAPI artists with whom the mission resonated. As Sticky Locals grew, the team also found itself partnering with more NYC-based grassroots initiatives, such as Cranes for Change, Chinatown Youth Initiatives, Welcome to Chinatown, and Send Chinatown Love. With Miscalcul[Asian] Magazine, Sticky Locals also designed a Black Lives Matter sticker that raised $3,928 with corporate matching.
***
Before artists began reaching out to Sticky Locals, Lam was the designated designer. The first sticker drop featured five designs for five establishments — Super Taste Restaurant, Lucky King Bakery, Ming Qi Natural Healthcare, Wing Hing Seafood Restaurant, and Kopitiam Restaurant — all designed by Lam herself.
“In the beginning, I would send over a few questions or hop on a call, and I would ask about their most popular dishes, how they would describe their business, who is their primary audience, and what they want people to know about them through the sticker,” Lam says. “From there I would come up with three to five sketches that I think encapsulated the information that I gathered.”
The creation process takes about two to three weeks. Lam sends designs to the business, who in turn sends feedback to Lam, until they’ve narrowed it down to three stickers. Of the three, one ends up being chosen to represent that business.
Once the stickers are posted on the Sticky Locals website, customers can place their orders. Priced on a sliding scale, stickers start at $5, but a patron can choose to donate up to $50.
Each sticker is hand-packed and shipped from Chok’s room. So far, Chok and Lam have shipped over 1,800 stickers to supporters in more than 35 states. “Caitlin and I have this dedicated spot in my room where we have all the envelopes, all of the stickers, and all of the business cards,” Chok explains. “We didn’t have business cards in the beginning, so we would be hand-writing every single one of those notes — like 200 cards in one sitting.”
“And we still do!” Lam adds, laughing. For Chok and Lam, the personal touch is important. “We want to make sure that people who are supporting us know that there is a human who’s sending these out.”
***
To date, Sticky Locals has donated over $10,000, distributed across nine charities.
Looking to the future, geographic expansion is a priority. “We’re kind of reevaluating what kind of direction we want to go in, in terms of singular goals and how we can best make the largest impact,” Lam says. “In the future, if the opportunity comes up, we would love to expand to L.A. or other places.”
Sticky Locals also wants to make sure that they help mom-and-pop businesses beyond the exposure raised from the stickers. Because online ordering has become such an important part of restaurant takeout service, Sticky Locals has helped to ensure the businesses they partnered with have the tools to run an online platform.
Sticky Locals has gotten involved with the children of the business owners, too. Chok explains, “I think we were able to create this intergenerational network and gather the right people to make sure these businesses continue to thrive beyond the creation of this sticker in this project.”
Moving forward, Chok and Lam hope to support not just AAPI businesses, but also AAPI creatives who have had trouble finding work. “We’re looking at fashion designers, authors, entertainers,” Chok says. “Any way that we can amplify AAPI voices and funnel support toward causes that contribute to the community.”
Sections
When I was eight, I owned a horse.
Her name was Rainbow, and she was a gorgeous Palomino dyed metallic pink, with a mane that would stream behind her, majestic and dignified, when she raced around her track. She also had four wheels at one point: two 18” white tires, and two wobbly training wheels nailed into her flank while I learned how to ride her.
Rainbow was my first bike, and she and I galloped across the galaxy as I turned tight circles around our two-car driveway. I wasn’t allowed to ride in the streets then, or even on the sidewalk: I was short for my age, and my parents were convinced that no aggressive New Jersey driver would see me on my glittering steed.
I couldn’t ride into the universe, so I brought the universe to me. The furthest corner by the shaded gate was my home base and the stables where Rainbow lived. The mulberry bush nearby housed mean-spirited trolls and a pile of stray bricks was the scene of their latest prank. The boundary between the shadow of an overhanging tree and the sunbaked cement delineated safe, warm Fairyland from evil Shadowland, where bubbles go to die and where I rode like I was being chased. As the afternoon and shadows stretched on, Shadowland would steadily invade Fairyland, and I would send myself on time-sensitive missions to rescue fairies across the driveway while whispering, “Giddy-up, Rainbow!”
As you can imagine, I didn’t have many friends. But I lived in my imagination, where I was a certifiable Horse Girl, and there was no better feeling than wind in my hair and pedals beneath my feet and the sense that I could go anywhere, do anything, on my tiny, tin-framed two-wheeler.
***
It has been a long time since I saw Narnia in every wardrobe, or bicycles as anything more than an hour spent bumping along a beach boardwalk.
But I’m determined to bike in Cambridge during my gap semester. There is a hazy, half-forgotten dream in my subconscious that I have been waiting to realize ever since I was denied it at eight: me as a sophisticated metropolitan commuter, speeding down city streets, absolutely free to ride wherever I wish.
Realizing this dream requires a vehicle, however. And the global bicycle shortage — a little-known externality of our current pandemic — leads me to the cheapest bike shop in town: our basement.
My big sister’s old bike is purple, much larger than Rainbow was, and yet still too small for me. It is old too. I doubt its capacity to carry me across Longfellow Bridge to my fall semester research job.
So I pitch the idea to my parents firmly, expecting concrete resistance. I nearly fall over when they yield immediately. “That’s a great idea,” my father says, looking up from his daily browsing of slickdeals.net.
“You don’t think it’ll be too dangerous?” I’m flabbergasted. My arguments for convenient transport, health benefits, and COVID-19 safety teeter on the tip of my tongue, ready to spill.
“No,” he shrugs. “Your mom and I did this at your age all the time. That’s how we honeymooned in Beijing, didn’t you know? And in college, we biked from Fuzhou to Suzhou just for fun.”
I imagine their city in their youth, overrun by bicycles balancing luggage, crates of ripe longan, and girlfriends perched sidesaddle on the back. I think of my parents’ reluctance to do most outdoor activities and recall their consistent, quiet willingness to spend family vacations exploring foreign cities on rented bikes.
“No, I didn’t know,” I say.
His eyes light up. “Back then, our bikes were so simple. No gears. When there was a big hill, we’d have to get off and walk it!”
In the next week, multiple packages arrive in rapid succession. I will not suffer from having a simple bike. My father has outfitted my new purple mare with the best accessories on the market: blinding lights, a bell, and a perfectly-sized milk crate for my backpack.
***
It takes only half a block for me to ride in a straight line again. I’m afraid to close my eyes, but I start to imagine anyway. I am alone on a bike for the first time since childhood, and old habits die hard.
My neighborhood is quiet at dusk. The fireflies emerge slowly, then all at once — fairies to save, perhaps, or the souls of bubbles who have long passed. Blink. I glide past the golf course, and the chain link fence separates the bustling village from the marvelous estate of nearby royalty. Blink. I’m on a narrow bike lane in Somerville on a rainy day, pressing close to the sidewalk; I slow down, bend my left elbow to a right angle, and turn. The stop sign on my block is a pedestrian crosswalk on Mt. Auburn, and then it instantly morphs into a troll bridge with an impossible riddle.
When I pull into the driveway, I am winded both from the hill leading up to my house and the sense that I am returning home after a long, long journey.
***
It is only a 13 minute ride from my new apartment near Central Square to Massachusetts Eye and Ear Infirmary, but I give myself half an hour on my first day of work.
In the coming weeks, I will learn that biking in Cambridge can be terrifying. The freedom I begged for is intoxicating, and I don’t dare use it even when other cyclists do, running red lights and swerving into car lanes and sidewalks at will. Such complete freedom comes at the cost of complete exposure — to wind, and rain, and car doors that swing into your path without signalling.
And it is physically harder than I expect. Longfellow Bridge is long and steep, and I am out of shape. Every breath draws my surgical mask into my mouth in a sharp gasp, then inflates it like a balloon when I exhale. Cars whip by me while I chug along on my lowest gear. I am frighteningly aware that I am one soft body atop a tin-framed two-wheeler, surrounded by steel-shelled giants going 50 miles-per-hour. Who allowed this?
But on that first, brilliant day, I cruise down the bike lane with few worries. For a brief second in Kendall Square, I reimagine myself as my parents in the prime of their youth, falling in love as they ride across Beijing. At the next intersection I might be a Parisian woman delivering baguettes to a friend across town. In the coming days I may only head to HMart for a bag of rice, or to Walgreens to pick up a prescription, but I am someone who bikes in a city — young, strong, independent, busy. Unstoppable, a heroine on a mission once again.
***
I’m not regressing to childhood delusion — or, at least, I don’t think I am. I’m not looking for magical creatures hiding in potholes, and I don’t pretend I’m riding horseback past Whole Foods.
But maybe there’s a way to outgrow training wheels without outgrowing imagination. Call it visualization, or self-romanticization, or a million more mature, adult behaviors — but in the end, I haven’t left the wild, unfettered imagination of my childhood behind.
I can always get back in Rainbow’s saddle. It’s just like riding a bike.
— Staff writer Rachel Chen can be reached at rachel.chen@thecrimson.com.
Sections
The 11 co-owners of Fly Together Fitness are biologists, musicians, educators, and real estate brokers; their ages range from 25 to 53 years old. Rachel M. Rudloff, a doctoral student at Harvard, was hoping to reduce some of the stress from graduate school, and Jenny Fernandez wanted an emotional outlet after the passing of her sister. Tamar H. Forman-Gejrot grew up participating in dance and acrobatics, while others had never considered themselves as athletes. Despite their diverse backgrounds, a shared love of pole dancing inspired them to build their own cozy, brightly-lit studio in Somerville.
When she first saw a video of a pole dance performance, Jenn C. Quirnbach says, “I was just blown away by the strength, the creativity, the moves that I saw.”
In addition to the satisfaction of pulling off a great trick, the women attribute their passion for pole to the supportive community surrounding the sport. “The way someone teaches a class just keeps you wanting more and coming back,” Fernandez says.
The co-owners met while training at the same pole studio in Boston — some as instructors, some as students. They soon discovered they shared a dream of opening a studio of their own someday. Noting a lack of small studios in the greater Boston area, they envisioned a new community-oriented space that was environmentally conscious and inclusive to all.
“I think I speak for everyone that it seem[ed] like an impossible task to do it on our own, and as a group, it really became possible,” Forman-Gejrot says.
For nearly a year before opening their studio in December 2020, the team met over dinners to formulate their business plan and solidify their mission. Making decisions with 11 stakeholders is no small feat, and to unify the wide array of perspectives among them, Fly Together operates on a “consensus-driven business model.”
“It might take us a while to come to an agreement, but when we do come to an agreement, it's really rock-solid and everyone stands behind it,” Forman-Gejrot says, adding that the group took six months to develop a financial model.
At one of their dinners, the women all wrote down their credit scores and net worth on sticky notes and shared them with one another. “We’ve built a really strong foundation of trust among one another so we're able to make decisions, and it really comes from knowing that we have the same values in mind for our studio,” Forman-Gejrot says.
The women were initially concerned about facing stigma from the community when they attended a Somerville City Council meeting to get their studio approved, but they received “really positive, supportive reactions.”
“They told us we should make the sign bigger,” Melinda J. Malley says.
There is strength in numbers for Fly Together Fitness, as its name suggests. Each team member contributes a unique set of skills and connections. Realtor Angela Guo navigated commercial leases to find a space for the studio. Malley reached out to the Harvard Transactional Law Clinic for assistance with the legal documents required for opening. And when the COVID-19 pandemic hit, Rudloff, an infectious disease expert, put together a list of sanitation protocols, and one owner’s husband, an heating, ventilation, and air conditioning commissioner, improved their studio’s air circulation systems.
Fly Together Fitness found itself facing lockdown just three months after its opening. With the challenges of teaching over a webcam and without access to poles at home, pole dancing in a pandemic might seem impossible. But they found ways to adapt, such as offering rentable poles for at-home classes and learning different teaching methods to accommodate the lack of physical interaction. They even developed an eight-week performance course to build a routine for a virtual showcase in October.
They’ve also adjusted to the climate of 2020 in other ways: “One of our plans is [for] diversity and inclusion, like bringing in more people of color from different neighborhoods [...] We've done trainings on microaggressions and how we combat them, [and] trainings on restorative justice and prison reform,” Fernandez says.
After reopening for in-person classes in September, they have shifted their focus to private lessons and smaller class sizes. They’ve noticed that students are progressing even faster with more personal attention.
“When we talk about what the future of the business [is], I’m really excited about thinking about really fun, unique ways to grow our business and expand that community out and make pole dance accessible to everyone,” says Quirnbach.
— Magazine writer Sophia S. Liang can be reached at sophia.liang@thecrimson.com.
Sections
James H. Coleman ’21 is living the quintessential remote student life: taking classes, conducting neuroscience research, and, of course, running for a seat on his hometown’s City Council.
Coleman launched his campaign for the District 4 seat on South San Francisco’s City Council on Sept. 12 and, if elected, he will be the youngest and first openly LGBTQ+ council member in the city. When Coleman returned home to California in March, he once again found himself faced with the inequalities that shaped life in South City. This time, he felt armed with the tools to change them.
“What I really wanted to do was take the experience, education, privilege that I’ve had at Harvard, that I’ve gained, and bring it back to South San Francisco to empower and improve the community that I grew up in,” Coleman says.
South San Francisco has a majority non-white population, and Coleman says its residents face unequal treatment from law enforcement and landlords. As a child, Coleman explains, he watched his classmates struggle with housing insecurity and racist policing — issues he feels the city’s leadership has done little to rectify.
“I grew up with people who were forced to move away in the middle of the school year because of the rising cost of living and they had to commute an hour to get to school every week. Then, they would couch-surf during the weekdays,” Coleman recalls. “I’ve known people who have been racially profiled by the police and had their backpacks or their belongings illegally searched” he continues. “I’ve known what it’s like for people to get left behind. And I want to change that.”
During the pandemic, he became a founding member of CHANGE SSF, a local advocacy organization. Coleman soon realized he could magnify his impact by running for office himself.
In an age where knocking on doors, visiting with local voters, and talking to constituents face-to-face are impossible, Coleman says his team has been sending out thousands of texts, making phone calls, and dropping flyers around the city. Through online meet-and-greets, Coleman’s campaign has connected with friends and community members.
As a 21-year-old college student, Coleman initially had reservations about whether voters would take his campaign seriously. He says he’s been able to have serious conversations with potential constituents, however, and that he hopes his focus on issues affecting marginalized communities will resonate.
“What really surprised me is that when you talk to a lot of these people, all it takes is a conversation for them to know that you’re serious, that you have the intention to win, and that the issues that you’re talking about are much needed in the community,” Coleman says.
Committed to running an entirely grassroots campaign, Coleman and his team have already outraised their opponent, incumbent South San Francisco Mayor Richard Garbarino, who also serves on the city council. Coleman’s campaign raised $12,000 in the last quarter from over 200 individual donors, surpassing the $7,400 raised by Garbarino’s campaign.
“Despite having that pledge and saying I’m not taking corrupt money, we’re still making more money,” Coleman says. “That just really goes to show the power of grassroots funding and how you really do need the backing of the people and not special interests.”
In addition to his local supporters, his peers at Harvard have also supported him, making contributions and volunteering for his campaign. “It’s really inspiring to have the support from people who live 2,000, 3,000 miles away from the community I’m running in,” Coleman says.
Coleman’s campaign manager and childhood friend, Franchesca M. Buendia, says running a remote campaign against an incumbent has further demonstrated his resolve.
“As the campaign progresses, he just shows more and more passion for this. I feel like especially now, since times are pretty chaotic, his passion really shines,” Buendia says.
Coleman is no stranger to activism. His interest in politics and environmental justice began in high school, and he went on to co-found Harvard Undergraduates for Environmental Justice, work with Fossil Fuel Divest Harvard, and become a founding member of Harvard College Students for Bernie, which has since become Harvard College Young Democratic Socialists of America.
Coleman recalls a conversation with an elderly resident in the Housing Authority, an affordable housing development for seniors and low-income people. The senior told Coleman, the son of a Taiwanese immigrant, that the environment in the housing complex was unsafe for older citizens and its poor conditions did not warrant such high rents. Coleman reflected that, no longer able to afford remaining in the city, many Taiwanese and other immigrant residents have moved back to their home countries.
“I never thought of the need for senior-specific housing, senior-specific affordable housing. That’s something that I really want to champion in San Francisco: building senior housing and allowing these people to live in a place that is affordable, a place where they can retire in dignity,” Coleman says.
The renewed nationwide focus on police brutality following the murder of George Floyd has amplified criticisms of South San Francisco’s historical problem of discrimination in policing. Activists have for years demanded that the city fire San Francisco police officer Joshua Cabillo, who in 2012 killed a 15-year-old Black teenager stopped at a gas station while working for the South San Francisco Police Department and in 2018 shot a Black man in the back during a foot chase.
In an emailed statement, South San Francisco Police Department Chief of Police Jeff Azzopardi emphasized that Cabillo no longer works for his department. However, he added that an investigation by the local district attorney determined his use of force “although tragic, was justified.”
“We have zero layers of accountability or transparency with the police department. That’s the thing I want to change,” Coleman says. “I want to create a police oversight commission and give them power to fire officers and also give them power to change these policies that do not serve the interests of the public. I [also] want to create alternatives through the formation of a group of first responders trained specifically in mental health care and social work.”
As it is a general election year, his campaign expects a turnout of around 70 to 80 percent of voters, making this year an opportunity for his campaign to appeal to voters who have not historically participated in local elections.
Like many college students, Coleman foresees graduate school or a higher office on the horizon. But for now, he says, his campaign is driven by necessity.
Sections
In the wake of Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg’s death, the Supreme Court has been thrust into the center of a political battle. As senators clear the way for President Trump to nominate a new justice before the election, conversations about political hypocrisy, court reform, and the potential legislative consequences of a 6-3 majority conservative court abound. To help untangle the knotted relationship between politics and the court, FM spoke with three Harvard Law School professors, all scholars of constitutional law and the Supreme Court.
One source of the current scrutiny of the court stems from the contradictory actions of Senate majority leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) and other Republican senators, such as Lindsey Graham (R-N.C.). In light of McConnell’s establishment of the precedent that a Supreme Court justice would not be confirmed during an election year in 2016, Republican senators’ current decisions to vote on President Donald J. Trump’s nominee have drawn criticism. Professor Richard H. Fallon Jr. deems such action “rank hypocrisy,” and fellow professor Michael J. Klarman similarly wrote in an emailed statement that “this is a hypocrisy of a level rarely seen before in American history.”
In 2016, after blocking President Obama’s nomination of Merrick B. Garland ’74 with almost a year to the election, Graham said, “I want you to use my words against me. If there’s a Republican president in 2016 and a vacancy occurs in the last year of the first term, you can say Lindsey Graham said, ‘Let’s let the next president, whoever it might be, make that nomination.’” Graham’s refusal to be “bound by what he said in the past” leads Fallon “to think the only conclusion to be drawn is that this is all about politics.”
Republican senators have justified their reversal by arguing that the principle set in 2016 is limited to times when the different parties control the presidency and Senate. This reasoning, Klarman says, “makes little sense.”
The key factors in Graham’s decision are proximity to the election and divided government, Klarman explains. The election is closer than it was in 2016, and both the presidency and Senate are likely to change hands. So if “the people” were meant to have a say in Scalia’s replacement, they should also have a say in Ginsburg’s. And if divided government is the more important consideration, this implies that a Senate majority of one party should never confirm the nominee of an opposing president.
“That has never been the norm, and is a formula for paralysis,” he writes. Graham’s “lame argument” for confirming Trump’s nominee is also based on the alleged Democratic mistreatment of Brett M. Kavanaugh in 2018. But during those hearings, Graham reiterated his opposition to appointing a Supreme Court justice in 2020.
“It shows that Republican senators only care about the raw exercise of power, not principle,” Klarman writes.
Such criticisms have led to further examinations of the Supreme Court’s current structure. As election day nears and a Democrat-controlled Senate becomes possible, senators are seriously considering court reform. Law professor Mark V. Tushnet identifies three main options: establishing term limits for justices, expanding the size of the court, or jurisdiction stripping, which involves limiting the court’s ability to hear cases on specific subjects, such as abortion or gun rights. Tushnet — the chair of the academic advisory board to a group called “Take Back the Court,” whose agenda is expanding the size of the court — feels that court expansion, or “court packing,” is the most viable.
“Term limits and jurisdiction stripping aren’t attractive to politicians in the short run,” Tushnet says. Term limits wouldn’t take effect for years, and penning a statute for jurisdiction stripping may prove very difficult. “If we think about it from a politicians’ point of view, expanding the size of the court accomplishes their goal very quickly,” he explains. “It’s not politically easy, but it’s sort of easy as a matter of legislation, to write a statute.”
Klarman says that “Democrats have no choice but to unpack the court after Republicans have packed it.” After Senator McConnell “stole a seat in 2016,” a conservative court may block “every progressive measure that a Biden administration might be able to pass,” Klarman claims.
Anticipating pushback, Klarman identifies arguments that mitigate the fear of a never-ending cycle of court expansion.
First, he writes, Republicans instigated their own form of court packing in 2016 when Democrats “earned the right to appoint a fifth liberal justice” and McConnell blocked the vote.
Second, “Republicans will pack the Court regardless of whether Dems do so, as they are about to prove right now.”
Finally, a Democratic victory and passage of “entrenching legislation” to increase the court’s size would end Republican voter suppression and create a more progressive electorate. “Republicans,” he adds, “would be forced to change their policies or never win another election.”
Without structural changes, however, the addition of Amy Coney Barrett to the court may have legislative consequences that undo some of the Supreme Court’s landmark cases from recent decades. If Barrett is appointed, creating a 6-3 conservative majority on the court, Klarman, Fallon, and Tushnet all predict that legislation concerning affirmative action, gun control, abortion, and more will be affected. Fallon expects “at least a rollback of abortion rights, if not possibly the overruling of Roe v. Wade, within five years or so,” while Tushnet deems this a “near-certainty.” Tushnet says that “there’s a very high probability that the court would find affirmative action in public institutions unconstitutional,” and Klarman writes that the new court “will expand gun rights,” suspecting that “a majority today would think the assault weapons ban of the early 1990s would be unconstitutional.”
The current nomination process may also cause the public to lose faith in the court’s ability to fulfill its role and question the trustworthiness of its decisions.
“I think in a politicized era, increasingly, there are people, no matter who’s on the Supreme Court, no matter what it decides, [who will] point to the Supreme Court and say ‘I don’t trust them to be the institution with the power and responsibility to decide these issues of vast consequence,’” Fallon says.
The public’s trust historically stemmed from a belief that the Supreme Court “lay outside of politics” and would not be manipulated by either party for politically-motivated goals. That trust, however, appears to have eroded over time, and fierce partisanship has led citizens to view politics and law as a “zero-sum game.”
“It’s not a win for one and a loss for others, it’s trying to figure out what’s best for the country going forward,” Fallon says. “I think faith that our country is governed that way, that the Supreme Court is an institution that proceeds with that as its goal is waning on many fronts. I think that is very very very sad, potentially tragic, and I don’t know where we’re headed.”
— Staff writer Jane Z. Li can be reached at jane.li@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @JaneZLi.
Sections
Gretchen Shae flips her red ponytail, steps up to the mic, and starts playing her electric guitar as though her life depends on it. With a flourish of the cymbals, The Knock Ups, Shae’s feminist punk rock band, begin their set at the Boston Local Music Festival.
The sound quality is good, the visuals decent. With a little imagination, I can almost pretend I have a front-row seat. And then I lift my eyes from my computer screen and remember where I am: a coffee shop in Connecticut.
Like most large public events, this fall’s Boston Local Music Festival, only in its second year, had to be reimagined for a virtual format due to COVID-19.
The festival aims to introduce potential fans to up-and-coming groups in the Boston area. Last year’s inaugural event was held on City Hall Plaza, one of Boston’s largest public event spaces, and featured three stages and a beer garden. “Everybody loved it. The people that came really were blown away,” remembers Jen Matson, one of the event organizers.
This year’s festival showcased a new kind of live music: Facebook and YouTube Live. The 30 participating local bands played from several local music clubs and venues, but to a virtual audience. Applause came in the form of likes, cheers in the form of comments.
But despite the festival’s new format, its intent has remained the same: to connect local talent with new fans — a goal that has proven perennially challenging.
Heather R. Timmons is the founder of Tiny Oak Booking, a small company that books bands at local venues and festivals, including the Boston Local Music Festival. In her experience, local bands have always faced barriers breaking into the Boston music scene, even pre-pandemic.
“The hard thing is, there’s a big gap between the smaller bands and the bigger publications and venues,” Timmons says. “There’s not a nice connection between all the resources in the city to help build bands up one step at a time.”
The challenges local musicians face have only been amplified by COVID-19. With music venues facing lockdown orders, live performances have become nearly impossible.
“We would have shows three weekends out of the month. Sometimes every weekend. But sadly, it doesn’t look like that anymore,” Shae says. The Knock Ups finally played an outdoor show in Worcester last Friday — their first since February 29.
Aside from cancelled shows, many bands have been unable to rehearse together. Shae had to resort to a back-up drummer for Sunday’s performance, because the usual band member “is not comfortable leaving her house.”
Music venues, which rely on ticket prices and large crowds to stay afloat, have also been hit hard by the pandemic. Somerville’s Bull McCabe’s Pub and Thunder Road Music Club recently closed their doors for good, citing financial hardship.
In the absence of regular gigs, musicians have had to rely on live-streams or other creative solutions to keep up their craft.
Walter Sickert, lead singer of band The Army of Broken Toys, began “Bunker Buds,” a music and talk show named for the often bunker-like feeling of quarantine. They see their show, live-streamed every day on Facebook, as “weird and wonderful” and a “tiny spot of good in a world of chaos,” they wrote in an email to FM. The show regularly attracts 1,000 viewers, according to the band, and was recently nominated for a Boston Music Award.
Sickert performs a special episode of Bunker Buds at the Boston Local Music Festival, and I tune in to watch. The scene, aglow with red light, is certainly weird and wonderful — among the miscellany in the background I spot a plush monkey, a porcelain doll, a skeleton, and an animatronic cat with green eyes. Sickert sits in the center, holding a guitar and wearing sunglasses with LED hearts over the lenses.
The claustrophobic backdrop and Sickert’s position, staring directly into the camera, convey a surprising intimacy, perhaps impossible at a live show. They strum and sing with a raspy, soulful voice, and, in between songs, pull out a rainbow-lighted megaphone for an “affirmations” segment. “You can change the world,” they boom in a Wizard-of-Oz voice. “You can!”
Shae and The Knock Ups have also tried to perform with a compelling intensity, despite the virtual format. “We don’t just stand and play and be locked to the microphone,” she says. “I pretend that unless I’m singing, the mic is on fire and I need to get away.”
As I watch, Shae strides to center stage, takes a breath, then doubles over dramatically and plays the final chord, letting it linger as if waiting for applause to die down.
This year’s Boston Local Music Festival comes at a time when local musicians are threatened and increasingly important. “Sharing art is a way to connect with each other, now more than ever, especially considering our stages are dark and will likely be for a long time,” Sickert’s band says.
In a new reality where distance is integral to safety, the music festival, though virtual, strives to infuse human connection. “It’s about community, and creating spaces where people can share things they’ve created in a safe environment,” Timmons says. “Music as a whole brings people together, no matter what format, or where.”
— Staff writer Maliya V. Ellis can be reached at maliya.ellis@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @EllisMaliya.
Sections
Gary, Ind. and the entire country of Belgium might seem like an unusual pair. But a recent internet fad gives them a unique common ground: They are two of 40-plus regions featured in the “Every Lot” account trend that has taken Twitter by storm.
Inspired by the original bots created by Neil B. Freeman in 2015 for New York, Chicago, San Francisco, and Los Angeles, these automated accounts post Google Street View photographs of every property indexed in the city’s tax records every half-hour. This is not a quick process. In fact, Freeman estimates that it will take a bot about 30 years to finish capturing just one city, depending on its size.
Something about these accounts has copycats and followers hooked. Part of the reason the “Every Lot” trend has gone both international and rural is because the software Freeman uses to run the bots is open-source, so anybody can adapt it to their own district. The project’s accessibility has enabled fans to expand upon the trend, creating spoof accounts such as “Every Lot Atlantis,” to “Every Lot Fiction,” which pairs each Chicago lot with a tweet-length fictional story.
Locally, there are three “Every Lot” accounts that currently post for Brookline, Cambridge, and Greater Boston. While Freeman runs the Boston account, the Brookline and Cambridge accounts break the “Every Lot” mold. In addition to the typical picture and address, these independent accounts boast the properties’ number of bedrooms, size of the unit, year of construction, last selling price, current price valuation, type of mortgage, and square footage.
Why go to the trouble of adding all of these data points? Why design a new code? Freeman takes the spin-off in stride, explaining with a chuckle that it’s all fun with the bots.
Yes, the Brookline and Cambridge accounts depart from his original vision. And yes, the accounts challenge our concept of privacy in property. But Freeman himself acknowledges that he isn’t some “great composer who wants his work performed some way.”
***
Freeman thinks the abundance of public property information on the internet may surprise homeowners. All the images on his accounts are taken from Google Streetview, a service that is “barely legal” or “basically restricted” in some countries due to privacy issues. “I think the idea that we just have multiple companies that send cars around photographing everyone and putting it on the internet is something not to take for granted,” he says.
And additional information is not much harder to obtain — the housing details on the Brookline and Cambridge accounts are viewable on quick-to-access city websites.
“It’s useful information as an urban planner,” Freeman explains, “which I am theoretically.” But Freeman makes the design of cities more accessible. For him the “Every Lot” accounts compare two different methods of viewing cities: that of the city tax clerk and that of Google. This juxtaposition reveals the gaps of cities — the gaps between a lot’s physical appearance and the information recorded about it, and gaps between what is paid attention to in a city and what is ignored. But above all, “Every Lot” is an art project to Freeman, and Twitter offers a platform where millions of users can access his exhibits.
“The platform has grown to serve more than just a means of communicating with friends,” he says. And while Freeman isn’t surprised that the original New York account took off, he is somewhat surprised that the bot has now spread beyond his hands. Just this year, “Every Lot” accounts were made for Tokyo, Montreal, Baltimore, Seattle, and many other smaller cities, all by different people.
But “Every Lot” is just one of many projects in the collection of art-meets-urban design found on Freeman’s website, titled “Fake is the new real.” Among the indices you can find “subways at scale,” a piece that compares the size of metro maps around the world with each other, and “obligatory airport retweets,” a bot that retweets every post containing the text “obligatory airport tweet.” Closer to home is the ever-local “charles river almanac,” an artifact of Freeman’s time at Harvard’s Graduate School of Design. Featuring eight pictures of the Boston area, each shot represents a season of his two-year stay in Cambridge. It was also during a stay in Cambridge that Freeman started his most recent “Every Lot Boston” account.
While much of the Twitter trend remains a mystery, the effect of the accounts is clear: restoring purpose, meaning to the physical spaces of the city. Freeman explains that confusion, nostalgia, joy, and curiosity are all important elements of the “Every Lot” project.
As more postings of the originals continue and new accounts arise, there is not a wrong way to appreciate an art project, Freeman notes, especially one like this.
Sections
“The thing I find really interesting about menswear is the lack of excitement within it, the plainness of it. It doesn’t vary much from one man to the next.”
Chloe Chapin is a former Broadway costume designer now pursuing a Ph.D. in American Studies. If menswear lacks excitement, Chapin does not.
“It doesn’t vary much from one season to the next, or one year to the next, or one decade to the next, or one century to the next,” she says.
Sitting in a men’s fitted shirt rolled up to the sleeves and sporting a tomboy haircut, Chapin remembers rebelling against skirts with her sister, insisting that their mother dress them in matching white peter-pan collared blouses and red corduroy pants for their obligatory Christmas photo. When training as a carpenter in college, convenience was key. Chapin wore Carhartts, a black T-shirt and a baseball hat everyday.
But going to design school in New York flipped her style. “I was wearing designer jeans and high heels and long, curly hair and trying to be girly,” Chapin says. “One morning I was shopping at Bergdorf’s, spending $20,000 on a pair of shoes to take to a fitting with a movie star for some big broadway show. I have all these shopping bags in my hand and I’m hailing a yellow taxi on the streets of New York and I caught sight of myself in those big plate glass windows and I was like: Who the fuck is that, who is that glamorous lady, and where did that vegan punkrock Santa Cruz hippie go?”
The shock prompted Chapin to cut her hair short, which caused another wardrobe change: She got back into menswear because “it didn’t make sense” to wear her “decorative” feminine clothes anymore. Besides, she explains, “women will never get ahead in this world if they are constantly being told they need a new handbag.”
Chapin has spent the past eight years studying the male formalwear that emerged in the 1820s: the tuxedo. At first glance, it may seem strange to include the immortal tuxedo in the realm of ‘fashion,’ a term that some define as “the particular rate of change in contemporary dress.” Chapin, however, prefers to think in terms of “fashioning,” meaning the way “we fashion ourselves, and our identities,” including “contemporary clothing that changes on a regular basis,” as well as “vintage fashion, or menswear.”
Tuxedos were not always the go-to getup for men wanting to look smart. From codpieces to hosiery to heels, European men’s fashion used to be more elaborate and exhibited a far steeper rate of change — comparable to women’s fashion now. “The first time anyone starts wearing [a tuxedo] is around 1820, and by 1850, no one is wearing anything else,” Chapin says. “I call this the ‘uniformification’ of formal wear, and it is really a short period for a uniform to coalesce.”
“We usually associate uniforms with the military, or occupations such as a doorman, a monk or a flight attendant,” Chapin explains. “Even military uniforms change all the time, whereas for formal wear, while little things have changed, like the width of the lapel or the shape of the trousers, the elements are all the same.”
The style of the tuxedo became cemented in the United States during the Jacksonian period, a time when “politics are all about expelling Native Americans and the rise of democracy and equality.” White men of all classes were gaining suffrage while women and Bblack people continued to be denied their voting rights. “What’s interesting is who wears this outfit,” Chapin says. “It’s those same people who suddenly have access to this democracy and equality.”
If you imagine a dartboard where power is at the center and radiates outwards through the concentric rings, Chapin suggests that you would find the “rich, white, cis, heterosexual, able-bodied man who has a wife and two kids and is tall with good teeth” at the bullseye. A “poor man can make money and buy a suit to have access to the center of power, a gay man can put himself in a heteronormative box and wear a suit to have access to that same kind of power,” but “as a woman,” Chapin asserts, “you are always borrowing a man’s outfit when wearing a suit.”
Looking back at trends in the fashion industry, Chapin highlights “the boyfriend jean, the boyfriend blazer and even the boyfriend watch” as telling examples of clothing labeled by a masculine association, rather than by the individual who wears them. Whenever you see a woman wearing a tuxedo, “the story is always about her claiming a kind of power, borrowing power from men,” Chapin says. “Even though women have been wearing tuxedo inspired outfits for 100 years, we still don’t get to own that idea of an outfit; it’s always going to be masculine.”
Today, the suit serves to equalize men while still excluding women. Even though suits used to be part of a dress code that was a “policing of class,” a $20 suit now allows almost any man to access the power at that dartboard’s center. “Maybe the pants are too long, the fabric is not very nice, the pockets are baggy and there is a yucky interface in the lapels.” But a cheap suit is still a suit, and no clothing can hide the visual clues that will bar someone from such a ‘men’s club.’ Even as women don suits as symbols of authority, they’re still clothing themselves in masculine-derived power.
The gendered nature of formalwear also presents a problem for nonbinary people. “If you are agender, genderfluid, genderflux, do you have to wear a dress and a tie?” Chapin muses. Chapin suggests that a test case like this only occurs in areas where members of the LGBTQ+ population might attend “luxury functions,” where one would be expected to wear formalwear — somewhere like San Francisco perhaps. How a dress code would apply there, “no one knows.”
After decades of usage, the male suit has become formalized to the point where the difference between black and brown shoes can be the difference between an invitation inside or a rejection. But formalwear can be individualised, and suit-wearing men do have a choice over their tie every morning. And if there’s more room for experimentation, perhaps there can be more room for everyone else.
— Staff Writer Angela C. Eichhorst can be reached at angela.eichhorst@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @AngelaEichhorst. 
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Young Mie Kim, a professor at the University of Wisconsin, Madison, led an online discussion Wednesday on her research into digital interference in the 2016 United States presidential election.
The event was the first in a series about misinformation hosted by the Kennedy School’s Shorenstein Center on Media, Politics, and Public Policy and co-sponsored by the NULab of Northeastern University. Kim described her work in her data-driven Project DATA — short for Digital Ad Tracking & Analysis — in which she and her colleagues collected advertising information from media platforms like Facebook around the 2016 presidential election.
The project explored the origins of groups that used advertising campaigns to spread misinformation and promote voter suppression.
Kim’s team determined more than half of the ad sponsors shortly before the election were “suspicious groups” that used targeted campaigns to influence the election’s outcome. Kim suggested some of those suspicious groups served as “intermediaries” for Russian actors trying to influence the election.
“There is a conditional dependence between Russian groups and the Trump campaign,” Kim said.
Kim’s research also identified racial differences in the targeted ad campaigns. One set of ads was specifically targeted toward white Americans and relied heavily on nationalist and anti-immigration sentiments. Other ads were targeted towards Americans of color and encouraged them to boycott the election altogether.
The research findings could be used to explore political extremism on the Internet and its role in deepening the partisan divide in the United States, according to Kim.
Paul C. Zwiebel, who attended the event, wrote in an email that he hopes Kim’s research will contribute to efforts to limit online misinformation.
“Professor Kim’s research is timely and of critical importance,” he wrote. “I hope that Professor Kim’s research enables social media platforms to formulate tools to block or label misinformation or propaganda.”
Correction: October 15, 2020
A previous version of this article incorrectly stated that the event was the second in a series. In fact, it was the first.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard researchers wrote in a study published Friday that morphogenesis – the embryonic process through which cells are distributed into different tissues and organs – is controlled by “adhesion molecules” that direct specific cells to stay connected.
The finding could have momentous implications for developing disease treatments, according to experts, allowing for a better understanding of how cells divide and form larger tissues.
The study — conducted by members of Systems Biology professor Sean Megason’s lab — examined three types of zebrafish cells that have the capacity to split into different types of neural system cells. Megason likened the process of morphogenesis carried out by these cells to the building of Legos on a “blank canvas.”
The team found that cells of similar types were more attracted to each other and discovered the existence of “adhesion codes” — combinations of genes that dictate cell types’ attractive forces towards one another.
The team directly tested the adhesion forces between certain cell types by placing them next to each other and measuring the approximate force necessary to pull them apart. Megason said the experiment was similar to the separation of oil and water molecules.
“That idea is kind of like salad dressing with oil and water,” Megason said. “So if you shake up oil and water, it’ll separate.”
“The idea was that cells might have different stickiness,” he added. “And then based on what they like to stick to, it'll sort into different groups.”
Sahand Hormoz, a Harvard Medical School systems biology professor unaffiliated with the study, wrote in an email the findings will heavily impact work on tissue and organ creation.
“This work has far reaching implications for tissue engineering and synthetic biology,” Hormoz wrote. “For a multitude of translational applications, we would like to be able to generate organs and tissue in a dish. It is almost impossible to engineer these complex structures without understanding the mechanisms that they use to organize.”
Carl-Philipp Heisenberg, a professor at the Institute of Science and Technology Austria and co-author of the study, said the team considered the French flag model, which assumes that certain specialized molecules direct cells to behave in specific ways during morphogenesis. But the new study concluded that in fact, adhesion codes are responsible for the cells’ patterns of separation.
Megason said the research could have significant clinical impact, from increasing understanding of how cancer cells form shapes to building tissues for organ transplant and tissue replacement.
“Once we understand the basic role that cells used to organize themselves to form structures, it can have a wide range of clinical applications,” Megason said.
—Staff writer Ethan Lee can be reached at ethan.lee@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The drug sitagliptin may reduce mortality rates for diabetic patients hospitalized with COVID-19, an observational study led by Paulo Fiorina, assistant professor of pediatrics at Harvard Medical School, suggests.
Sitagliptin — a drug approved by the Food and Drug Administration — works to lower blood sugar in patients with type 2 diabetes by blocking the receptor for the enzyme DPP-4, increasing insulin production.
Patients with type 2 diabetes are at a higher risk of mortality from COVID-19 than nondiabetic patients, according to Fiorina. He attributed this difference in outcomes to the tendency for patients with type 2 diabetes to be more “fragile” and have other preconditions that could jeopardize their health.
“We're seeing that patients with type 2 diabetes are experiencing very bad outcomes — worse outcomes as compared to the standard population when they face COVID,” he said.
Researchers found patients with type 2 diabetes who received sitagliptin in addition to insulin had a lower mortality rate — 18 percent — than those who received just insulin, whose mortality rate was 37 percent.
The drug has been known to curb inflammation — an attribute Fiorina says may be the reason for its effectiveness against the coronavirus.
Fiorina and his team conducted the research — which involved seven hospitals in Italy during spring 2020 — as a retrospective observational study, which is considered a level below the gold standard of a randomized, placebo-controlled clinical experiment.
The study involved 338 patients who had both COVID-19 and type 2 diabetes. Of those patients, 169 served as the control group and received only insulin. Both insulin and sitagliptin were administered to the other 169 patients. The groups were matched by age and sex, the severity of the illness, use of other treatments, and other clinical characteristics.
In addition to reducing mortality rates, the study also found that patients treated with sitagliptin were less likely to need ventilation or intensive care.
Among the treatment group, there was an improvement in several “key outcomes,” Fiorina said.
“There was a greater number of patients discharged earlier and to a greater extent from a hospital,” Fiorina said. “120 people were discharged in the treatment group, as compared to 89 in the untreated group.”
Biomarkers for the patients in the treatment group also showed less inflammation and overall better wellbeing, he said.
Though Fiorina said he is confident in the results of the study, he added that researchers will still need to conduct more studies to more definitively assess the drug’s effectiveness.
“I'm kind of confident here on the result of the study for many reasons. First, the number of patients is not low,” he said. “And when you look at the data in each of the seven centers, they're very consistent.”
“We will need to run — and we are actually starting to run — the randomized double-blind study,” he added.
Fiorina said he speculates the drug could be effective in reducing mortality rates of nondiabetic patients as well.
“It's possible the benefit of the drug could be related to an anti-inflammatory effect and may be a reduction of viral entry,” Fiorina said. “If this is the case, there is a potential use for sitagliptin in nondiabetic patients.”
He also said the drug is inexpensive and safe to use.
“It's not expensive, so this can be used also in undeveloped countries. The patent is expiring on the drug, so everybody can have access to these patents — so this is very important for developing countries,” he said.
“There are no adverse effects reported with the use of this drug,” he added.
—Staff writer Taylor C. Peterman can be reached at taylor.peterman@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @taylorcpeterman.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
University of Toronto Assistant Professor Tahseen Shams argued that conventional methods of analyzing immigrants’ conception of themselves have neglected to consider the influence of places located beyond the home and host land in a Zoom webinar Wednesday.
Shams spoke about her book “Here, There, and Elsewhere: The Making of Immigrant Identities in a Globalized World” in Harvard’s Immigration Initiative speaker series. She asserted that international migration scholarship has failed to factor in a third place known as “elsewhere” in analyses of the immigrant experience.
“Immigrants’ identities are shaped by geopolitics, not just in the immigrants’ receiving countries but also in those places located beyond the homeland and hostland, places I conceptualized to be called ‘elsewhere’,” Shams said.
During the webinar, Shams discussed the multidimensional structure of immigration while presenting her fieldwork. She used ethnographic data, in-depth interviews, and content analysis to study 60 South Asian Muslim Americans in California. She discovered they were not only identifying with the culture of the United States and South Asia, but also of the Middle East.
“The Middle East is arguably the religious and political center of the Muslim world, and as self-identifying Muslims, these immigrants subscribe to the various conflicts and people’s histories in the Middle East that sustained their Muslim identities,” Shams said.
When conducting her research, Shams said she was inspired by her curiosity as a migration scholar and personal experiences as a first-generation immigrant. She added if she could repeat her research, she would consider the role of social media in her participants’ lives earlier.
“Halfway through my fieldwork, I discovered that I failed to consider how the participants were using social media communications as a way to form their day-to-day identity,” Shams said.
Shams also explored how her participants reacted to sociopolitical events, such as the heightened Islamophobia during the 2016 presidential election and how it impacted their sense of identity in the United States.
“The participants, regardless of their immigrant generation, evaluated mainstream U.S. politicians based on their attitudes towards Palestine among other issues,” Shams said.
Participants of the webinar thought the concept of elsewhere is “useful.”
“I think it is a very useful framework that really expands our understanding of the nodes of transnationalism in which migrants are embedded,” Roberto G. Gonzales, the director of Harvard’s Immigration Initiative, said.
“I thought the talk was wonderful,” Ramon Garibaldo Valdez, a Ph.D. candidate at Yale, said. “It adds a much needed layer to how we understand immigrant identity in relation to religion and globalization.”
Correction: October 9, 2020
A previous version of this article incorrectly stated that Professor Shams asserted that the International Migration Review, a prominent social science research magazine, failed to factor in a third place known as “elsewhere” in its analyses of the immigrant experience. In fact, Shams referred to international migration scholarship broadly.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Some common spaces across campus are slated to reopen this week and next week as part of a new pilot program introduced to provide additional study space to on-campus students, Dean of Students Katherine G. O’Dair and Harvard Library Vice President Martha J. Whitehead announced within the past week.
Gone, though, are the days when students could freely enter libraries, the Smith Campus Center, and other study hubs and nonchalantly occupy a table all day. Students must now reserve these spaces at least a day in advance and complete a coronavirus test to gain entrance to these locations, O’Dair's Friday email noted.
Once inside, students are expected to adhere to a slew of rules — face coverings must be worn at all times, food and drinks are prohibited, and group study is not permitted. Everyone must maintain at least six foot distance from other patrons.
In a Thursday email, Harvard Library Vice President Martha J. Whitehead announced that Cabot Library would be offering study space to undergraduates beginning Oct. 13.
“I continue to be impressed with the level of expertise and caution being applied to all aspects of the University’s pandemic response, and the incredible work of our own teams in the Library,” she wrote. “Our restart plan is proceeding successfully due to careful planning, ongoing assessment, and the dedication of hundreds of individuals. That same degree of care is evident in the Cabot study space pilot, and I look forward to building on the experience we gain from it in the months ahead.”
O’Dair said in an interview last week that students can expect to see more study spaces open as the semester progresses.
In her email, O’Dair also outlined the opening of music practice spaces in Memorial Hall, which are scheduled to reopen for piano, as well as orchestral and jazz percussion instruments on Oct. 14. Students will only be allowed to use these spaces up to twice a week and must register for a practice room at least two weeks in advance.
Amelia M. Cossentino ’23 said she is “super excited” to have access to the practice rooms on campus. Before vacating campus in March, Cossentino — a tuba player in the Harvard-Radcliffe Orchestra — said she used practice rooms around campus at least twice a week. Since returning to Cambridge, however, she has only been able to play her instrument in small outdoor settings.
“It definitely makes me feel better about being on campus — it makes it feel less restrictive and it makes it feel more similar to what life was like before COVID,” she said. “It kind of elevates it to a higher level of similarity to what it used to be.”
Director of Choral Activities and Senior Lecturer on Music Andrew G. Clark said he believes access to practice space is “vitally important” for music students to regain access to practice spaces. He added the new space will impact both students’ class needs, as well as improving mental health and well-being.
“I've seen so often through the years how making music, making art as a space of refuge, as a space of rejuvenation,” he said. “I think it's going to be of great benefit to the students’ health and well-being to begin to have more access to spaces and opportunities.”
He also noted while some Harvard affiliates have regained access to laboratories, music students have not had equal access to necessary spaces.
“It was a little disappointing to me that some of our students had access to their scientific laboratories to do their coursework, but the same students who needed a practice room to do their coursework in the music department did not have the same kind of access,” he said. “So it catches us up and levels the playing field.”
“It just brings us one step closer to being able to have what we need to do the work that we need to do,” Clark added.
—Staff writer Sydnie M. Cobb can be reached at sydnie.cobb@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @cobbsydnie.
—Staff writer Declan J. Knieriem can be reached at declan.knieriem@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter at @DeclanKnieriem
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
UPDATED: Oct. 9, 2020, at 2:13 a.m.
Kennedy School Dean Douglas W. Elmendorf discussed the impact of the coronavirus pandemic on the Kennedy School ranging from financial challenges to navigating the student experience during remote learning in an interview with The Crimson Tuesday.
The pandemic has forced nearly all of Harvard’s schools, including the Kennedy School, to transition to remote-learning. HKS students were given the option to defer this year without incurring any additional fees, according to Elmendorf.
“That’s not usually an option for our students,” Elmendorf said. “Usually, you can only defer if you have a particular personal issue that has arisen, but we felt that this would be a different enough experience that people should have a fair opportunity to say they did not want this experience.”
Unlike some institutions that chose to cut tuition for remote learning, Harvard schools are charging their usual tuition rates. Despite some pushback from HKS students about the decision, Elmendorf said the Harvard Corporation, the University’s highest governing body, decides the tuition rates for the school.
University President Lawrence S. Bacow announced in late September that $20 million dollars from central funds will be distributed across Harvard’s schools to combat the economic hardship from the pandemic. Elmendorf said the Kennedy School plans on using the funds it receives to maintain some of the school’s activities.
“The amount of additional money coming to the Kennedy School through that plan is much smaller than the losses we’re experiencing this year,” Elmendorf said. “Those funds will help, but we need them to keep doing some of the things we’ve already been doing.”
Elmendorf also referenced various University initiatives to keep the school financially secure, including University-wide hiring and salary freezes and newly-established incentives for staff to retire early.
“We’re trying to fend off bad things from happening, primarily,” Elmendorf said. “It is a very large, short-term financial shock that we need to deal with responsibly, so it does not become a permanent drag on the school.”
Elemdorf also recognized the challenges the pandemic has created for students at the Kennedy School — especially for students enrolled in one year programs who may never step foot on Harvard’s campus.
“I do feel especially bad for the one year students who would like to be on campus and can't be now,” Elmendorf said. “As I said, we want students, faculty, and staff to be back on campus as long as we can do it safely. But assuring that safety is a challenge.”
Although Elmendorf said he was not sure whether remote learning will continue in the spring, he noted there are “a lot of possibilities” to give students an in-person Harvard experience, especially if a coronavirus vaccine is obtained by the spring.
“Every option that I've ever heard has some advantages and some disadvantages,” he said. “But again, the most important thing in the end is that I don't want to be responsible for people getting the disease.”
“I do want people to have the best learning experience,” he added.
Elmendorf said he admired the students who chose to enroll this year despite the difficulties posed by the pandemic.
“I think this year's students will have a unique experience,” he said. “I'm glad that so many of them understand the importance of the mission of public service, and don't want to wait to get the extra tools and knowledge skills they need to be even more effective at that.”
Elmendorf, who became HKS dean in 2016, said one important lesson he has learned in his time as the head of the school is “the power of talented and committed people when they’re given an opportunity to make a difference.”
“The nature of governments and most big organizations is that there's an overchart, and there are approval processes and decisions,” Elmendorf said. “Universities have a different sort of structure, right? The wonderful magic in universities is that smart people come together with a commitment to do excellent work. And then they go off, and they do it.”
—Staff writer Raquel Coronell Uribe can be reached at raquel.coronelluribe@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @raquelco15.
—Staff writer Sixiao Yu can be reached at sixiao.yu@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Astronomers from across the globe previewed the Giant Magellan Telescope, which is currently under construction at the Las Campanas Observatory in Chile, at Harvard’s David Rockefeller Center for Latin American Studies Wednesday evening.
The online discussion, titled “Are We Alone in the Universe?”, invited Chilean astronomers and researchers from the Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics at Harvard to discuss the feasibility of identifying extraterrestrial life and how the Giant Magellan Telescope could change current understandings of the universe.
In an introductory video, Harvard astrophysicist Andrew Szentgyorgyi said the telescope will be “an enduring flagship for astronomy, astrophysics, and physical sciences”; Andrés Jordán, a professor at Adolfo Ibáñez University in Chile, described it as a “breakthrough” that would “open a new window into the universe.”
The telescope has been under construction since November 2015 and is scheduled to be operational by 2029. Its seven primary mirrors will each have a diameter of roughly 28 feet.
Marcela Rentería, executive director for the DRCLAS regional office in Chile, explained that the telescope is being built in Chile’s Atacama Desert because of the region’s “outstanding astronomical position and clear weather throughout most of the year.”
Astronomers said they were excited about the Giant Magellan Telescope for its potential to transform the search for extraterrestrial life and expand the scope of astrophysics research.
“We are very excited about, obviously, detecting life in the universe,” Miguel R. Roth, vice president of the Giant Magellan Telescope Corporation, said.
“We’re not going to take pictures of little green men,” he added. “We are going to try to detect biological activity in the atmosphere. That’s the most exciting thing for me.”
Juliana García-Mejía ’17, an Astronomy Ph.D. student at Harvard, said in an interview before the discussion that the telescope will be particularly valuable because it could help identify oxygen, a key biosignature which is hard to detect, in exoplanet atmospheres.
“You need these gigantic ground-based telescopes, such as the GMT, to go after those very special molecules,” she said.
In the discussion, several of the scientists described the value of working on a diverse team toward the common goal of completing the telescope.
“Scientific collaboration is very much like forces in the universe,” Cesar I. Fuentes, an astronomer with the University of Chile, said in an interview before the event. “Having people interact, go to Harvard, come to Chile, interact with different institutions, and get to know the people. The human experience of sharing the quest of finding an answer for one of these problems is something that changes you and enables good things.”
Fuentes emphasized the involvement of individual participants in the project, comparing it to other technological developments, which he said often seem “very removed from people.”
“It is always people that are doing this,” he said. “This exchange of ideas and asking for help from Chilean astronomers and this symbiosis that happens, in this case with scientific collaboration, is always about people and how you interact with them.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
You either have a friend with 5000 unread emails, or you are that friend. Nothing in high school really prepares you for the number of emails you receive in college. Do you regularly regret signing up for mailing lists from clubs you will never join? Did you make one online purchase and now Romwe won’t stop sending you emails? Decide what to delete, ignore, open, or respond to by answering these questions about the majority of your mail:
Who is most of your mail from? 
A. Someone replying to you — bonus points if they’re replying quickly!
B. One of your cool professors, student groups, or a subscription you enjoy.
C. Canvas, Slack, or Rakesh Khurana sending you a regular update.
D. Random so-called humor magazine organizations telling you to “Clomp” them, completely unsolicited.
What’s the subject line and preview most of the time?
A. A clever pun, lots of exclamations, or an image/video preview.
B. Something addressed to you personally.
C. Marked [URGENT], [ACTION], or something equally dramatic that probably implies a when2meet is in your future.
D. Your name misspelled in the first line.
What do emails usually want from you?
​​​​​​​A. Nothing — in fact they usually give me a chance to win a gift card. Or free food.
B. Nothing — just sharing or reminding me about cool opportunities, events, and people.
C. IDK — I have to read more than 3 paragraphs of text to even find out?! I don’t remember signing up for my Gen Ed readings to come straight to my inbox!
D. My soul — a.k.a. filling out yet another dreaded Google form, probably to attend another Zoom.
What’s the content of emails usually look like? 
A. Gifs, xoxos, smiley faces, & exclamations!
B. Dry, but short. Alternatively, lots of text, but a good read.
C. Advertisements. Lots and lots of advertisements. Give someone Canva, and suddenly they think they’re a graphic designer.
D. Spam, problematic emails, Canvas telling you about a quiz you failed.
How many other people are included in this email thread?
A. You’re the one and only ;)
B. It’s a small group of people: your entryway, your house, or your organization’s board. Maybe someone spotted a lizard at Lowell and now everyone’s writing poetry about it.
C. The classic mass advertisement or a pretty large group project so if you flake, someone else will probably eventually get it going.
D. Your entire Harvard class is cc’d and everyone keeps “accidentally” hitting reply all.
Results:
Mostly A’s: A fantabulous inbox
Good for you, you’ve honestly solved Harvard. You have lots of email clout and your inbox is popping off with personalized, useful, and exciting emails! Read your mail and respond to it — you’re probably receiving a reply to an important conversation with the professor you’ve been dying to know or you’ll win some free food.
Mostly B’s: Mostly fun and fresh vibes
Not a bad place to be: you have a decent chance at discovering a cool club or reading something that’ll bring a smile to your face. At least open all your mail… you can always skim and save the good stuff.
Mostly C’s: Functional, not fun
Your inbox isn’t your happy place and you should join more fun groups (*not a Flyby plug*) to spice up the emails you receive. Let most of your mail sit until a particularly miserable rainy day or until you receive a couple of bumps.
Mostly D’s: Forget it
Just delete it. Maybe even your whole account. But before you go — send some strongly worded emails to different mailing lists to let them know they’re ruining your life. Since this is clearly not sustainable, just tell people to Kik you if they really need something.
