News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
There are two types of social justice. The first one is real, palpable, peaceful change instituted for the benefit of marginalized groups and causes. Therein we find #MeToo, Black Lives Matter, BGLTQ rights, Kaepernick kneeling for the anthem to protest police brutality, Greta Thunberg raising climate change awareness, and so on. The other type is nefarious. It is self-serving and, ironically, unjust. It keeps us from transcending the very barriers that proponents of social justice aspire to overcome. And it manifests in many forms.
It’s when people bully and ostracize others under the guise of protecting minority groups. It’s when people actively look for ways to misconstrue a person’s words or actions, demean them, galvanize the masses, and hence promote their own interests (attention, retweets, etc.). It’s when people create a rhetorical peanut gallery of frivolous dialogue while clandestine, truly harmful policies pass with little scrutiny. It’s one of mob mentality. Here at Harvard, we see this latter form as much as the former. And if we are committed to equal rights, we need to change that.
A prime example is last year’s decision not to renew Ronald S. Sullivan, Jr. as a faculty dean. Students actively rallied, demonized him, and demanded that Harvard fire him. Why? All Sullivan did was get hired to defend someone in a court of law. This country is founded upon certain prescribed freedoms — one is the right to a lawyer, as well as a fair trial. Nothing like this happened when Harvard Law School’s Professor Emeritus Alan M. Dershowitz represented O.J. Simpson, accused of double murder, in his trial, nor when he was recently hired to represent Donald Trump in his impeachment. Yet when Sullivan represented Harvey Weinstein, social justice advocates promulgated a double standard, going mad over his decision. Moreover, John Adams himself, a chief intellectual behind the founding of the United States, set a bold precedent in representing British troops after the Boston Massacre. It was an enlightened one, as it ensured the protection of individuals in all cases — publicly perceived to be guilty or not. We can’t suddenly abandon these ideals of benevolence and equal rights; it is contrary to the intent of social justice.
A more widespread form of fake social justice — on- and off-campus — is the culture of political correctness. PC culture is something that must be done away with. It hinders free speech, conjures controversy out of things that shouldn’t be controversial (e.g., most comedy), and stifles people from challenging one another when they subject themselves to perpetual “safe spaces.” Holocaust deniers are, even as absurd as their beliefs prove, protected with free speech and a right to assemble. But when a comedian makes a petty joke, people often look to take offense to it so they can try to “cancel” that comedian’s career. A recent example of cancel culture in the Harvard area is when conservative commentator and writer Ben Shapiro gave a speech at Boston University. Protestors met this with vengeance; they tried to “cancel” it, just because they disagreed with him. I’m no fan of Shapiro, but I can’t stop him simply because he “offends” me. Legally, I can protest his free speech, but that doesn’t mean I should; he spreads his message peacefully, with ostensibly benevolent intentions.
Granted, if someone is making threats or causing harm, it totally makes sense why one would want to address such a problem to protect powerless or otherwise marginalized people. But, in general, we can’t simply bully people with whom we disagree; sometimes, they just haven’t been properly exposed to enough culture and education to rid themselves of stereotypes. Attacking people won’t change their minds. What can change people is empathy, shared experience, and demonstration that we’re more alike than we think.
When someone is being racist, sexist, homophobic, or xenophobic, don’t meet it with hate. That’s just reciprocal prejudice. Meet them with an open heart; show why you disagree with their views in a constructive way. Show that we’re all human — with the same fears, joys, frustrations, tastes, and hobbies. We even have the same memes. It may not work, but you’ll serve society more than you would by meeting ignorance with organized hate or ostracization. If you hear students’ classroom discussions here at Harvard, see what’s on social media, or notice campus rhetoric, you will see that there is a degree of intolerance for conservatives, Christians, Republicans, and others of minority political and religious stances. This is antithetical to liberalism and multiculturalism, which are all-inclusive concepts. I dream of a world wherein everyone has the same platforms and privileges to express themselves and live in a truly egalitarian world.  To quote Evelyn B. Hall’s summary of Voltaire: “I disagree with what you say but will defend to the death your right to say it.” So don’t be judgmental, quick to conclusions, or hateful. Be respectful, empathetic, open to interpretation, and constructive.
Luke T. Atkins is in his second year at the Harvard Extension School.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The United States is stuck. Mainstream political discourse in this country seems less and less likely to have answers for the problems facing us today. In many cases, it feels incapable of even identifying these problems. There is a palpable feeling that the status quo cannot hold for much longer. In an era of unprecedented change, it is time for new ideas. I want to offer a few of them. But to do that, we need to go back in time.
As the U.S. established itself in the late 1700s, founding father Thomas Paine, who authored the pamphlet “Common Sense” that helped spur the colonies to revolution, was advocating another revolutionary idea in “Agrarian Justice.” Paine argued that all citizens should receive a payment at age 21 and a pension every year starting at age 50 as recompense for the loss of common ownership of the Earth. Centuries later, Martin Luther King Jr. advocated for a guaranteed minimum income, a payment to all people linked to the median American income, in order to end poverty and ensure dignity for all Americans. In the late 1960s early 70s, a bill called the Family Assistance Plan, which would have provided poor families with a basic income (over $10,000 in present-day money to a family of four), was endorsed by over 1,000 economists and passed the U.S. House of Representatives twice before failing in the Senate.
What all these plans have in common is the recognition that the most effective tool to rectify economic injustice is money. If we are going to seek the abolition of poverty in this century, we must understand that education, jobs, and other programs can only do so much. To quote author Rutger Bregman, “Poverty is not a lack of character. Poverty is a lack of cash.”  The most effective, simple, and direct way to address poverty is to give people money. Sadly, this kind of thinking has been absent from the mainstream for the past half-century.
That brings us to the present day. Former Democratic presidential candidate Andrew Yang brought this idea back into the spotlight by making a universal basic income, which he called the Freedom Dividend, the centerpiece of his campaign. But Yang is not the only proponent of UBI out there. The movement behind basic income is bigger than any one person, and after all these years, decades, and even centuries, this movement may finally be nearing the mountaintop. I invite you to join us.
First, we should understand what UBI is. Let’s go letter by letter. The I is for Income: a UBI is a monetary payment. The U is for Universal — that means it goes to everyone; rich or poor, young or old; black or white, it doesn’t matter — every legal adult gets the exact same payment. Next is B, for Basic: it should be enough to cover basic needs, such as food, water, and shelter. Various basic income advocates across the political spectrum have proposed their own particular versions, but those three conditions are generally agreed upon (although MLK was advocating for more than just a basic income — but that’s worth discussing at a later time).
Is UBI the solution to poverty, or is it unworkable and a pipe dream? There’s nothing wrong with being skeptical of new ideas. I became convinced of the importance of UBI after discovering a 1970s experiment in Canada. A program called Mincome gave a basic income to a few thousand Canadians in Manitoba from 1974 to 1979 before funding was cut. The data was ignored for decades before finally being unearthed and then published in 2011. The results are astonishing. Most recipients were lifted out of poverty. Hospitalizations, injuries, and rates of teen pregnancy decreased while high school graduation rates improved and there was a dramatic drop in mental health issues. The money made people’s lives better. In an era of record-setting economic growth but also rampant inequality we are long overdue for some policies that would make people’s lives better.
Few people in the media, and maybe not even Yang himself, fully understood how radical of an idea he was proposing. UBI fundamentally alters our relationship with work and survival. It ensures a basic right to exist for all Americans. It frees ordinary people from the need to take any and every job offered just to get by. It gives everyone the chance to worry a little less and to take ownership of their own lives. UBI is not about the money; the money is a means to an end.
It’s time for new ideas. It’s time for universal basic income.
Matthew B. Gilbert ’21 is a Computer Science concentrator in Adams House. His column appears on alternate Thursdays.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Last week, the Faculty of Arts and Sciences chose to break from the administration’s longstanding position to vote overwhelmingly in favor of divestment from fossil fuels. Their proposal — approved by a whopping 179-20 margin — advises the Harvard Corporation to divest the University’s endowment from companies that “explore for or develop further reserves of fossil fuels.” It will now be brought to the Harvard Corporation for consideration. The vote marks the culmination of a four-month-long debate among faculty over the proper role of the University in combating climate change.
Regardless of what the Harvard Corporation chooses to do with this proposal, the faculty’s vote is a positive development. We reiterate our stance that divestment from fossil fuels is a moral imperative and reject the notion that our education must be funded through practices that hasten environmental calamity. It is illogical for the University to continue to invest in a future that it is actively working to eliminate. As such, it’s encouraging to see the faculty considering fossil fuel divestment so rigorously, and then electing decisively to champion it.
We look forward to seeing their proposal presented to the Harvard Corporation. However, we do so warily. The documented ties Harvard Corporation members have to the fossil fuel industry cause us to question how much their opinion will be swayed by this proposal. Regardless, we urge the Harvard Corporation to seriously consider this proposal and divest from fossil fuels, especially since this vote has followed years of student-led activism that they have continuously ignored and discounted. It bears note that faculty are discussing this issue in significant part due to the rigorous student activism organizations such as Divest Harvard and others have engaged in over the past few years. If this proposal is not taken into serious consideration, not only will it be deeply disappointing, but it will also be a glaring sign to faculty and students alike that Harvard truly does not care about what they think. If Harvard’s administration has faith in its faculty, then the fact that they voted 179-20 in favor of divestment should mean something.
In debates leading up to this vote, faculty members supporting divestment argued that Harvard, as one of the top universities in the nation, needs to be at the forefront of an international divestment movement. And while it inspires hope to see faculty members fighting for the change that its students have been wanting to see for a long time, the idea that Harvard is falling behind and that we must be a “leader” in this divestment movement should not be one of the primary arguments for divestment from fossil fuels. Not only is it way too late for Harvard to be a leader in this movement (many universities are already leading this charge), but this type of language and reasoning discounts the struggles of those immediately and disproportionately affected by climate change, particularly already marginalized communities. When Harvard centers conversations on divestment around the optics of how divestment would make Harvard look, it does a disservice to these people.
Finally, we urge the faculty to seriously consider and discuss other divestment movements, including divestment from the prison industry, Puerto Rican debt, indigenous landholdings, occupation of Palestine, and any others that are being led by students on this campus. The faculty have shown themselves capable of serious deliberation, and the fate of these other movements stands to benefit from such considered treatment.
This staff editorial solely represents the majority view of The Crimson Editorial Board. It is the product of discussions at regular Editorial Board meetings. In order to ensure the impartiality of our journalism, Crimson editors who choose to opine and vote at these meetings are not involved in the reporting of articles on similar topics.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
I am attempting to remember my first time (which I’m told should be unforgettable). Try as I might, though, I cannot recall that initial stroll beneath the 11 letters which cast their divine light over so much of small town USA. The yellow tiles of the Waffle House sign loom over nearly every exit along I-26, albeit more often with a burnt out letter or two than not. They are as much a staple of the landscape of rural South Carolina, my home state, as is a field of cows, a roadside peach stand, or a highway billboard proclaiming, “Forgive my sins, Jesus, save my soul.”
I think my father may have introduced me — I have a vague memory of him pulling up outside of one of the Waffle Houses in Charleston, where I grew up, and turning around to inform me of the murder that occured in that very parking lot just a few months ago. And while this first impression of the 24-hour restaurant was jarring, my father shrugged it off, saying, “Oh, you get that with anywhere open past midnight.”
Though I made sporadic visits to Waffle House throughout my childhood, I did not become fully enamored until high school. After school one Friday during my sophomore year, I sat with two girl friends in a red pleather booth at a Waffle House, swinging my sneakers over the checkered linoleum. We scooped “whipped spread” from plastic tubs, letting it mingle with glistening, half-melted chocolate chips and saturate the crisp-on-the-outside, fluffy-in-the-center delicacy for which the establishment is named. Someone had cued an early 2000s pop song on the jukebox. I watched as cars whirred and gleamed outside, batter overflowed from waffle irons, and employees leaned back against the counter in their blue uniforms, laughing.
Our waitress, while bringing me another Diet Coke for which I had not yet thought to ask, chuckled and looked down at us, saying, “I remember the stuff I’d get up to when I was your age.” She began a lengthy tale about stealing her sister’s cigarettes. She spoke in a tone of voice we’d used countless times, in front of school bathroom mirrors and crouched against heavily graffitied bus seats; it seemed to say, This is a secret, I am confiding in you, and though she was 50 or so, for a moment we were all teenage girls. She knew we were up to no good, but she was in on it.
After that, Waffle House became a go-to. I could find one almost anywhere. My father took me to Waffle House after picking me up from my first day of work at my first ever job. The one near my high school became a tempting alternative to fourth period. And when my best friend drove me back from the party where I had my first kiss, we didn’t go straight home. I had, of course, to fill her in — over a sausage, egg, and cheese hashbrown bowl that I was too nervous and excited to eat. To this day, my mother and I stop at the same Waffle House in West Columbia each time we visit my grandma in the red clay hills of upstate South Carolina.
I wish I could pinpoint what exactly it is that keeps me coming back. Perhaps it’s the knowledge that Waffle House will welcome six bleary-eyed high school seniors who can’t help but order the entire menu on a Saturday night, just as it will welcome families the next day in their Sunday best and truckers who’ve driven across countless state lines the night after that. Waffle House does not ask you to be more than you are, and you treat it much the same. It is a mutual openness, a shared warmth. You laugh till you ache beneath the fluorescence which illuminates everything: grease and mop water on the kitchen floor, just enough quarters counted and stacked on top of a laminated menu, the tattoo on the wrist of a waitress who will call you “baby” when she asks if you need that drink to-go.
Perhaps the reason lies in sitting with my mother on the drive to my grandma’s house. My mother always always orders her hashbrowns scattered, smothered, and covered (that’s lingo for sauteed onions and melted cheese). Says it’s the only way. She still calls the red clay hills we’re driving towards “home,” even though she’s lived in Charleston for years. I like to imagine most of the people sitting around us are people headed home. This is a stop on the way. When we see that sign, those letters which lit the skyline of my adolescence, we know we’re almost there.
—Staff writer Roey L. Leonardi can be reached at roey.leonardi@thecrimson.com. This is one of three essays published as a part of FM’s 2020 “Contemporary Romance” feature.
Sections
My mental image of Martina, my younger sister by eight years, is of a photo in my father’s study: a chubby-cheeked toddler, mostly bald but with wisps of brown hair, wrapped in a blue towel and sitting on a green beach chair in northern Italy munching on a slice of focaccia.

We used to visit Italy every summer. When Martina was four, our beach game was “shark”: I swam toward her, my fingers rising from the surface like a fin, and she shrieked and ran away, splashing through the foam where the pebbly Ligurian shore meets the Mediterranean. The next year she devised a new game, in which we held hands in the water and danced in a circle, singing the lyrics to “Snoopy Come Home” from the Peanuts television special.

When she was a more adept swimmer, we returned to “shark,” but in deeper waters. Soon after she became obsessed with water acrobatics, and she’d have me toss her out of the water as she attempted to contort and spin her body like the synchronized swimmers she saw in the Olympics.

No matter the age, or how many times she choked on the sea, she was always babbling, giggling, and shrieking; despite purple, chattering lips, she never admitted to being cold. It was as if she were competing with the crashing waves for who could make more sound, for longer.
***
Martina and I are products of the same genetic jumble. At home, we ate cantonese noodles and shumai; pasta pesto and ravioli; a burger with fries; and on leftover night, all of the above. Outside the home, I was a ship caught between two shores, the buffeting of heavy winds making both impossible to reach. I heard the term “halfie” for the first time in high school, a teacher called me “mutt,” classmates doubted my authenticity as someone with “Chinese” heritage who could speak Italian. Yet for Martina, in her unencumbered, elementary school state, the puzzle pieces fit together seamlessly. She could boast to her friends that she spoke Italian with her nonni and tried cow stomach over the weekend, existing in an organic state, absent of the identity-based worry and politics that would make a similar utterance from me immediately suspect: “You’re not really Chinese.” I could read her Italian fables, or American ones, or translated Chinese myths before bed; no matter the story’s origin, my sitting by her side and stroking her uncombed hair put Martina, and often me, to sleep.
***
Of course, I knew her elementary school years were not as simple they looked. At dinner I heard about bullies, fourth grade cliques, and strict teachers, and would explain how I’d overcome similar problems at her age. We also had conflict, enormous fights over trivial things — rushing her to get ready in the morning, scolding her for strewing socks all over the house. Her problems all seemed related to inexperience, and our spats were my attempts to resolve them.

In the few years before I left for college, the biggest points of contention between Martina and myself came during mealtimes. I commented on her eating habits endlessly — urging her to have her fill, asking if she’d eaten enough, scolding her to finish her plate. As I struggled with body dysmorphia, I sometimes went through weeks-long periods of unfinished breakfasts and skipped lunches, in order to justify an average-sized dinner. I weighed myself daily, spread level tablespoons of peanut butter, measured precise scoops of rice; Martina ate goldfish from the bag, snacking when she was hungry and setting her fork down at meals when she was full, unaware of “macronutrients” or caloric content.

I’d stand in our living room, watching her munch on Cheerios while tackling multiplication problems and chiming in when she needed help. I was relieved at her natural relationship with food. If she wanted to bake, I’d happily pull out a recipe for chocolate chip cookies. As we baked, I’d willingly clean up her mess — eggwhite on the counter, flour on her sweater, shells in the batter — and even eat our finished product, pride in our joint baking effort outweighing my fear of simple carbohydrates.

Yet at meals I was so overbearing, and we bickered so much, that my parents changed our seating arrangement so that I wouldn’t be directly across from her. I projected my own insecurities onto Martina, my fear of eating too much paradoxically expressing itself as concern about her eating too little.

In retrospect, I remember Martina yelling at me to stop pushing her to eat, setting down her utensils in refusal, at times even crying. Yet within a few days of each fight, it seemed like she had bounced back, impervious to my nagging, so I continued. In trying to protect Martina from my self-induced starvation and binges, to preserve my image of her simple, unified state, I had overcomplicated everything; it now feels selfish.
***
I returned home this winter to a tight embrace from an unruly 11-year-old, her head nearly up to my shoulder. Martina now has thick, long brown hair and her forehead brims with proto-pimples. TikTok is always open on her phone and my mother’s oversized jeans and sweaters fill her wardrobe (for the “thrift shop” aesthetic).

She demands to be taken to the Women’s March; is reading a novel in which police brutality is a central theme; wants to explore her Chinese heritage, preparing Trader Joe’s dumplings for lunch and trying to pick up Mandarin through Duolingo. She is learning to cook and made me pancakes for breakfast; she recounted how she had, of her own accord, broken off toxic elementary school friendships and forged new ones; “Wasian” is a fixture in her vocabulary, and when an eighth grader made fun of her for having coronavirus she shouted at him until he apologized.

Spending months away from home at a time means when I see her now, the changes — in her height, demeanor, speech — are sudden and jarring, forcing me to recognize her as her own subject with interests and thoughts beyond what I might project upon her.
When she asked me what it was like to transition from a middle school with no Asians to a high school filled with Asians, about what it was like to study Mandarin and speak with Nai Nai and Gong Gong, I didn’t have any clear answers.

Martina is beginning to go through puberty and adolescence, as all sixth graders do. Yet this simple, inevitable fact feels impossible. Like standing on the shore, aware only of the white crests gently slapping your ankles, the murmuring waves and summer sun lulling your senses; but all the while the tide draws the seawater back, gentle eddies around your soles pulling the sand beneath your feet along with the water, until you suddenly fall forward, to find that the ground beneath your feet, inexplicably, has literally been swept away.
***
Martina’s straightforward way of navigating the world gave me something to return to, not only a physical person and space, but a temporality, one outside my teenage, inexorable march through inner challenges and uncertainties.

A few days before I returned to Harvard this past August, my father, sister, and I went to the beach, as we always do. There is something about the sea — perhaps the rhythmic crashing drowns out worry, or the salinity buoys innocence to the surface, or the air is so saturated with nostalgia that there’s no room for excessive brooding, or the cyclic tide smooths over sharp edges — that returns Martina to a younger state. Here she has infinite resistance to the cold, shrieks gleefully at sea-foam sprays, is intensely averse to sand. Always either in the water or sprawled on a towel, munching on potato chips.

Martina is still 11 years old. Our conversations about her bizarre dreams, staring contests (she can’t keep from giggling for longer than two seconds), time spent cuddling together with the dog, the basic things I have to teach her (how to make instant ramen, how to use blinds), outnumber the moments in which her maturity surprises me. Childhood in twilight.

She runs into the water and, whenever a large wave approaches frantically screams “Big! Big! Big!” The wave arrives before she can prepare herself, and the Atlantic fills her mouth.
—Magazine writer Matteo N. Wong can be reached at matteo.wong@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @matteo_wong. This is one of three essays published as part of FM’s 2020 “Contemporary Romance” feature.
Sections
My brother leaves for his second semester of college on a dreary Saturday morning. It’s one of those mornings where it’s a little too cold to be outside without a coat, but you wouldn’t notice it until you had already committed yourself to stepping out the front door. I’m outside sans outer layer, and part of my shivering self wishes he would hurry up so I can go back inside. But he doesn’t hurry up, because he didn’t want to leave.

He finally does, but only after checking his room twice for items he couldn’t even bring back with him (the left-behind victims of military school asceticism) and climbing one of the trees in our front yard with little explanation other than he felt like it. When his truck is out of sight, I stand inside the warm entryway of our house with my mom while she cries. She always cries when one of us leaves to go back to school, she tells me, but this time it’s not so bad because I’m still here. She still has one. I hug her, and she cries even harder for a moment, as I awkwardly try to account for the five-inch height distance that has existed between us since I was 11 years old.

“I miss hugs,” she says. After another moment, “You were never a big hugger as a kid. Even when you were little.”

I hold onto her for a little longer, unconsciously trying to make up for lost years.

***

My family is not one of the physically affectionate ones. I did not grow up hugging my parents when they got home from work. My only physical contact with my brother was roughhousing, when he would poke my sides to annoy me, when we would hit each other in the backseat of the car. I hugged other relatives when they approached but never initiated. As a child, it never crossed my mind to wonder why I didn’t crave touch.

The lack of physical affection is not for lack of love, of course. We just show it in other ways. One of my desk drawers is full of long notes from my mom — ballpoint on copy paper that she tucks into care packages, prayers and “I love you”s folded between dollar-store candy and new pairs of socks. My dad leaves me long voicemails because he calls at odd hours, and I worked for a month on a book of pre-college advice for my brother so he wouldn’t have to go it alone. But moments of physical affection are often few and far between, confined to greetings and goodbyes.

But there were moments. When I was small, I would hug my dad on the rare instances that he was home from work before my bedtime. My mom would often rub my back before I went to sleep. When we visited the rest of our family in Oklahoma, my place was at the side of my grandmother’s armchair, where she could play with my hair and I could feel her hands grow more and more shaky as the years passed. But at some point I stopped waiting next to the door by the kitchen table, listening for the sound of my dad’s tires on the garage floor, and at some point I got ready for bed entirely on my own and started trading goodnight-love-you’s with my mother on my way to my room. During one family visit, I decided that I was too old to be sitting on the carpet next to my grandmother’s chair and moved to the couch across the room, where “connection” meant “conversation” and not “touch.”

Too early in childhood, I decided to outgrow physical affection. Part of it was subconscious — somehow, my feelings had decided for me that this was no longer something that I wanted or needed and that seeking it out was juvenile and therefore embarrassing. Other sorts of affection never left, but I no longer actively sought out touch. With no one else in my family to look to as an example, I felt as though initiating physical contact would be out of place. So as the years went by, my desire for touch recessed further and further into some sort of stupor. The childlike joy of running to the front door or sitting at my grandmother’s feet fled me.

At some point in high school, I began to wake up. I had a solid group of friends in high school, a small but close-knit circle that kept me happy throughout most of my four years. I was always comfortable in their presence, sharing food and beds at sleepovers but not comfortable enough to initiate hugs, play with their hair, or scratch their backs the way that many of the other friends at my school did. In watching other friend groups, I had realized something was missing and that the missing piece was platonic affection.

I was comfortable with my friends and grateful for the comfort. With them, some of my principal anxieties — that I was secretly unwelcome, that I was an interloper in a group of people who cared much more for each other than for me — never came to fruition. But these principal anxieties flared up every time I took a step outside my little safe haven. I was not good at making new friends.

As a consequence of growing up without much touch, I am hyper-aware of where I think boundaries lie. I fear that, by initiating touch, I will make people uncomfortable, and that they will be too polite to tell me to go away. That I will be branded in their minds as pushy or out-of-line. Respecting boundaries is, objectively, a good thing, but most of the time, I drastically overestimate where the boundary actually is. The same principle applies to other social relationships, entirely regardless of touch. I tend to assume that, if people don’t talk to me first, they don’t want to talk to me at all. When I initiate, I assume that I am intruding on conversations, on social circles, on personal space.

I once heard a classmate telling people he didn’t like me because I was too “standoffish.” I was standoffish, and the comment hurt, because standing off to the side — my defense mechanism — was the reason for his dislike. Because it takes a lot for me to feel welcome, because I still carry in me that fear of the interloper: that I am somehow intruding, secretly unwanted among people who are too polite to say otherwise. I envy those that can start up a conversation with anyone, who can go somewhere alone and walk out with new friends instead of keeping their heads down, hoping to go unnoticed.

On good days, I like to think I can call myself friendly enough. But every other day, I come across as cold, unapproachable. My facial expressions betray me, exuding haughtiness and disinterest when all I really feel is shy; multiple people have called me intimidating.

I would love to appear inviting and strike up conversations easily. I would love to be able to sit with more people at meals and count many more people as my friends.

But I don’t know how.

***

One weekend during the second semester of my freshman year, my friends and I went to a party. It was one of those quintessential Harvard affairs: too many sweaty bodies in too-small a room, the same songs you hear at every party pounding from a speaker in some unseen corner. Lights out, faces indistinguishable, easy to get lost.

I did get lost, separated from my friends before I even realized they were gone. Suddenly there were hands around my waist and a body pressed against my back, and when I whirled around a man was there, swaying drunk and looking me up and down. He said something to me that I couldn’t hear, and when I asked, “Who are you?” he shoved his tongue down my throat.

I still wish I had fought him off better. I wish I had punched him, or slapped him across the face, or at least shouted at him to get off me. But he was taller and much, much stronger than me, and I was terrified. So when I got away as soon as I could, I shoved through the crowd and disappeared. I’m just glad I remembered to grab my coat.

***

It didn’t take me long after that to realize something had changed. Platonic touch had been something out of my grasp before, something that I welcomed at the moment it happened; now, it was something that I actively avoided. When we got back from spring break, I stood back so male friends would not hug me in greeting. I shuddered when people brushed past me during lecture. But it was the worst at parties; I went to one a few weekends later and left ten minutes in, because the feelings — people bumping into me, clothes catching on mine, hands on my lower back moving me out of the way — sent me into a pseudo-panic, not always enough to compel me to flee but often enough to make me an outsider, the one quiet person in the crowd with a pained look on her face, trying despite everything to still have a good time — and failing.

I often reminded myself that it could have been much worse. And the pseudo-panic went away after a few weeks, when I no longer worried about turning around and finding another strange man leering at my back and when casual touch did not carry with it a threat. But in the time until that happened, what little touch, what little courage for physical affection I could muster, before had been taken away from me. I had been hyper-aware of other people’s boundaries before, but now, I was hyper-aware that my own had been violated. Every touch was indiscriminately lumped in with that of the perpetrator, a defense mechanism gone haywire in an attempt to keep me safe.

But the anxieties had not fully run their course by the time that freshman formal came around, and I, best interests notwithstanding and very much punch-drunk on the elation of almost being done with the year, decided that I very much wanted to go.

As it turns out, crowding into a large, unheated tent with a thousand of my classmates and an aggressively loud DJ booth was not something my best interests would let slide. I participated in conversations outside the dance floor, complained of painful shoes so friends would sit with me at a table, and eventually decided to dance. I tried to have a good time, I promise. And outside the dance floor and at the table, I did. But on the dance floor, the did turned into pretend. And after someone bumped squarely into me from behind, a thrashing arm colliding with the bare skin between my shoulder blades, I didn’t want to pretend anymore.

A friend noticed my expression as I was planning my escape route and asked me what was wrong. I told him the whole story, and instead of letting me leave, he told me to wait a second. He gathered up the people around us, most of them our close friends, and told them circle up. When the circle was complete, he motioned for me to move to the middle. “Now,” he said, where no one else would hear, “no one will touch you.”

So I danced, encircled by friends, safe from the swirling mass of bodies and limbs that surged around us. An imperfect eye of a storm, in which I was grateful for the respite from the wind and rain.

When someone else asked what was going on, my friend replied, “Anna Kate’s feeling claustrophobic.” A little white lie that preserved my little sanctuary for a little while longer, just long enough that I could count the night as a good memory.

***

Years have passed, and I have gotten better. I am better at initiating hugs, at casual contact, at smiling at people in dining halls. I will always want to be more friendly, more inviting, more open. But for now, this is progress. This will do.

The week before school started this year, I took a morning bus to New York City to stay with my boyfriend and his family. He picked me up from the bus stop, and we took the train home with his sister, and when we arrived at his house, his father hugged all three of us and I — somehow, in spite of the anxiety of being in a new place — felt welcome. We sat around the dining table for an hour or so, talking, his dad telling me stories of what my boyfriend was like as a kid. His sister was eating doubles (street food, curried chickpeas mashed between fried dough) and told me I should try it, holding the piece out for me to taste. Even as I took a bite, narrowly avoiding her fingers, I was surprised — surprised that I, someone she had known for one train ride, was someone she was willing to share food with in this way. And as I sat for longer, I realized that one gesture, a small bite of chickpeas and dough, had made me feel even more welcome than before.

I watched as I sat, and I saw a family that had not outgrown physical affection in the way that I had. And in that hour of being, I thought that if I have a family someday, this is what I want us to be. Close, affectionate, sharing food and “I love you”s. Never having to make up for years of lost hugs.
— Magazine writer Anna Kate E. Canon can be reached at anna.canon@thecrimson.com. This is one of three essays published as a part of FM’s 2020 “Contemporary Romance” feature. 
Sections
­
Twenty-six years before John F. Kennedy ’40 became the 35th president of the United States, he did what all Harvard students have done: he applied. Well, sort of.

His five sentence application essay touts the value of a “liberal education” and vaguely claims that Harvard has “something definite to offer.” But, to conclude, he makes a kind of generational appeal:

“Then too, I would like to go to the same college as my father,” Kennedy writes. “To be a ‘Harvard man’ is an enviable distinction, and one that I sincerely hope I shall attain.”

But what does it mean, really, to be a “Harvard Man” today?

Based in Mather House, “The Masc” seeks to provide a space for undergraduates to address this question. Founded by Mather House tutor David Jud and Unitarian Universalist Harvard chaplain Adam L. Dyer, “The Masc,” to Jud’s knowledge, is the first organization on campus created exclusively to explore masculinity, both in the context of Harvard and beyond.

Jud was inspired to start this group after participating in a similar program while earning his masters degree at Syracuse University. He then recruited Dyer, who has been leading conversations about issues of masculinity and sexuality since as early as the 1980s.
Jud says that one barrier to the club’s success is also the reason it exists.

“In general, men, male students, male-identifying folks don’t talk a whole lot about their feelings, about their experiences growing up, what it means to be a man, how [they are] questioned in their gender or sexual identity at various points in their life, how they may have done harm to others by reinforcing gender norms,” Jud explains.
Part of the problem seems to be exacerbated by Harvard’s culture. Dyer mentions that many consider “over-programmed time” to be just a “Harvard thing,” unrelated to masculinity. But, he adds, “A lack of spaciousness is something you see time and again when you look at gender studies. You know, having too much is a sign of good masculinity. Like, I can do everything and more is considered classic male behavior.”

Office of Sexual Assault Prevention and Response (OSAPR) director Pierre R. Berastain ’10 does not consider prioritizing work to be a “masculine thing,” but says that trying to prove one’s worth through involvement is both a “Harvard thing” and a form of capitalism and patriarchy. Although not associated with “The Masc,” Berastain has partnered with Dyer in the past to address masculinity at Harvard.

While “The Masc” could be a “more academic” organization that “[uses] a lot of abstract terms like intersectionality and heteronormativity and basically [is] like section,” what Jud really wants is to provide a space to “share stories” and allow everyone’s experiences to exist.

Last week, for the first time, Jud, Dyer, and eight new student members gathered in the Mather Senior Common Room and dove into a curriculum invented for a similar group at Brown University.

The first meeting used structured activities to get students to consider different gender identities, writing adjectives associated with each on a whiteboard. Jud and Dyer then asked participants to enter an open conversation about times they either reinforced gender norms or acted as a bystander to gender stereotyping.

The group itself still seems to be mulling over its audience and scope. The College requires that all student organizations remain open to all people, regardless of gender identity.

Berastain believes that a space to unpack masculinity does not require that all attendees are male-identifying because “we all have levels of masculinity and femininity.”

“What are you trying to achieve with a male-only space that would be different when you have a female presence in the room?” he asks. “What are you unwilling to say? And more importantly, why?”

Dyer lauds the work of the Office of BGLTQ Student Life and the Harvard College Women’s Center, but he believes there should be private spaces where men at Harvard do not have to fear being “pre-judged”: “So the flip side then is where is the space for men?” he asks. “Where does the male-identified person with quote unquote ‘traditional’ masculinity values, where does he get to talk about what he feels?”

Dyer hopes to bring together those with different beliefes about masculinity “to actually talk to each other or have a space where they can hear each other without judgment.”

According to Dyer, the “uber-liberal” nature of Harvard and Cambridge makes it difficult to ensure that those with conservative views about masculinity do not feel judged. A self-proclaimed “liberal,” Dyer still hopes that he can create the “sense of openness” he found valuable when “navigating very conservative religious circles” in the past.
For their first meeting, I asked if I could come to observe the discussion. But Jud explained that he believed the presence of a reporter might intrude upon the “somewhat confidential space” and prevent students from sharing openly.

“The Masc” will confront not only overarching questions about masculinity, but also the growing problem of sexual assault at Harvard. Dyer was stunned by last year’s survey on sexual assault and misconduct from the Association of American Universities (AAU) and is committed to finding concrete ways to deal with the results.

The 2019 AAU report took into account the responses from 8,300 Harvard students and found that approximately 33 percent of female undergraduates had experienced “some form of nonconsensual sexual contact.” The national prevalence rate of nonconsensual sexual contact for undergraduate women is between 17 and 32 percent.

“That Harvard has these kinds of results — that Harvard has just as many sexual predators and sexual assaults on campus that are male generated as any other institution — doesn’t seem right. It particularly doesn’t seem right that we’re not doing something about it or talking about it,” Dyer says.

Berastain suggests that spaces that address masculinity can approach sexual assault in several ways. He highlights the potential in “unpacking our own histories of harm” that may affect future relationship s and “creating a group of collegiality and camaraderie in which people hold each other accountable, in which people help each other grow and look out for each other.”

The issue of sexual assault committed by men from Harvard does not stop at the bounds of Harvard’s gates. Conversations with students from other universities including Lesley, MIT, Longy, and Berklee reveal, in Dyer’s words, “That there’s a history of Harvard men assaulting people on other campuses or feeling entitled to have privilege with other people’s bodies because they’re not ‘Harvard.’”

Jud also believes that Harvard’s influence gives a particular weight to the work of “The Masc.”

“For better or worse, Harvard students will grow into very powerful positions in the world, and, you know, if not Harvard, then where else are you going to set the norms of tomorrow?”

Change won’t necessarily happen tomorrow, but Jud and Dyer are thinking long-term. “We hope that people who take leadership roles in this room today will help people redefine what masculinity means in 10, 20, 30 years from now, in society and, if not in society, then at least within their own families and private networks,” Jud says.

Dyer looks forward to when students ultimately take it upon themselves to sustain “The Masc.” Beyond that, he hopes to one day bridge Harvard organizations — from the chaplains, OSAPR, the Women’s Center, and the BGLTQ office — to form a broader campaign that tackles masculinity.

Berastain, who has discussed the idea with Dyer, similarly imagines how the different groups on campus could come together to explore more “collaborative and in-coalition type work.” He believes that “you are just much stronger if you are coordinating and trying to work through that decentralization.”

So, while Dyer is hesitant to claim a slogan for such a campus-wide campaign at the moment, one came to mind first: “Harvard man, question mark?”
— Magazine writer Mollie S. Ames can be reached at mollie.ames@thecrimson.com.
Sections
Harvard does not want you to know where the Peabody Museum’s annex is.
Housed in a decommissioned particle accelerator, the metal floors and monochrome racks of the annex are more reminiscent of a Home Depot than a world-renowned anthropology museum. The racks stretch on in both directions, housing millions of artifacts. Looking through the grated floors, it’s easy to imagine how this 20,000 square-foot-annex is home to almost all of the Peabody’s collection — less than a quarter of one percent of its objects are actually on display. In the view of the Peabody, the value of the artifacts demands that the location of the annex be kept secret.
Diana D. Loren, senior curator of the Peabody Museum, and Jennifer L. Poulsen, collections steward, guide us around the annex on a frigid Thursday afternoon. As we weave in and out of the endless shelves, they point out decorative bowls, ceramic figurines, trays full of ancient rocks, and tools that date to before Homo sapiens existed. On the end of each rack hangs a small map showing where each artifact originates.
Behind the tall metal racks sit small desks covered with tablecloths of thin cushioned plastic, where nine collections assistants work to catalogue the nearly one-third of the collection that the museum has yet to document. Within arm’s reach of the desks are yet smaller racks that hold wooden trays, which provide the collections assistants their work for the day.
Ornate vases and painted pots sit along the edges of the annex. Other artifacts, however, are stored less carefully: Cardboard boxes sit on top of the racks and plastic milk crates line a curved wall, blanketed in dust. Plastic trash bags bulge from the holes of the milk crates, seemingly untouched for years.
But despite all the relics held there, few know the annex — and the cavernous collection housed within its walls — even exists.
Both in its exhibits and its annex, the Peabody stores objects with complicated histories and uncertain futures. Founded in 1866, the Museum obtained many of its early accessions during a period of imperialism and colonialism; its collections today contain the spoils of that legacy.
Amid an ongoing lawsuit contesting the Peabody Museum’s possession of a series of daguerreotypes that depict two enslaved people named Renty and Delia, scholars and activists alike have focused their attention on the Peabody’s collection and acquisition practices. For years, the museum itself has done work to grapple with the history of its objects and return or repatriate some of them proactively. But the daguerreotypes central to the lawsuit were only discovered in the Peabody’s collection in 1976 — a discovery that raises questions about what other objects may languish uncataloged and anonymous in the boxes, racks, and milk crates the Peabody secrets away.
Though the nine collections assistants, seated at their padded desks amidst the dense array of shelves, work at a prodigious pace to document the thousands of artifacts left uncatalogued, their priorities at times diverge from those of the Native communities, post-colonial nations, and people like Tamara K. Lanier — the plaintiff of the daguerreotype lawsuit and descendent of Renty and Delia — who may seek to reclaim objects possessed by the museum. The Peabody, after all, is an academic museum: In its effort to catalogue its collection, it prioritizes the research and teaching needs of the University community it serves.
“Stewardship” — the careful and responsible management of objects entrusted to a museum — is often hailed as the purpose of archaeological institutions like the Peabody. But given the historical power imbalances that in many instances granted the museum its collections, many question whether the Peabody ought to be a steward at all.
In 1866, the Civil War had just come to a close and American westward expansion was beginning again in earnest.
The period of Reconstruction, as it were, coincided with a renewed period of construction at Harvard University. 1866 was the year that George Peabody donated $150,000 — about $2,400,000 in today’s currency — to create an archaeology museum dedicated to “the accumulation of material for the proper understanding of the condition of the early inhabitants of America,” according to F.W. Putnam, the Museum’s first and longest-serving director.
When the museum opened after a decade of preparation in 1877, it needed artifacts to display. To fill the shelves of its new museum, Harvard funded expeditions around the globe.
Thus, the early history of the Peabody was defined by two aspects of colonial archaeology more broadly: the Museum’s inherent power over the people who owned the objects it desired and its impulse to collect as many objects as possible.
Matthew J. Liebmann, one of the most prominent figures in Harvard’s Anthropology department, teaches a course called “Can We Know Our Past?” that seeks to answer many of the questions archaeology raises. Once a teacher in South Dakota and a repatriation officer, he is now a professor and archaeologist who works with contemporary indigenous groups.
Because of Harvard’s “reputation,” Liebmann explains, the Peabody could obtain the artifacts it wanted from “countries that were not as economically developed as the U.S.” with relative ease.
“Harvard researchers certainly enjoyed a lot of latitude and privilege, often by permit-granting authorities of the state,” he says. “So they could go to countries in Central America and South America and get permits that would allow them to legally export those artifacts back to the US.”
The majority of the Peabody’s collection was acquired prior to 1930 by virtue of this latitude — taking artifacts from the American West and South America through colonial methodologies.
A competitive hunger for more and more items defined archaeological museums of the time. Liebmann explains that Harvard faced competition from museums like the American Museum of Natural History and the Field Museum in Chicago to acquire “museum-quality” collections.
Populations of Native American communities reached their lowest levels between 1890 and 1910, and at that time, American anthropologists and some Native Americans thought that many of these communities would not survive into the next century.
“There was a real salvage mentality to it,” Liebmann says. Experts were no longer only searching for archeological remains but also ethnographic artifacts, “before those tribes were all gone and there was nothing left to collect.”
Eventually, the Peabody acquired so many objects that it started to run out of room to house them all.
“We sort of slowed down the effort,” Poulsen recalls. “So we’re not actively seeking acquisitions; we’re not actively going to different parts of the world to acquire new material. The pace has slowed in a really deliberate way so that we can carefully steward what we have.”
As the Museum’s collections continued to expand throughout the mid-20th century, albeit at a slower rate than before, the Peabody outgrew its storage space at 11 Divinity Ave. — the land allocated to serve George Peabody’s donation, where the Museum stands today.
In the mid-1980s, facing an overflowing collection, the Museum moved a large portion of its artifacts to the annex, the space it shares with the old particle accelerator, a lab where high-energy physics research still occurs to this day. More than half of the artifacts that the Peabody possesses are stored in this building.
Many decades later, the Peabody still owns an annex full of objects it obtained during the rapid collection of the colonial era. The museum is still not done cataloguing these objects, and even once they are catalogued, questions of to whom they should belong and where they should go are often unclear.
In the annex, collections technicians Sarah N. Johnson and Zachary J. Williams spend hours at a time assigning accession numbers to trays of artifacts, photographing them, and adding them to the online database. Sitting at desks dwarfed by the towering racks of artifacts that surround their workspaces, they strive to close the gap between the number of artifacts the Museum has and the number that is catalogued.
Spending eight hours a day in a windowless warehouse amid ancient fragments might sound boring to some, but to Williams it’s quite the opposite.
“What’s exciting is that our day to day varies so much working in a place like this,” he says. “I started my day looking at images of Moroccan teeth and bones, and then I moved over and we did a little caste move with Mayan objects, and then I’ll be starting another collection in Massachusetts.”
According to Poulson, “the standard for museums is not to have 100 percent catalogued. But our hope is that we have 100 percent accessible to researchers teaching,” she says. Given the size of the collection, it is sometimes more efficient to track trays of artifacts rather than each individual object.
In order to reach this goal, Jane Pickering, the director of the Peabody Museum who was appointed in July 2019, says that the Museum has “a moratorium on new acquisitions, because we do have a significant backlog.” With this moratorium, cataloguing strategy and cataloguing itself take priority.
What the Museum decides to catalogue next is based on a number of considerations. Loren describes this process as a “moving continuum.”
“We work through priorities together, thinking about upcoming research, different issues happening within the discipline, if there’s a need, like if there’s a researcher or faculty member interested in a certain area,” she says. For example, when the National Museum of Brazil was decimated by a fire in 2018, the collections staff focused its attention on cataloguing Brazilian artifacts.
But this strategy — prioritizing the academic concerns of archaeologists at Harvard and around the world — leaves some items unattended.
Blending in with the back wall of the annex are the more than 60 red, black, and blue milk crates, filled with plastic and cloth bags. Some crates are brimming with crumpled newspapers that cushion the artifacts.
Poulson explains that these collections were obtained in 2015 by donation from a man named Edward P. Lanning, a distinguished archaeologist who worked extensively in South America.
“The majority of these collections, I believe, are from Colombia, and I think there’s some Ecuador as well mixed in,” Poulson says.
The dusty crates are stacked three high, and they are filled with artifacts that have not yet been shelved, catalogued, inventoried, or moved from the bags where they currently reside. “Some of these cloth bags look like they’re probably from the fifties,” Poulson says, standing in the narrow space between the crates and the rest of the artifacts.
“These collections came to us in this state. And obviously, when we contrast the care that they have right now with care of the row objects we saw the other day, there’s room for improvement,” Poulson explains when we ask her later. “My biggest concern always is that we’re going to be at risk of losing data if we don’t make a change soon.” The museum has set aside money in its budget for the next fiscal year to “rehouse” the artifacts into more appropriate storage.
These objects have been at the museum since 2015, which Poulson calls a “short while in museum time.” Although five years is small in comparison to the lifetime of many of the objects in the Peabody, the dust on the milk crates continues to accumulate.
There currently is no effort to return the items to Colombia and Ecuador. “There wasn’t any compelling reason why Colombia or Ecuador were asking for them back at this time,” Poulson says. “If there was any contested ownership, we would obviously never take it.”
But while they sit uncatalogued in the annex, it would likely be impossible for any group from Colombia or Ecuador to even mount a challenge — or that they would even know that the objects reside in Harvard’s annex at all.
In addition to the uncatalogued objects that sit quietly in the annex, the Peabody is also home to some high-profile items that demand more immediate attention. It is dealing with these objects in a variety of ways — working to return and repatriate them in some cases, and continuing to claim ownership over them in others.
For years, the Peabody has worked to repatriate its Native American funerary items. In 1990, Congress passed the Native American Graves Protection and Repatriation Act — NAGPRA for short — a policy that requires institutions that receive federal funding to return Native American “cultural items” to their owners’ descendants. The Peabody has a department committed to the repatriation of these objects.
The museum acquired the Native American artifacts that it holds in a number of ways — excavations, donations — but many also leveraged power imbalances.
Liebmann explains, for example, that, “in the early 20th century, when Native American communities were really under extreme economic duress, there were times when people sold things to museums, in part because they themselves were starving and needed to put food on the table.”
During the process of NAGPRA repatriation, Liebmann says, the Peabody produced inventories of the collections they had catalogued. “And then they sent out summaries of those inventories to all the tribes in the U.S. saying, ‘This is what we have.’”
Depending on the cooperation, or lack thereof, of archeological institutions, this process can be fraught. However, Liebmann lauds the Peabody for its commitment to NAGPRA.
Prior to accepting his position with the University, Liebmann helped Native American tribes file repatriation claims under NAGPRA. The Peabody, he recalls, was among the most cooperative archaeological institutions he worked with. “They were totally proactive, responsive. They were really the most accommodating staff that we worked with,” he says.
Christopher C. Toya, the Tribal Historic Preservation Officer for the Jemez Indian Reservation, is in charge of the protection of artifacts and cultural resources on Jemez land and, like Liebmann, has dealt with many museums throughout the NAGPRA repatriation process.
Since Toya assumed his position in 2004, he says he has interacted with the Peabody regularly. The repatriation process with the museum occurred “exactly how it was meant to,” Toya says, typically he has secured the return of the objects within a few months.
Toya adds that other museums are not as responsible and proactive as the Peabody with NAGPRA repatriation, recalling an instance when a museum simply refused to give items up, despite the law.
“It was a shame. Our tribal leaders had gone up for the repatriation visit at the museum. And our elders and our tribal leaders were up there,” Toya says. “They made no mistake, the objects were from Jemez Pueblo. They were distinct, it even said so in the catalogues that they were from Jemez Pueblo, but they didn't want to give them up.”
Even though NAGPRA protects material culture from exploitation and enforces repatriation legally, it only applies to very specific objects. This leaves little to no accountability for the return of other culturally sensitive objects that descendent communities may lay claim to.
“There’s this whole other category of artifacts that are not subject to NAGPRA: human remains and artifacts that are not from Native American nations, that are from other people,” says Caitlin G.D. Hopkins, a Harvard lecturer on History who specializes in material culture studies.
Hopkins explains the story of a 17-year-old boy named Steaurma Jantjes who was put on display as part of an 1860s anthropological exhibition in Boston on men from different parts of Africa.
The boy ended his own life after a year in the exhibition. Jefferies Wyman, who created the exhibit with the Harvard Medical School faculty, “dissected [his body], turned him into a medical specimen, articulated his skeleton and took a death mask” — or a plaster casting — “of his face,” Hopkins says. “So far, as far as I know, the Peabody Museum has not made any concessions for repatriation or formal acknowledgement of those human remains and artifacts that don’t fall under NAGPRA.”
These death masks remain in the Peabody annex to this day.
The ongoing lawsuit contesting the museum’s ownership of the daguerreotypes depicting Renty and Delia marks another point of divergence from the Peabody’s NAGPRA practices.
“The Peabody has fought against [returning the images], as has Harvard as well, by leveraging property law and exploiting the fact that because slaves could not own property when these images were taken, the descendants and ancestors of the slaves have no legal right to these images,” says Meredith N. McKinney, a Harvard Extension School student and an activist fighting for the Museum to hand over ownership of the images to Lanier.
Still other objects fall outside NAGPRA, including the Peabody’s international artifacts. Even UNESCO now prohibits the taking of artifacts from their countries of origin, the Peabody does not return international artifact acquisitions that predate those laws. As a result, the museum has kept the its collections taken from around the world — even the Colombian and Ecuadorian items stored in the annex’s milk crates.
Loren explains that if artifacts are requested by their country of origin, then a “conversation” takes place. But the last artifact that was returned to an international partner predates both Poulson and Loren’s time at the Peabody — some twenty-plus years.
In looking at the difference between the treatment of objects that fall in and out of the bounds of NAGPRA, it seems that the Peabody’s treatment of them is dictated largely by the laws the museum is compelled to follow. But perhaps the future of “responsible stewardship” depends upon considerations that transcend mere legal compliance.
In September 2019, Dean of Faculty of Arts and Sciences Claudine Gay created the Peabody Museum’s Faculty Executive Committee in an attempt to answer these questions.
The purpose of the committee is “less about the law than it is about thinking about what’s the ethical and right thing to do,” says Pickering. She also says the highly controversial daguerreotypes are included in the committee’s purview as they have been designated as a “sensitive collection.”
Liebmann, who chairs the committee, says that it is planning to “try to draft some policy suggestions on how to deal with these traumatic legacy collections.” The committee is currently still in the “discussion stages.”
The committee is using a critical eye to reevaluate the ethics of how the Peabody acquired much of its collection and how its stewardship of these objects should change in the future. However, what the committee considers worthy of review is subjective — much like the priorities of what should be catalogued, repatriated, and displayed. “One of the things that we’ve discussed in the committee is… what we’re going to identify as problematic and what is not, which really depends on your perspective,” Liebmann says.
“There are certainly people out there who would say that museums like the Peabody are just inherently problematic because they are strewn with the spoils of colonialism, which is true,” he continues. “We’re all trying to figure out how to deal with the legacy of colonialism that has shaped not just Harvard, but America.”
Liebmann believes that it should not take a lawsuit to “identify something as problematic.” So, although Poulson, Loren, and Liebmann agree that the committee was not created in response to the daguerreotype lawsuit, part of the committee’s task is to identify which artifacts have a troublesome history before a lawsuit identifies it for them. “The daguerreotypes are one of many problematic collections that the Peabody holds, and we were aware of that before the daguerreotypes lawsuit,” Liebmann says.
“We’re starting to look back critically on the history of archeology, coming out of colonialist studies, thinking about how to understand peoples from around the world,” Loren says. “Anthropologists believe it is their responsibility to collect that information. We can look back on that with a very critical eye now. And certainly we have, both within our institutions, and others have done so as well as we continue to move forward.”
But some — like Harvard Extension School student Meredith N. McKinney, an activist fighting for the Peabody to turn over the contested daguerreotypes to Lanier — believe that looking back with a critical eye is not enough.
McKinney claims that the Peabody anointed itself “the ethical stewards of these images, specifically of Renty and Delia, that have a family ancestor coming forward and saying, ‘Please stop showing these images of my family.’” The Crimson reported in December that the Peabody has considered sharing the stories of these images in a more public way; McKinney, however, believes that the Museum should not.
The lawsuit together with the formation of the Executive Committee hints at a possible turning point in beliefs about ethical stewardship at Harvard and in archaeological studies at large.
Although Harvard is not currently willing to comply with Lanier’s requests, it is taking more actions to address responsible stewardship than before. Liebmann says that the Faculty Executive Committee itself is unprecedented in Peabody history. Change often occurs slowly — on “museum time” — at Harvard, but the Committee is “thinking deeply about ethics and stewardship and heritage and how we balance the various different constituencies,” Liebmann says.
He emphasizes that the way the museum obtained many of its objects was wrong — but that morality becomes much blurrier when thinking about the future rather than the past. “You could never ever do that today,” he says of the museum’s imperialist acquisition practices. “It wouldn’t happen and shouldn’t happen for lots of different reasons. But the question is, what do we do with those things that remain in our collections?”
It seems these objects’ uncertain future has its roots in questions about the very purpose of an archaeology museum — whether it is to facilitate access to these objects for academics, to keep them in a safe and secure environment, to display them to the public, or to return them to the descendents of the people they belonged to or the people they depict.
As the Peabody works to answer these questions, the dusty milk crates, the objects labelled for NAGPRA repatriation, the “death masks” of 17-year-old Steaurma Jantjes, and the photographs of Renty and Delia — among millions of other objects — continue to sit and wait.
— Magazine writer Maya H. McDougall can be reached at maya.mcdougall@thecrimson.com or on Twitter @mayamcdougall2.
— Magazine writer Garrett W. O’Brien can be reached at garrett.o’brien@thecrimson.com or on Twitter @GarrettObrien17.
Sections
The day of Louis R. Agassiz’s funeral, every flag in Boston flew at half-mast; every local newspaper was trimmed in black. Agassiz, a professor of zoology and geology at Harvard, had spent his years dredging up and documenting marine species across the Atlantic, popularizing the theory of ice ages, and founding Harvard’s Museum of Comparative Zoology. Delivering the service that evening, Reverend A.P. Peabody encouraged the crowd to “follow, though with unequal steps, where [Agassiz] led.” “In the whole scientific culture of our land his spirit will still live and work,” the Harvard chaplain declared. Within two years, Agassiz’s hometown established a school in his honor; soon enough, the neighborhood took up the name too.
Nearly 150 years later, the residents of Agassiz find little to revere about their namesake. Some even want a new one.
At a 2001 lecture by the late Harvard zoologist Stephen J. Gould, many were surprised to learn that Louis Agassiz created taxonomies not only of turtles and jellyfish but also of human beings: Rejecting the modern consensus around Darwinian evolution, he believed that God created each race as a separate species within a hierarchy.
“I thought, well, why is the neighborhood named after a racist?,” says Jill M. Delbanco, who moved to Agassiz with her husband, Thomas L. Delbanco ’61, in 2007.
Maya H. Counter, a senior at Cambridge Rindge and Latin High School, felt similarly. Reading about Agassiz for a junior year U.S. History project “greatly disturbed” her, she says, andit “inspired [her]” to raise the matter with Sumbul Siddiqui, who was then a Cambridge City Counselor and is now Mayor.
“The past doesn’t necessarily deserve glorified representation,” Counter explains. “Agassiz was a flawed person, and I don’t think his legacy should be represented in the community.”
Counter has proposed renaming the neighborhood after Maria L. Baldwin, an unflagging civil rights activist.
Fifteen years earlier, a ninth grader at the Agassiz School led a successful push to rename his school after Baldwin, a well-loved former headmistress. Baldwin’s tenure marked the first of any African-American in a non-segregated school in New England.
Joel B. Bard, a parent involved in the effort, says that after their initial victory, many people briefly discussed the possibility of renaming the neighborhood but ultimately thought, “Well, one step at a time.”
Phoebe N. Sinclair, Community Liaison of the Agassiz Neighborhood Council, agreed. “I think people simply burnt out,” she says. ‘That’s why it’s important that there’s a natural changeover in the neighborhood; now new people can get invested.”
But it is unclear how the broader Agassiz population feels about the Agassiz name. After the vote to rename the Agassiz School, then-mayor Michael A. Sullivan refused to denounce the scientist: “We were [not] taking someone else’s name off so much as changing the name,” he told the Crimson in 2002. Even the new Maria L. Baldwin School website makes no mention of Agassiz’s views on race; it speaks of “carry[ing] the Baldwin-Agassiz tradition on into the next century.”
Counter maintains that a hyphenated name “sends a dangerous message.” “Why associate Baldwin with a man who used his career to say [people like] her were biologically inferior?” she asks.
She remains hopeful that a name change might come before she even graduates. At Siddiqui’s encouragement, Counter surveyed her neighbors’ opinions on the social networking site, Nextdoor, where around 130 people expressed interest in a change, and enlisted Sinclair to organize and facilitate an ANC meeting on the subject. According to Sinclair, Siddiqui seemed to be doing her best to “support a high schooler in an effort” she found “brave and important.”
Around 20 community members, many of whom were long-time residents, attended the Jan. 14 ANC meeting where Counter spoke — a healthy turnout for conversations like these, Sinclair tells me. The group loosely supported renaming the neighborhood, but felt strongly that a change should only come with broader support.
“I didn’t get the sense that people were fighting to keep Agassiz’s name, nor did I get a sense they were fighting to change it — they were curious,” Sinclair says.
Frederick R. Meyer, a volunteer moderator at the meeting, maintains that people opposed to the change were likely “too afraid” to voice their opinions. An avid amateur historian, he worries that young people are uninterested in consuming or preserving history. In 2002, he told the Crimson he’d rather the Agassiz School adopt a hyphenated name or the city dedicate a park to Baldwin instead.
Thomas L. Delbanco, a Harvard Medical School professor who attended the meeting, understands Meyer’s perspective — to an extent. “You cannot revise history every five years because you don’t like something,” he says. However, he believes a town’s name represents its people; therefore, it is a sign of progress, not of erasure, to change it. He imagines that the Agassiz name “turns off” prospective newcomers of color from moving to the neighborhood. “Why make a point of celebrating someone who had such thoughts?” he says.
Although Delbanco makes a forceful case for renaming the town, he interjects to affirm Agassiz’s reputation as a “great scientist.” He, like many of his neighbors, treats Agassiz’s legacy like a balancing act. After all, they insist, Louis was not the only Agassiz. His wife, Elizabeth C. Agassiz, served as the co-founder and first president of Radcliffe College. His son, Alexander E. R. Agassiz, succeeded him as Director of the Museum of Comparative Zoology, driving its twice-fold expansion. Harvard affiliates claim that the Agassiz name linked to the museum only honors Alexander.
Controversy surrounding Louis Agassiz’s time at Harvard spills beyond the walls of the MCZ. Last year, Tamara K. Lanier sued Harvard to gain the rights to photographs of her alleged enslaved ancestors — daguerreotypes Agassiz commissioned to advance his theories of racial inferiority. Sinclair believes that the lawsuit, in conjunction with a “greater consciousness around race,” has contributed momentum to the push to rename Agassiz.
On Monday, Feb. 12, the Cambridge City Council passed a resolution to begin an informal name-changing process. Leading the project is Councilor E. Denise Simmons, who has sponsored legislation to consider renaming schools, streets and monuments named after people linked to the slave trade, or “other similarly shameful acts.” In 2015, she facilitated a name change in The Port, a Boston neighborhood once known by its police district number, Area IV.
“The clinical designation of ‘Area IV’ always felt like an othering of the area for too many of us. It was a happy moment for me to become involved in the effort to officially rename the neighborhood, something brought about by the neighbors,” she explains.
This vote paves the way for significantly larger neighborhood meetings on the topic, potential educational series on the central figures Agassiz and Baldwin, and future polls. At the moment, things remain in flux. “The only thing we’re definitely doing,” Sinclair says, “is communicating back to the city.”
Ultimately, the council must approve all name changes, though both Meyer and Bard, a municipal lawyer, believe its members will follow the will of the neighborhood.
In an email to the council, Meyer stressed that the 30 people at the Jan. 14 meeting “should not claim to be speaking for the neighborhood.” He asked the council to help the ANC survey the neighborhood for alternate names and contact adult residents for their ranked choices. “It seems to me the only way to achieve [sic] harmonious neighborhood-wide consensus,” he declares.
While some mentioned naming the town after its geographic region or one of its famed residents, everyone interviewed for the article told me they expected the neighborhood to soon rally behind the change to Baldwin or Agassiz-Baldwin.
“It just feels the most natural,” Delbanco says.
— Magazine writer Saima S. Iqbal can be reached at saima.iqbal@thecrimson.com
Sections
Want to show someone in your life that you appreciate them this Valentine’s Day? Need help dazzling the crush you swoon over from afar? Or perhaps you’re brainstorming ways to best turn down an acquaintance? We here at FM have got you covered with our 2020 Valentine’s Day Grams!
What you pay: $10
What you get: We will deliver a dining hall plate of Red’s Best Fresh Catch to your crush’s door. For an extra $3, we’ll throw in a slice of chipotle mocha pork loin. For an extra $5, I will hand feed the entire meal to your crush. Throw in another $10 and I’ll whisper things like, “If Red thought this battered swai was the best catch, he clearly never met you!” I can also relay several interesting facts about swai, but that I will do for free.
What you pay: $12
What you get: A Writing Center tutor will proofread the GroupMe DM that you are about to send to the boy who sat across from you in your freshman seminar but never spoke to you directly. For some reason, he just sent you a message saying: Hey :) How’s your second semester going?? Haven’t seen you in awhile...it’s kind of crazy how we used to sit across from each other in class and now I’m stuck wishing we got to know each other better haha :) Anyway, any big plans for V-Day? EEK. The tutor pushes the clear frames of his glasses further up the bridge of his nose, clicking his .38 Muji pen — black — into the ready position. “First, let’s talk about structure,” he says.
What you pay: $15
What you get: We’ll send The Veritones to serenade your special someone with an acapella rendition of their favorite song! (Their favorite song must be either “Afternoon Delight” by the Starland Vocal Band, “Want You Back” by HAIM, or “Viva La Vida” by Coldplay).
What you pay: an Instagram shout-out
What you get: @remytheharvardcat’s owners will knit your loved-one a stunning orange sweater from the fur that Remy has shed. Note: may also include trace amounts of human hair and non-trace amounts of Hoisin sauce.
What you pay: annihilation of any chance you ever had of pursuing a career in politics
What you get: An AFVS concentrator will help you shoot bewitching — but seemingly effortless — nudes to send to the cutie you’ve had a Snapchat streak with since Visitas; nonchalant captions to accompany your Snapchats will be included. (Senders and receivers must be 18+. All photos will be tastefully underexposed).
What you pay: your left pinky, so that Harvard rats develop a taste for human flesh
What you get: An unnamed proctor from Canaday will deliver a rat to the door of the person that you were “exclusive” with all of fall semester, but who broke things off less than 36 hours after his return to campus for spring semester because he “discovered he still has feelings for” (had sex with) his home-town ex during winter break. Losing that pinky will hurt, certainly, but so too do feelings and difficult conversations.
What you pay: the sanctuary of imagination
What you get: A CAMHS therapist will help you come to the conclusion that your “crush” is actually just a romanticized construction of that person, and the interactions between you two that has no grounding in reality and, actually, more closely resembles a manifestation of unhealthy obsession and projection, rather than authentic love. You scheduled this appointment after seven weeks on the waitlist to talk about more pressing issues, but this will do.
What you pay: your data
What you get: A power duo (consisting of the students with the highest GPAs in CS50 and Tech Ethics) will create and install an algorithm that blocks all social media posts pertaining to Valentine’s Day from being displayed on your electronic devices.
What you pay: your dignity
What you get: The Harvard Alumni Association will provide you with the contact information of wealthy alums who just happen to have an account on SeekingArrangements and lack plans on the evening of Feb. 14.
What you pay: a year of Harvard College Tuition (before financial aid)
What you get: We will send a high-level Harvard administrator to DTR with the cute boy who leaned in to kiss you at a party once and then head nodded you in the Science Center Plaza two months later. It was an upwards head nod, by the way — the same nod he gives his buddies when they run into each other in the locker room before club lacrosse practice. Anyway, by paying for this service, you also consent to the sending of a university-wide email alerting the campus to the conclusion drawn from the conversation.
— Magazine staff writer Nicole B. Farina can be reached at nicole.farina@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @nicolefarinaa.
Sections
I found myself standing outside the retreat center near Worcester, Mass., on a snowy evening in January. Every year, two or three mindfulness meditation retreats are offered by Harvard, funded nearly entirely by an anonymous donor. The retreat would last five days with daily practice that mostly entailed sitting silently on cushions in an empty conference room. I’d have no one but myself for company.
Harvard runs on ego. Admittance is treated as a character trait, or at least an important marker of talent and status. The academic culture demands blind self-assuredness and, in return, offers a sense of chronic inadequacy. Social organizations equate exclusivity with quality, a fact that manifests through drawn-out and opaque comp processes. It’s hard to imagine a Harvard built on anything other than zealous individualism and evaluations of status and achievement. To even question the pretext of individualism would knock the entire system off its axis — which could explain why alternative understandings of the self interest me so much.
I’m no exception to the rule. I owe the majority of both my successes and failures in life to my fragile yet demanding ego. At best, my craving for admiration and fear of admonishment drive me to develop talents or over-perform in academic contexts. At worst, they lead me to prioritize virtue signaling over authentic selfless behavior, paralyze me in social settings, and self-evidently, make me exhaustingly introspective.
More importantly, individualism isn’t a particularly compelling framework for understanding how the world works or how we should operate within it; mounting evidence suggests individual choice has little to do with individual outcomes, which to a much greater extent are influenced by environment, experience, genetics, and social structure. Even more pertinently, the logic of self-interest rings empty when viewed from afar: Despite our tendency to privilege our own experience, we can’t all have needs and interests more important than each other’s.
Yet even at Harvard — a place whose foundations are built on individualism — there are people trying to see things differently.
The retreat I went on is intentionally secular, but modern mindfulness practice has its origins primarily in the Satipatthana Sutta, a Theravada Buddhist discourse outlining the practice of meditation. I became interested in the retreat because I was drawn to the answer to individualism that Buddhism offered. Anatta, the doctrine variously translated as ‘non-self’ or ‘egolessness’, is seen by Theravada Buddhism experts as one of the central theses of Buddhism. A loose summary of the doctrine is that there is no ‘essence’ or ‘soul’ in any of us. Instead, the self consists primarily of transient phenomena, with little to distinguish the difference or relative importance of any two people.
Maybe mindfulness isn’t the answer to the mistaken belief in a permanent self. But it can be a method of understanding and experiencing selfhood deliberately, a potential first step toward the realization of selfhood’s illusory nature.
***
I became louder on the retreat. Not through my words — for the most part, I said nothing at all— but the voice in my head became more crass, demanding, intrusive. I listened to myself sizing up others and ruminating on how they must be sizing up myself. I worried about how my posture looked to those behind me; was my back straight enough?
Every time someone walked too quickly, took too long to get lunch, breathed too loudly during sitting practice, I heard myself ask: Who was meditating better? Who really got it? Who saw through the ostentatious facade of it all, beyond the vague talk of awareness and insight? Who knew this commodified genre of mindfulness practice was nothing more than a crossroads between cultural capital and cultural appropriation, topped with a worldview marked by rampant passivity?
I listened as my mind reiterated these questions louder and louder as time dragged on. Meanwhile, the ironically simple mechanism behind mindfulness was working perfectly well in the background: I was aware that I was asking these questions.
These judgements and doubts pass through my head every day, but most of the time, I’m not even aware of them; the habit is simply too natural. On the retreat, I watched how my brain had been working the whole time — after all, who else is there to listen to in silence but yourself?
Without my phone to distract me in passing moments or friends to talk to when I became restless, my brain became an empty gymnasium, with thoughts bouncing and echoing endlessly off the walls. Yet, after some time, I’d invariably find stillness.
***
As I heard myself think, I experienced something shared by many meditators, ruminators, and other internally-oriented people: a pervasive sense that somehow these thoughts were being sent to me, out of my control and from an unknown source. They didn’t necessarily reflect on who I believed myself or wished myself to be. They were resistant to any attempts toward control or avoidance. Most importantly, they were almost always there.
In cognitive science, my experience follows a popular theory referred to as the ‘modular mind.’ It claims the existence of many different mental modules that compete for our attention in every moment, with the conscious self functioning only as a public relations director might serve a company: someone to interpret and present the inner workings of our brain favorably. Author Robert Wright directly links the modular mind theory to Buddhism, describing the experience through the image that “thoughts [are] received by your conscious mind rather than created by it.”
The idea that we might not be the originator of our thoughts challenges ego in a fundamental way. It’s nice to feel that you can take credit for a particularly insightful comment about Middlemarch during seminar. It hurts to feel that you had a rude passing thought about someone for whom you care deeply. It’s nice to feel that your place at a particularly exclusive university was earned through our unique intellect and tireless work ethic. It hurts to think these things might be as biologically-driven as our heartbeats, controlled by the brain and experienced by a PR-like consciousness merely inclined to believe in personal control.
An even more challenging Buddhist concept is that of Pratītyasamutpāda, or dependent arising, often simplified as ‘interconnectedness.’ In this model, the nonexistence of the self isn’t merely the lack of a permanent, perceiving self. It’s also a consequence of the fact that no meaningful distinction can be made between ourselves and others, as no subject or object can possess a cohesive, individual nature.
I didn’t perceive pratītyasamutpāda on the retreat. For the most part, I still felt like me. I glanced at my reflection in windows a bit too often, I poured myself an entire mug of coffee even when doing so finished the pot, and I spent a substantial amount of time reflecting on my past and wondering about my future.
Yet some long-term meditators describe a complete ego-death, wherein they realize there is no fundamental difference between themselves and their neighbors, or their enemies, or the birds in the sky. The implications of such an experience on life at a school like Harvard could be profound — treating others with unkindness or choosing to ignore the gap between life experiences dictated by privilege becomes much harder to justify when the differences between you and “them” are indistinguishable.
***
After returning to Harvard, I now find myself slipping away from the awareness I thought I’d gained in the woods an hour west of here. My thinking is again becoming automatic to the point of unconsciousness. But this might just explain why meditation isn’t considered a singular event and instead a daily practice — one that, in some traditions, requires many lifetimes to achieve mastery.
The Satipatthana Sutta begins with incredibly basic instructions: Sit in an “empty place,” with “legs crossed” and “body erect.” That instruction pretty accurately sums up my experience during the five-day retreat in January. Yet I’ve found the experience of mindfulness isn’t itself in keeping perfect posture, but instead simply in hearing yourself wonder if your back is straight enough.
— Magazine writer Tyler T. Johnston can be reached at tyler.johnston@thecrimson.com. This is the first installment of his column about counter-theories of selfhood, “Who’s Driving this Thing Anyway?”
Sections
In the ice rink, the air is cold — ice cold, colder than a moonlit walk along the Charles past the stroke of midnight, colder than the hearts of those investors who shut down the beloved stores of Harvard Square. I take a seat among the huddled spectators, all of us decked in our bright winter coats.
We here at Fifteen Minutes magazine have never shied away from investigative reporting — we have what they call “range.” We’ve covered everything from the changing face of Harvard Square, to that one fungi exploratorium. Therefore, after being informed that there are in fact sports events at this very school, my editors decided that I needed to cover such an event, the FM way.
The next day, I found myself in a strange wintry land across the river, otherwise known as the Harvard Women’s Hockey game. If you’ve never been to a sports game, let me tell you, it is exactly like the theatre. According to the spectators around me, the two teams are attempting to “score” upon each other, and the player decked in those large, boxy, postmodern pants defends some variation of a ball from going in a net.
Perhaps those are the rules, but only for the casual observer. Not for me — the writer, the artist, the enlightened academic who’s read a few too many Virginia Woolf novels. You see, this is the very reason I decided to join FM, the elect group of individuals who surpassed a completion comp: to offer an adroit literary analysis of the mundane, the ordinary. My craft allows me to peer beneath any moment’s frigid surface. In my eyes, two opposing clans dazzle the icy stage, each attempting to dominate the other. The event is so Wagnerian, so Shakespearean, so French-aristocrats-vying-for-power-in-Versailles.
One of the most striking rules of the game involves the “penalty box.” A Harvard player has evidently broken a rule, so she must enter the tiny glass cage and wait out her brief sentence. The game demands conformity! It says no to the rulebreakers, no to a life lived outside the narrow confines of societal expectation! I try to peer into the eyes of this subversive player, but her face is guarded with a caged metal mask.
But alas! My editors have urged me to demonstrate my versatility as a reporter, so back to the match. In the first period, the Harvard Crimson strike the puck into the webbed netting of the opposing team.
But then, in the second period, everything changes. Someone drops their hockey stick. The stick lies bare on the ice rink — alone, abandoned. An object stranded in a whirlwind of violence and strife. Players circle the stick without a second thought. But I see you, stick. Your wood is scuffed with the markings of love and life, beauty and pain, paint worn along the edges. Some days, I am you. And others, sadly, I am the player. As I face the rink, a single tear rolls down my rosy cheek.
Suddenly, as I stare into the transparent glass that encases the rink, I see my reflection. The icy stage has forced us to look upon ourselves as the spectators of this ludicrous performance. We are the audience. We demand that these clans dominate each other for our entertainment. We oblige the violence and discord that has left this poor hockey stick abandoned! No, no — I can’t do this anymore! How could they assign me this story? I can’t look upon the rink for another moment; I can’t participate in these immoral activities any longer! I stumble out of the theatre, sobbing into the crease of my elbow.
Perhaps FM should stick to the fungi exploratoriums.
—Magazine writer Alec P. Kahn can be reached at alec.kahn@thecrimson.com.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The United States Department of Education has opened an investigation into Harvard over funding allegedly solicited from foreign governments.
In a Feb. 11 letter to University President Lawrence S. Bacow, Department of Education officials asked the University to disclose information about contracts or gifts connected to the governments of China, Iran, Russia, Qatar, and Saudi Arabia, the Wall Street Journal first reported Wednesday afternoon.
The Education Department also requested that the University disclose any records related to two Chinese telecommunications companies, Huawei Technologies Co. and ZTE Corp.; two Russian entities, the Kaspersky Lab and Skolkovo Foundation; Iran’s Alavi Foundation;  the Wuhan University of Technology in China; and other organizations.
University spokesperson Jonathan L. Swain confirmed that Harvard received the letter about the investigation.
“I can confirm that Harvard did receive the Notice of Investigation, is reviewing it and beginning to prepare its response to the Department of Education,” Swain wrote in an email.
The letter to Harvard comes as part of an ongoing review by the federal government of American universities’ connections to foreign governments.
Federal officials have alleged schools are soliciting money from hostile foreign governments, companies, and individuals that are potentially attempting to steal American universities’ research. Thus far, the investigation has found that universities across the country have failed to properly report $6.5 billion in foreign funding, according to the Journal.
Since June 28, 2019, the Department of Education has opened eight civil compliance investigations into other universities, including the Massachusets Institute of Technology and the University of Maryland.
Last fall, Harvard administrators announced the University had created two new oversight committees to prevent University researchers from taking such actions, which are known colloquially as “academic espionage.”
The letter said that the Department of Education “is aware of information suggesting Harvard University lacks appropriate institutional controls” on donations, and directly referenced Charles M. Lieber and Jeffrey Epstein.
In January, Lieber — the former Harvard Chemistry department chair — was arrested and charged with failing to disclose funding he received from the Chinese government.  Harvard’s Office of the General Counsel is undertaking a review of billionaire donor and convicted sex offender Epstein’s donations to the University.
Federal officials are also investigating Yale University over allegations that the school did not disclose at least $375 million in foreign funding. Yale filed no reports between 2014 and 2017, according to the Journal.
The Education Department can take the case to the Department of Justice to levy civil or criminal charges if the schools do not turn over the information within 60 days.
Section 117 of the Higher Education Act — passed over 30 years ago  — requires institutions of higher education to report contracts and gifts from foreign sources valued over $250,000 a year.
— Staff writer Ellen M. Burstein can be reached at ellen.burstein@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @ellenburstein.
—Staff writer Camille G. Caldera can be reached at camille.caldera@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @camille_caldera.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Erika Lee, a history professor at the University of Minnesota and a candidate for the Faculty of Arts and Sciences’s ethnic studies faculty search, gave a lecture on her research and met with undergraduates on campus Wednesday afternoon.
Dean of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences Claudine Gay announced in June 2019 that she will hire three to four senior faculty who specialize in Asian American, Latinx, and Muslim studies by the end of the current academic year. Gay said that each of the potential hires would visit campus as part of an FAS lecture series titled “New Perspectives on Ethnicity and Migration.”
Lee researches immigration and Asian American history, as well as directing the Immigration History Research Center at the University of Minnesota. She was the first candidate to speak on campus and came at the invitation of Harvard’s History department.
More than 70 people, including students, faculty, and administrators, filed into a theater in Harvard’s Carpenter Center to attend Lee’s lecture, titled “Xenophobia: A Racial History of the United States.”
During her lecture, Lee said xenophobia is not just about immigration, but can rather be understood as a form of racism. She also traced the history of anti-immigrant sentiment against various groups in America ranging from Catholics to Latinx people. While other scholars have said xenophobia rises and falls in response to national crises, Lee contended that xenophobia has remained strong throughout American history, calling it a deeply ingrained “American tradition.”
Following the lecture, Lee spoke with roughly 20 Harvard affiliates during a question and answer session. The discussion ranged from Lee’s pedagogical approach to Harvard’s lack of a formalized ethnic studies concentration.
Addressing a question on how she would navigate what a student called Harvard’s “ideological resistance” to accepting ethnic studies as a legitimate scholarly field, Lee said she would be “pretty forceful” in pushing back against such a view.
“I don’t have very much patience for those who would continue to question whether ethnic studies is a legitimate field anymore or not,” Lee said. “I think I’d be ready to take on people with that perspective and provide some data.”
FAS spokesperson Anna G. Cowenhoven declined to comment on criticisms raised at the question and answer session.
During the discussion, students expressed frustration about the lack of ethnic studies classes. Lee said she shared this feeling when she was in school.
“I kept on thinking, someone should be writing more about this and I kept on waiting for someone, like for more stuff to be written,” she said. “Then I realized, ‘I don’t think this is going to happen,’ so maybe that someone should be me.”
Lee praised ethnic studies advocates at Harvard for creating “an opportunity” to build the program, but she also pushed them to make specific requests that the candidates who are chosen could negotiate over during their hiring processes.
“It would be helpful to have a clear description of what students’ needs are so that that can be part of the ask,” she said.
Gay’s announcement of the ethnic studies faculty search came months after students and alumni protested the departure of two tenure-track faculty specializing in Asian American studies. The University’s November decision to deny tenure to Romance Languages and Literatures Associate Professor Lorgia García Peña — who researches race and ethnicity — reinvigorated student calls for an ethnic studies program at Harvard.
Harvard affiliates have lobbied for a formalized ethnic studies program for nearly five decades. Gay declared an “institutional commitment” to the field of ethnic studies in a December email to FAS affiliates and has said she is “hopeful” that faculty will lead an effort to develop a formal ethnic studies concentration.
At least seven more candidates will visit Harvard this semester as part of the lecture series associated with the FAS faculty search.
Other speakers will include University of Michigan history and Latino studies professor Jesse E. Hoffnung-Garskof ’93, University of California, Los Angeles sociology and Asian American studies professor Min Zhou, University of Pennsylvania English professor David L. Eng, University of California, Berkeley ethnic studies professor Raúl Coronado, Stanford sociology professor Tomás R. Jiménez, Yale American studies professor Zareena Grewal, and University of Minnesota American studies professor Martin F. Manalansan.
— Staff writer James S. Bikales can be reached at james.bikales@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @jamepdx.
— Staff writer Kevin R. Chen can be reached at kevin.chen@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @kchenx.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
In an email to House residents last week, Leverett students were told they could no longer pull all-nighters — at least in their dining hall.
The email — sent by Leverett Building Manager Paul J. Hegarty — informed students the dining hall would be closed between 2 a.m. and 6 a.m. in the coming months to allow the House staff more time to clean the space. Hegarty added that 24/7 access to the room would be restored during reading period.
“With so much activity in the dining hall all the time, we need to give the staff adequate time to clean the floors every night,” he wrote. “This will help with pest control and the overall cleanliness.”
In September, Leverett Faculty Deans Brian D. Farrell and Irina P. Ferreras came under fire for a slew of new restrictions on common spaces throughout the House. The new restriction, however, has not drawn the same level of outcry from students.
Leverett resident Vaughan K. Mcdonald ’20 said he understands why the restrictions are necessary. He cited an “abundance” of office hours and study groups as a reason why the dining hall staff may need more time to clean the space.
Mcdonald also said student opinion on the dining hall closing has been more “divided” than earlier instances.
“I think some people have sort of painted it as another Leverett space closed, but I don't think I have enough information,” he said. “When other spaces have been restricted, I think it was more unilateral.”
Luke G. Minton ’20 — another Leverett resident — also said he respects the decision but is “sad” to see restrictions put in place. He described the dining hall as having an “infamous reputation” as a late-night study spot.
“The dining hall is near and dear to my heart,” he said. “I spent a lot of time in Lev d-hall, and especially in the last semester, a lot of people have been noticing that there's been an increasing pest problem. It’s something that you're going to deal with when you have things like brain break, and situations where you have a lot of people studying late at night.”
Minton also said he hopes College administrators understand that dining halls serve as an ideal workspace for students staying up late to study.
“To be realistic, the administrators at Harvard — including the faculty deans in all the various Houses — need to understand that Harvard students are going to be staying up really late at night,” he said. “I guess it's just the question of what are the most efficient places to do that, and if you're living in upperclassman House it’s really helpful if you have a place to study that's close by to where you are and allows the sort of collaboration that a dining hall does.”
—Staff writer Declan J. Knieriem can be reached at declan.knieriem@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter at @DeclanKnieriem.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Massachusetts State Senator Eric P. Lesser ’07 will lead the Kennedy School’s “Hi! I’m Running for Office” program for the third time this spring.
The workshop series — developed by the Center for Public Leadership and the Institute of Politics — focuses on examining issues of youth political participation. It brings together graduate students from the Kennedy School and the Law School, as well as students from Harvard College.
Lesser said he continues to participate in the program because he believes in empowering “young people from backgrounds or from places that have historically not been represented” to run for office and govern.
“I think politics can often feel very distant, it can feel very intimidating for people, especially young people, especially whether it’s women or people of color or people from different backgrounds,” he said. “I think, often times there’s too much focus on the politics, there’s too much focus on the campaigns, and there’s too much focus on election day, and not enough focus on what comes after election day.”
In the past, the workshop series has featured guests like current Democratic presidential candidate Pete P. M. Buttigieg ’04 and CNN political analyst David Gergen. Lesser said this year, the list of guests includes figures like Jorge O. Elorza — the mayor of Providence, R.I. — and newly elected New York State Senator Alessandra Biaggi.
“One thing that they really all have in common is that they’ve beaten the odds. They’ve brought something new to their office, and they’ve crashed the gate, so to speak,” Lesser said.
He also spoke about the impact the program has had on him personally.
“This is such a great motivator for me for my day job, you know. I’ve learned so much. I’ve learned so much from the students, I’ve learned so much from the guests, and I bring that back to my work,” Lesser said.
He added, “I think now, after the three years of doing it, I’ve learned so much about how to be effective, how to serve a community, how to move and idea and an issue forward, frankly, from learning from the other guests and from the students.”
Monica Y. Chang ’23, an undergraduate who said she is participating in the workshop series, wrote in a text message that the program has been “incredibly inspiring” so far.
“Although this was just my first session in the Running for Office Workshop Series, I can already tell it will be a fantastic experience,” Chang said.
“I was awed by the diversity of experience in the room — with students from the Kennedy School, Law School, College, and every walk of life. Hearing everyone’s unique story — what’s shaped their aspirations, what they care about, and where they come from — was incredibly inspiring.”
—Staff writer Sixiao Yu can be reached at sixiao.yu@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard Law School welcomed two new faculty members this semester — election law expert Nicholas O. Stephanopoulos ’01 and former Federal Reserve Board Governor Daniel K. Tarullo.
After graduating from Yale Law School in 2006, Stephanopoulos worked as an associate at Jenner & Block in Washington, D.C. focusing on redistricting, campaign finance, and federal litigation. He then taught courses on election law, constitutional law, and administrative law at the University of Chicago Law School, where he served as a professor of law and the Herbert and Marjorie Fried Research Scholar.
Stephanopoulos also co-founded PlanScore, a website that scores and assesses redistricting plans in all 50 states.
Tarullo previously taught courses in international law and financial regulation at the Law School, Georgetown University Law Center, Princeton, and the University of Basel in Switzerland. He also worked for the Clinton administration and the Antitrust Division of the U.S. Department of Justice.
In addition to his role on the Federal Reserve Board, Tarullo served as the chair of the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council and a member of the Federal Open Market Committee.
Tarullo now serves as the Norman Professor of International Financial Regulatory Practice and teaches Regulation of International Finance.
“Dan Tarullo is one of the country’s leading thinkers on financial regulation and international economic policy,” Law School Dean John F. Manning ’82 said in a press release. “Dan has also shown himself to be a superb teacher and colleague!”

Stephanopoulos is teaching a course on election law at the Law School this semester. He said he thinks his field sits at a unique intersection between politics, democratic theory, political science, and the study of the Constitution.

“As a politics junkie I’ve always been interested in elections and politics, and then what law gives the table is democratic theory and the legal protections for certain political rights,” he said. “I think it's so interesting how all these different fields sort of collide these together and shorten the field of election law.”

He noted the Law School faculty has lacked an expert in election law for several years, and he hopes to use his professional experience to revive the study of the field.
“Harvard hasn't had an election law specialist on the faculty for quite a while — at least 16 years,” Stephanopoulos said. “I think that's such an important offering for Harvard Law to have for students and for, you know, the institution as a whole.”
Manning emphasized the significant contributions of Stephanopoulos’s work to election regulation in a Jan. 28 press release.

“I am thrilled that Nick Stephanopoulos has decided to join our faculty,” he said in the press release. “Through his work across multiple disciplines, Nick has helped to identify simultaneously creative and thoroughly grounded ways to improve the functioning of our electoral system and our democracy.”

Law School professor Holger Spamann similarly praised Tarullo in an emailed statement.
“He is far and away the best person in the field of financial regulation,” Spamann wrote. “Nobody else even comes close in terms of experience, sophistication, and thoughtfulness.”
—Staff writer Kelsey J. Griffin can be reached at kelsey.griffin@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @kelseyjgriffin.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
LabXchange — an interactive learning platform aimed at bringing science education to students around the world and created by the Faculty of Arts and Sciences in collaboration with the Amgen Foundation — launched last month.
Developed for a "digital classroom," the program aims to foster a virtual scientific lab community, particularly for students who do not have access to scientific instruments and experiments.
As a founding sponsor, the Amgen Foundation provided $11.5 million in grants to develop the program. Much of the content focuses on the biological sciences, with course clusters such as “Genome Editing with CRISPR-Cas9” and “Foundational Concepts and Techniques in Biotechnology,” according to the platform's website.
LabXchange’s platform utilizes open-source infrastructure from edX, a virtual learning website developed by Harvard and MIT. This allows current edX students to connect to the new platform. At the same time, Molecular and Cellular Biology Professor Robert Lue, the faculty director of LabXchange, said it aims to address some of the gaps with current virtual learning, such as the lack of flexibility in course structure.
“Ultimately, instead of going online and taking a course, you can go and find individual assets, be it videos or text or graphics,” Lue said.
“You can actually pick the ones you want, sequence them into a learning pathway, and create a much shorter experience that's really tailored to exactly what you need to learn,” he added.
To increase the reach of its resources, Harvard affiliates who worked on LabXchange said it has developed virtual lab simulations that can walk students through an experiment.
“I've heard of several high school classrooms that do absolutely zero labs at all, just because it's cost-prohibitive for them to get those things going,” Nico O. Wagner, a teaching assistant in the Molecular and Cellular Biology department who helped create content for the site, said. “The good thing about LabXchange is that the students get virtual access to experiments, and all they need is access to a computer.”
The new platform incorporates various types of learning modules that address content delivery flaws in traditional online learning interfaces, according to Tess Gadd, a user interface designer who worked on the project.
“The problem with videos is that if somebody's speaking, you kind of can get lost quite quickly,” Gadd said.
Gadd also pointed to the platform’s “adaptive scrollable” feature, developed to address this shortcoming.
“As you scroll down the page, everything animates as if it were a video, but you have complete control over that speed,” she said. “I think that's a really interesting way to give people more power when it comes to their own learning.”
Some educators have also used the platform to complement in-class education and experiments. At Harvard, the teaching staff of Life Sciences 1a: “An Integrated Introduction to the Life Sciences” used the platform last fall to show students techniques ahead of lab sections, helping them become more familiar with lab procedures, according to the course's website.
High school teachers have also adopted the program. Mary S. Liu ’09, a biology teacher at Weston High School, said she first learned of LabXchange through an outreach program for high school educators, and then joined a focus group to develop it.
“I'd put extra resources there for them to access,” Liu said. “I do the pre-lab, so they actually have a virtual simulation of lab techniques that I do in class with my students. A lot of times, it's new for the high school students to do bacterial culture or to work with gel electrophoresis, so they can get familiar with the tools.”
Liu said she understands why her students appreciated the program.
“Kids like digital things,” she said.
— Staff writer Andy Z. Wang can be reached at andy.wang@thecrimson.com
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Harvard Law School Library announced the first public release of late Supreme Court Justice Antonin G. Scalia’s papers, photographs, and various other items Tuesday.
A graduate of the Law School class of 1960, Scalia regularly visited campus during his lifetime, often judging the Ames Moot Court Competition. He worked on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit from 1982 to 1986 before serving on the Supreme Court for 30 years. Following his death in 2016, Scalia’s family donated his legal and academic papers to the Law School.
When announcing the donation in 2017, Scalia’s wife, Maureen M. Scalia ’60, said Harvard was significant to their relationship.
“Nino and I met as students in Cambridge, when he was at the Law School and I at Radcliffe,” she said. “Our visits back to Harvard together always felt like a homecoming, particularly in recent years. I am pleased to make this gift, and that his papers will now be at the Law School.”
While most of the collection consists of papers from his time on the Supreme Court and the Washington D.C. Court of Appeals, the library will not release any case materials during the lifetime of other justices and judges involved in the cases for which Scalia worked.
The first batch of the collection released this week includes pre-Supreme Court files; correspondence, speaking engagements, and event files through 1989; photographs and audiovisual materials dated from 1975 to 2016; and other miscellaneous documents such as articles about Scalia throughout his time on the Supreme Court.
“We are deeply honored that Harvard Law School has been entrusted with the Justice’s historic papers, and we now have the opportunity to share these papers,” Harvard Law School Dean John F. Manning ’82 wrote in a press release. “This archive will allow generations of scholars to come to Harvard Law School to study the record of Justice Scalia’s historic tenure on the Supreme Court.”
Manning served as a law clerk for Justice Scalia from 1988 to 1989.
In the release, Jonathan L. Zittrain, professor of international law and director of the Law School Library, noted the importance of preserving Scalia’s collection for future generations of scholars.
“The Harvard Law School Library’s patrons are not only those using the library today, but those who will follow,” he wrote. “We secure irreplaceable papers such as these as part of the solemn pursuit of citizens and scholars understanding the trajectory of the law not only from its formal outputs, but through the contemporaneous notes as it was forged.”
—Staff writer Kelsey J. Griffin can be reached at kelsey.griffin@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @kelseyjgriffin.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Eliot House Faculty Deans Douglas A. Melton and Gail A. O’Keefe will step down at the end of the spring semester after a decade of helming the House, they announced in an email to House affiliates last week.
Melton and O’Keefe’s departure comes amid a year of turnover for House leadership in the coming academic year that well surpasses recent levels. With their announcement, the College must now search for five pairs of faculty deans, filling positions at Eliot House, Cabot House, Kirkland House, Quincy House, and Winthrop House.
Since 1998, only the years 2013 and 2017 have witnessed more than one change in House leadership, both welcoming just two new pairs of faculty deans.
A pair of faculty deans leads each of Harvard’s 12 upperclassman residential houses. Deans are charged with overseeing residential deans, House staff, and tutors, as well as facilitating House-wide events and advising affiliated students.
Melton and O’Keefe also wrote that they have appreciated Eliot’s “extraordinary community spirit” during their decade at the House.
“Just as you all eventually graduate and go on to new adventures, so must we, but that doesn't diminish our heartfelt connection to you,” they wrote. “We feel confident that we are leaving the Domus stronger than ever, with our fabulous Resident Dean Andi Wright and the peerless Eliot tutors.”
Dean of the College Rakesh Khurana praised Melton and O’Keefe’s “unwavering” commitment to their students and staff during their decade-long tenure in an email to Eliot residents last week.
“I am forever grateful to them for all that they have done to enrich the lives of countless students throughout the years, and to fostering such a strong sense of community at Eliot House and beyond,” Khurana wrote.
Last month, Quincy House Faculty Dean Lee Gehrke announced he would step down from his role at the end of the academic year after the loss of his wife and co-faculty dean Deborah J. Gehrke, who died from breast cancer in December.
Cabot Faculty Deans Rakesh Khurana and Stephanie R. Khurana announced their departure in November. They came to Cabot in 2010 and stayed through Rakesh Khurana’s appointment as Dean of the College in 2014.
After leading Kirkland for 20 years, Verena A. Conley and Thomas C. Conley also announced they would step down in November.
Former Winthrop Faculty Deans Ronald S. Sullivan, Jr. and Stephanie R. Robinson departed last spring after Khurana announced that he would not renew their contract. The decision followed months of outcry surrounding Sullivan’s decision to represent Hollywood producer Harvey Weinstein against sexual abuse charges.
In recent weeks, Winthrop students have lobbied for the College to keep current interim faculty deans Mark D. Gearan ’78 and Mary Herlihy-Gearan in their roles, who have led the House since August. Despite those calls, the College has repeatedly noted that Gearan and Herlihy-Gearan were only appointed for a single year.
The Dean of Students’ Office is currently soliciting nominations from House affiliates and freshmen alike to fill the five vacated faculty dean posts.
“Although you haven’t yet experienced House life, Faculty Deans have an enormous impact on students' experiences,” Senior Assistant Dean of Residential Life and First-Year Students Nekesa C. Straker wrote to freshmen in a Wednesday email soliciting nominations. “They live in residence at each House, engage and advise students, oversee House staff, and help set the tone and culture for the House community.”
After drawing up a shortlist of candidates, the College will then form search committees, host meetings where students and tutors can share input regarding possible candidates, and consult University administrators before making a final selection in each of the five Houses.
—Staff writer Juliet E. Isselbacher can be reached at juliet.isselbacher@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @julietissel.
—Staff writer Amanda Y. Su can be reached at amanda.su@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @amandaysu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard has reported receiving more than $1.1 billion from sources from 63 foreign nations between Jan. 1, 2013 and July 31, 2019, per United States Department of Education data.
The Department of Education wrote in a letter to Harvard dated Tuesday that it is opening an investigation into whether the University has properly reported funding it receives from foreign sources. Section 117 of the Higher Education Act requires that all American institutions of higher education report contracts and gifts from foreign sources that total over $250,000 a year to the Department of Education in an attempt to “balance academic freedom and national security,” per its website.
In its letter, Department of Education officials asked the University to disclose information about contracts or gifts connected to multiple foreign governments and other overseas organizations. The notice came amid an ongoing federal review of American universities’ connections to foreign governments.
“Harvard University lacks appropriate institutional controls and, as a result, its statutory Section 117 reporting may not include and/or fully capture all reportable gifts, contracts, and/or restricted and conditional gifts or contracts from or with foreign sources,” the letter read.
Of the $1,151,597,169 total foreign funds Harvard reported to the Education Department, it obtained $396,739,951 through contracts, while $754,857,218 came in the form of monetary gifts, a Crimson analysis of the Education Department data found.
Sources from England boasted the highest sum given to Harvard, at $224 million. That figure represents about 20 percent of all funding English sources donated to American higher education institutions over the same time period.
Hong Kong came in second at $161 million — around 23 percent of its total to all American universities.
In its letter to Harvard, the Department of Education requested records regarding the University’s donations from China, Iran, Russia, Qatar, and Saudi Arabia.
At $94 million, China has the third highest total donations to Harvard currently logged in the department’s records.
The University reported over $30 million from sources in Saudi Arabia, which ranked 10th on the list of Harvard’s top donor nations. The funds made up slightly over four percent of the country’s donations to all American universities over that period.
Harvard also reported five donations from Qatar, totaling about $6 million — less than one percent of Qatar’s more than $1 billion in donations to American colleges and universities.
Harvard reported no donations from Iran or Russia over the six-year period.
Between July 2011 and June 2018, Harvard raised $9.6 billion in a record-breaking capital campaign. Individuals from 173 countries contributed to the campaign, according to University spokesperson Christopher M. Hennessy.
About 15 percent of campaign dollars came from international donors, who comprised nine percent of individual donors overall, per Hennessy.
“In 2018, the university concluded a successful capital campaign,” Hennessy wrote in an emailed statement. “Such philanthropy supports the university’s core teaching, learning, and research mission.”
— Staff writer Ellen M. Burstein can be reached at ellen.burstein@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @ellenburstein.
—Staff writer Camille G. Caldera can be reached at camille.caldera@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @camille_caldera.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
In the summer of 2016, Madison J. H. Earle ’20 arrived at Harvard with big plans.
Hailing from New Zealand, she came to Cambridge to pursue an Ivy League education and compete at the Division I level for Harvard’s field hockey team.
In the fall of that year, Earle excelled on the field; she helped her team win an Ivy League title for the first time in 12 years and scored Harvard’s sole goal in the NCAA tournament that year.
Earle’s success on the field, however, belied the fact that she was battling severe health issues. Recovering from bouts of meningitis and encephalitis that she contracted during her senior year of high school, she still suffered from residual symptoms, including migraines and constant fatigue. In the spring of 2017, she developed celiac disease, which brought on frequent vomiting and hair loss.
As a result, Earle fell behind in the classroom and on the field, frequently missing classes and practices. She said she felt embarrassed and isolated.
Harvard provides a wide range of health resources to its students. Still, Earle said she did not know where to turn.
“No one reached out to me when I was going through a really tough time,” she said. “I really struggled freshman year because I wasn't able to reach my potential because I didn't know anything.”
Now a senior, Earle — who serves as the co-president of the Student-Athlete Advisory Committee and co-founded Women of Harvard Athletics — helped launch a program designed to increase student-athletes’ awareness of health resources on campus and make them feel comfortable reaching out for help.
Created in collaboration with Harvard’s Counseling and Mental Health Services and the Harvard Athletics Department, the initiative aims to “integrate and facilitate the knowledge of mental health and wellbeing services into the lifestyle of Harvard student-athletes,” according to the program’s mission statement.
Unveiled last month, the program designates one student-athlete on each of Harvard’s 42 sports teams as a Student-Athlete Wellness Leader who will help their teammates navigate Harvard’s health and wellness resources.
CAMHS counselors Melissa Nauman and Darryl Lemus held a training session on Jan. 28 to familiarize student-athlete representatives with available health resources and prepare them to have sensitive conversations with their teammates.
Men’s ice hockey SAWL Casey D. Dornbach ’22 said he found the session informative and came away with a better understanding of all of the resources available to student-athletes, ranging from academic support to mental health counseling to nutritional advising.
He also said he thinks he can best help others as a teammate, rather than a counselor.
“We're not the experts. We are here to be, hopefully, someone who can point them in the right direction or simply be there to listen,” he said. “Someone different than a coach or authority figure who can listen and potentially help direct or be there for a friend or teammate.”
CAMHS chief Barbara Lewis wrote in an email that student-athletes can play a particularly effective role in facilitating their teammates’ use of mental health resources.
“The SAWL program is not a counseling service, but rather a complement to pre-existing CAMHS programming available to our student athletes,” she wrote. “We realize that students may prefer to reach out to a peer rather than an adult, and we want to support innovative opportunities that make it easier for students to engage with their peers to help them get the resources and support that they need.”
Women’s basketball head coach Kathy Delaney-Smith acknowledged that athletes may be reluctant to voice their concerns to their coaches. She said that she supports efforts to improve the mental health of Harvard’s athletes.
“There's a great need for helping student-athletes navigate emotional problems, mental challenges,” Delaney-Smith said. “So in that regard, I'm thrilled that there’s an initiative to try something.”
To excel at their sports, athletes work hard at maintaining peak physical shape. Several SAWLs agreed that physical health is critical to athletic performance, but they noted that mental health also plays a vital role in their success.
Field hockey SAWL Elizabeth A. Denehy ’22 said she struggled while adjusting to Harvard during her first year, grappling with feelings of inadequacy.
Though she was physically healthy, she said she felt as though she was “constantly trying to tread water.”
Once Denehy confided in her teammates, she said she finally felt accepted.
“Once I talked about my feelings with people on my team, everyone was like ‘yeah, we feel the same way.’ Once I was open about it, I realized how much better life was and I was,” Denehy said. “So I just want to help others on my team or people in general get to that point where they realize that they're not alone.”
Football SAWL Spencer C. Rolland ’22 said that, after taking advantage of health counseling, he felt like a weight had been lifted off of his shoulders.
“I think being able to speak kind of released that tension and kind of made it more relaxing and made me able to focus more on what I was doing,” he said.
Rolland added that working to improve one’s mental health is “like any other muscle in your body or any other training that you do.”
“You need to make sure that it's in its best shape so that you can compete at your highest level, whether it be in the classroom or on the field,” he said.
Earle said discussions surrounding mental health at Harvard are more common now than when she was a freshman.
In March 2019, Harvard Athletics and CAMHS co-founded the “Crimson Mind and Body Performance Program” to provide additional mental health support to student-athletes in response to survey data. Through the program, licensed clinicians work with student-athletes and coaches. At the time, athletes said the program was important because of the stigma some face seeking mental health-related help.
This past fall, men’s hockey player Derek E. Schaedig ’22 wrote about his struggles with mental health in an article for The Crimson.
Earle said she helped create SAWL to contribute to a broader dialogue surrounding mental health on campus.
“It's really become a huge conversation. And so, I wanted to take advantage of that while I could to make sure people knew the resources and could be helpful people to their teammates,” she said.
Rolland said counselors and resources at Harvard have done a “great job” of helping students through health challenges they may face.
Still, he said dialogue surrounding mental health has yet to make its way into daily conversation.
“It's not gonna be the first thing that they bring up to people or may not be one of those things that's necessarily in the locker room,” he said. “I think there's definitely room to grow.”
Dornbach said he hopes more people will speak up about mental health challenges they face.
“I've seen people who look like the happiest people ever on the outside and something's going on inside,” he said. “It's not often talked about or looked at as cool to maybe discuss some of those things, but it's real and it's okay to not be okay.”
— Staff Writer Ema R. Schumer can be reached at ema.schumer@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @emaschumer.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Embroiled in a criminal case in Singapore over a private Facebook post in 2017, Harvard assistant Economics professor Shengwu Li announced last month he would no longer participate in court proceedings to avoid “dignify[ing]” government prosecutors’ conduct.
Likely to face arrest if he were to return home, Li’s decision to end his participation — which he announced on Facebook on Jan. 22 — comes after two years of legal proceedings on contempt of court charges that he deemed “politically motivated” in an 2017 interview with Reuters. The case has even allegedly touched Li’s life on Harvard’s campus, where he claimed he was approached by a process server hired by the Singaporean government in 2017. Li, however, continues to teach classes this semester and fulfill his normal responsibilities as a junior professor at Harvard.
Li declined to comment for this story. Faculty of Arts and Sciences spokesperson Anna G. Cowenhoven also declined to comment.
Singapore’s Attorney-General’s Chambers charged Li with contempt of court in 2017 over a Facebook post critical of Singapore’s judiciary system.
The case stems from an extraordinary family feud that spilled into the public eye. Li is a Singaporean citizen and the estranged nephew of current Singapore Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong. He is also the grandson of the country’s first prime minister, Lee Kuan Yew, who died in 2015.
In 2017, Li’s father and aunt accused their eldest brother, the prime minister, of abusing his power amid a dispute among the late Lee Kuan Yew’s children over their father’s residence. In a July 2017 post that Li shared using Facebook’s “friends-only” setting, he wrote that the city state’s government is “very litigious” and has a “pliant court system” that restricts what international media can report. Li’s post also included a link to a Wall Street Journal article describing the family dispute.
In Singapore, the government can charge citizens with contempt of court for “scandalizing the judiciary,” a remnant of colonial-era common law that can lead to fines or prison time. Human Rights Watch has deemed the law contrary to the international human right of free expression.
“[The Attorney-General’s Chambers] has taken my post completely out of context,” Li wrote in an August 2017 letter to prosecutors, which he later released to the public. “What I said in my private post in context does not pose any real risk of undermining public confidence in the administration of justice.”
Li wrote in the letter that he did not authorize the post to be shared beyond his Facebook friends, but it was re-published widely by media outlets. The Attorney-General’s Chambers unveiled the charges six days after he made the post, according to a case summary on the Supreme Court of Singapore’s website.
Singapore’s Attorney-General, Lucien Wang, previously served as the prime minister’s personal lawyer, according to the Straits Times.
Prosecutors offered to drop the charges in August 2017 if Li apologized and admitted to making “false and baseless” statements, but Li refused, launching the criminal case. By that time, Li had left Singapore, according to a case summary on the Supreme Court of Singapore's website.
Li wrote in an October 2018 Facebook post that, as his lawyers fought the charges on his behalf in Singapore in fall 2017, a person hired by the Singaporean government served him papers on Harvard’s campus just after he finished giving a guest lecture in Economics 2099: “Market Design.”
Li appealed on the grounds that he had been improperly served papers out of jurisdiction. He wrote in a September 2019 Facebook post that his legal team received advice from prominent British lawyer and Queen’s Counsel David P. Pannick, who defeated British Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s suspension of parliament over Brexit last fall.
In April 2019, however, a Singaporean court dismissed the appeal, according to the case summary.
On Feb. 3 this year, the High Court ordered that Li must attend cross-examination proceedings and produce documents within 14 days, according to a media release from Singapore’s Attorney-General’s Chambers.
Li wrote on Facebook on Jan. 22 that Singapore’s Attorney-General’s Chambers asked the High Court to strike parts of his defense affidavit and seal them from the public record, prompting Li’s decision to withdraw from the proceedings.
“This is not an isolated incident, but part of a broader pattern of unusual conduct by the AGC,” Li wrote in the post. “In light of these events, I have decided that I will not continue to participate in the proceedings against me.”
In an email, Singapore Attorney-General’s Chambers spokesperson Lai Xue Ying referred to recent media statements. In a statement the day after Li’s Jan. 22 post, the Attorney-General’s Chambers wrote that Li’s decision to end his participation is a “clear acknowledgment” that Li’s defense has “no merits.”
“The reality is that Mr Li is now facing some serious questions in the hearing, and it is obvious that he knows that his conduct will not stand up to scrutiny,” the statement reads. “He has therefore contrived excuses for running away.”
“If Mr Li has nothing to hide, he should make himself available for cross-examination and answer the questions posed to him on oath,” it continues.
Correction: February 13, 2020
A previous version of this article incorrectly stated that Li alleged a Singaporean agent approached him on campus. In fact, he alleged a process server hired by the Singaporean government did so.
Correction: February 13, 2020
A previous version of this article incorrectly stated that Li's father and uncle accused their eldest brother of abusing his power. In fact, it was Li's father and aunt.
— Staff writer James S. Bikales can be reached at james.bikales@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @jamepdx.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 14
Brown at Penn, 7:00 PM, ESPN+.
This game has major implications for Ivy League standings. Brown and Penn enter the contest both at 4-2 in Ancient Eight play, so something will have to give. Brown is flying high after a 2-0 home weekend, including a dramatic last-second defeat over Harvard, but the team will travel to Philly to take on a Quakers squad that has won four straight Ivy League games after dropping both contests to local rival Princeton.
Ultimately, the Bears have served as Ivy League darlings thus far, but this weekend is where I see that run of play coming to a close. Brown is led by Brandon Anderson, but I forecast Penn’s Devon Goodman locking him down and outplaying the guard position, and I can’t really see anyone on Brown shutting down AJ Brodeur on the Palestra court. I like Penn here, to advance to 5-2 on its home floor.
The Pick: Penn -7.
Yale at Princeton, 7:00 PM, ESPN News.
This is a matchup between the two top teams in the Ivy League right now, as both the Bulldogs and Tigers enter Friday’s action at 5-1 in conference play. Mitch Henderson’s Princeton team has exceeded expectations thus far, and has only lost to Cornell on the road, effectively defending home court to a 3-0 tune. But Yale has been just as formidable on the road, and advanced statistics still place them within the top 50 teams in the country.
It’s a crucial game, that’ll be televised on ESPN News accordingly, but I’m taking the road Bulldogs despite the fact that they’ll probably be favored. Yale is in the top 15 in effective field goal percentage, both on the offensive side and defensive side, and I like its talent and James Jones’ ability to create favorable matchups for playmakers Azar Swain, Paul Atkinson, and Jordan Bruner. Too much talent to go against the Bulldogs, and I think this is the contest when Princeton and its hot shooting from beyond the arc come back down to earth.
The Pick: Yale -6.
Columbia at Dartmouth, 7:00 PM, ESPN+.
This is a tough game to pick, as both sides have struggled mightily this season. Columbia and Dartmouth might already be out of Ivy Tournament contention, as the Lions are 1-5 while the Big Green are winless in six Ivy contests. Dartmouth isn’t as bad as its record, but the Big Green haven’t beaten a team ranked in the top 300 since November, which is as dark as it gets in the Ancient Eight.
That being said, home court does wonders in the Ivy League, and it’s hard to pick against the Big Green when it’s matched up against an unconvincing Columbia team. However, KenPom has Dartmouth laying six points, and that’s simply too many in a contest like this. Columbia has kept things close recently, losing to far more talented Princeton and Penn squads by single digits this past weekend, and I think they’ll come in playing with desperation. If the spread really does end up being this wide (which would surprise me), I’m taking the points.
The Pick: Columbia +6 (I would take Columbia until +2.5 at which point I’d flip to Dartmouth).
Cornell at Harvard, 7:00 PM, ESPN+.
Finally! Harvard men’s basketball has a home game! The Crimson hasn’t seen the friendly confines of Lavietes Pavilion since January 18th, and oh what a welcome sight a trip from the New York schools should be for a Harvard team absolutely desperate for a 2-0 weekend. Currently at 3-3, the Crimson is on the outside looking in, taking on a Cornell team that finds itself at 2-4 after a surprise home win over Princeton.
Harvard fans will remember last year’s solo virtuoso performance by Matt Morgan, helping the Big Green to a shocking victory across the Charles River. Morgan has since graduated, and with his departure surely must go all hopes of a Big Red upset. That being said, I forecast the spread being too generous in Harvard’s favor—KenPom currently has it at 13 points. The Crimson has played a remarkable number of consecutive games decided by single digits (with the last four coming down to the last possession). However, I think this is the time for a statement game, so I’m taking Harvard to control Cornell and thrust the Crimson back into the playoff hunt.
The Pick: Harvard -11 (anything more and I would take Cornell + the points).
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 15
Brown at Princeton, 6:00 PM, ESPN+.
Everyone knows that the second night of an Ivy League back-to-back means absolutely anything can happen. But the Penn-Princeton trip is, by all intents and purposes, the most difficult road trip one can make in the Ivy League season, especially coming all the way from Providence. I think this is the weekend when Brown’s Cinderella season comes crashing down to an 0-2 road trip reality.
I like Princeton to rebound (from presumably losing to Yale the prior night), to salvage a 1-1 weekend at Jadwin Gymnasium. I think Richmond Aririguzoh will feast on Brown’s undersized big men, and Ethan Wright, Drew Friberg, and Jose Morales can exploit weak Bears’ perimeter defense to make it rain from three-point range. Brown Coach Mike Miller will rely heavily on Brandon Anderson and Tamenang Choh, but ultimately the Tigers should be too much to handle on the second half of an unenviable back-to-back for the Bears.
The Pick: Princeton -5.5.
Yale at Penn, 6:00 PM, ESPN+.
This is the marquee contest of this weekend’s slate of games, and the Palestra should be absolutely jumping on a Saturday night. After dispatching Brown the night before to boost its Ivy winning streak to five games, Penn should be brimming with confidence and primed to take on the cream of the Ivy League.
Yale is a team that leads the conference in offensive and defensive efficiency, but it’ll still be its second game in as many nights, and it's hard to pick against the home team. Factor in the fact that KenPom has Penn getting as many as four or five points right now, and I’m tempted to take the Quakers. I’m not sure who will win outright, but I see this one coming down to the final possession or two, as we’re more than familiar with on Ivy League Saturdays. For that reason, I’m taking the home team and the points.
The Pick: Penn +4.5 (if this got down to +2 I would switch to Yale -2).
Cornell at Dartmouth, 7:00 PM, ESPN+.
Oof what a snoozer. If Yale-Penn is the handsome big brother of the weekend, Cornell at Dartmouth is the problem child that your parents keep hidden away from the rest of the family. The Big Red should be smarting from a beatdown at the hands of Harvard, and who knows if Dartmouth will have finally gotten off of the schneid or if the squad will be 0-7 at the hands of Columbia.
In any event, a trip from the New York schools is the remedy that a winless Big Green should need to finally find some success. For all of its deficiencies, Dartmouth is a top team at limiting second-chance points, and enough one-and-done Cornell possessions should lead to success for the hosts. If the spread gets too out of control, take the points, but anything at five or fewer and I’m going to take Dartmouth on the second night of its homestand.
The Pick: Dartmouth -4.5.
Columbia at Harvard, 7:00 PM, ESPN+.
Who remembers Columbia-Harvard last year? Three Overtimes, a SportsCenter Top 10 play for Bryce Aiken, and a dramatic win. Things are a little different this year. Aiken is out indefinitely, and the Crimson isn’t flying quite so high, but they should have enough firepower to take out the Lions.
This one will come down to just how many points that spread will be at, as KenPom currently has it at 14. Assuming it is that high, I’m going to have to take the points, with the knowledge that Harvard men’s basketball has some cruel, twisted, stressful obsession with close games. That being said, I feel obligated to confess I can’t see anything other than a 2-0 weekend for the Crimson in my crystal ball, I just don’t know if they can cover whatever inflated spread Vegas has in store.
The Pick: Columbia +13 (Harvard if this gets down to 7 or 8 points).
Disclaimer: All picks are made based on Kenpom predicted lines, since official spreads are yet to be released.
— Staff writer Amir Mamdani can be reached at amir.mamdani@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @AMamdaniTHC.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Don’t have a boo? Still haven’t asked out your newest section crush? Ever since winter break, it seems like everyone is getting cuffed just in time for Valentine’s Day. If you’re stressed about making plans for the evening, look no further than your equally single friends for a fun night! It may be tempting to glare at annoyingly cute couples in the Yard, but first try these ideas for the perfect platonic day.
Go out for Brunch
Sadly, it isn’t Sunday everyday, so HUDS’s iconic Sunday brunch is out of the question. Dress up with your friends and head to an aesthetic cafe like L.A. Burdick’s or Pamplona to take cute pictures and enjoy some pastries and coffee to get you through the day. Alternatively, make some homemade mimosas (virgin, of course) and bring some in a bottle to the Berg. Whatever works.
Spa Day
Treat yo’ self to some self-care, because hey, if you can find self-love, romantic love is right around the corner. Bundle up in some fluffy robes with your friends and light some scented candles to set the atmosphere (but don’t tell Yard Ops). If you’re looking for the perfect sappy rom-com, check out “To All the Boys I’ve Loved Before” or “Set It Up” for an evening of laughs. Fruity face masks and wine (21-plus to drink!) perfectly complement each other, and can also guarantee a fun and wholesome night with your friends.
Chopped
While couples are dining on fine Valentine’s Day entrees, unleash your inner Gordon Ramsay and spend the night watching “Chopped” with your friends. Buy a mix of stock ingredients and crazy ingredients and compete to see who can best incorporate the wildest foods in their entree dishes. Flyby challenges you to use Boom Chicka Pop Kettle Corn, Sour Cream and Onion Pringles, Cheerios, and Reese’s Peanut Butter Cups (some of our personal favorites). Time starts now!
Explore the City
Do what you’ve been planning since freshman year and take the T into Boston. Get into the romantic spirit by attending a drag event at the Museum of Science. Afterwards, eat your way through Boston’s iconic North End, stuffing yourself with delicious pasta and cannolis from the authentic Italian restaurants. Maybe even check out Seaport’s Winter Village, a snowy extravaganza complete with freshly baked waffles and a skating rink ($5 per person).
If you have a good squad of friends, it turns out you don’t need a romantic partner to have fun on Valentine’s Day. That being said, if you’re still aching for a significant other, Tinder is always an option — just don’t go on any dates with your TF.
Sections
 While Valentine’s Day may not be for everyone, there’s one Harvard tradition that just about everyone can get behind: Datamatch. This year marks the 25th anniversary of everyone’s favorite matchmaking survey, so we came up with 25 questions for Datamatch co-presidents Teddy T. Liu ’20 (a former Crimson technology chair) and Ryan Y. Lee ’20.
1. What are your official positions within Datamatch?
TTL: Our official titles are Supreme Cupid.
RYL: We got custom ‘Supreme Cupid’ shirts, and part of me was worried that CustomInk wouldn’t print it because of the word ‘Supreme.’
2. How long had you been on Datamatch before becoming Supreme Cupids?
RYL: We both joined as Freshmen, and rose up together.
3. So, have both of you been on Datamatch dates before?
TTL: Yeah...I think the last one I went on was actually my freshman year. I haven’t been on one since then.
4. What was your first Datamatch date like?
RYL: Freshman year I went on a Datamatch date, and prior to that Datamatch date, I had written, for Expos, a paper on Hamlet. I’d been writing this for two days, and it was kind of a dark look on Hamlet and I was totally in that headspace. And so I went on the date, and for whatever reason I kept veering the conversation to extremely dark, deep topics, like ‘What is the meaning of life when we all just perish anyway?’ And she was just sitting there, clearly trying her best to be like ‘Oh, yeah[…].’ From a mutual friend, I heard that apparently I came off as too negative.
5. Did you get a second date?
RYL: No, I did not. I totally understand why.
6. So if you could describe the ideal Datamatch date in three words, what would they be?
TTL: Free food. Love.
7. What would you say to the Datamatch skeptics out there who haven’t participated before?
TTL: If you need an excuse there’s free food, that’s what we always say. Like if you want to pretend you’re jaded and don’t believe in love, then there’s always free food. I think everyone can subscribe to that.
8. So seeing as it’s the 25th anniversary, do you have any idea how the Datamatch founders were inspired to start this whole thing?
RYL: That’s a great question.
TTL: Who are the founders?
RYL: It is unclear here. A lot of times we get hit up on LinkedIn or something.
TTL: Yeah, like last year somebody randomly tweeted Oh, the thing I started 20 years ago[…].
RYL: I like to think that the founders had a crush on somebody on campus and created the whole thing to kind of get some insight...and make some magic happen.
9. What’s the deal with the missing year? Datamatch started in 1994, but 26 years later it’s the 25th year of datamatch?
RYL: The only tidbit that we really know is that a couple of years in they actually had to cancel the survey because there was something involved with a fire and champagne popping going wrong, or something along those lines. There’s a lot of lore.
10. Obviously we’ve come a long way in both technology and love since 1994, so how has Datamatch changed since its beginnings?
TTL: Well it started as pencil and paper, so like, hand matching. We’ve clearly left that in the past, which has allowed us to reach a lot more people. This year we’re going to be at 25 or more schools, and we’re nearing 100,000 users.
11. Ok so expansion to other schools is great and all, with one key caveat: Why did you let Yale have Datamatch??
RYL: Valentine’s Day is a day of love, and I’d say forgiving, and trying something new. As villainous as Yale is, at heart, we are on two sides of the same coin. And that coin is Datamatch.
12. Seeing as this is the 25th anniversary of Datamatch, are there any shiny new surprises that students should expect to see this year?
RYL: We can’t spill the beans. You’ll have to sign up at datamatch.me.
13. How much has the *ultra secretive* algorithm changed since the beginning?
TTL: Even in the time that I’ve been there, the algorithm has seen a pretty significant amount of change. We’d like to think that it’s more accurate, that its predictive powers have increased.
RYL: You should tell them about the story!
TTL: We’ve been hearing stories from last year even where some people started dating after Datamatch, and then they thought, like, wait a second, you know, your name sounds kind of familiar from before. They asked us to look for them and it turns out they had been matched by the algorithm.
RYL: So maybe there’s some oracle behind the scenes.
14. People love to speculate about the Datamatch algorithm, so give me some non-CS metaphor for the complicatedness of the algorithm.
RYL: Imagine a whale, but the size of a lime. And the lime is the blooming of this magnificent tree that has more whale-limes. From that whale-lime tree, we pluck the limes and make them into a delicious limeade. That’s the secret sauce.
15. The website says that Datamatch has about an 80% participation rate at Harvard — what drives Harvard students to fill out the Datamatch survey in such ridiculously high numbers?
RYL: It’s February. It’s very cold. Everyone's kind of tucked away. If we’re bears in the middle of the winter, it’s a nice chance to stretch out our legs and meet all the other bears in the area that you might not have a chance to have met. You can go to the local garbage stop and crawl through the garbage together in search of nutrients.
16. How many marriages do you think Datamatch has caused in 25 years?
TTL: It’s more than one. We have a confirmed marriage.
RYL: I’d like to think that number is around a few dozen.
TTL: 25 years is a long time.
17. A lot of people do Datamatch for the free food, so has free food always been a part of Datamatch?
RYL: No, it’s actually pretty recent. Datamatch has always been around, but it was either the year when we were freshmen or the year before when Datamatch kinda kicked it up a notch. One of the former presidents of Datamatch decided to add the free food as an extra extra incentive to like, actually go out. And yeah, it was a big hit so now it’s a tradition that we keep up. A very expensive tradition, but very exciting for everyone.
18. A lot of people love Datamatch for the survey questions. Within Datamatch, do you have a survey question hall of fame or any personal favorites?
RYL: I remember this specifically because at a meeting, I thought it would be funny if we read off the most popular old questions. One of them was so ridiculous that it made me blush. So the question was, ‘What is your favorite whale noise?’ and the five responses were all variations of [Lee imitates whale noises] ‘Ooohhahhhhh kakakaka oahhhh.’ I had to, in front of the entire club, make these noises, and I think everyone lost a little bit of respect for me.
19. Has anyone on the Datamatch team ever used Datamatch to scheme someone? Or have there been any great Datamatch success stories on the team?
RYL: It was like October last year, and I was single. I had this wave of inspiration to make a dinner reservation for two on Valentine’s Day with nobody in mind, thinking to myself, like, this is my deadline to find someone special. And it’s like the day before Valentine’s Day, and I have nobody. So I was joking about this with one of my friends and she was like, kind of teasing and making fun of me for it, and Valentine’s Day comes around. And we have this [Datamatch] feature that I want to emphasize for everyone that if you opt in, you can like search for other people’s names and hit ‘match,’ and if they hit ‘match’ for you, then you’re both notified. And so I remember that morning, I hit ‘match’ for her, she hit ‘match’ for me, and we both got the ‘notified’ email. I texted her like ‘Hey, do you want to hang out, like, tonight sometime?’ and she’s like ‘Hey, do you want to use that dinner reservation?’ So the first date with her was dinner on Valentine’s Day, and we’re still dating now. So yeah, I owe Datamatch my girlfriend.
20. What’s something that students might be surprised to learn about the ‘behind the scenes’ of Datamatch?
TTL: I don’t know what peoples’ perception of us, like, technically is, but it’s a lot of running around screaming, I feel like. It’s like a duck, like they say: calm on the surface, looks like everything’s going smoothly, but paddling like the dickens underneath.
21. If Datamatch was a dating app, which dating app would it be?
RYL: Datamatch.
TTL: I feel like it’s really unique. It’s not like any of the others because I don’t think we take ourselves too seriously.
22. Describe the Datamatch spirit using a celebrity who used to go to Harvard, a Harvard building, and a HUDS dish.
RYL: Rashida Jones. Just that energy. I feel like we have to mention Red Spiced Chicken. We’re spicy.
TTL: And we’re everyone’s favorite.
RYL: What’s a chaotic Harvard building…hmm...the Science Center during a fire alarm.
23. Today, everyone loves Datamatch, but in Datamatch history has there ever been any backlash from students or administrators?
TTL: I think it’s been mostly smooth sailing.
RYL: Well, we don’t hack into the houses’ internal facebooks and steal the images…
24. What do you see as the ultimate future for Datamatch?
RYL: You know, at the end of the day our core goal is to spread the love and help, you know, spread joy and excitement.
25. So, as 2020’s Supreme Cupids, what’s your ultimate advice for Harvard Students seeking love?
TTL and RYL: Do Datamatch!
