For the most part, Harvard affiliates know Harvard University police officers as the men and women who patrol campus events, frequent the dining halls, and help freshmen move into their dorms. Within the department’s walls, though, HUPD is divided over incidents involving female officers and officers of color, and allegations of favoritism and retaliation.
The Crimson published a months-long investigation of HUPD Friday, surfacing allegations of racism and sexism within the police force. Here’s what you need to know about the story.
In MCAD filings, lawsuits, internal documents, meetings with prominent Harvard administrators, and interviews, 21 current and former HUPD employees alleged the department’s leaders have disciplined officers differently because of their race, gender, or personal relationships with the department’s top authority figures.
Current and former officers identified HUPD Chief Francis D. “Bud” Riley, a former Massachusetts State Police lieutenant colonel who has headed HUPD for nearly a quarter-century, as the source of what they called a toxic culture in the department.
Current and former HUPD officers described a slew of racist incidents in the department. White officers have called black officers racist epithets, and one officer showed a recent photo of himself in blackface to minority officers.
Officers also said they perceived a discrepancy in how HUPD disciplines officers across those incidents.
HUPD spokesperson Steven G. Catalano said that the department investigates all infractions of HUPD policy once it becomes aware. A report is presented to the chief, who decides the specific terms of discipline on a case-by-case basis.
At least five female officers have voiced concerns about gender discrimination to Harvard administrators and union leaders, filed complaints with MCAD, or sued the University over the past three decades.
“No matter what we do we have to keep taking it, and keep taking it, and keep taking it, because at the end of the day, we need to pay the bills,” one female officer said.
One recent incident, in particular, crystallized the problems women face at HUPD, officers said.
On Jan. 8, HUPD terminated officer Corina F. Maher, who sustained a serious ear injury after sergeant and range instructor Charles P. Hanson negligently fired his weapon at a HUPD gun range, according to an incident report written by Maher that is available to officers on an internal HUPD database.
Several officers familiar with the situation accused the department of not adequately investigating the negligent firing partially because Maher is a woman.
Maher’s injury ultimately rendered her unable to work, and as a result she took a medical leave. Roughly six months after Maher went on medical leave, several officers said, Harvard fired Maher in accordance with University policy stating the right to terminate an employee who has been on medical leave for at least half a year.
Five officers said that in recent years, however, the department did not terminate several male officers who had been out on medical leave for longer than six months.
Title IX coordinator for Harvard Human Resources and HUPD Maria Mejia said the University’s central human resources office decides whether to enforce the six-month guideline on a case-by-case basis.
“[It] depends on a gamut of issues, including staffing and operational needs at the time or uncertainty of return to work,” she said.
Interviewed officers alleged that Riley has promoted a broader culture at the department that allows for discriminatory behavior.
When Riley joined the department, he made a series of changes that officers alleged enabled him to gain greater control over hiring and promotions. Several officers said Riley grants favored deputies the privilege of using “take-home” cars, which come with Harvard-funded gas cards and insurance.
Four officers confirmed that the department has roughly 20 take-home vehicles. By comparison, MIT's police department has just one. Northeastern’s police department has two. Under the previous HUPD chief, the department had fewer than five take-home cars, according to officers familiar with the situation.
Many officers interviewed said University administrators outside of the department have long been aware of issues with Riley’s leadership but have failed to take sufficient action.
On several occasions, officers have brought their concerns directly to top Harvard officials, including Dean of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences Claudine Gay, Senior Advisor to the President John S. Wilson, and ombudsman Lydia L. Cummings.
Wilson also had a meeting with Riley and Executive Vice President Katie N. Lapp regarding “climate issues” at HUPD, according to an email obtained by The Crimson. Lapp wrote in an emailed response to HUPD officers’ allegations that she believes the department and Riley play a vital role on campus.
Harvard spokesperson Jonathan L. Swain declined to comment on the specific allegations brought to light by The Crimson’s investigation, writing in an email that the University does not comment on individual personnel matters.
—Staff writer Ema R. Schumer can be reached at ema.schumer@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @emaschumer.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard led for 17 seconds the entire game.
The Crimson (13-5, 2-1 Ivy) did not look like the team that just won eight in a row. Its sole lead, a one-point advantage after the first offensive possession of the game, was quickly erased by a sharp Penn (9-7, 1-2) team. Looking to capitalize on any opportunity, the Quakers intercepted careless passes on three consecutive possessions, fueling their hot shooting start—hitting 11 of their first 17 shots. A 24-5 Penn run to open the game was highlighted by freshman guard Jordan Dingle’s emphatic back-to-back dunks, leaving the Harvard crowd silent. Ten minutes hadn’t even gone by and the game felt like it was already over.
However, basketball is a game of runs, and tonight’s contest was no exception. Amaker found himself going to his bench quickly, subbing in freshman Chris Ledlum as well as juniors Danilo Djuricic and Rio Haskett. The trio added energy immediately, with Ledlum converting a tough layup and coming up with a foul as well as a steal on the other end.
Everyone in the Palestra had their eyes on the matchup down-low between senior forwards AJ Brodeur, the reigning Ivy League Player of the Year, and Harvard’s Chris Lewis, who has scored double digits in the last ten games. Lewis, battling for positioning near the rim, was denied by Brodeur and the rest of the lineup early and often. Brodeur had his own struggles on the offensive side, making only two field goals in the first half.
“[Brodeur’s] the key to their team and Lewis is the key to our team,” said coach Tommy Amaker. “Penn did a good job of pushing Lewis out and not letting him get deep post position.”
Harvard would go on to respond with its own 19-3 run, cutting the lead down to three after a couple of free throws by senior guard Christian Juzang. The stretch was made possible by Djuricic’s and sophomore Mason Forbes’ impressive defensive play against Brodeur with Lewis in foul trouble, where they kept the game from getting out of hand by limiting Penn’s leading scorer offensively and making him pick up his second foul—sending him to the bench.
“Without Mason and Danilo’s play in the first half, we don’t have a chance,” said Amaker. “I thought they saved us.”
The inevitable shift in runs continued, nevertheless, and the Crimson found itself cooling down quickly, hitting only one of its last nine field goals in the first period. An ugly start to the half by Harvard ended with yet another poor shooting stretch, bringing the energy back into the stands as the buzzer sounded.
The start of the second half was highlighted by the battle of the bigs. Good transition offense by the Crimson involved Lewis being fed early, scoring nine of his 16 points in the second half. On the other end, Brodeur found the free throw line by attacking the paint, adding 14 second-half points to his 20-point total.
Continuing to fight, the Crimson clawed its way back with the help of a three minute Quaker scoring drought in the middle of the second half, going on a 12-0 run itself capped off by a Danilo Djuricic triple to tie the game with four minutes to go. Offensive second chances kept Harvard in the game, with the Crimson grabbing 21 offensive rebounds on the night. However, failing to capitalize on most of those opportunities kept the visitors from taking the lead again.
“It’s definitely a huge point of emphasis for us,” senior Justin Bassey said when discussing offensive rebounding. “We can really exploit the size and depth by getting on the glass and outhustling them.”
A back and forth struggle to close out the game which involved four turnovers in the final minute of regulation came down to the Crimson facing a two point deficit with six seconds to respond. Despite having a rare off-shooting night, sophomore Noah Kirkwood was still trusted with the last attempt. With his back turned to the basket, Kirkwood stunned the Palestra by hitting a tough fadeaway to force overtime.
“We have a lot of confidence in [Noah],” said Amaker. “He had a great look and we had our chance.”
Entering overtime, the Crimson looked to take their first lead since the opening possessions. However, Penn’s offense proved to be too much, as double digit scorers Jordan Dingle and Devon Goodman added to their totals at the start of the third period of play. After going back and forth for five minutes, the Quakers finally seemed to have sealed the game with a couple of trips to the line, sinking three of four free throws to bring the lead to six.
Yet it's foolish to think that a Harvard-Penn contest at the Palestra would end on such an anticlimactic note. With thirteen seconds left on the clock, the Crimson rushed the ball up the court and found Bassey, who had just made a three pointer to cut the lead to three, on the wing. Unfazed by the defender, the senior drained another triple with the chance at a four point play.
Still down by three, the Crimson needed more than just Bassey’s free throw. It couldn’t have been drawn up any better. With his attempt hitting the side of the rim, a Penn rebound would have sealed the game. Yet Harvard’s resiliency and toughness on the offensive glass resulted in the free throw shooter bringing in another board with an open look to tie the game. This time, however, no bucket. Holding their heads, the Harvard bench watched Goodman sprint down the other end with the ball as the buzzer sounded and the Cathedral of College Basketball celebrated.
“We gotta stay together right now,” said Kirkwood. “I think this will be a good challenge for us, but it's definitely tough.”
In a league of back-to-back weekends, a short memory is crucial. Nothing is more important than moving past such a tough loss with another game less than twenty-four hours away. The Crimson will look to forget the heartbreaker when it makes its way to face Princeton (8-8, 3-0) on Saturday. The Tigers, who have already defeated Penn twice this season, will look to remain perfect in conference play.
— Staff writer David Manikas can be reached at david.manikas@thecrimson.com
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Harvard women’s ice hockey team defeated Dartmouth 4-0 this Friday, adding a critical win to its record as the No. 10 Crimson shoot for an NCAA tournament berth heading into the season’s final four weeks.
Harvard (12-8-1, 10-4-1 ECAC) took the lead over Dartmouth (5-14-3, 2-10-3 ECAC) at 6:46 in the first period when sophomore forward Kristin Della Rovere fed the puck across the middle to fellow sophomore forward Anne Bloomer, who deftly maneuvered the puck around first-year Dartmouth goaltender Hanna Humphreys. “Kristin had the puck wide,” Bloomer recalled. “It was a great pass.”
Bloomer netted the puck twice in the matchup, the second time immediately following a faceoff at 11:20 in the third. Della Rovere won the puck drop before swiftly passing to Bloomer, who slipped the puck past the Dartmouth net-minder. Bloomer explained, “We had a faceoff play that we were planning on running, and we just executed it well and shot on the ice and it went in.” The Crimson won 33 faceoffs, while the Big Green won only 26.
“[Controlling the faceoffs] is a huge part of the game,” Bloomer noted. “We talk about it a lot. We talked about it, actually, today coming into the game. Knowing your role in the faceoff is very important, and they’re a great opportunity to run something.” Bloomer also emphasized that faceoffs play a key role on defense as well as offense.
Despite the 4-0 win, Harvard only outshot Dartmouth 34-33. Crimson goaltender Becky Dutton’s 33-save shutout highlighted the match. The junior thwarted many tricky shots, including quickly pouncing on a free puck in the first period. Dutton’s skillful positioning and consistent stick checks played a critical role in the Crimson’s victory.
As the game progressed, Harvard began to consistently control the ice. After over twenty scoreless minutes, sophomore defender Maryna Macdonald lit the lamp again with a strike from the point that flew untouched into the net at 8:26 in the second period. The tally shifted the momentum in Harvard’s favor.
“One of our assets is that we’re a pretty fast team, and if we stick to our forecheck and play hard in the defensive zone, the goals and everything else will come,” explained Bloomer when describing the Crimson’s strategy. “Part of our identity is being a really hard-working team with a lot of speed, so that’s kind of our motto going into every game.”
Tenacity and agility did indeed characterize Harvard’s success. The team capitalized on natural opportunities and created additional advantages in unlikely situations. 25 seconds into junior forward Brooke Jovanovich’s two-minute minor hooking penalty, junior forward Becca Gilmore deftly skated the puck from the center line down to the goal line, sliding the puck past the goaltender for a short-handed score.
“[Crimson goaltender] Becky made a really great save and was able to kick it out to me,” Gilmore described. “I got the puck, and I just drove the net and [it] went into the back of the net.” She added that when shorthanded, “You don’t want to get yourself too extended if you can’t get back, but [fellow forward] Kat [Hughes] and I have developed a really good chemistry of knowing when to go and knowing when to just play zone. When you can put the puck in the net, it’s always an extra benefit. It gets our team pumped up.”
Harvard’s victory over Dartmouth gives the team positive momentum going into the Beanpot. “We’re back on a winning streak, eyes focused on Tuesday,” Gilmore said. “We have a great team going into it, and we’re going to be playing a great opponent. We’ll just take it one step at a time.”
The Crimson face off against Northeastern in the Beanpot’s semifinal round at 5 p.m. on Tuesday.
— Staff writer Isabel A. Levin can be reached at isabel.levin@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
