Sections
Many years ago, a story floating in the eddies of Harvard’s institutional memory goes, a team of monks in South Asia was charged with the task of typing up the paper editions of The Crimson and turning them into a digital archive.
When I first heard this story in November, it seemed very strange. Who were these monks? How did they find themselves transcribing The Crimson? Why did The Crimson even think to hire monks in the first place? Finding the monks quickly became my obsession.
Of course, as it usually is, the true story is much more complicated than that — but back in November, all I knew was the story about the monks. I’d heard the story late one night at The Crimson, when an editor found a typo in an article archived on the website from the 1960s and mused that “the monks” must have been getting tired.
These days, Crimson articles are first published online and then copied from the website and pasted into electronic design templates for the printers in The Crimson’s basement. But every article that has ever appeared in The Crimson’s pages, going back to the paper’s founding in 1873, is also online — not scanned, but fully typed. Anyone who cares to look can find the results of the Harvard-Yale game of 1887, for example, simply by searching for it on The Crimson’s website.
It took a concerted effort for those past editions to be put online. But nobody seemed to remember anymore exactly how or when that effort had taken place. Had it really been monks? No one could tell me.
So, I turned to Fred Burchsted, a Widener Library research librarian. Burchsted told me that he, too, had heard the story about monks transcribing The Crimson, but he thought the story seemed too good to be true. Still, he wondered where it came from. After a few minutes dredging through databases and repositories, Burchsted found my first clue: “The World Is Flat: A Brief History of the Twenty-First Century” by Thomas L. Friedman, a 2005 book about how globalization and information technology changed the world economy.
The story of The Crimson’s transcription, Friedman writes, is one of his favorite examples of “social entrepreneurship.” Friedman tells the story of Harvard alumnus Jeremy B. Hockenstein ’94, who left his job at McKinsey and co-founded a nonprofit, Digital Divide Data (DDD), with the goal of creating job opportunities for skilled workers in poor countries. In 2001, DDD recruited 20 workers from two Cambodian nonprofits and went to work on its first project: transcribing 19th-century editions of The Crimson.
Hockenstein’s project did not go uncriticized — people both on and off Harvard’s campus condemned The Crimson for employing the services of DDD.
“A new archiving project by The Harvard Crimson is drawing controversy for its employment of Cambodian typists,” reads a Crimson article from the time. Published on July 27, 2001, it notes that while DDD was to pay the Cambodian workers $2.40 a day — significantly above the 50 cent per day Cambodian poverty line established by the World Bank — a July 24 Boston Globe article about the project had accused The Crimson of hypocrisy in employing low-wage foreign workers.
“The Harvard Crimson, which often editorializes in favor of a ‘living wage’ for campus workers, is turning to low-cost Asian typists for the biggest undertaking in its 128-year history,” Patrick Healy wrote in a Boston Globe article published in 2001. The article quotes Harvard activists who call The Crimson “morally reprehensible” and say the affair is “like a prank in its outlandishness.” But it also quotes one of the Cambodian typists, Naleak Eng, who describes her life as having been “hopeless until this opportunity.”
When I remind Hockenstein, currently the CEO of DDD, about Healy’s critical Boston Globe article over the phone, he starts speaking faster. “I haven’t looked it up in all these years,” he says. “I should go look at it. I blocked it out because it was so painful.” When the article came out, Hockenstein was in Cambodia setting up shop.
On a vacation trip to the Cambodian Buddhist temple Angkor Wat in 2000, Hockenstein says, he had noticed young workers who were beginning to learn English and computer skills but could find no job opportunities in a country only beginning to recover from the Cambodian genocide. “I really wanted to try to help,” he says.
Hockenstein was living in Cambridge at the time and had friends on the graduate board of The Crimson. When he heard the paper wanted its archives transcribed, he volunteered his fledgling company’s services.
So, in 2001, Hockenstein bought ten computers and hired 20 local workers. They found the workers through two local nonprofits: Cambodian Volunteer for Community Development, which trained poor Cambodians to use computers, and Maryknoll Wat Than, which taught people with physical disabilities crafts and computer skills.
“I told each of them, ‘send people who type really quickly and we’ll try to find them work,’” Hockenstein recalls. The 20 fast typists, 10 from each nonprofit, worked two six-hour shifts in the mornings and afternoons. DDD paid half of their tuition to take English classes for a few hours at night.
Since at first DDD was only responsible for transcribing the 19th century editions of The Crimson, Hockenstein says he found himself in the position of trying to explain to the Cambodian workers the importance of the crew race results that comprised much of The Crimson’s coverage during those years.
“I like to say, the only socially redeeming thing that came from a crew race between Harvard and Yale in 1873 is that it created a job in Cambodia 130 years later,” Hockenstein says.
Naleak Eng, the former DDD typist quoted in the Boston Globe article, who is now married and goes by Naleak Eng O’Brien, says she didn’t have enough English at the time to understand what she was typing. To her, though, that wasn’t very important. This was the first job she had ever had. “I was so excited, she says.”
Eng O’Brien was hired through Maryknoll Wat Than, the nonprofit that trained Cambodians with physical disabilities; she was born with two fingers and a thumb on each hand.
At age 20, without a high school education, Eng O’Brien says she was mostly dependent on her family. “If you have a disability in Cambodia, people don’t see you the same. They would say, ‘Oh, you cannot do anything,’” she says, adding that this was compounded by the fact that women were expected to “just stay at home.”
When she was hired by DDD, she saw a chance to gain some independence. “I can be more confident in my life,” she recalls thinking. “I can do something more.” The day she heard she’d gotten the job, her family cooked a celebratory feast. She stayed up most of that night writing and re-writing a thank you note for Hockenstein.
Eng O’Brien says she remembers her days working with DDD as a “very happy time, and a tough time too.” Most of the other students in the English classes she took at night had some experience with the language; she had none and needed to work hard to catch up.
During the day, she and her colleagues would race to finish typing The Crimson articles they were working on. “I still miss typing, because I love how when we work together we always try to compete with each other,” she says. “I know it sounds silly, like kids, but we competed ‘who is the faster one....’ I won a lot,” she laughs.
Eng O’Brien worked with DDD until 2005. That year, Hockenstein brought some of DDD’s donors to visit. Eng O’Brien led them on a tour of Angkor Wat temple, and they offered to sponsor her to move to Massachusetts. Eng O’Brien attended English-as-a-second-language classes and then Quincy College, and now lives in the Boston area with her husband and two young children. She works part-time at the Northern Bristol County Registry of Deeds and hopes to start working full-time once her children are older.
Eng O’Brien’s story is, as Hockenstein acknowledges, an exceptional one for DDD. But he says that DDD made a significant impact on the lives of many workers who stayed in Cambodia as well. He says that in a recent survey, the average income for graduates of DDD’s programs was around $500 a month – about $385 more than Cambodia’s average per-capita household income. “Their education and work experience has really led them to the middle class,” he says. “That’s what we’re most proud of.”
Having found the people across the globe who transcribed the 19th-century editions of The Crimson, I was left with another question: where had the monks story come from?
In the Crimson article about the controversy, I found a clue: It referred to a Virginia company employing Indian workers to transcribe the editions of The Crimson published after 1900. Healy’s Globe article held another clue: a line about a “group of monks in India” transcribing those editions.
I turned next to The Crimson’s president, who had an archive of important documents from past presidents. She quickly found what I was looking for: a transcription services contract with a Virginia-based company called Electronic Scriptorium.
The founding story of Electronic Scriptorium goes like this, according to its now-defunct website: In 1988, Edward M. Leonard “had a great job, a great salary, a great title and was miserable being a part of the rat race.” An “environmental activist,” he decided to help a local group of Trappist monks in Leesburg, Va., fend off the planned renovation of an abandoned country club just across the Shenandoah river from their monastery.
While helping them through their dispute, Leonard learned that the monks had recently been given a new computer system to help manage their fruitcake business, which they didn’t know how to use. Leonard helped them set it up and then found ways to put them to work with it and generate revenue during the fruitcake off-season. Thus was born Electronic Scriptorium, which was based in Virginia but expanded to hire monks and nuns from around the country to digitize the paper-bound records of libraries, law firms, and other organizations.
“The underlying business concept,” reads a 2002 iteration of the company’s website, “has a certain obviousness that often elicits the exclamation, ‘Why didn’t I think of that!’”
The business concept might have been more obvious anytime between the 6th and 15th centuries, when monks busied themselves transcribing manuscripts on vellum for wealthy patrons. Magazines and newspapers soon jumped on this new version of an old story. “Modern monks toil the high-tech way,” reads a 1994 Washington Post headline. “This monastery is part of an effort to bring religious communities back into the information business,” a 1996 Chronicle of Higher Education article says of one of Electronic Scriptorium’s business partners.
There were occasional hitches — in 1999, a group of nuns assigned to a contract with Drugstore.com, an online pharmacy, refused to type in prices for condoms – but for the most part, Electronic Scriptorium claimed, the monastic communities were well adapted to the task.
“The wide breadth and knowledge combined with the many foreign language and other abilities found within the monasteries provide a rich resource ready to be tapped for your e-commerce needs,” its website boasted in 2001. The future had arrived, borne on the robed shoulders of cloistered cyber-jockeys.
Electronic Scriptorium lasted a decade and a half. In August 2007, the company filed for bankruptcy after a series of legal disputes, and Electronic Scriptorium disappeared.
But in the meantime, had the company somehow brought the archives of The Crimson to India and placed them in the hands of monks?
Clark Rumrill, now in his mid-eighties, is a former Electronic Scriptorium contractor. When we talked on the phone, he told me he had worked most of his career for the State Department, with postings in Egypt, Afghanistan, India, Vietnam, Sri Lanka, and Jerusalem.
There are suggestions that Rumrill was not just an ordinary State Department employee. A recently-released diplomatic cable from when Rumrill was stationed in Jerusalem in 1973 details how a Marine guard was moved into his home after an article was published in an Arabic paper accusing Rumrill of collecting intelligence for the recent Israeli raid on Beirut. In another cable from 1976, Henry Kissinger takes a personal interest in the shipment of some household effects to Rumrill’s address in Virginia.
A 1981 issue of the Covert Action Information Bulletin, a magazine founded by ex-CIA agent Phillip B. F. Agee to unmask and oppose the CIA’s activities and postings, lists Rumrill as the CIA’s new Chief of Station – the top CIA official in a foreign country – at the Cairo embassy. Rumrill wrote in an email that “the CAIB's suggestion that I was CIA chief of station in Cairo is incorrect.”
In any case, Rumrill left government service in 1987 with a host of connections across the Middle East and South Asia. “He had connections everywhere,” remembers Betsy Proch, who worked as a contractor with Electronic Scriptorium alongside Rumrill.
On a trip to India in 1989 to explore prospects for his own small data entry venture, Rumrill met a 27-year-old entrepreneur, fresh out of a master’s program at Pune University in Western India, named Chetan Sharma. Chetan Sharma says that at that time, he already had a “utopian” vision of the equalizing power of information technology. “I knew that technology can prove a great empowering tool,” he remembers. He had just founded his firm, Datamation, which employs poor, rural workers to do data entry work.
What made the work “empowering,” Chetan Sharma says, was not the wages the workers were paid, which were around the industry standard – 4500 rupees per month in 2000, or about $100 at that time – but the prospect of steady employment. “There could be some places where they might get higher wages, but not the career stability,” Chetan Sharma tells me.
Chetan Sharma says this was especially important for rural women, who might otherwise not have been able to make a living. “Even that small paycheck matters so much for them,” he says. “Just so that they can feed their children properly and send them to proper schools.”
Chetan Sharma introduced me to a Datamation worker, Sunita Sharma (no relation to Chetan Sharma), with whom I talked on Skype with Chetan Sharma interpreting. She says that she was in her early 20s and had just completed her schooling when she took the test to be hired by Datamation in the mid-90s. She started by doing data entry and is still with Datamation today in the accounts department, now earning around 14,000 rupees per month. Without that first job, she says, she would have been stuck as a “homemaker.”
Rumrill had a few Indian phone books to transcribe for his data-entry business, and gave Chetan Sharma and his new firm the task. This began a business relationship which, Chetan Sharma says, became more than that.
“I’ve known him for many, many decades — he’s almost like a father figure in the family,” Chetan Sharma says. “Clark knew that we were capable of giving really good quality. He also knew about my value system, where I was deeply caring and compassionate for the wider issues and not just about earning profits.”
Rumrill found Chetan Sharma’s apparent lack of interest in profits useful in at least one respect. When Rumrill began contracting for Electronic Scriptorium in 1990, Leonard, the company’s founder, was looking for ways to further expand his business. “[Leonard] was interested in getting data entry entered by hand,” Rumrill says. “And I was able to produce people in India that could do it for a reasonable price.”
Leonard and Rumrill went to scout out Chetan Sharma’s data entry facilities in Gurugram, a high-tech and business-friendly city on the outskirts of New Delhi. “We hopped on an airplane, went off to India, and spent a week kind of wandering around together and talking with Chetan Sharma and his firm,” Rumrill says.
That is how Datamation began doing transcription jobs for Electronic Scriptorium. In 1999, when first looking for a way to digitize the 20th-century portion of its archives, The Crimson turned to Electronic Scriptorium. Proch, who did most of the work setting up that project, says The Crimson was attracted by the publicity around the now-semi-famous typing monks in Virginia, where the company was founded.
For Electronic Scriptorium, the prospect of generating the same kind of publicity that had gotten The Crimson’s attention seemed to be one of the benefits of the contract – its website boasted of its partnership with an “Ivy-League university” to transcribe its newspaper, and elsewhere includes a detailed case study of its work for The Crimson.
So, for Electronic Scriptorium and for The Crimson, the arrangement looked promising. But there was still one problem: “Doing any kind of archive like that is just really, really expensive,” Proch says.
The monks being too pricey, she says, “The Crimson chose the less expensive route.”
And here at last is the answer: No monks ever typed the archives of The Crimson. The 19th-century editions were transcribed by poor and disabled Cambodian workers hired by Digital Divide Data, while for the 20th-century editions Electronic Scriptorium — a company that originally hired monks in Virginia — subcontracted to Datamation, which hired poor, rural workers living on the outskirts of New Delhi.
That answer raises other issues, though. Is this a story, as in Thomas Friedman’s book, of opportunity given to the destitute, or as in Patrick Healy’s newspaper article, of the hypocritical exploitation of cheap foreign labor?
To some people — like Hockenstein and Friedman — stories like Eng O’Brien’s and Sunita Sharma’s illustrate how globalization of the labor market through outsourcing projects has the potential to do a great deal of good.
But to others this enthusiasm can seem like a cover for neo-colonialism.
Harvard history professor Maya Jasanoff, who studies globalization, explains that these outsourcing projects were part of a larger trend. “That real booster language, of ‘We’re here to save the world,’ gets really amped up in the ’90s and onwards,” she says. “The idea that some sort of typically Western intervention can bring social good is one of the through-lines of imperial history.”
But the effects of these interventions can often be complicated. “There’s obviously an expectation that workers in certain countries don’t deserve the same wages,” Jasanoff says. She notes that an economist might say that the difference in wages is justified by a lower foreign cost of living. But it might also be a function of foreign workers’ reduced bargaining power.
Moreover, Jasanoff says, this sort of rhetoric is often bolstered by claims that the companies are empowering women. They often are, she continues, but those claims still serve a deliberate purpose — they distract from the ethics of the use of low-wage foreign labor.
Proch remembers “boxes and boxes” of The Crimson’s 20th-century editions arriving at the Electronic Scriptorium offices in Leesburg, Va. There, Rumrill packed them into suitcases and flew to New Delhi, where he delivered the suitcases to Chetan Sharma.
Datamation workers transcribed the papers, each one taking between 36 and 48 hours to complete. Chetan Sharma glanced through them from time to time. He especially enjoyed the articles about campus politics around the Vietnam war — “I used to find it very fascinating to read,” he says. Finally, Datamation would load the papers back into boxes and ship them by air or sea back to Virginia.
In addition to lower labor costs, part of what made this complicated route cost a fraction of the domestic monks’ rate was that Chetan Sharma agreed to take the contract for a much lower rate than he usually charged North American clients. “I was young; my company was new at that time,” he says. “And obviously, Harvard is Harvard is Harvard. And I have huge respect for Harvard and The Crimson.”
So, for what Chetan Sharma calls “one of the most cherished and the most important projects in my professional journey thus far,” he barely broke even, charging Electronic Scriptorium 45 or 50 cents per 1000 characters delivered.
“It was a conscious decision,” Chetan Sharma says. “We managed to cover our costs; we managed to get a lot of goodwill from Clark and from the team.” But his goodwill did not come easily.
A few months into the project, Rumrill, to whom Chetan Sharma gave “complete and open access” to his facilities, announced that progress was too slow.
“He was very anxious,” Chetan Sharma recalls. “And he also told us, frankly, that if the project didn’t speed up, it’s quite possible that The Crimson may have an afterthought, and they may take away either the part of the work or all of the work and give it to someone else.”
Chetan Sharma already had 80-90 people working on the paper 24 hours each day, in three 8-hour shifts. After Rumrill prodded him to speed up, Chetan Sharma increased his workforce to 120-150 people working each day.
The push for speed caused its own problems.
“Sometimes, we tried to be too quick,” Proch remembers. In a few of the transcriptions that Electronic Scriptorium received from Datamation, she says, there were enough formatting and transcription errors that she required them to be redone. Proch recalls that conversations between management at Electronic Scriptorium and Datamation could be “a little heated.”
“Like every project, there were issues and challenges in the beginning, and those were sorted out,” Chetan Sharma says. Proch also says the issues were quickly “ironed out,” and that The Crimson never noticed any of the difficulties between Electronic Scriptorium and Datamation. The Crimson hired Digital Divide Data — the company founded by Hockenstein based in Cambodia — after Datamation’s work was completed to go back over the transcribed 20th century editions for remaining errors.
Whatever was left didn’t attract much attention at all until that night last November, when my editor saw a typo in the archives and mused that “the monks” had been getting tired.
That typo, to me, has something of the geologically sacred: It is the fossilized trilobite that revealed an era when The Crimson flew across oceans and continents in a suitcase. Following the typo, I found a story about monks, but they were only peripherally involved. Instead, I found a more complicated story – one that brought The Crimson to India, computers to Cambodia, and Naleak Eng O’Brien to Massachusetts, and generated arguments about globalization and imperialism that beset us still today.
— Staff writer Oliver L. Riskin-Kutz can be reached at oliver.riskin-kutz@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @OLRiskinKutz.
Sections
In 2012, Moderna Therapeutics, a new Cambridge-based biotech firm was at a fork in the road. Its new messenger RNA technology seemed endowed with limitless possibility. The question was what to do with it.
“They have to be inside the cells to do anything. But then, they could do anything. The sky’s the limit when it comes to RNA,” explains Timothy A. Springer, a professor at Harvard Medical School and founding investor in Moderna.
Moderna hired McKinsey and Company to answer these questions. Springer recalls what the company asked of the consultants: “Just look at the entire universe of the kinds of drugs we could develop. What makes the most sense for us?”
Today, Moderna has found their project: the search for a COVID-19 vaccine.
Vaccines, however, have not always been the focus of Moderna’s efforts. The company’s messenger RNA technology was always uniquely suited for vaccines, but the McKinsey team had other ideas. “They suggested that rare diseases would be the most valuable area to go into,” Springer says. “To be honest, they valued vaccines as rather low, because normally vaccines are pretty much commodity items, so companies don’t make that much money on vaccines.”
And yet, in April, Moderna shares skyrocketed when the company became one of the first in the U.S. to begin human trials for a COVID-19 vaccine. The company had just received up to $483 million from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services to fund the vaccine’s development.
Springer made headlines. His shares had made him a billionaire.
But this windfall may have surprised a younger version of himself. Springer, a mustachioed man in his early 70s, explains that his college years were characterized by an ambivalence toward making money.
“I grew up in the ’60s. I was an undergraduate at Berkeley, and the spirit of the times were just very different then,” Springer muses. “That’s why… I didn’t really think much about making money at all.”
He assumed, in fact, that “choosing to become an academic would subject me to being impecunious.”
This ambivalence toward money shaped his early career: Springer recalls that he had a “pretty cavalier attitude” about patenting discoveries. “I made some very important discoveries and did not patent them,” Springer says with a slightly rueful chuckle.
But Springer’s career since the late 1990s has included remarkable success not only in the world of scientific research, but also in the world of business. Springer has started six companies — three as a founder, three as an investor — and all of them, he tells me, have been financially successful.
During our interview, Springer sits in his home office, an array of his photographs, awards, and certificates lining the wall behind him. The gold coin of the prestigious Crafoord Prize, which is awarded annually to individuals who lead scientific research, glints at eye level.
Springer attributes this success to his investing strategy: “My return is 58 percent per year, which is stunning. The V.Cs. that I talk to are flabbergasted that I’m so successful. But the reason is that I’m rigorous.”
“I have deep insight not only into my own research, but if it’s an area of biology I understand, I can evaluate it. Which is why I only invest in biotech — I didn’t try to do the same thing in software, for example. I can’t tell if it’s good software or not,” he says.
Despite his financial success, Springer says his scientific research has always come first. “There are many people in academia, who just want to start a company... To me that’s secondary. I really want to do good science. Sometimes, I see there’s an incredible opportunity in the science I happen to be doing, and that’s when I found a company.”
It is often difficult, Springer says, to bring the fruits of his research to the public without business. There simply isn’t enough money within the university to fund the clinical trials necessary for the development of a drug.
Springer recalls, for example, research he performed in the late 1990s, which gained insight into “how white blood cells got out of the bloodstream.”
Springer recalls his thought process: “This has huge potential to cure disease and make people better. There are so many different molecules to cover, so many different aspects to this, I couldn’t possibly do it in my lab. You know, even if I got ten grants, I wouldn’t be able to do it efficiently — the best way to tackle this was to start a company.”
LeukoSite, the company born out of his discovery, was a success. It was as though the world lay at his feet. “I could have just retired… you know, sailed around the world.”
He had to think, carefully, about what he wanted to do for the rest of his life. Eventually, he decided the open seas could wait. He concluded: “I just like being a scientist.”
At that time, Springer dismissed the idea of pursuing other start-up ventures. Then, in 2008, something came along that drew him from his “entrepreneurial retirement”: A friend of Springer’s, a professor at Harvard Medical School, had been trying to create a company focused on modified RNA.
At the time, not many people had heard the name, Moderna.
From the beginning Springer understood that the messenger RNA research around which Moderna was formed had incredible potential for vaccines.
“Vaccines are really the sweet spot of RNA technology,” he explains.
Springer had his “drug-developing juices flowing again.” He provided one third of Moderna’s founding capital.
To some extent, Springer’s involvement in Moderna reflects a broader relationship between academic research and the world of science-turned-business. In the end, companies get their hands on scientific breakthroughs innovated in universities after the fact. He explains, “The large pharma companies are not innovating at all,” Springer says. “They’re just buying things from other companies, or from academics.”
On May 12, Moderna announced that the U.S. Food and Drug Administration had ‘fast-tracked’ its experimental COVID-19 vaccine, placing its regulatory review process on an accelerated timeline. Trump’s coronavirus czar, Moncef Slaoui, had served on Moderna’s board until his appointment on May 15. On May 18, he announced he would divest his $10 million in Moderna stock options, which he had previously tweeted posed no conflict of interest.
On the same day as Slaoui’s statement, Moderna announced that the vaccine’s early human trials showed promising results. Findings based on the first eight volunteers suggested that the vaccine was safe. It will soon begin the next phase of human trials, which will involve 600 healthy people.
Should its vaccine be taken to market, Moderna Therapeutics — and Springer, the company’s founding investor — will strike gold again.
— Staff writer Malaika K. Tapper can be reached at malaika.tapper@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @malaika_tapper.
Sections
“You’re scattered all over the country, all over the world. You’re literally taken away from the community that you’re trying to organize in,” says Zoe L. Hopkins ’22, incoming president of the Harvard Organization for Prison Education and Advocacy. “The meaning of community organizing just changes completely.”
Before the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic, members of HOPE served as tutors at local correctional facilities every week — a program central to the organization’s educational mission. Yet with rising infection rates and widespread panic, those facilities went on lockdown. Even if students had remained in Cambridge, it would have been impossible to continue tutoring.
The pandemic’s disruption of the program requires a “huge reconfiguration of the way that we operate,” Hopkins says. “It really gets at the undergirding goals of our organization — just not being able to do any of the education work as normally anticipated.”
Claire E. Pryor ’22 a member of Fossil Fuel Divest Harvard recounts a similar experience. The organization had been ramping up its efforts and “planning huge things for Earth Day 2020,” she says — the date by which the group had called on Harvard to divest from fossil fuels.
Its plans were upended. “One week before campus shut down, we thought, ‘maybe we need to start thinking about alternative plans for how this can work on Earth Day,’” she says. “And then one week later, it turned out that actually, our alternative plans were going to need to be a lot more alternative than we had realized.”
Fossil Fuel Divest ended up holding a Zoom rally for Earth Day, drawing over 90participants and featuring speakers from a diverse array of fields. But despite the event’s success, finding virtual substitutions for other in-person activities has still proven difficult.
Pryor says FFDH has struggled with “this question of how to keep our campaign really accessible to folks who don’t have internet connection or devices that they can use, or a stable home environment where they can feel comfortable and safe organizing.” The organization normally engages various communities outside of their organizing team with their mission, Pryor claims, and since going remote, they have placed an even greater emphasis on “how we can still be open and continue to involve those folks.”
Moreover, maintaining internal engagement within Fossil Fuel Divest itself is “hard because our work is so oriented around us as a community,” Pryor notes. Usually, meetings are followed by community dinners, and members spend lots of time hanging out with each other. But Pryor says COVID-19 has forced her to recognize that as an advocate hoping to effect change, “the best thing we can do to help the most people is to stay inside and not see anybody else and not talk to anyone. But that’s such a powerless feeling.”
Despite the obstacle that the pandemic has posed to campus advocacy organizations, many activists feel as if it has underscored the relevance of their work. Jeannie Park ’83, a board member of the Coalition for a Diverse Harvard — of which the Harvard Ethnic Studies Coalition is part — notes that “the disproportionately negative outcomes for people of color, communities of color, demonstrate so clearly why Ethnic Studies is necessary.”
“Students need that academic background in order to fully understand what happened,” Park explains. “And also to go on and be the leaders who make the policy decisions and the policy changes so that this doesn’t continue happening.”
Following the suspension of Harvard’s search for Ethnic Studies scholars during the pandemic, Michael J. Williams — also a board member of the Coalition for a Diverse Harvard — says, “We’re looking at having to re-energize ourselves and mobilize alumni and others to push to get it restarted as soon as possible.” For instance, they garnered hundreds of alumni in attendance of their event, “Race and the Pandemic Presents: On the Frontlines,” with roughly 100 people participating in the presentation.
The Taskforce for Asian American Progressive Advocacy And Studies has also found itself both grappling with and addressing the inequalities highlighted by COVID-19. Before its activism turned virtual, TAPAS was planning a discussion about the impact of the virus on Asian American communities. Eric Zheng ’23, a member of TAPAS’s Meta-Coronavirus Committee — created to determine what other committees might be needed to address the pandemic — says that now the organization has “moved it into more of a video project, where people will submit their voices and opinions on anti-Asian racism. We’re putting it into a compilation of videos. We’ve basically made it more adapted to technology.”
TAPAS also led an online panel titled, “Asian American Resistance and Creative Clapbacks in the Time of COVID-19,” which was co-sponsored by Harvard’s Asian American Association and the Boston Chinatown Neighborhood Center Pao Arts Center. Attended by more than 125 people, the panel discussed the history of Asian American arts and resistance and how it has manifested during the current COVID-19 crisis. Co-organizer for TAPAS, Liana E. Chow ’21, notes, “We had so many generations of Asian Americans and Asian American artists there,” including faculty members, professors, and artists from other universities. The remote platform ultimately lent itself to this kind of expanded engagement.
This focus on collaborating with off-campus groups remains consistent in HOPE’s online advocacy work as well. Despite the suspension of their education program, Hopkin says that HOPE has been “working really hard to maintain the coalitions that we’ve been building outside of Harvard’s walls during the pandemic, because a lot of the organizations that we work with are in communities like Dorchester, like Roxbury, like Mattapan, where folks are largely in low income, black and brown communities.”
For Hopkins, HOPE’s work has become especially relevant given that “incarcerated people are hyper-vulnerable to this pandemic, considering that social distancing is impossible in jails and prisons,” she explains, referencing figures from the federal Bureau of Prisons that found that 70 percent of individuals incarcerated in federal prisons who tested for COVID-19 had the disease.
Throughout the past several weeks, HOPE has organized a project to free incarcerated individuals by raising bail funds. “Bail funds are pretty localized. What we did was compile a directory of bail funds that people could donate to in their local area,” Hopkins says. “Then we just did a massive public campaign saying, ‘If you can please click on this link, find your state, and proceed to donate to your local bail fund.’” Hopkins was excited to see the graphic they used widely circulated on a number of platforms.
In light of the pandemic’s exacerbation of social inequalities, Hopkins feels that “in some ways, we started working harder after we were evicted from campus because the kind of work we’re doing just became so much more urgent.” When it comes to carceral justice, the effects of COVID-19 have “reaffirmed for us that doing any anti-prison work is doing life-affirming work.”
Echoing Hopkins, Pryor explains that COVID-19 has increased the gravity of her work with Fossil Fuel Divest Harvard — now she has ten divestment meetings a week. It’s “simultaneously an energizing and empowering thing to do,” she says. The sense of unity and mutual support among her and her team, she says, have been “an antidote to the feeling of powerlessness” that she feels because of the pandemic.
“I can still be doing something to create a better world,” Pryor emphasizes. “That helps me feel grounded every day. And I think that that’s true for many of the people in our campaign.”
— Staff writer Elyse D. Pham can be reached at elyse.pham@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @elysepham.
— Staff writer Kevin Lin can be reached at kevin.lin@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @kevinlin0903.
Sections
During our last dinner on Railay Beach, we went around the table and identified the precise manner in which each of us is funny. The night was salty and humid, the buzz from our cocktails amplified by the pure ecstasy of being 19, and in Thailand, and together. For the past five days, our only concerns had been the devolution of our tans into sunburns and whether we had enough Baht in our wallets to buy passion fruit juice. We laughed a little too loudly and hoped that the tables around us weren’t paying attention.
“We must sound so narcissistic,” we kept repeating, in-between mouthfuls of noodles and detailed descriptions of Vi’s dry humor and Izzy’s absurdly particular vocabulary. “This is the most self-centered conversation. I hate us!”
Of course, we didn’t really, which was why we felt obligated to say it. This was a formality. We needed to affect embarrassment before the discussion could continue on as we always knew it would. First, with a volley of ‘shallow’ compliments for everyone, highlighting makeup routines and study habits and boobs. Then a round of ‘deep’ compliments, followed finally by the ultimate test of how attuned we were to our collective nuances — our varied yet balanced brands of ‘funny.’
“We’re just talking about each other as a proxy for talking about ourselves,” we said, as though this were a revelation. “The world isn’t going to gas us up, though, so we have to.” We nodded vigorously in affirmation. The line is almost scripted at this point — what began as a sarcastic rationalization now a deeply-held truth about the value of group narcissism. Well, not group narcissism generally, but for us. A group of young women who often feel somewhat flattened by the spaces and relationships they enter. Is valuing group narcissism, just for ourselves, narcissistic in itself? Probably.
When we say that no one “gasses us up,” we don’t mean that no one has ever told us that we’re interesting or smart or look good. What we mean is that we want people to recognize and articulate us in the specific way that we see ourselves, the way that we experience our own interiority. We don’t just want to know that someone finds us funny, but how, exactly, we make them laugh. We want a full understanding of our personhood reflected back to us. Kind of like being profiled for a magazine, or, if we’re being honest, writing that profile ourselves.
***
There is a unique collective high that comes from extended periods of being together — one that was only heightened by being together and far from Cambridge. At a moment in our lives when emotional chaos is often to be expected, time together always leaves us feeling centered, seen, and, in a strange way, deeply gutsy. This, we guess, is what it means to be ‘gassed’ — fumes that not only lift you up, but also push you forward.
Two weeks after that final dinner in Thailand, we are entering a party on Mt. Auburn St., all clad in the same uniform: tiny top, big pants, or, big top, tiny pants. The party leaves us feeling uniquely ungassed. The sense of internal wholeness we had worked up over two weeks alone together seems to get lost somewhere between a shouted attempt at conversation and a spilled drink. Some of us make awkward small talk with past hook-ups, a few of us bump into present infatuations. All of us drink Rubinoff. Eventually, a group text is sent, a few nods are exchanged, hands are grasped, and we pull each other through a throng of familiar faces and into the bitter Cambridge cold.
Over nachos in this case — but also in various common rooms, every dining hall, and far too many supposedly ‘silent’ areas of libraries — we sit down and give each other the same advice back and forth, mostly of the romantic sort.
“The whole thing is just that you can’t let yourself get lost in her, that’s the whole thing, Liv!”
“It’s only been 20 minutes, Alex — he’ll respond!”
“You have to be aloof for a few days.”
“Riley, do you want me to hide your phone?”
We assume different roles at different times. One day you might be the advice giver, reassuring that she will text back and that she is certainly not seeing that other girl from her painting Gen Ed. The next, you are curled up on a bench in Winthrop courtyard at 1 a.m., picking at a bowl of brain break cereal and wondering if you’ll hear from him when he takes a semester off. You go to Izzy if you want to be told that even though he ghosted you, he’s just biding his time before professing his undying love over spaghetti in the North End. You go to Jenny if you want to be told that he’s just not that into you, and you need to move on.
We rely on each other to navigate the hallmark ambiguous romantic relationships of college, always grasping for the faraway goal of being “seen” in a relationship. Regardless, what we do know, sometimes subconsciously, is that we will leave this campus having been wholly and authentically “seen” by each other. Countless angsty poems have been written about the sort of sweeping romance unique to college, but often, what we’re looking for in these romantic relationships is what we find in each other.
For a while now, we’ve had a suspicion that there’s something radical in this kind of friendship. But when we say radical, we can’t help but cringe at what that seems to suggest about us. Simply put, none of us are activists and we feel pretty guilty about it. In all honesty, the closest we’ve come to activism is taping a sticky note that read “Hegel’s master slave-dialectic in heterosexual situationships” on the common room wall of a guy one of us was seeing.
What we do see as radical is the cyclical flow of trust and honesty, the simultaneous giving and receiving. We rehash the same issues again and again. We probably know what we need to feel emotionally healthy, but sometimes we text our ex at 2:22 a.m., hook up with him when everyone knows he’s seeing the girl he sits next to in Widener, or tell her we love her before we’re sure we mean it. The day after a mortifying experience, there’s occasionally a fleeting moment where a society-induced notion of what it means to be coveted or cool overpowers what we know about each other. We sometimes hesitate briefly before sharing with the group. But then we remember — we don’t hold judgments against one another. Every distraught or exasperated moment is met with fervent support and energy. For all the stereotypes of female friendships as unstable façades (especially if the women are young, ambitious, or have a sliver of fun), what we’ve actually cultivated is collective care.
When we say the world doesn’t gas us up, we mean that these external forces have no incentive to do so. The self is prioritized at the expense of the collective. The commercialized idea of “self-care” claims that our trinkets and our solitude will pave the way toward self-understanding. But collective care is kinder and more comprehensive than self-care. After a day or two spent alone, bouncing between classes and meetings, and half-eating-half-working in the Adams dining hall, the treat-yourself Tatte shakshuka doesn’t really “hit different,” even though it’s delicious, overpriced, and aesthetically-pleasing.
Instead, it’s the rare Friday night we decide to stay in under the flimsy guise of getting ahead on work. We quickly dog-ear our Social Studies reading in the common room before rewatching the City Girls Act Up music video for the fifth time that week. We walk to Amorino for frivolous desserts and make our way to Kirkland House. After a few hours of half-hearted attempts at academic productivity in between fits of laughter from the self-obsessed yet self-critical humor we clearly pride ourselves on, we crawl into Josie’s mega-bed and turn off the lights. Vi announces that listening to the Ezra Klein Show episode with Ta-Nehisi Coates calms her, so we bizarrely listen to these men as we drift asleep. We feel grounded and whole.
***
Elyse’s nineteenth birthday party last semester was a purposefully symbolic undertaking, an effort to finally control the guest list and physical space of a large Harvard party. We cared about the party’s execution, but the event itself was deeply ironic. We booked the bedraggled Mather Junior Common Room on a Wednesday from 9:00 p.m. to 11 p.m., created a private Facebook event, and invited over 200 people. Under a collage of Elyse’s selfies, the event description read, “girls are plus1 only, guys bring all your friends.” That night, we assembled in the Mather JCR, prepared for the night to be weird because, for once, we were intentionally making it weird. Two hours later, surrounded by close friends and vague acquaintances, our smoke machine set off the fire alarm for all of Mather House and sent two Cambridge fire trucks barreling down Cowperthwaite St.
As the eight of us danced in the dimly lit space early on that Wednesday night, we kept reminding each other that it didn’t matter if anyone else showed up — this was just for us. It didn’t matter if anyone else gassed us up, if anyone else “saw” us. Still, we wondered if anyone would.
— Staff writer Josie F. Abugov can be reached at josie.abugov@thecrimson.com.
— Staff writer Elyse Pham can be reached at elyse.pham@thecrimson.com.
— Staff writer Olivia E. Gopnik-Parker can be reached at olivia.gopnik@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @GopnikParker.
This is one of five essays published as part of FM’s 2020 “Homecoming” feature.
Sections
Hemal N. Sampat of Massachusetts General Hospital pulls his phone out of his pocket and reads out one of his favorite quotes from the film “The Martian”: “Every human being has a basic instinct: to help each other out. If a hiker gets lost in the mountains, people will coordinate a search… This is so fundamentally human that it's found in every culture without exception.”
Sampat suggests that the quote highlights the willingness of communities and healthcare workers to help others and fight for the common good during the COVID-19 crisis; it is in this spirit that Massachusetts General Hospital’s Happiness Committee aims to serve during the pandemic.
Described as a program “by the people, for the people” by its informal director, Kathy May Tran, the committee was originally envisioned as a wellness initiative that would give MGH workers opportunities to bond, relax, and fend off burnout and exhaustion. Prior to COVID-19, the committee arranged outings to events such as baseball games and the ballet and periodically recognized “Happiness Heroes” in the office who contributed positive energy to the work environment.
The Happiness Committee has existed at MGH for several years, but it has taken on an entirely new meaning during the pandemic and has been working to boost the well-being of both patients and healthcare workers alike.
The lives of physicians, primary care providers, and patients are constantly changing during the pandemic, especially for MGH workers, since their hospital has reported the most cases of COVID-19 of any medical facility in New England. With this, patient and provider needs are constantly shifting, and the Happiness Committee is working to adapt to these new conditions.
When the crisis struck MGH, the members of the Happiness Committee held an unprecedented “emergency happiness meeting,” says Sampat, the associate director of the committee. They understood that their pursuit of boosting well-being at the hospital would need to be adjusted to cater to the essential needs of their community.
“Our first goal was to meet basic needs,” Tran says; the committee wanted to ensure providers were fed and had a safe place where “they could quarantine away from their families if they needed to.”
***
Emily Swanson, a physician assistant at MGH, noticed that one of her patients could not talk to their family after their phone died. Since MGH’s new visitation protocol bars most COVID-19 patients from having visitors, patients’ cellphones are one of the only ways they have of communicating with friends and family or keeping updated on the outside world.
Swanson’s observation was the basis for one of the Happiness Committee’s newest initiatives: a cell phone charger drive. The Happiness Committee now has thousands of chargers, so many that they are preparing to share them with other local hospitals.
While social distancing protocol and visitation restrictions have isolated patients, providers have been faced with difficult decisions about how best to comfort them. Tran says that witnessing patients say their final goodbyes to their loved ones over the phone has been “heartbreaking,” but the cellphone charger drive at least makes this form of a goodbye possible.
In general, the doctor-patient relationship has had to be redefined during the crisis, Tran says. Traditionally, a doctor’s relationship with their patients is built upon their ability to sit by their bedside, meet with their families, and at the very least, look their patients in the eyes and smile at them.
Infection control protocol has all but eliminated these practices, requiring doctors to rethink how they interact with patients and families. When doctors are fully donned in PPE, with masks, hoods, and face shields, their faces are almost invisible to their patients; they look like “cyborgs,” Tran remarks. This makes interactions between patients and providers feel less comforting and more alienating.
In order to help humanize the hospital experience for MGH patients, the Happiness Committee started the PPE Portrait Project — affixing printed headshots of doctors to their gowns so patients can see what their physicians look like without PPE and ideally connect with them on a more personal level.
Working through the pandemic has been a rollercoaster of emotions for the healthcare workers of MGH.
On the one hand, Sampat says there exists a strong sense of purpose and determination, and even a little bit of excitement that they can “take these skills that we have dedicated our lives to and put them to use in a crisis situation.” On the other hand, there also exists a parallel fear for the safety of their families, their patients, and themselves. Sampat suggests that most healthcare workers feel exhausted from their job, and some even feel a bit of guilt because they are scared for themselves.
“How can you feel both of these [opposing emotions] at the same time?” Sampat says, explaining the mixed sense of purpose and fear in the workplace. “What we talk a lot about and what one of the ideas behind [the Happiness Committee] is to help everybody accept the fact that both of those [feelings] are going to exist,” he says. “Whole wellness and whole happiness really involves embracing both of those ideas together.”
The committee's new quest to help MGH employees accept that both their fear and their sense of purpose are valid may make their work more important than ever. Tran and Sampat acknowledge that it is more difficult for healthcare workers to properly take care of their patients when their own mental health is in jeopardy.
“Even when life is scary, even when times are bad, there’s always a time for happiness. There’s always a time to get happiness, there’s always a time to spread happiness,” Tran says. “When we're going through the darkest times, that is maybe when we need it most.”
— Staff writer Alexandra N. Wilson can be reached at alexandra.wilson@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @alex_wilson2023.
— Staff writer Harrison R. T. Ward can be reached at harrison.ward@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter at @Hurrison_.
Sections
When Sarah E. Gyorog first heard about Massachusetts’ stay-at-home order, she immediately thought, “but home isn’t safe for everybody.” As the executive director of Transition House, Cambridge’s sole domestic violence shelter, she knew that the order could pose increased risk for survivors.
“Domestic violence thrives in isolation — that’s its best friend,” Gyorog explains, adding that people who use abusive behaviors tend to isolate their victims as a tactic. The order only makes “[survivors’] worlds that much smaller,” and domestic violence all the more common and difficult to report. Gyorog calls the current lockdown, along with its additional economic repercussions, “a pressure cooker” for domestic violence.
Soon after the order began on March 23, the agency’s emergency hotline saw “a dramatic decrease” in calls. But while the number of calls plummeted, the intensity of the calls rose, Gyorog says. Those who called displayed “higher anxiety [and] higher levels of need,” so much so that what would typically last 15 minutes took up an hour. Now, weeks into the shelter-in-place, more calls are starting to trickle in. They remain just as pressing.
Jeremy H. Warnick, spokesperson for the Cambridge Police Department, says that the department also anticipated a “sharp increase in domestic violence” but has yet to see one. Reports of domestic disputes and assault for the first seven weeks of the lockdown are consistent with figures from the past two years. He notes, however, that domestic violence is often “vastly underreported for different reasons.” For instance, Gyorog says, members of some communities do not feel safe calling the police for help.
“We have to respect that different communities approach this problem in different ways,”  she emphasizes.
Gyorog maintains that just as everyone is weighing the risks of their daily actions, survivors are weighing the risks of managing the situation at home or seeking outside help. “Everybody’s weighing the exact same risk factors that you and I are weighing,” she says. “Everybody is safety planning on some level anyway, and so people who are experiencing domestic violence are also safety planning.”
Moreover, many survivors are unaware of the services still available to them or unable to safely access them.
Transition House — which in 1976 became the nation’s second-ever domestic violence shelter when two activists piled mattresses into their apartments — is one of a few agencies in the state to have kept its doors open. Most have closed and moved all their residents to hotel rooms.
While Transition House rents a few hotel rooms in the neighborhood, its infrastructure allows it to safely house the majority of its residents on its premises. To minimize in-person contact, each of the nine families in the shelter is using its own bathroom, and the agency is limiting the number of onsite staff.
Still, Transition House is continuing to pay all of its employees, even those who are no longer working at the shelter. With help from the Small Business Administration’s Paycheck Protection Program, the agency is also raising wages for onsite employees by 50 percent. “That’s the way it should be because they’re taking a risk,” Gyorog says.
The shelter was at capacity long before the stay-at-home order began. When spots for beds open, they tend to fill up quickly, sometimes within hours.
While the stay-at-home order has drastically changed life at the emergency shelter, it has not greatly affected the agency’s Community Support Partnership: Advocates are now providing legal aid, counseling, and safety planning services by phone and email.
For Transition House, the greater challenge lies not in adapting their services but in ensuring that survivors are aware of and can access them.
“The real danger is that people might have the misconception that they shouldn’t or can’t get help right now,” Gyorog says.
In addition to promoting their programs on social media, the shelter is partnering with the CPD to hang informational posters at essential businesses. It hopes to build relationships with local stores and someday train staff members to look out for signs of domestic violence. In the meantime, the shelter has also printed thousands of postcards to send alongside free home delivered meals.
In its push to publicize services, Gyorog says Transition House has a “real ally” in the CPD. Since mid-March, the CPD’s Domestic Violence Unit has circulated daily updates on legal, housing, and food-related resources for survivors. According to Warnick, the unit is operating by its typical standards, with officers continuing to respond in-person to all “active situations” of violence.
While she feels that domestic violence “probably wasn’t on anyone’s minds” at the start of the lockdown, she believes that the Cambridge city government is well-positioned to manage the crisis: Gyorog says it is the only municipality with a funded position for coordinating domestic violence prevention services.
Headed by Elizabeth M. Speakman, the Domestic and Gender-Based Violence Prevention Initiative has worked with Transition House and its peers to educate community members on domestic violence and develop protocols for housing and police authorities’ responses. The DGBVPI currently advises State Representative Marjorie C. Decker as part of a statewide pandemic task force focused on domestic violence. (At the task force’s urging, Governor Charlie D. Baker ’79 now shares domestic violence resources during press conferences.)
In spite of government attention to the matter, Speakman is less optimistic about the long-term wellbeing of local service providers. Although many large funders have continued to support agencies at this time, the state and federal grants that power providers are soon to expire. Speakman fears that the upcoming economic downturn could make the government tight on funds, forcing organizations to furlough staff.
While state agencies have assured Transition House of secure funding for the foreseeable future, the organization is “definitely worried about [its] financial health” in the years ahead, Gyorog says. It anticipates that individual donations, which make up 20 to 30 percent of its budget, will decline during the economic downturn. Moreover, half of the organization’s state grants come from federal streams authorized by the Violence Against Women Act, which expired in early 2019. While the shelter’s budget has not declined since then and Gyorog has received no indication of future cuts, she says she is “always nervous” about the fact that funding is “subject to the whim of the government.”
“If VAWA is not reauthorized, that will be a big problem for all victim service agencies across the country,” she added. “How big of a problem, I don’t know yet.”
For Emerge, an abusers’ education program involved with the Domestic and Gender Based Violence Prevention Initiative, the lockdown has already harmed the service’s bottom line.
Both Emerge and Transition House have acted as partners since their founding and often refer clients to one another. Their relationship is borne out of a mutual understanding that supporting survivors also entails working with abusers.
“We need to think about, OK, if we’re increasing services for survivors of domestic violence, what are we doing for people who use abusive behavior? How are we making sure that they have reasonable solutions for what they’re dealing with?” Gyorog says.
Although Emerge has seamlessly moved its group programming online, it is struggling to adapt to the stay-at-home order. According to its co-director, David C. Adams, as many clients have lost their jobs, the program has lost its primary source of revenue: client fees. On top of that, since the courts have closed, the program is rid of its main source of referrals. To hold onto its clientele and staff, the program has applied for a small business loan.
While Emerge receives a quarter of its income from the Massachusetts Department of Public Health, it does not qualify for funding under VAWA even though certain streams, Adams highlights, aim to promote abusers’ accountability. He says it is rare for state and federal agencies to subsidize abuser intervention programs.
“At the very time that [Emerge] is most needed, it is the least available,” Adams says.
Speakman urges those who can to donate to local domestic violence organizations and circulate their resources on social media. She, Gyorog, and Adams also underscored the value of connecting with friends or family members who may be in unsafe relationships. The pandemic has made this a precarious time for survivors of domestic violence — as well as the agencies that serve them. Gyorog, like many of us, initially thought the lockdown would only last a few weeks.
“I don’t know how to predict where we’re going to end up in the future,” Gyorog says.
 — Staff writer Saima S. Iqbal can be reached at saima.iqbal@thecrimson.com.
— Staff writer Josie F. Abugov can be reached at josie.abugov@thecrimson.com.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
UPDATED: May 31, 2020, 3:31 p.m.
In the wake of the murder of a black man, George Floyd, by Minneapolis police on May 25, University President Lawrence S. Bacow sent an email to Harvard affiliates Saturday evening listing his “beliefs” in America, the legal system, and knowledge.
Thousands of protestors have taken to the streets across the United States to condemn Floyd’s death in police custody. Police officers and members of the National Guard in cities including Minneapolis, Los Angeles, and Atlanta have deployed tear gas and pepper spray against the crowds, who have blocked streets and burned structures in the demonstrations.
Derek Chauvin, the white police officer who pinned Floyd to the ground with a knee to his neck until he went limp, was arrested and charged with third degree murder and second-degree manslaughter Friday.
In his Saturday email, Bacow stopped short of directly supporting the protests. He called Floyd’s death “senseless,” writing that he believes “no person is above the law regardless of the office they hold or the uniform they wear” and that justice is based on how “a society treats its most vulnerable members.”
In his email, titled “What I believe,” Bacow wrote that in difficult times, he returns to his beliefs in principles such as the “goodness of the people of this country—and in their resilience,” that “America should be a beacon of light to the rest of the world,” and “the American Dream.”
He wrote that the list is only some of what he believes.
“I hope you will pause during these troubled times to ask what you believe,” he wrote. “Even more importantly, I hope you will find the strength and determination to act on your beliefs—to repair and perfect this imperfect world. Those of us privileged to work or study at a place like this bear special responsibilities.”
Bacow’s email follows several other Harvard administrators’ responses to Floyd’s death.
Dean of the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences Emma Dench wrote in an email to the school’s affiliates Friday that Floyd’s death was “disheartening.” She added that “the violence we are hearing about” is “particularly upsetting to our students of color,” though the email did not explicitly mention its impact on black students or express support for protesters.
“It is particularly concerning because the demographic bearing the brunt of the COVID-19 pandemic is also the group disproportionately affected by the violence we are hearing about,” Dench wrote. “It cannot help but affect us all, but I know it is particularly upsetting to our students of color.”
“The kind of thinking that leads to such acts runs counter to our stated values as a School,” she added.
Dean of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences Claudine Gay wrote in an email to FAS affiliates Sunday that "we are confronted again by old hatreds and the enduring legacies of anti-black racism and inequality."
“It’s a familiarity that makes me deeply restless for change,” Gay wrote. “Part of that change is the work we do here to learn and listen across lines of difference and to build a community grounded in trust and respect. Part of that change is our work to trace the roots of inequality and its pernicious effects and to equip our students with the understanding and insight needed to create a better world.”

She wrote that, for her, the murder of Floyd feels far from abstract.

“We are reminded, again, how even our most mundane activities, like running, which is something I am passionate about, can carry inordinate risk,” Gay wrote. “At a moment when all I want to do is gather my teenage son into my arms, I am painfully aware of how little shelter that provides. It shouldn’t be this way.”

“The death of George Floyd is a singular tragedy for his family, the mother he cried out for, and all those who cared about him,” she added.

Gay encouraged FAS affiliates to have “resilience” as they “fight for change.”

“I urge you to lean on this community as you lean into the work that brought you here and the better world it seeks to create,” she wrote.
Leverett House Faculty Deans Brian D. Farrell and Irina P. Ferreras wrote in a Saturday email to Leverett residents that “the cruelty and inhuman treatment” of George Floyd demonstrated the racism endemic to many parts of American society, but also called riots “socially destructive and self-defeating.”
“We firmly believe that nonviolent means are the most potent ways to fight for our causes. Violence creates more social problems than it solves,” they wrote. “However, we need to look deep into the conditions which cause people to participate in riotous activities.”
Farrell and Ferreras added that riots are “symptoms of disease, not the disease itself.”
“America continues to fail in looking for ways to erase the inequality and the conditions in which minorities must live," they wrote. “Large segments of our society are more concerned about tranquility and the status quo than about justice, equality, and humanity.”
“As long as America continues to ignore and delay justice, we stand in the position of having these repeated recurrences of violence. Social justice and progress are the absolute guarantors of riot prevention,” they added.
Lowell House Faculty Deans Nina Zipser and David I. Laibson ’88 wrote in a Saturday email to Lowell residents that House affiliates should “non-violently protest and use the ballot box to advance the intertwined goals of social, economic and racial justice.”
“We write to emphasize that we are here to support you during this terrible moment and during the ongoing struggle, as we jointly battle the legacies of slavery and racism that continue to impoverish, sicken, and, in so many cases, kill black people,” they wrote. “The sharp racial disparities that have emerged in COVID-19 deaths are yet another indicator of the toxic inequalities that afflict our nation.”
“It is our duty to use our educational and economic resources to tirelessly work against racism and racial disparities and their debilitating effects on our society,” they added.
—Staff writer Michelle G. Kurilla can be reached at michelle.kurilla@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @MichelleKurilla.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Undergraduate Council voted to endorse an open letter from the College’s Black Community Leaders and an act to match the “Black solidarity” donations of Harvard undergraduate students during an emergency meeting Saturday afternoon.
UC President James A. Mathew ’21 and Vice President Ifeoma E. White-Thorpe ’21 called the emergency session to debate the two action items in response to the death of George Floyd, a black man who was murdered by Minneapolis police on May 25.
Council treasurer Noah Harris ’22 and Ivy Yard representative Chloe E. V. Koulefianou ’23, alongside Mathew and White-Thorpe, sponsored both bills.
“Instead of writing a statement of our own, we thought it would be the most productive to allow the BCL to write their statement as this is their community that has been harmed, the community that they represent,” Harris said. “And we decided that we lead from behind in a supportive manner, and I think that's the goal the UC should be prioritizing in several other related incidents.”
The act to endorse the BCL’s statement passed with unanimous consent. The other bill, which would have initially matched student donations up to $1,000, brought about more discussion from council members.
During deliberations, UC Finance Committee chair Rukmini “Mini” Ganesh ’22 asked if the Council could match more donations.
“Basically I wanted to make sure we can give as much as possible!” Ganesh wrote to the Council’s remote meeting chatbox. “How much is in the fund, and can we give more than $1,000 if there is more?”
Ganesh’s inquiry prompted a quick reaction from Elm Yard representative Brooke L. Livingston ’23, who moved to amend the legislation twice, increasing the donation match amount up to $2,500 and then up to $5,000.
Livingston’s amendment passed with 17 votes in favor and three abstentions. Twenty council members were present for the meeting, with a quorum set at 14 members.
Shortly after the meeting, Mathew and White-Thorpe sent out a College-wide email announcing that they would “match up to $5,000 in donations from the student body” through a GoFundMe fundraiser and equally distribute the funds to six charities committed to issues of racial justice.
“All donations collected through our GoFundMe will be equally distributed among a number of charities, selected by the BCL [Black Community Leaders],” Mathew and White-Thorpe wrote. “These charities include: the Black Visions Collective, Reclaim the Block, North Star Health Collective, Louisville Bail Fund, Minnesota Freedom Fund, and the Atlanta Bail Fund.”
Matthew S. Miller ’21, a member of Mathew and White-Thorpe’s executive cabinet and a Quincy House representative, worked closely with Harris and Koulefianou in crafting the initiative to match donations.
“I messaged him and said, ‘Noah, what do you think about potentially matching donations among the student body?’” Miller said. “And he's like, ‘yeah, I think that's a good idea, like, fiscally, it checks out,’ and so because I'm not a member, I’m just on the executive cabinet, Noah and Chloe handled the writing of the affirmation of the statement as well as the matching donations.”
Council members said they were satisfied with the body’s actions, seeing the mobilization in the aftermath of Floyd’s death as an opportunity for the UC to take on a larger role in backing student activist organizations.
“I think there's a deeper meaning there, which is also kind of showing that like, the UC, at least is now trying to amplify student voices, encourage people to get involved, but also back them up when they do,” Miller said. “So, I think the matching donations
can be used as kind of a nice way to make it seem like the UC is encouraging people to get involved, but also putting its money where its mouth is and also getting involved as an entity.”
Representative Janna E. Ramadan ’23 noted that she was pleased to see the Council act in a way that she has never witnessed before during her time on the UC.
“And then also seeing that we are matching the funds also shows that you put your money where your mouth is, right?” Ramadan said. “So, it makes me really happy that we're making steps and recognizing activism and also taking part in this way.”
—Staff writer Kevin A. Simauchi can be reached at kevin.simauchi@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter at @simauchi.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Economics professor Alberto Alesina “more or less founded the modern field of political economy,” according to Economics Department Chair Jeremy C. Stein.
But as Stein tried to write a tribute to Alesina, who died May 23 from an apparent heart attack at the age of 63, his professional accomplishments were not top of mind.
“When I sat down to do it, I just went blank on all the work stuff, and I just thought about him as a person,” Stein said. “He was just one of the warmest and most human people I've gotten to know.”
Alesina was born in Italy in 1957. He attended Bocconi University in Milan before coming to Harvard to receive his doctorate. He remained at the University ever since, barring a two-year stint at Carnegie Mellon University as a postdoctoral fellow and an assistant professor immediately after completing his Harvard Ph.D.
Several colleagues said Alesina’s warmth and humility pervaded the Economics Department at Harvard, where he had been a faculty member since 1988 and served as chair from 2003 to 2006.
“He was extremely empathic, warm, caring and funny, and he used those skills to create a very productive and welcoming atmosphere for others,” assistant Economics professor Benjamin Enke wrote in an email.
Economics professor Pol Antràs said that Alesina “made the department a better place, and economics a stronger field of study.”
“He was a giant in the field, but I would talk to him and feel like I'm talking to a friend of mine in Spain over a beer,” Antras said. “That type of proximity, that type of warmth.”
Economics professor Edward L. Glaeser said Alesina displayed such warm-heartedness in his interactions with graduate students in particular.
“He so obviously cared about our graduate students, so obviously loved them, and took such obvious pleasure in their research that this just made the whole program more human, more joyful,” Glaeser said.
Current and former students, meanwhile, said Alesina improved their time at Harvard in a myriad of ways.
Giorgio Saponaro, a current graduate student, recalled the intense respect and focus with which Alesina listened to and questioned his students — even those who were young and inexperienced.
“The way he treated you was the opposite: as if you were the professor and he was the student,” Saponaro said. “He really had a huge respect for students that were working with him.”
Itzchak Tzachi Raz, another graduate student who worked with Alesina, said their meetings were different from most.
“I don't think there was ever a student who was stressed about meeting Alberto,” he said. “Meeting him was always not just productive but also fun and stress free, which was just an amazing thing.”
His seminars were filled with laughter, too, students said — even at his own expense, like when he rocked on his chair so hard that he fell off, or told his students not to trust any of his econometric specifications.
Filipe Campate, a professor at Johns Hopkins University and a former student of Alesina’s, said his mentorship continued long after students finished their Ph.Ds and even after they left Harvard.
“It's not like he had any professional obligations, strictly speaking,” Campate said. “He just cared about his students a lot, and was a very open and warm person.”
Before his students and colleagues gave presentations, Alesina was known to tell them, “Just don’t screw up!” Coming from anyone else, it might have sounded “nasty,” Campate said. But from Alesina, it was “just the opposite.”
“It conveyed his slightly mischievous sense of humor that was so disarming and really put you really at ease,” he said.
Pierfrancesco Mei Innocenti, a current graduate student, called Alesina “a light on the other side of the ocean” for students who studied economics in Italy — especially at their shared alma mater, Bocconi University. Alesina visited Bocconi often, and held a visiting position at its Innocenzo Gasparini Institute for Economic Research.
“He was truly unconventional in the way that he did not separate life with research and work. It was everything all together,” Innocenti said. “Research and work was fun, and was enjoyment, and didn't have to happen in the office. It could have been on a walk, during a dinner, over a drink.”
Outside his office in Littauer, Alesina pursued many personal passions, including hiking and skiing, colleagues and students said.
“He always liked to joke that his best ideas came from the ski lifts,” Saponaro said.
His charm and wit helped him to build the field of political economy. He was named the founding director of the working group on political economy at the National Bureau of Economic Research in 2006, serving in the role until his death. He wrote five influential books and served as a fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.
“We can talk about the ideas, but part of building the field is putting together a set of people with a common purpose, and generations of students and all that,” Stein said. “He was a master at that. It's an interesting way to be a leader — very self-deprecating, very funny, very warm, and just a lot of people wanted to be around him and wanted to follow him.”
Government Professor Jeffry Frieden said Alesina — with whom he taught for many years — was central to the field of political economy in “every dimension.”
“Intellectually, he helped establish the field of political economy as a rigorous and systematic and respected field of both Economics and Political Science,” Frieden said. “Institutionally, he built up many of the organizational forms that now dominate the research and training in political economy. And personally, he mentored, taught, trained and collaborated with many of the most important figures and young scholars in the field of political economy.”
Personal and professional contributions taken together, he said, Alesina was an “irreplaceable individual.”
—Staff writer Camille G. Caldera can be reached at camille.caldera@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @camille_caldera.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard’s Anthropology department chairs wrote in an email Saturday that they will “work to dismantle” structures that contributed to “an environment in which abuses continue to manifest and go undetected” in response to a story published by The Crimson Thursday.
The eight-month investigation by The Crimson identified allegations of sexual harassment against three senior faculty in the department — Theodore C. Bestor, Gary Urton, and John L. Comaroff — and a department culture that students and faculty said placed women at a disadvantage.
“The allegations in yesterday’s article have had a devastating impact on our department,” chair Ajantha Subramanian and interim chair Rowan K. Flad wrote in an email to The Crimson. “They have left members of our community feeling confused, vulnerable, betrayed, and angry. They have also revealed long-standing problems that require urgent attention.”
Subramanian and Flad added that they will establish a standing committee of undergraduates, graduate students, staff, faculty, and alumni to “analyze existing departmental structures” and work to dismantle those that contributed to what they called an environment that allowed for abuses of power.
In a separate email sent to both Anthropology undergraduates and graduate students Friday, Subramanian and Flad wrote that recent reform efforts have targeted some of the issues identified by The Crimson’s reporting.
The chairs wrote that an external committee previously assigned to evaluate the department issued an interim report May 15 which “appreciated the strides being made towards diversifying the faculty, providing mentorship to graduate students and to junior faculty in the lead-up to tenure, incorporating student input in hiring and curricular matters, and fostering an open environment for intellectual exchange.”
“In pointing to these changes, we do not mean to minimize ongoing challenges, or dismiss other concerns included in the article,” Subramanian and Flad wrote. “We are fully aware of the distance we need to cover to make the department a truly equitable, responsive, and responsible space.”
They added that they will offer opportunities for students to speak with them about their concerns, including during a Chair’s Lunch scheduled for next week.
In academic circles on Twitter, some professors have pointed out that the issues in Harvard’s Anthropology department are indicative of larger problems in academia.
In their email Saturday to The Crimson, Subramanian and Flad committed to making changes to their department’s culture.
“While the mechanisms for investigating allegations and imposing sanctions fall outside the purview of the department, there is much that we can do internally to rebuild trust and empower our most vulnerable members to speak out,” they wrote. “We are committed to repairing and rebuilding our relationships over the long term to create a more supportive, safe, and equitable departmental culture.”
—Staff writer James S. Bikales can be reached at james.bikales@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @jamepdx.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Recent Harvard College graduate and former Harvard men’s basketball player Seth E. Towns ’20 was detained by local police in Columbus, Ohio Friday at a rally protesting the recent murder of George Floyd, a black man, by Minneapolis police.
Towns, who will play basketball as a graduate transfer at the Ohio State University next season, was briefly taken into police custody but was not arrested, OSU spokesperson Dan Wallenberg told ESPN.
A video published on Twitter early Saturday morning by Eleven Warriors — a publication covering Ohio State sports — showed three police officers in helmets putting Towns’s arms behind his back. In the video, Towns called “Say his name!” as other protestors answered “George Floyd!”
A native of Columbus, Ohio, Towns said in a video he posted on social media Saturday afternoon that he was at the rally to demonstrate peacefully.
“I, with so many others, met in downtown Columbus, Ohio to peacefully protest the murder of George Floyd and a long list of others who are failed by this country, to fight for justice at the face of inequity, and to express our pain,” he said.
Cities across America have become the locus of protests — many of which have erupted into violence — after video footage from May 25 surfaced showing Derek Chauvin, a white police officer, pressing his knee into Floyd’s neck for more than eight minutes while Floyd repeated “I can’t breathe.”
Floyd subsequently died in police custody. On Friday, Chauvin was arrested and charged with third degree murder and second-degree manslaughter.
Towns, who was named the 2017-2018 Ivy League men’s basketball player of the year, graduated from Harvard on Thursday.
“In a span of just 24 hours I walked from a Harvard virtual graduation stage to the back of a police van, both of which I am equally proud of,” Towns said.
Harvard men’s basketball coach Tommy Amaker expressed support for his former player in a statement published on Twitter Saturday.
“I fully support, and am proud of, Seth in his continued fight for social justice, a cause that has been near and dear to his heart since he arrived on campus four years ago,” Amaker wrote. “We, as a program, always encourage our players in their efforts to stand up for their beliefs and for what is right.”
Towns ended his video with a call for unity and action.
“True voice is not found in words spoken but in steps taken. These hurtful times call for us to come together and unite our voices, to be true and fearless in our expression of compassion and take steps to create the change we seek, the change we need,” he said. “The world needs to know we are hurting. To those who are silent, speak up, use your voice.”
—Staff writer Ema R. Schumer can be reached at ema.schumer@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @emaschumer.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
