News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Allow me to set a scene: “This is America! We have our founding-father-given, liberal-snowflake-crushing, First Amendment freedom of speech that no one can take from any one of us, so you must let [insert controversial person here] speak. I won’t stand for intellectual debate being suppressed on college campuses!” says the older white male. “Stfu”, says the young woman or man of color, “there’s no reason to give that bigot any of our airtime!” End scene.
Alas, controversial speakers have increasingly become a hot button issue. On the one hand, you have college students who speak out, sometimes aggressively, when they don’t want a particular person to come to give an address or have a debate on their campus. Generally, the students believe that this person is racist, sexist, transphobic, or otherwise morally reprehensible. On the other, you have people (some students, some commentators, and many faculty) who say that canceling speakers is censorship of ideas at universities where all ideas should be welcome. But it seems to me like all this discussion about free speech is not being conducted in the same language.
Let me begin by being clear: I believe complete freedom of speech is essential.
Say what you want. Preach what you please. If you desire to chuck every slur you can think of at me or anyone, you are legally (for the most part) free to — as am I.
But don’t get it twisted. You can say what you want, but that doesn’t mean that there aren’t consequences. If you say something that people think is racist — say, the n-word, for example — those people will call you racist (shocker!), attack your character, call into question your moral standing, and protest your public appearances. And because of those same, beautiful, founding-father-given First Amendment rights, they are free to do so.
Can [insert controversial person here] say what they want? Sure, we can agree on that. But do I have to support their visit to campus so there can be a “productive debate?” Absolutely not. I, and many students like me, recognize and respect free speech and oppose the idea of bigots coming to campuses. These things may seem at odds, but allow me to explain why pushing your debating exercise through the lens of free speech doesn’t work:
The stakes of these conversations could not be more unequal.
In these debates, I know that all you have to gain or lose is academia status points with your friends. “All” I have to lose is my standing as an equal member of the human species. See the asymmetry?
People like me have nothing to gain from debating, “Are Blacks intelligent enough to be at Harvard?”, or “Can women do math?” — which are among the recent controversies — no matter how you place it, like under the guise of SAT score “meritocracy” or some other thinly-veiled hogwash. Even if I were to be most persuasive in that debate and convince whatever ill-informed or bigoted human I was listening to, I would have exerted all that energy and risked everything my (and many other people’s) ancestors fought for ... what? To continue with my life knowing exactly what I did before? You’ll need a better pitch than that.
Many of us are not in a position to take any rights we have as “unalienable” givens. It’s not at all ridiculous for us to say we are risking all our rights by agreeing to such a debate and if you disagree with that, don’t tell it to me — try telling that to all those before me who spent their lives fighting just to be seen as equally deserving human beings. Tell it to all the people who stood against elites making exclusionary and oppressive social policies based on “science”. Tell it to every one of my ancestors who was a slave in America, regarded as property — the women among them even more so. Tell it to every one of them that has lived separately and unequally since then. Tell it to my South African family that had to endure Apartheid (in a country where Harvard had financial ties, lest we forget). Those are the people who you need to convince — not me. I’ll believe it’s a good idea to debate these things when they do. You’ll find most of them dead and buried in unmarked graves with scars from whips on their backs and or the trauma of rape in their souls, so that conversation may be tough. The rest of them, however, are still alive, and I call them “grandma” or “dad,” in case you forgot these atrocities were really not that long ago.
So yes, it quite literally is, and always has been, my and billions of other peoples’ humanity you want to put on the table when you parade racism, sexism, homophobia, transphobia, or any other oppressive ideology under the umbrella of free speech. It’s not about “feelings,” and reducing it to that won’t help. So no: I, and many others, will not stop using our own free speech to attempt to ensure that our humanity is never on the table again — honoring our ancestry demands that. These are not simply “intellectual exercises.” Not, at least, until someone can convince me that all I have to lose is a debate.
Marcus B. Montague-Mfuni ’23, a Crimson Editorial editor, lives in Dunster House.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
We can argue about who won the first presidential debate, but it’s pretty clear who lost: America.
People across the political spectrum and almost all undecided voters agreed: It was chaos. There were 741 aggressive interruptions during the 90-minute debate, which featured spectacle and self-aggrandizement over facts and reasoning.
In light of the overwhelming underperformance of the first presidential debate, and in anticipation of the final one, some have proposed setting new limits on speaking times and giving the moderator mic-muting privileges. Others suggest canceling future debates altogether.
But what if we were to reimagine the presidential debate entirely?
American political debate is often traced back to the debates between Abraham Lincoln and Stephen A. Douglas in the 1856 Illinois senate race, which were unmoderated and structured so that the first speaker spoke for 60 minutes and the second for 90, before the first had a final 30 minute rebuttal. The first presidential debate, however, did not occur until 1960.
The first presidential debates featured no immediate commentary or post-event analysis. After TV stations finished broadcasting the events, they cut right back to regularly scheduled programming. The goal of the broadcast was to project “the living image of the Presidential candidate — how he looks, what he believes, what is his idea of America's future and its place in the world, and how he will exercise the power of the Presidency,” and the series of four debates between John F. Kennedy and Richard M. Nixon was considered a resounding success due to a correlated increase in voter interest and turnout.
One study shows that presidential debates from 1976 to 1996 increased voter comprehension of candidate issue positions and personality-based characteristics.
This year’s political debates, by contrast, seem to hinge almost exclusively on entertainment and dogma with superficialities and soundbites (Did you see that fly?). With no live fact-checking and an immediate abundance of partisan hype, we’re left with misleading claims and constant maneuvering. Debates are supposed to clarify positions, not obfuscate them, but a CBS poll found that only 17 percent of viewers found the first presidential debate informative.
So, should we cancel the presidential debates? No.
Instead, we need to re-evaluate the purpose of political debate and find the procedural mechanisms that would best serve those ends.
I propose political debate take a page from student debaters. Yes, it’s time to go back to school.
Student debating societies in America originated in the mid 1700s, centuries before the first presidential debate. There are many styles and formats of academic debate, but all emphasize students’ “breadth, as well as depth, of knowledge […] quick thinking and logical, rigorous analysis,” as the intercollegiate American Parliamentary Debate Association puts it. Student debaters are trained to actively respond to counter points — confront the facts, not sidestep or ignore them. They are held accountable for their incorrect and imprecise facts and cited methods. They are respectful, engage with ideas instead of people, and face repercussions for superfluous interruptions.
Each time I’ve witnessed a student debate, all parties have engaged courteously and come away more informed. One of my introductions to Harvard was the Harvard Political Union’s Democrat-Republican Debate during our Visitas orientation week. Both sides had fiercely different stances on everything from healthcare to immigration. Still, they defended their claims with manners, logic, and evidence.
So, here are some suggestions for the presidential debates:
First, add more structure. Many high school and college debate formats exist, but all mandate specific intervals for speeches and cross-examination. Clearly define the timing and order of each round, and penalize candidates that improperly interrupt or consistently go overtime.
Second, give moderators tools to maintain order. In student debate, the judge cuts off a debater if they go overtime. Often a literal alarm goes off. Ahead of the first debate, moderator Chris Wallace said he intended to “get [Joseph R. Biden Jr. and Donald J. Trump] to engage, to focus on the key issues, to give people at home a sense of ‘why I want to vote for one versus the other.’” That was overshadowed by his other goal, “to be as invisible as possible.” Moderators should act like a judge on behalf of the public. By all means, let them cut the microphones or use a buzzer.
Third, allow and expect candidates to challenge claims and address concerns brought up by their opponents. Debaters are expected to target and overcome “points of clash,” as well as use factual data backed up by solid methodology. We judge them on their own claim as much as their capacity to deal with their opponent’s. In office, the president cannot just sidestep national challenges; let’s require those who want the job to directly respond to their opponents’ points during debates.
To be sure, we should not hyperfixate on the assignment of winners and losers. As political spectators and voters, we should heed Cicero’s advice in “On Duties”: “We should consider as enemies those who take up arms against us, not those who want to protect the republic in the way each judges best.” In this case, let us find a common enemy in flawed logic and faulty evidence.
Debates must prioritize the integrity of truth. If we limit politicians’ opportunities to fall back on ad hominem attacks and well-timed emotional stories, the voters watching won’t be as embarrassed for their country. In the future, perhaps debates will feature live independent fact-checking or roleplay scenarios to test a candidate’s ability and imagination to respond to an unexpected international crisis. But for now, we need to re-evaluate why we watch presidential debates, and what we expect out of them. Debates should highlight fact and reasoning, not enable hand waving and reality show behavior.
Those vying for our country’s highest office should look to student debaters for inspiration.
Julie Heng ‘24 lives in Kirkland House. Her column appears on alternate Thursdays.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
International students Zooming into class from outside of the U.S. may find themselves studying material considered politically sensitive in their home countries. Anticipating this issue, Harvard’s Information Technology Department published a web manual in late August for professors to support at-risk students whose country of residence “would be hostile to the discussion of certain topics.”
While the manual does not directly name the countries where class discussions might prove “socially, culturally, or legally problematic,” given the prevailing U.S.-Chinese tensions and China’s incessant interference with free speech — both domestically and internationally — it is natural for this topic to draw our eyes to Harvard’s complicated relationship with China. These tensions have already bubbled up in the Zoom-era, when a U.S.-held virtual commemoration for the 1989 Tiananmen Square massacre was shut down by Zoom at the request of the Chinese government this June.
Concerns over rising Chinese aggression pervade academia and geopolitics. Indeed, for China, where universities are governed by the state, there seems to be little difference between the ascent of China the global power and China the academic powerhouse. As such, China’s tense international relations with other nations have been felt at the university-level, as evidenced by Chinese meddling that has targeted, for political gain, Chinese university students in the U.S. and abroad.
Despite U.S.-China hostility, both Harvard and China certainly benefit from their interactions. For Harvard — for us — it is clearly useful to build ties and familiarity with the most populous country on Earth; additionally, a strong working relationship can enable international research efforts. The work done by the Harvard-Yenching Institute, the Fairbank Center for Chinese Studies, the Harvard Asia Center, and the Harvard China Fund to critically understand and engage China — politics, society, history and people — gives testament to the benefits of constructive engagement.
However, when dealing with an autocratic regime with a history of human rights abuses and disregard for academic freedom, it’s been difficult for Harvard to maintain its so-called “foreign policy [of] Veritas.” Without a doubt, the Chinese academic system is strictly controlled by the state. There are seven topics that are banned on campuses in China, and professors have been wrongfully detained for their political views. How, then, should Harvard evaluate and maintain its relationship with China, such that it does not become complicit in China’s attack on rights and freedoms?
Previously, Harvard has attempted to avoid political controversies, claiming that the University’s express goal will always be the advancement of research and other academic pursuits. But if the University compromises on academic freedom out of the desire to promote collaboration and avoid embarrassing its counterpart, it will no longer deserve the motto of Veritas. The Crimson reported a dangerous precedent earlier this year, when Teng Biao, a Chinese dissident and visiting scholar at Harvard, was asked by an administrator to postpone his talk for fear of offending China and “harm[ing] Harvard activity there”.
Academic freedom — the ability to, out of a desire for truth and knowledge, probe unwelcome topics and challenge prevailing narratives and governments — is a powerful ideal that, unfortunately, can be easily undermined. At Harvard (unlike some peer institutions around the world), academic freedom has not been publicly challenged by the Chinese government, but, as evident from the treatment of Teng’s event, the chilling effect of self-censorship can be challenging enough in itself.
As Harvard stands at the forefront of the international academic world, it must do its part and uphold academic freedom around the globe. Harvard cannot simply stand idly-by, cherry picking when to promote knowledge and when to allow suppression. To stand true to the principle of Veritas, it should ensure that, within its abilities, students and academics everywhere may learn, teach and research without duress and retribution, or the fear of it. This means substantively and symbolically standing up against all attacks on academic freedom, whether it be from foreign countries or domestic xenophobia and nationalism. There are good examples of this work, such as the Scholar-at-Risk program and the University’s legal rebuke against the federal government’s barring of international students; Harvard just has to steadfastly commit to its beautiful rhetoric.
This staff editorial solely represents the majority view of The Crimson Editorial Board. It is the product of discussions at regular Editorial Board meetings. In order to ensure the impartiality of our journalism, Crimson editors who choose to opine and vote at these meetings are not involved in the reporting of articles on similar topics.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
The promise of “law and order” has been a key refrain of President Donald J. Trump’s reelection campaign. The Center for American Political Studies (CAPS) / Harris Poll has been asking voters which candidate they believe will bring this so-called law and order to America since June. In the September poll, for the first time, a slight majority of Americans said they believe President Trump is best suited for the task.
From June through August, Democratic nominee Joe Biden led Trump, polling at about 54 percent on the question. For months, news outlets such as the New York Times and The Hill had highlighted Biden’s success on this front, citing the Harvard CAPS/Harris Poll.
In September, the tables turned. Shortly after the publication of the September CAPS/Harris poll results, which had Trump up 51 percent to Vice President Joseph R. Biden’s 49 percent, the conservative media outlets Fox News and The Washington Times reported on the poll for the first time.
Fox News and The Washington Times published articles declaring that voters are “receptive to President Trump’s law and order messaging.” The articles have generated serious traffic on their respective websites, raking in a combined 404 comments as of Oct. 10. However, the poll never directly asks respondents their view on either candidate’s “law and order messaging.”
Mark J. Penn ’76, a visiting lecturer at Harvard University and leading pollster for the Harvard CAPS/Harris Poll, explains that Fox News’s claim that poll results reflected a positive response to “law and order” messaging “is not the full context of the story.” “Look, articles like this take things out of context,” he continues. “They’re written to make a political point. That’s not the whole picture.”
Fox News declined to comment for this article.
Penn, a former Crimson news editor, believes that the correct analysis of the poll is that “BLM and the police, frankly, have much better images than” both Biden and Trump. The poll finds that 67 percent of respondents view the police either favorably or very favorably, and 51 percent of respondents view Black Lives Matter favorably or very favorably. In comparison, 44 percent and 48 percent of respondents had a favorable or somewhat favorable view of Trump and Biden, respectively.
“I didn’t cooperate with that article,” Penn says when asked about his thoughts on the Fox News story. “It’s unfortunate that people cherry pick [the poll] and use it to advance agendas.
The Fox News article attributes the poll’s findings simply to “Harvard,” and only cites CAPS / Harris Poll once in the story.
Penn believes the misattribution was intended to suggest that “even people from Harvard think that the president has some advantage” on the question of “law and order.” Penn plans to reach out to Fox News about the attribution of the poll to “Harvard” — “because it’s not,” he emphasizes.
“It’s impossible to police every article written in the universe,” Penn concedes. However, he says, journalists are especially prone to “cherry pick” findings to fit a desired narrative during a contentious election cycle such as this one. To combat this problem, Penn suggests readers should seek out the original survey whenever they come across news analysis of polling data.
“I don’t think it’s a good article,” Penn says in sum. He says he understands that pollsters cannot fetter access to their findings from those who may construe it to advance partisan goals. “Do they have the freedom to provide their interpretation? They do. In this case, I don’t agree with it.”
For Penn, the importance of polling lies not in confirming preconceived notions, but rather in grappling with the unknown. He says that our current political climate has “become too ‘gotcha,’ and too negative, too partisan.” Using polls to reinforce political footholds has only added to this polarization, he suggests.
As a pollster, he is in the unique position of a neutral collector of data. He acknowledges that polls must be used for political purposes, but also hopes they are used to see “what America really looks like.”
Context, Penn says, is everything — pollsters and journalists alike have a responsibility to provide accurate, unbiased information to the public. “We have to be honest in what we do,” he adds. “And we need journalists to do the same.”
— Magazine staff writer Garrett W. O’Brien can be reached at garrett.o’brien@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @GarrettObrien17.
Sections
Tables six feet apart. Indoor air filtration. Service only for masked customers. Regular sanitizing. Despite the stringent Centers for Disease Control guidelines that aim to make indoor dining safe, outdoor spaces remain a popular alternative for those worried about contact and crowds indoors. With Cambridge’s harsh winter around the corner, local restaurants are brainstorming ways to keep guests warm.
“We have found that having outdoor seating definitely helped,” says Gina C. Kurban, co-owner of Aceituna Grill, a Mediterranean restaurant. Aceituna normally has three branches, but because of decreased business, only the Kendall Square location remains open. “The pandemic has just completely changed everything,” she says. “We’ve been doing just a fraction of our normal business.”
Before, Kurban says, a typical day would see 500 customers. Now, on a busier day, 200 guests will come in.
In this, Aceituna isn’t alone. “We’re down 85 to 90 percent in sales. I think the winter will bring this down further — there won’t be holiday parties, there won’t be events,” says Steven L. Kurland, partner and general manager at Za Pizza Kitchen at Kendall Square.
Anticipating such difficult losses, Tom Brush, a partner at Felipe’s Taqueria, says the restaurant has already established a new model to adapt to the pandemic: Staff seat patrons and implement QR code orders, minimizing server-customer contact.
“We’ve had to dramatically increase our staffing; we have much higher staffing costs,” Brush explains. “Currently, even with our new model, we have not modified our prices at all from last year.” An average customer can still spend $10 on a meal.
In an effort to combat low sales, Aceituna launched a program for free delivery in areas around Boston. Each night, they drop off lunches for regular clients in different suburbs. Suburban deliveries did not grow as much as anticipated, but Kurban believes this program will get them through the winter.
Restaurants across Boston are working to ensure customers continue enjoying falafel, chimichangas, and pizza this winter — even if it means braving the outdoors.
At Aceituna, staff are planning to furnish their outdoor patio space with heaters, though they don’t know if they will last through the winter.
Felipe’s has five patio tables with propane heaters, but Brush expects that the heaters won’t make a huge difference once the temperature drops below 45 degrees. “If people want to sit outside, we’re happy to continue that,” he says. “But we don’t expect those propane heaters to generate enough heat to entice people to dine there a lot.”
Even though the Cambridge city government helps obtain permits for heaters, Brush says there is a significant financial toll on the part of restaurants. A large propane tank costs about $20 dollars to refill and only lasts a night, making heaters a risky business proposition.
“You really will only be able to utilize [heating lamps] on busy nights, and it is an expense that may or may not be offset by the business,” Brush says. “We certainly are going to use them, but we don’t expect a tremendous amount of interest in [dining] outdoors.”
However, a smaller turnout during the winter does have one upside: A decrease in customers will reduce the risks servers face. “Once those temperatures drop, it will be difficult for some of the servers to service the people out there. But I think at the same time customers stop eating outside,” he says.
Unlike Felipe’s and Aceituna, big chains can afford to invest in expensive igloos for outdoor dining. These dome-shaped havens are often embellished with extra decorations to stay festive in the winter months. The owners of Boston-based restaurant Pier Four have purchased nine igloos which each seat two to six guests with limited contact with servers. The candlelit geodesic domes can be heated to customers’ comfort. Still, they come at a cost: Reservations for two and a half hours cost $300 to $550.
Kurland says the Za Pizza ultimately decided against investing in outdoor heating. “To really [install igloos] properly, you have to get a tent and all this stuff,” he says. “And that is super expensive. I’m not convinced ... that we’ll get that money back.”
By building one another up, local businesses hope to continue to serve the Cambridge community. Despite what the challenges winter will pose, well-established restaurants like Aceituna and Felipe’s hope to preserve the flavors of long-standing traditions.
“I think we’re doing the best we can to be here and be available for people. At this point for us it’s not about making money — it’s about getting enough money to keep our staff going,” Kurland says. “I’m very active with the city and with local business organizations [in trying] to help other restaurants.”
Whether or not they provide outdoor heating, small local businesses will continue to offer a more intangible warmth to get customers through the winter.
Sections
On the website of The Jungle Music Club, a live music venue in Somerville, Mass., is a petition written by owner and co-manager Sam J. Epstein. “Let musicians work outside for 1 month before the long winter,” it reads. Headed by a black-and-white photo of Black rockstar and “father of rock and roll” Chuck Berry, the page compares two scenarios. The first is the 1956 ban on rock and roll, implemented by many cities in fear of “uncontrollable” crowds reacting to the “provocative rhythms of an all [Black] band.” The second is the 2020 Somerville ban on live outdoor music during the pandemic.
Musicians who played at The Jungle before the pandemic describe the club as a hole in the wall with a high stage that allows them to perform surrounded by their fans. “It looks like a really cool basement,” says singer-songwriter Eva I. Davenport, a frequent performer and booking agent for the venue.
Now, no one performs in the club — save the musicians who live stream from the venue.
“We do not believe this decision was made with racist intentions,” the petition reads. It acknowledges that after seeing the large number of Black performers at The Jungle, Somerville has provided “an incredible amount of support” to help keep the club open during the pandemic.
Nonetheless, Epstein believes that the ban on live outdoor music does not make the city safer. “It is unfair,” he says.
On Oct. 5, the City of Somerville released a statement saying that Phase 3 Step 2 of the city’s reopening would remain on hold while the rest of the state proceeded. This step included the reopening of “indoor and outdoor performance venues” in addition to fitting rooms, arcades, and other recreational businesses. In the previous step, Phase 3 Step 1, indoor restaurants, gyms, yoga classes, and club hockey rinks reopened.
“The virus spreads indoors so much more than outdoors,” Epstein says.
Like Epstein, Davenport believes that different businesses were held to unequal standards. With the proper precautionary measures, she believes that live outdoor performances can resume safely.
“I think this ban was an oversight,” Davenport says. “The restaurants were given a clear plan while the music venues weren’t. I wish there were a way for the city to make it right, to make up for all the lost time, financially.” She believes that such compensation would prevent the city from losing more venues and small businesses.
Doug S. Kress, the director of Health and Human Services and of the Somerville Board of Health, writes in an emailed statement, “There is broad scientific consensus that live performances, especially those that involve singing, and large gatherings both indoors and outdoors, pose high risks for COVID-19 transmission and potential superspreader events.”
He continues, “Just as we worked with restaurants, gyms, houses of worship and others, we are currently working with performance venues and artists in Somerville to consider safer options for our community. As we face a potential fall surge, this is no time to let our guard down.”
In a town hall about the arts held over Zoom with Mayor Joseph A. Curtatone and members of the City Council, Epstein voiced his concerns regarding the ban. He emphasized the negative impact the coming cold weather would have on musicians’ income, work, and livelihood. “They want to be able to share their art with someone, to see people’s faces when they share it,” Epstein says. “Customers want to see and feel music.”
In response, Epstein received a phone call with the same explanation: Somerville was concerned about live performances drawing large crowds. However, “a week or two later,” the city lifted the ban on radio and recorded music in restaurants but kept their ban on live music. No longer seeking to make a profit for the rest of the year, The Jungle now pays its musicians 50 percent of all food sales. The other 50 percent goes to the Southern Poverty Law Center, a US civil rights advocacy organization.
“They are giving, constantly giving,” Davenport says. “I don’t know any other venue that does that. And they are always willing to take on any genre, any artist. They’re completely open; they’re not closing doors on any certain types of genres or people, which I have seen venues do in the past. So I’m just honored to work for them.”
Not performing for a crowd has impacted her work in many ways, Davenport says. . Besides the revenue from ticket sales, Davenport also generates revenue from selling merchandise at concerts.
The experience of performance itself is also a large part of music-making. “It’s weird not having people in the room. I love making eye contact with people while I perform and singing to them, seeing their emotions, their reactions, and things like that,” Davenport says.
The virtual platform has some advantages. Davenport can now keep up with her favorite artists by watching live streams. “I’ve been able to see a new kind of element to their performance and hear their pieces a different way than I would have ever heard them before,” Davenport says. “So, from a consumer perspective, from someone who listens to music a lot, I definitely enjoy that difference.”
This year the Somerville Arts Council hosted a virtual version of its annual PorchFest music festival — renamed “CouchFest” in light of the pandemic.
City Council member Will N. Mbah says the Council remains open to hearing suggestions from residents about reopening businesses, emphasizing safety as a priority.
“If people want to do outdoor activities, and then the space is there, and they can respect those guidelines that were set to keep themselves safe and everyone else safe, like I said, I’ll be the first show to those events,” Mbah says.
Davenport is currently recording music and will be a part of a virtual Halloween music festival. Still, less than a week remains for musicians to perform at The Jungle before the club closes for the winter after a final concert on Oct. 17. They will reopen in 2021 “as soon as it is safe enough inside or warm enough outside.”
After The Jungle operates its outdoor patio one more time for a day of activism for democracy on Oct. 18, the seemingly uncertain winter will begin.
Sections
For a few days every winter, a flurry of blazers and overpacked binders descends upon Boston. Unlike other winter storms, this one is made of Harvard Model Congress and Harvard Model United Nations delegates, high schoolers from around the world.
This year, both conferences have gone virtual. The gavel will be replaced by the mute button, and all messages to the cute Lithuania delegate will be sent via Zoom DM.
In a typical year, HMC and HMUN welcome thousands of delegates to Boston for multiple days of making speeches, writing bills, and vying for best delegate. They gather together in committees for hours drafting proposals and legislation, all under the guidance and gavel-banging of Harvard undergraduate staffers.
This year, the leaders of these conferences are uncertain about how interested high school students will be in attending. Harvard Model Congress Co-President Aidan M. Keenan ’22 says he acknowledges the difficulties of planning for this year’s conference: “It was kind of hard to judge how many students we would expect to come because we’ve never had this sort of situation before, so we plotted out a bunch of different ways that could go.”
When the COVID-19 pandemic forced conferences to adapt to a virtual setting, HMUN planned to reduce the size of this year’s committees. Under-Secretary General of Administration Bryce G. Kim ’22 stresses that it was the constraints of an online format and not waning participant interest that necessitated the change. “As much as we’d like to have a 300 to 350 person committee room, it isn’t really replicable on Zoom,” he says.
Kim says that the online conferences will have no choice but to confront Zoom fatigue, an experience with which participants are likely familiar from online classes. A typical HMC committee session can take up to four hours at a time. This year, HMC has decreased the number of committee meetings and expanded their seminar program, in which staffers dive into topics of their choice with a small group of delegates. Keenan hopes that the variety and intimacy brought to the conference by the seminar program will help keep delegates engaged.
When it comes to committee themes, HMUN is also intent on addressing a wide variety of issues rather than zeroing in on the pandemic. The conference’s overall theme, however, screams COVID-19: “Informed Action in Times of Crisis.” Kim explains that the theme is meant to inspire delegates given the challenges posed by the pandemic and the increasing agency of young people. “We wanted to issue that challenge and motivate our delegates,” he says.
Without the costs of a physical space and other in-person necessities like refreshments between sessions, both conferences have decreased, and in certain cases, even eliminated fees. For HMC, lower expenses per delegate allows them to expand their scholarship program. HMUN also plans on continuing its financial aid program. Registration remains in its early stages, so Kim says it is still too soon to tell how changes to fees will affect delegate participation.
Despite attempts to maintain the feel of past conferences, the virtual experience will likely differ from the one students are accustomed to. Online platforms are notoriously structured: Breakout rooms must be assigned and prompted, and pressing the “end meeting” button leaves delegates scattered in their hometowns across the country. Yet Kim says unstructured time is a key component of the conferences. Delegates use this time to plan proposals and discuss takeaways from committees. Equally important is the social aspect, which is even more reliant on time outside of official meetings. While the conferences are looking into ways to replicate this experience, no online platform can perfectly recreate it.
But not all changes are negative. “Given the nature of COVID and being able to have a lot more conversations with the [high school] faculty members, I was able to see...ways [the program] can be improved,” says Halle C. Clottey ’23, HMC’s director of mentoring. The mentoring program seeks to give students who may not otherwise be able to attend HMC the knowledge and skills to succeed at the conference. Clottey says her conversations with high school teachers have led to the creation of an identity-focused panel for mentorship students — predominantly students of color — to ask questions about navigating predominantly white HMC spaces. Clottey hopes it will help increase students’ confidence and give them the tools for success beyond public speaking and parliamentary procedure.
The changes raise questions about accessibility. Decreases in fees and travel times may allow schools to take part for the first time. “This unique environment hopefully will allow us to present HMUN to a broader audience,” Kim says. “[They] might have easier access to a conference where they might not have if they were being forced to travel to Boston in January.”
Clottey worries that Zoom may not be the great equalizer some make it out to be, however. “I think in some ways, having an in-person conference levels the playing field since everybody is in that same physical environment,” she says. “Everybody is able to engage in one physical space without having to worry about, ‘oh, is my mom or one of my siblings going to run in in the middle of me giving a speech’ or ‘is my internet going to cut off in the middle of me trying to write a bill.’”
A virtual conference will hopefully be a one-time event. Some changes made this year, however, might work their way into future in-person conferences. “We’re always trying to improve upon ourselves, and we’ll take away any lessons from this year and apply them to future years,” Keenan says.
Sections
The sun beat down on the back of my neck, as it did every afternoon at Lime Kiln Farm in West Coxsackie, N.Y., but this time I barely noticed it. I was busy helping the farmer, Brent, a stout 50-something with a sharp wit and an affinity for cut-off jorts, hang white paint buckets on the fence behind the farm store. In the bottom of each bucket was a jagged hole about the size of a tennis ball. “That’s where their heads go before we chop ‘em off,” Brent explained to me, swiping his index finger across his neck in a mock-decapitation. Today was chicken slaughtering day.
“And you want to be a part of this?” my mom asked me, incredulous, when I’d told her about it on the phone the night before. She wondered why I, a quasi-vegetarian (or “flexitarian,” the term I like to use), would want to partake in the slaughtering of animals — especially after Brent had emphasized that volunteers were by no means required to attend. I’d come to the farm in the first place to reacquaint myself with the natural world, my mom reminded me, not to actively harm it. But I didn’t need to think twice about the decision. “It would be morally wrong not to,” I declared, preparing to launch into an explanation I’d spent the past few days refining.
The way I saw it, participating was a noble thing to do. I’d decided to go flexitarian a few months back because, for me, the experience of eating meat just wasn’t gratifying enough to outweigh the practice’s ethical and ecological repercussions. But I made occasional omnivorous exceptions (the “flex” moments of my flexitarianism) for meat that had been slaughtered humanely. For chickens, this entails turning the birds upside down and slitting their throats or chopping off their heads — the same method Brent used at Lime Kiln. I figured, if I was comfortable eating chickens slaughtered this way, then I should also be comfortable witnessing, even actively participating in, chickens being slaughtered this way. As I saw it, if sitting out the slaughter would call its humaneness into question, then participating in it should, by contrast, lay such questions to rest.
Early the next morning, we loaded the birds, flapping furiously in our grips, into the back of Brent’s pick-up. By noon, we’d pitched a white tent on the lawn behind the farm store with a gray folding table underneath it to serve as the carcass-cleaning station. Brent and I were stringing up paint buckets when a few friends of his, also farmers in the area, arrived to help out. Introductions were made as we waited for the pot of water next to the tent to heat up. (Dipping the chicken carcasses in boiling water, Brent explained to me, makes them easier to de-feather). When it reached a boil, we got down to business.
Each of us had a role. Brent and Nate were on head-chopping and carcass-dipping duty, Suzy and Alessandro were in the farm store kitchen cleaning and butchering, and I was the link in between the two stations, chopping off feet and plucking any feathers the de-feathering machine had missed. Then I’d deliver the birds, one by one, to Suzy and Alessandro in the kitchen. My foot-chopping technique was less than exemplary — more of a labored hacking-away than a chop — but I was making good time, keeping up my supply with Suzy and Alessandro’s demand. As I handed one of the pink, pallid masses to Alessandro, I thought about the chickens I’d placed in Brent’s truck the day before and wondered which of them this one was.
***
In his essay “Consider the Lobster,” David Foster Wallace wades through the various moral arguments for and against the killing and eating of lobsters, a debate much like those regarding the killing and eating of any other animal. But it differed from chickens, I noted to myself when I read the article a few weeks after leaving the farm, in that the lobsters were boiled alive. Chickens, on the other hand, were long dead by the time they were cooked. This distinction felt both meaningful and comforting.
At the front of our assembly line, Brent and Nate sliced off chicken heads, immediately stepping back when each decapitated body started writhing violently, throwing itself against the inside of its paint bucket. This wasn’t as bad as it looked, I reminded myself, because pain is registered in the brain, and the chicken’s brain was somewhere in the grass about three feet below. Plus, even if I’d wanted to avert my eyes, I’d still be able to hear the body thumping against its container and the metallic clanging sound of the paint bucket bouncing against the wire fence. I figured I might as well just get used to it. “This is what you signed up for,” I thought, yanking a fistful of feathers off a wing.
I didn’t expect the almost-de-feathered chickens Brent slapped onto my table to smell so much like the raw chicken you’d buy in a grocery store, given that I’d seen these bodies clucking and walking around only minutes earlier. The transition from “chicken” to “poultry” was startlingly swift. And it was a transition that, I determined, ended with me: those vaguely prehistoric feet being the last shred of evidence that these pink, fleshy mounds were once living things. My task of separating legs from bodies, severing the last link between sentient creature and agricultural commodity, would have felt kind of poetic if my chopping technique were more refined.
In his essay, Wallace doesn’t attempt to endorse one side on the question of killing and eating lobsters: His project is simply “to work out and articulate some of the troubling questions” that the practice gives rise to. In the end, Wallace concedes that the arguments on both sides are “so totally inconclusive,” that, as a practical matter, it really just comes down to your own conscience — “going with (no pun) your gut.” And, where one person’s gut reaction might be indifference, another might feel troubled by the lobster’s thrashing around and scraping of the kettle, the fact that it “behaves very much like you or I would if we were plunged into boiling water.”
“Ope, we got a runner!” Brent called out. A headless chicken had jerked its way out of its paint bucket. Now it was running — full on, one foot in front of the other, running — in an erratic spiral on the ground, spattering blood all over the grass. Nate and Brent let out shouts of, “Whoop, there she goes!” and, “Got some life left in ‘er!” before the creature finally slumped over in a white and red heap. I wasn’t sure what my facial expression looked like as I watched the scene, but whatever it was, it made Nate go quiet when he turned to look at me. He took off his baseball cap and scratched his head, suddenly self-conscious. “You have to joke about it,” he shrugged, “otherwise it’s just too sad.”
That night, recounting the experience to a friend on the phone, I said I was glad I did it. And I was: I didn’t feel quite as righteous in my decision to eat “humanely” slaughtered meat as I had before, but I did feel a sense of satisfaction with myself for having participated. “Like I’ve atoned for it in some way,” I explained to my friend. “And that feels good. Like, cosmically, some sort of balance has been struck.”
***
Reading Wallace’s essay weeks later, it was hard to ignore the overlap between the lobster-boiling debate and my chicken-slaughtering one. For instance, I was certainly guilty of the same confirmation bias Wallace describes: I mentally assembled a lineup of pro-poultry consumption arguments to deploy as I read — “Decapitation probably doesn’t inflict pain,” “This is how the food chain works, so it has to be morally sound,” etc. But, as troublingly familiar as much of the essay was, even more unsettling was the part that did not feel so familiar, the part I didn’t recognize in my own process of moral inquiry: Wallace’s central question. “Is this practice ethical?”
My rationale for participating, which at first had seemed morally airtight to me — “If I’m fine with this kind of thing happening, then I should be fine with watching it happen,” — glosses right over this question: Am I actually fine with this happening? Should I be? Sure, Lime Kiln’s method might have been the most humane relative to others, but is it actually humane at all? Like Wallace, I didn’t have an answer to this question. And so I’d dodged it altogether.
On some level, I was conscious of this question before I even set foot on our makeshift slaughtering station behind the farm store. I must have had doubts as to whether I could morally reconcile my decision to eat “relatively humanely” slaughtered chicken, or else I wouldn’t have sought out confirmation of this decision in the first place. My moral justification, put another way, was, “If I’m going to be complicit in what is, at worst, the brutal execution of a living thing for the purposes of some momentary, inessential human pleasure, then the least I can do is acknowledge my complicity.” I knew it was possible that I might have been doing something wrong. And, far from assuaging this unease, witnessing the slaughter brought it into even sharper focus.
And yet, I’d still walked away from the experience feeling weirdly good about myself. I’d called up my friend that night talking about “atonement” and “a cosmic balance” that my presence at the slaughter had established. And this self-satisfaction had lasted a while: Weeks had passed, an entire David Foster Wallace essay had been read before I was finally, now, beginning to investigate this mysterious mechanism by which I could feel absolved for something without ever explicitly identifying what it was I was seeking absolution for. The word “atonement” had come to mind the night after the slaughter, and it seems I’d forgotten — maybe not intentionally, but not quite unintentionally either — that you atone for something sinful. But the moral-emotional progression I’d undergone felt like such a natural one: Confront your shortcomings; feel less guilty about them.
This conclusion felt logical and familiar — probably because we all do this. Journalist Katy Waldman even coined a term for the practice: the “reflexivity trap,” which she defines as “the implicit, and sometimes explicit, idea that professing awareness of a fault absolves you of that fault.” The term pretty accurately names what I’d been doing since I left the farm: the “moral work of feeling bad,” as Waldman describes it. What did a chicken care if I acknowledged my complicity in its death? It still died. I still watched it convulse in its death throes. I still watched it tumble to the ground and start running, frantic and headless, speckling the grass with blood before it finally — humanely! — expired. For all the time I’d spent considering the slaughter and consumption of chickens, at no point had I confronted David Foster Wallace’s more discomfiting challenge to “consider the chicken” and reevaluate my dietary choices.
It’s a powerful and versatile instrument, self-awareness — for me, it’s been both a catalyst for self-betterment and a shield against it. But now I think I’m a lot better at telling the difference.
And, for whatever it’s worth — to chickens, or to the cosmos, or to my own self-image — I haven’t bought chicken since June.
— Staff writer Liv R. Weinstein can be reached liv.weinstein@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @livweinstein.
Sections
During her junior year of college, Caroline Spiegel sent an online gift to her sorority sisters. A few days later, after they’d had a chance to investigate, they reported back to her with exciting news. “Everyone was coming all the time,” she says, smiling. “It was great.”
Next thing she knew, she was dropping out of Stanford and scheduling meetings with potential investors.
She first stumbled upon audio porn in the recesses of Tumblr, after an eating disorder made it hard to get wet and impossible to come. Traditional porn wasn’t doing it for her, even the “feminist” kind. But her sorority sisters’ enthusiasm about the gift — a link to a masturbation audio clip — coupled with her own long sought-after orgasms, clued her into an aspect of women’s desire that had yet to be examined, let alone capitalized on.
She abandoned her computer science degree, moved to New York, and co-founded Quinn, an audio porn platform geared towards women.
The process of getting investors was strange, she says — most prospects said no, and many seemed uncomfortable even talking about sex. “The investment community has a long way to go in terms of sex tech,” Spiegel says.
In pitch meetings, she frequently invoked the sheer size of the untapped market. “Billions of women masturbate and the majority use their imagination,” she says. With only 30 percent of women watching visual porn, she explains, “it’s a huge opportunity when you view it in terms of numbers.”
***
While Spiegel was hustling to get her audio porn startup off the ground, we were navigating the unfamiliar landscape of college hookup culture, placed together as roommates in Canaday G44. One Sunday night, we both had guys over for the first time. When they departed, we were disoriented because we’d never considered ourselves the “kind of girls” that this would casually happen to. So, naturally, we spent the next few hours narrating our escapades in too much detail, dissecting sex and relationships, and comisserating about how confused we felt.
That morning, we failed the Bechdel test in a way the test doesn’t really account for: The whole time, our conversations about men were just another way to figure ourselves out, a lens that made the world a little less chaotic.
About a year later, when we did consider ourselves the “kind of girls” we used to think we couldn’t be, we found Quinn. At this point, we were Women, Gender, and Sexuality Studies concentrators — we’d spent hours analyzing our own sexualities and poring over gender theory, so porn and masturbation were typical topics of discussion for us. Still, Quinn as a medium was new and exciting.
Hundreds of thousands of people use the platform every month — 70 percent women, 30 person men, mostly in the 18 to 25 age range. Nonetheless, the company consists of only three people. Spiegel, the CEO and CTO, does most of the coding for the site and manages the company’s finances. Jackie Hanley, co-founder and fellow Stanford student, handles the day to day operations. Lucie Fleming, head of content, landed the best job of them all: Not only does she reach out to and communicate with audio porn creators, she also spends hours every day listening to narrated sexual fantasies and the percussion of kinky sex. Unfortunately, there are no internships available.
All of their work is informed by the explicit intention of running Quinn as a feminist platform.
“There’s something really empowering about not worrying about somebody else. In fact, having someone worried about you,” she says. “In that moment, that’s kind of what we try to do with Quinn — give you a moment where you’re the object of someone’s desire. You’re enough. Your butt’s perfect, you know? Everyone deserves to have that feeling.”
Throughout college, we’ve tried to follow that feeling — the thrill of being wanted. Sophomore fall, in the corner of a final club party, we found ourselves jointly flirting with a charismatic and good-looking acquaintance and entertaining the idea of a threesome. We were on a power trip, especially when we told him our ideas about gender and sex and power. We felt hot and smart in equal proportion.
***
Harry, 26, is a prolific creator on Quinn. In May 2019, he stumbled upon an ad that read, “Sexy voices wanted: $10 per minute.” He was intrigued. After submitting a 30-second clip to Quinn, he heard back from Spiegel, who said she loved his voice.
We were somewhat relieved when Harry told us that he’d prefer a phone interview to a Zoom call. The possibility of seeing his face would feel like encroaching on something sacred, and we were glad to preserve the mystery that accompanies a disembodied British voice.
Now, he’s uploaded over 30 pieces of audio to the site, ranging from “Honeymoon” to “On All Fours.” The two most-liked clips on his page are “Daddy Gets Rough” and “Harry Eats You Out” — which suggest somewhat opposing ideas of women’s fantasies.
“I turn you around. You feel my firm cock poking from behind,” Harry says, punctuated by moans, in “Birthday Treat.” He continues, “I reach around your front, grabbing handfuls of your tits, lathering them up as water rains down on your bare chest.”
Spiegel describes his work as falling under the “Boyfriend Energy” category, as opposed to “BDSM” or “Daddy.” Harry agrees with this characterization — to an extent.
“I think I’ve done maybe one or two audios where the woman was the dominant one,” he says. “But in general, I take that sort of traditional, masculine role, where it’s like, I’m in control, that sort of thing. But I think a lot of women like that, you know?”
Even as the audio clips he creates reify traditional, heteronormative gender ideals, Harry has noticed a marked evolution in his own sex life since he started creating content for Quinn. He says the sex has become more feminist.
“I definitely get more out of centralizing the woman now,” he says. “Before I was probably quite a porn-conditioned kind of guy, where I was just all about focusing on my own getting off, basically. But now I definitely will take more pleasure in pleasuring the woman.” By “porn-conditioned,” he’s probably referring to how both the perspective and arc of mainstream heterosexual visual pornography follow the sexual pleasure of the man. The camera functions as a voyeuristic male gaze — almost always focusing on the woman, but for the presumptive male viewer — and the narrative culminates in the guy “blowing his load,” Harry notes.
In audio porn, there’s something symbolic about being directly addressed as you, specifically, are guided to your climax. Sometimes, that means that you’re getting dominated and instructed to “push that ass into my face, babygirl”; others, you’re being caressed as someone tells you, “I’ve been in love with you since I first laid eyes on you.” For all intents and purposes, you’re the main character — regardless of the dynamics in the story.
Still, that story is worth interrogating. When it comes to sex, does the pure embodiment of desire outweigh its gendered implications? As in, is getting off to Harry’s “On All Fours” consistent with radical politics? As in, is the objective loss of power that accompanies slipping into a trope at a final club justified by the exercise of agency you tell yourself it is?
In our encounter with the charismatic acquaintance at the party, there was a drastically different — but probably more apparent — narrative playing out: We were two small women of color giggling about sex, excited that this tall white man was putting his arms around the both of us. The fact that we were power tripping had no bearing on what we were doing. We were aware of how this looked: The dynamics were exactly as they should’ve been. The internal work didn’t matter.
Throughout college, it’s been tempting to act as if the disquieting patterns in our lives are set in stone. But that mentality feels kind of lazy.
“We can choose how we want to treat each other, and how we want to think about each other,” Spiegel says. “I think that’s a powerful statement. Imagine a different world where, you know, there wasn’t this elephant in the room every time you were sleeping with someone — about how you’re valued in the world and how they’re valued in the world.”
Because of Quinn, Harry’s experience of pleasure has shifted. Satisfying women’s pleasure amplifies his pleasure, and he describes his newfound mentality as more holistic and healthier than before. Maybe, in this different world, the embodied feeling of what we want and the understanding of what that means can actually align.
***
For the past couple years, Spiegel’s life has revolved around feminist audio porn — dropping out of school for feminist audio porn, coding for feminist audio porn, confronting venture capitalists for feminist audio porn.
And yet, she’s still contending with whether feminism can be a referendum on what turns us on. After all, being aware of how patriarchal structures inform our desires doesn’t change the reality of desiring them. As far as Quinn is concerned, Spiegel says, “On a practical note, anyone can like whatever they want and I don’t really care.”
In almost every way, this is what we believe and how we live our lives. In conversations with friends, the wilder the hookup, the more exciting the debrief over Sunday brunch. But that doesn’t mean that we’re completely, or always, at ease.
“There’s something obviously enjoyable about submitting just as a concept, right? Like, forget that submission is tied to being a woman. As a concept, it could be nice to be in control sometimes and it could be nice to be submissive sometimes,” Spiegel says. “But then you have this feeling of like, what does that say about being a woman today?”
This dissonance is as insidious as it is intoxicating. There’s a moment when you figure out that what you want, what sometimes feels empowering, lands you right back where you started — whether it’s a disembodied British voice or a handsome acquaintance.
“I went streaking with my friends, and we were just running naked. And then later that night, I was hooking up with this guy, and I was having the worst sex ever,” Spiegel says. “I was like, how can you be so liberated that you could streak naked through a campus, and then like, choose to be fucked terribly and not say anything about it? Like, what’s wrong with me?”
— Staff writer Josie F. Abugov can be reached at josie.abugov@thecrimson.com.
— Staff writer Elyse D. Pham can be reached at elyse.pham@thecrimson.com.
Sections
Brittle yellowed leaves cluttered Harvard Yard in early August, well before they typically change color. The abridged autumn transformation of Harvard Yard seems to represent only a subtle, minor casualty in light of the health and social justice crises plaguing this semester. But the fallen leaves are a symptom of a much larger problem: the significant drought currently affecting Massachusetts.
Between May and September, Boston received 7.2 fewer inches of rain than is typical. That drop-off in precipitation, compounded by record high temperatures, created the perfect conditions for a dry fall. According to the most recent data available from the Massachusetts government drought monitor, from Sept. 4, 2020, all seven regions in Massachusetts are in a Level 2, or “significant,” drought. In three towns, the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection has declared water emergencies, compelling local officials to implement water restriction measures.
“Clearly once we get into Level 2, and as we’re seeing drying conditions continue and likely even getting worse, the impacts on environmental and natural resources are particularly high,” says Vandana M. Rao, the Executive Director of the Massachusetts Water Resources Commission. The most pressing issue, Rao says, is a lower water level, which directly affects the water supply for humans and impacts the aquatic habitat of plants and animals. Low water levels also magnify the concentration of toxins, lowering water quality. A secondary, yet still imminent and observable, concern is the heightened likelihood of wildfires, which pose a threat across the United States. Dry, dead plant matter is highly flammable, so the initial plant die-off from insufficient moisture becomes tinder. This year alone, more than 1,000 wildfires have erupted in Massachusetts and burned over 700 acres of land. Since fire officials rely on their local water supplies to combat fires, the decreased supply has only exacerbated the forest fires.
“The public water supply systems are also stretched thin because, especially this year, a lot of people have been at home and using a lot of water,” Rao says. The shortage of water is particularly concerning for farmers. The cranberry, an iconic Massachusetts crop, requires large amounts of water to harvest, but dried-out bogs are damaging this year’s yields, causing withering and decolorization.
“Much of the cranberry industry is located in the Southeast region of Massachusetts, and that region in particular has been hard hit in the last few months,” Rao says. “We will have to think creatively about how to create pathways for them to meet their water needs for the harvest.”
But the creative pathways Rao references may require significant changes to farming in the state. “For crops, we might need to plant more resilient crops. Or we might need to plant other types of foods. Or we might need to plant at different times of the year when we can be more sure that there will be sufficient soil moisture,” says Peter Huybers, a Harvard Earth and Planetary Sciences professor. “So, I think that farmers are going to have to be nimble to properly manage the changing climate in which their business is going to unfold.”
Adaptation is easier said than done. “I’ve talked to a number of [Community Supported Agriculture organizations] and local farmers who are well aware of the issues, but it takes resources to change and to adapt, and so they’re put into a hard place. To continue to be viable while having to innovate is an extra stressor in what is already a difficult business,” Huybers says. “I think the will and the capability are there, and I hope that the resources can match.”
Intense droughts are not unprecedented in Massachusetts: A drought in the 1960s lasted the better part of the decade and brought Quabbin Reservoir, the water supply for most of Greater Boston, to 45 percent of its holding capacity. But that drought was considered an anomaly, a once-per-century freak weather phenomenon. The state’s current record-breaking drought comes only four years after the 2016-2017 “flash drought,” the most severe and rapidly deteriorating drought in Massachusetts since the 1960s. These back-to-back, sustained, and damaging events are evidence of a broader trend towards warmer and more unpredictable weather, Huybers says — a shift scientists attribute, at least partially, to climate change.
“There’s a really powerful relationship here,” he suggests. He explains that global warming rapidly increases the amount of water that air can hold, which contributes to depleted soil moisture. “If you warm the air by one degree Celsius, the air can hold seven percent more water vapor. That’s a percentage increase, so it’s compounding. It’s a massive change,” he stresses.
Rising water temperatures and sea levels associated with climate change concentrate precipitation in intense storms rather than distributing it as rainfall. Not all precipitation is created equal, Huybers clarifies. “The style of the rainfall matters a whole lot,” he says. “If you get five inches of rain in a single day, it’s going to run off. It’s not going to percolate into the ground; it’s going to cause its own flooding problems.”
Asked if climate change policies and drought management are connected, Rao responds enthusiastically. “Climate predictions are saying that we will likely experience more short-term and long-term droughts and with what we’ve already seen in 2016 and now, some of these droughts tend to be fast-moving,” she says. Despite acknowledging the connection between climate change and increasingly disruptive weather patterns, Rao also points out that there is not much her department can do on its own to prevent future droughts. As global weather patterns shift, more frequent dry conditions and sporadic storms become increasingly inevitable — and impossible for a single environmental department to tackle alone.
“Part of our new drought plan is providing guidance to communities to think through preparedness, what they should be doing and putting in place even when there is no drought so that, once those conditions do set in, they are much better prepared,” Rao says. “Part of that is really to be as efficient in our water use as we can so that we can make do with far less water.”
“Every drought is different and each is a learning experience for us,” she says.
Huybers believes this comes back to Harvard, where debates about the University’s role in fighting climate change have escalated in recent years. “There are strong reasons to walk the walk,” he says. “Harvard has global reach, and an ability to address questions at a broad scale."
Huybers views droughts as a learning experience, but one that can be applied to tackling broader climate challenges. “Because water is something we can only bank up so much, it’s one of the environmental limitations we begin to feel most immediately. We actually have to change our living patterns,” he says. “Most things we can push off to other years, and future generations. Like ‘Oh, it’s getting warmer this year, but am I going to actually change the way I live?’”
Sections
The history of the Old Mole, the leftist magazine run by Harvard students from 1968 to 1970, is largely composed of hearsay and conflicting stories. Created as a means to criticize the government and social establishments in the unrest of the Vietnam War era, the Old Mole gave Harvard students an outlet with minimal censorship.
While the founding of the magazine is not entirely clear, the Old Mole, throughout its short lived existence, became a cultural and literary reference for Cambridge residents. In 1969, it published a letter stolen from the files of Franklin I. Ford, the Dean of Faculty at the time, detailing his plan to convince the faculty to continue to give academic credit for ROTC courses.The leaked letter angered the student body and played a large role in Ford’s eventual resignation. While this cemented the Old Mole’s legacy, it was hardly the magazine’s only notable facet.
On old, sallow pages, a poem begins “On acid I wept,” and goes on to call Nixon a pig. A classified section beckons, “To Bill in Cape Cod, who gave me his gas mask at the Smoke-In… I love you. Please write.” Excerpts like these were common in the Old Mole.
In the Aug. 6, 1970 issue, Doug McCormac wrote a piece called “Amerika to Viet Nam: ‘My love for you has gone away.’” In it, McCormac relays his experiences as an intelligence officer with the Green Berets in Vietnam. It addresses middle class guilt, the military-industrial complex, and anti-Vietnamese racism, which he divides into two categories: that of G.I.s and that of the greater American war machine.
McCormac’s essay represents the Old Mole at its best. Unpublishable elsewhere, pieces like this were the magazine’s raison d’etre. McCormac’s piece also reflects common Old Mole themes: The magazine is steeped in Vietnam Era social criticism, and many stories have to do with the war, protests surrounding the war, or those imprisoned for refusing to fight in the war.
Additionally, the Old Mole published essays about the women’s movement, racial unrest, police violence, prison conditions, strikes, welfare, and labor. In between are letters to the Old Mole (some from fans in Vietnam and elsewhere, some from critics who wonder whether the Old Mole represents “the people”), ads for anything from rental cars to stores selling “astrological, occult, and metaphysical” objects, community events, and classifieds.
It’s an odd visual. An ad for a used guitar sits a few pages from an article likening cops to pigs. Next to that sits a comic in which an alligator discovers a money trail linking the American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, the alligator-skinning industry, and the Rockefellers. But the chaos of the magazine is not without a certain charm: The Old Mole’s fierce individualism inevitably makes it a mixed bag, but it also gives its gems a stumbled-upon quality, making them seem especially bright and unique.
After the polarization and split of Students for a Democratic Society, the prominent New Left activist movement, the Old Mole faced a serious reckoning, as it was funded and run vastly by students on the (still quite left) right wing of the Harvard SDS branch. The right wing of the SDS was also experiencing infighting, placing the Old Mole at the center of several feuding factions. And in 1969, it was revealed that the magazine was partly funded by a front corporation, Cambridge Iron and Steel, sowing mistrust amongst the readership.
In 1970, police allegedly threatened the Old Mole office, saying, “If you want guns, we’ll use guns. We’ll wipe you out.” The same year, the Cambridge Police had raided a local commune and arrested its occupants.
The Old Mole marked its official conclusion in the fall of 1970. “A lot of people were dissatisfied with what was going on in the paper. They thought it was too closed, and that we had no right to speak for the people,” one member of the collective explained at the time.
It seems obvious, however, that the Old Mole’s niche had dissipated. The Old Mole was a paper catered toward a specific movement, though it claimed to encompass more — and that movement was fueled largely by one thing: the war. Once Nixon assumed office and began withdrawing troops from Vietnam, the movement, and thus the Old Mole, began to die out.
A Crimson article from 1970 reported that the Old Mole’s staff intended to form a new collective dubbed the New Old Mole, but little evidence exists to suggest that this ever came to fruition.
The years that followed witnessed the further marginalization of the activists who had led the Old Mole. In 1971, two ex-staff writers were subpoenaed by a Senate Subcommittee and went to Washington to testify. Though the details were unclear at the time, the writers suspected their subpoena had to do with Cambridge Iron and Steel.
Later, the Progressive Labor party distributed a leaflet denouncing the two writers for supposedly revealing internal SDS information to the Senate subcommittee. Michael S. Ansara ’68, one of the writers named in the leaflet, denied the claims, saying that the Progressive Labor party attacked “everyone in the world who is trying to make a revolution which means something.” He added, “from now on I’m going to treat PL just like I treat the cops.”
In these scuffles were the dying embers of the movement and the official end of the Old Mole.
Sections
From his home in Delhi, India, Apoorv Avram is completing his first year as a Ph.D. student at the Harvard Graduate School of Education and feeling grateful that he’s not one year younger. After all, he doesn’t have to grapple with the conundrum that his younger friends in India now face: continue to save money to apply to graduate school, or skip it entirely now that the applicant pool is likely to increase in size next year, which, he fears, might slice the acceptance rate.
This dilemma follows the announcement that the pandemic and associated strains on resources have driven GSE — and dozens of other Ph.D. programs around the United States, including at most other Ivy League schools — to delay doctoral admissions until next year's application cycle. In certain countries such as India, applying to doctoral programs in the U.S. poses a substantial financial risk. In addition to typical application fees, Avram had to go through an expensive process to validate his transcript because he attended a non-western university. In total, he spent $1,725 on his applications, an amount he had saved up over the course of two years. “The reason why I’m telling you all of this is because that amount of money constitutes, if you were to look at the income distribution of India, the top one percent’s three-month salary. So it’s a huge amount of money, relative to the Indian system.”
GSE did not suspend admissions for the whole school, however: Admissions for their master’s in education program will continue on as usual. GSE suspended its Ph.D. admissions due to a combination of two factors: the school’s desire to uphold its commitment to its current students and the disruption of residencies. The closing of thousands of school districts nationwide affected doctoral students’ field work in K-12 schools, an essential component of their education. This is a key difference between GSE and many doctoral programs within the Faculty of Arts and Sciences. “We work very closely with districts, we have residencies in districts, and our research is done inside of schools,” says Bridget Terry Long, dean of the faculty of education. “When the pandemic hit, access to being able to observe classrooms, interview students and teachers, all of a sudden was shut down, which hurt a lot of our Ph.D. students and the research they were doing.” In addition, Ed.L.D students complete residencies in which they act as leaders and administrators within schools, which has been similarly impacted. GSE did not suspend admissions for their master’s in education, Long explains, because although those experiences in school districts are important, field work is not a mandatory aspect of a master’s degree.
Most school districts have not only closed but suffered serious financial hardship and thus cannot fully compensate and support their Ph.D. student residents as they normally would. GSE has put the onus upon itself to make up for these gaps, which, in part, has meant delaying admissions in order to prioritize current students. “Districts are not able to do what they typically would do in support of our students, so we have to take on that responsibility,” Long says. The school has had to be more proactive and innovative in supporting its students, and “that just takes time,” she continues. “It takes a lot of one-on-one coaching, meeting, advising. [It’s] constantly evolving as conditions change in different parts of the country where people are doing their research or doing their residencies.”
GSE has aimed to help students in this regard by making accommodations. The school has provided emergency funding to those who need it and created a post-graduate option that allows GSE graduates to retain their Harvard affiliation for an additional year if they struggle on the job market, says Becca Bassett, a fifth year student in the GSE doctoral program. In addition, GSE has made adjustments for second year students, who must take a written comprehensive exam in which they have to write a series of essays responding to certain prompts in a given time frame. Because of the pandemic, GSE has removed the time element of the exam and added an option to have one’s own advisor grade the exam as opposed to a stranger. It enacted this system in the spring and announced that it will make the same accommodation for students taking the exam this year. “These comprehensive exams are extremely high stakes,” says Eileen McGivney, a fourth year GSE doctoral student. “Those [accomodations] are some positive things that we hope might be lasting.”
While GSE has always devoted many of its resources to the K-12 school system, the demand for its aid has increased due to the financial strain schools are dealing with across the country. One of GSE’s new initiatives is Education Now, a set of webinars about reopening schools and supporting students. The school has also created the Dean’s Education Fellows program, through which Long raised money over the summer to hire 2020 graduates as fellows in 15 school districts nationwide to help support the reopening of some school districts. “In times of uncertainty, it’s really important for organizations to double down on their organizational learning and development capacity to try and prepare for what the future field needs,” says Ebony Bridwell-Mitchell, an associate professor of education. By maximizing their commitment to current students and the national school system, GSE hopes to do exactly that: prepare for what the future field needs
“This kind of disruption is a challenge, but it’s almost always an opportunity to do things better,” Bridwell-Mitchell says. “It’s hard to see the alternative possibilities [for running an organization], including ones that could be beneficial. And it’s hard to agree with them, because you’re used to the way things work. And this kind of disruption pulls the veil back from your eyes, and you can start to see the possibilities for what could be different, because the way things were are no longer that way.”
— Staff writer Alexandra N. Wilson can be reached at alexandra.wilson@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @alex_wilson2023.
Sections
“Where are you really from?”
Kaya R. Bos ’20 used to answer “slave Black.” Jarah K. Cotton ’23 would say “regular Black.” But when Alexa J. J. Brown ’20 sent an email to hundreds of Harvard students, she started a process that gave them a more fitting response — and eventually culminated in the formation of the Harvard College Generational African American Students Association.
Addressed to the mailing lists of the Black Students Association and the Association of Black Harvard Women, the email’s subject line read: “Calling All Black American Identifying Folk!!”
Samantha C. W. O’Sullivan ’22 and Bos responded immediately. Animated dinners in Winthrop dining hall soon ensued. And months later, Brown’s plan for “some sort of get together for people on campus who identify as Black/African American” evolved into GAASA, an official Harvard College student organization.
O’Sullivan’s grandfather, Reverend Isaiah Webb, coined the term “Generational African American” or “GAA,” during one of many conversations with his granddaughter about the Black diaspora. The invention finally created a label for the community of Black folk who trace their lineage in the United States back for centuries.
With the formation of GAASA, this title infiltrated the Black Harvard zeitgeist.
“Slave Black,” “regular Black,” “regular-degular negro,” and “just Black,” could retreat into the archives of memory. “Generational African American,” O’Sullivan found, “implies descendants of enslaved people without having to have that in the name, and it’s so powerful that we can do that.”
Still, the term GAA is Harvard-specific, unfamiliar to most of the Americans it describes. As I’ve been working on this article, recounting tidbits to my mom, she’ll sometimes clarify — “We’re called what again, Josie?”
But despite its confinement to the Harvard bubble, the act of naming has been powerful within these Black communities.
Brown recalls an unfamiliarity within Black spaces during her early days at Harvard. She grew up in Springfield, Ill., a city with a large Generational African American population. But when she arrived at Harvard, she encountered fewer GAA students than she had expected. Occasionally, she felt isolated and misunderstood.
She says, “There is a lot of history in Springfield — our race riots in 1908 caused the NAACP to be formed — but when people look at my hometown, they do not see Black people living in the long, ongoing legacy of racial violence.” Instead, she says, the history of her home is reduced to a racist stereotype: “poor kids from the ghetto whose parents didn’t try hard enough or make good enough decisions.” Sometimes, she observed these same misconceptions circulating among Black diasporic students at Harvard.
Harvard has over fifteen Black organizations, but O’Sullivan, Bos, and Brown noticed that within these communities they valued, GAA voices were sometimes misunderstood.
Toward the end of last semester, in a GroupMe for Black students at Harvard, students started a conversation about social hierarchy within the Black community. Some expressed concerns that GAA students were perceived to occupy the lowest rung, spurring a number of Black ethnic organizations to hold discussions about inclusivity within their own clubs. Students also expressed concerns about the relative scarcity of GAA students on campus. At the end of the week, BSA moderated a larger Zoom call about “Unity and Inclusion Across the Diaspora” to relay the discussions they’d had and find community-wide solutions moving forward.
The demographic disparities that inspired GAASA — a sense that there should be more GAA students at an institution like Harvard — raise a host of questions about representation within elite spaces, access to the resources they provide, and the efficacy of promoting marginalized groups within them. But advocating for GAA students carries fraught undercurrents: the reality that promoting specificity can tread closely to the needless trap of pitting marginalized groups against each other.
The difficulties of advocating for Generational African Americans — from increasing visibility on campus to addressing national, more controversial topics like reparations and affirmative action — show how the perception of a zero-sum game among Black people produces false choices, concealing how Blackness must contend within spaces historically structured by white supremacy.
During pre-orientation before the start of my freshman year, I sat in the Yard on a humid afternoon in a circle of people I had met the day before. Between awkward get-to-know-you games and jittery small talk, it struck me that I had never before been with a group of Black kids who all knew their lineage, who had a place to point to on a world map that was not the United States.
When Adiah J. Price-Tucker ’22, GAASA’s former Political Action Chair, got to Cambridge, she felt a sense of culture shock. “I come from a place that’s heavily Generational African-American and that’s what I was familiar with,” she says. She noticed that other facets of the Black diaspora, such as Nigerian culture and Caribbean culture, appeared at the “forefront of the Black social scene.”
“I really love those cultures — all my blockmates are either first-gen African or first-gen Caribbean, so I’ve definitely learned a lot about all of these cultures and really enjoy them — but GAASA was somewhere that I felt at home,” she says.
Within Black communities at Harvard, there’s an overarching belief that GAA representation is disproportionately low, that “we’re in the minority,” as O’Sullivan explains. Every Black student I interviewed — GAA or not — expressed this as common knowledge.
As a first-year, I once heard from a teaching fellow of the Introduction to African American Studies course that GAA students make up 10 percent of Harvard’s Black population. For the Class of 2022, that would mean roughly 17 students.
Brown used to joke “that there were only a few of us on campus.”
Within Harvard’s GAA population today, O’Sullivan has noticed a seemingly large percentage of biracial students and students who come from socioeconomically-privileged backgrounds. “If we were to count the number of GAA students at Harvard who were descended from enslaved people, came from low income backgrounds, first generation, four grandparents descended from enslaved people, I feel like that number would be so low — like, maybe one person. It’s just so, so, so low,” she says.
The demographics seem to have shifted from what they were decades ago. Professor Cornel R. West ’74 says that, when he was the co-president of the Black Students Association in the early 1970s, “about 95 percent of the Black folk in the association were Black people from the United States who had been enslaved in Jim and Jane Crow.”
He continues, “So you [have] a fascinating expansion of what we mean by Black people, what we mean by African Americans.”
Official statistics, however, remain somewhat outdated and obscure. Harvard does not collect data about the breakdown within racial groups — on official forms, there is no further differentiation after selecting the “Black or African American” option. A 2007 study in the American Journal of Education reported that 41 percent of Black first-year students attending Ivy League schools were immigrants or the children of immigrants; these groups compose 13 percent of the U.S. black population.
“I don’t have the statistics and the University doesn’t release them, but a large percent of the Black students in the College are descendants of recent Africans as opposed to being descended from African-Americans who were enslaved in North America,” says African and African American Studies professor Henry Louis Gates Jr.
O’Sullivan and Bos are tired of speculation. They have been toying with the idea of collecting data on the demographic breakdown of the Black student population on Harvard’s campus — to “answer the questions we think there’s already an anecdotal feeling about, but quantify it through research,” O’Sullivan explains.
“Are we in the minority?” O’Sullivan asks. “And if so, does this make us feel like we don’t belong on campus? And how does that relate to social class?”
These questions are relevant beyond Harvard. David J. Deming, the director of the Malcolm Wiener Center for Social Policy at the Kennedy School, notes evidence that “non-generational African Americans, or non-descendants of enslaved people, tend to do better than those who are traditionally called Black,” with Nigerian immigrants known for faring especially well in terms of economic mobility. Ellora Derenoncourt, an assistant professor in economics at the Goldman School of Public Policy at the University of California, Berkeley, wrote in an email that research finds “upward mobility among immigrant families is higher [than it is] for children of US-born parents and this immigrant advantage effect holds for African Americans as well.”
While Black immigrant families and non-Black immigrant groups have similar trends of intergenerational mobility, Generational African Americans and Native Americans see much lower outcomes than immigrant groups of all backgrounds, including Black. “There is something about the history of a people and the way they were treated by society in the past that carries over to today’s society in ways that aren’t just captured by kind of a snapshot of economic characteristics,” Deming says.
The same need that GAASA’s founders identified — naming specificity within the Black diaspora — is slowly being recognized at a federal level. This year’s census contains a new space to elaborate on ancestral origin under the “Black or African American” check box.“Examples of these groups include, but are not limited to, African American, Jamaican, Haitian, Nigerian, Ethiopian, and Somali. The category also includes groups such as Ghanaian, South African, Barbadian, Kenyan, Liberian, and Bahamian,” explains the 2020 Census website.
But these new boxes capture only a fraction of the nuance that groups like GAASA hope to bring to the definition of Blackness.
O’Sullivan, Bos, and Brown were ready to leave the informal-gathering stage of their new group and become an official organization. Their next step was finding a faculty advisor.
Bos recalls excitedly reaching out to Gates — but when they met with him, she remembers, “the first thing he said to us was kind of how horrible of an idea he thought it was.”
Gates says his initial reaction “reflected a concern that this organization of descendants of people of African descent who were enslaved in North America not be divisive, not be seen as a political statement against other Black student organizations.” He worried that GAASA could foster discord within the larger Black student population.
When I asked West about the possible tensions, he responded prophetically. To him, there’s one fundamental question when it comes to any facet of identity: “What is the relation to specific identity to moral integrity and universal solidarity with those who suffer?”
Absent these two pillars, he warns, “you’re going to fall into very, very ugly traps of clashing, exclusionary attitudes. It can even become xenophobic within the Black community — that’s the last thing we want.”
These concerns — coming from two of the most prominent Black intellectuals in the country — were not unfounded. In 2017, students at Cornell University protested the underrepresentation of Generational African American students in the admissions process at the school. Cornell University’s Black Students United called on Cornell to increase the presence of “underrepresented Black students,” which they defined, in their list of demands, as “[B]lack Americans who have several generations (more than two) in this country.”
Ultimately, the incident at Cornell stoked conflict between Generational African Americans and people of African descent with more recent known lineage. “I’m a pan-African person, so my definition of the Black experience has always included the entire Black diaspora. So I hate what happened at Cornell. To me, affirmative action should be applied to Black people across the board,” Gates says.
The demands made at Cornell somewhat resemble the ideology of the American Descendants of Slavery movement. Small, yet controversial, ADOS has been a leader within the advocacy for reparations, but has garnered fierce, valid criticism from the left for promoting nativist rhetoric. The first demand in their New Deal for Black America reads: “Black immigrants should be barred from accessing affirmative action and their set asides intended for ADOS, as should Asians, Latinos, white women, and other ‘minority’ groups.”
ADOS shares a cohort of unlikely supporters, to say the least: Duke University professor William A. Darity Jr., one of the nation’s leading advocates for reparations, has voiced his support for the movement; West has spoken, albeit critically, at their events. But in 2019, alt-right pundit Ann H. Coulter wrote on Twitter, “I like #ADOS, but I think it should be #DOAS – Descendants of American slaves. Not Haitian slaves, not Moroccan slaves, etc.” And Yvette Carnell, one of ADOS’s co-founders, also has ties to “Progressives for Immigration Reform,” which the Southern Poverty Law Center has described as an anti-immigration group.
ADOS’s right-wing tendencies on immigration seem like the specific trap West is cautioning against and the source of Gates’ initial trepidation about GAASA.
In his keynote speech at an ADOS conference, West emphasized to the audience exactly what he emphasized to me: the imperative of connecting universal solidarity to specificity.
“So, yes, it’s true that those who used to be called Negroes or blacks in the Southern part of the United States, who then migrated to other parts of the country, that their experience is not the same as voluntary African [immigrants], not the same as voluntary Caribbeans who come to the United States,” West says. “All of them are subject to racist discrimination, but they still have very different histories.”
GAASA wants little to do with ADOS. Though GAA and ADOS may advocate for the same demographic, O’Sullivan emphasizes that GAASA isn’t affiliated with ADOS because of the group’s history of “incorporating a lot of xenophobia into their movement.” ADOS has left a bad taste in people’s mouths, she tells me, and their advocacy ultimately has done more harm than good. Their activism and research surrounding reparations specifically for GAA people is admirable, she concedes, “but I don’t think anyone’s really arguing with that.”
ADOS could not be reached for comment.
Gates believes a diasporic solidarity is important for innumerable reasons, one of which is exemplified by the ubiquity of racist violence in America. When I spoke to him in May, before the murder of George Floyd and the worldwide protests against police violence, he recalled the shooting of Ahmaud Arbery. “If you’re walking down the street, like this poor man who was murdered in Georgia in February — the man who was shot by two white men — nobody asked him where his grandparents were from, they just saw his black face and killed him,” Gates says. “Racism applies to us across the board.”
Even as aspects of systemic racism harm GAA populations specifically, racism is also unquestionably about perception. Black people suffer and die because of this reality — regardless of ancestry. Recent studies on colorism — discrimination on the basis of skin tone in an intraracial context — reveal that African Americans have an overall 36 percent chance of going to jail at some point in their lifetimes. For dark-skinned African Americans, that rate is 66 percent.
Naming differences like this — differences that get lost in definitions as broad as “Black” — is part of the work that GAASA seeks to do.
When I spoke to Glenn Foster ’22, GAASA’s social chair, he described the club’s aims as twofold: “finding unity within the diaspora while furthering advocacy for Generational African Americans.”
Now, their mission has expanded to include raising awareness about the active role Harvard played in the history of American slavery.
Since December 2019, GAASA has partnered with the Harvard Coalition to Free Renty, supporting Tamara K. Lanier’s lawsuit against the University to release the rights to the daguerreotypes of two enslaved people, Renty and Delia. Her complaint claims that the daguerreotypes — some of the oldest recorded images of enslaved people — show her great-great-great-grandfather Renty.
GAASA hosted a webinar with the Coalition in September titled, “Lanier v. Harvard: The Power of Black Images & Identity,” which featured Lanier, her attorney Benjamin L. Crump, and Grammy Award-winning singer George E. Clinton as panelists. The event was well-received, O’Sullivan says, and inspired a number of students to sign the petition — which now has over 1200 signatures — that advocates on Lanier’s behalf.
“As my oral history dictates, Renty was an African-born man who was extremely proud of his African heritage, who talked to his children about his African heritages, who shared who he was with their children and so on and so forth to where I am today with my children,” Lanier says. Renty was a figure of her bedtime stories as a child, during the joyful moments when her mother “would start to reminisce and talk about our elders and talk about our ancestors.”
Years ago, Lanier’s children would sit by their grandmother and listen to the tales passed down the generations. In her mother’s final days, they would ask her to tell them about Papa Renty. Immediately, she was relaxed and “settled into a comfort zone where she’s in her storytelling mode and her whole demeanor would change.”
But more than just the tales of Renty were passed through oral tradition in Lanier’s family. “I have five generations of Renty,” she explains. “I call them Renty one, two, three, four, five. The Renty in the image is Renty-one. He had a son who was Renty-two. My great-grandfather, who was Renty-three. My mom’s dad, Fred, he had a brother named Renty, and Fred named one of his children Renty. So every generation from that man in the image to my mother has a child named Renty.”
After her mother died, a genealogical research project led Lanier to death records, census records, handwritten inventories — and, eventually, the images of Papa Renty. She discovered the origins of the images: Harvard professor J. Louis R. Agassiz used Renty and Delia as subjects in fallacious, pseudoscientific studies that justified white supremacy through the debunked theory of polygenesis. The images were hidden within the archives of Harvard’s Peabody Museum of Archaeology and Ethnology until they were unearthed in 1976.
“I remember thinking, what would my mother think, because my mom was one who also just heard these phenomenal stories about this man and never saw him,” she says. “Would she focus on the fact that here’s an image of her [great-great] grandfather or would she be angry about how the images were used? I think my mom would be a little more than angry.”
To Lanier, Harvard’s retention of the images is symbolic violence: an erasure of her family history. “Renty’s invisible, I’m invisible, my mother’s invisible, her grandfather’s invisible, and that extraordinary life and legacy never happened,” she says, “That’s an affront to my family.”
Harvard’s hypocrisy — retaining the images while claiming they adequately acknowledge their historical ties to slavery — reads as a cynical metaphor for the lip service that buries economic and political imperatives to address systemic racism. Renty’s image is not presently used to justify anti-Darwinist theories. Instead, we see him on $40 anthropology books and projected against auditorium walls at academic conferences.
O’Sullivan says the missions of GAASA and Lanier “align almost perfectly.” Lanier says GAASA’s mission “embodies my situation, my purpose, and what I’m trying to accomplish.” GAASA, like Lanier, insists that we recognize the specific history of Black Americans. GAASA, like Lanier, demands ownership of this history and legitimization of the experiences of Generational African Americans. GAASA, like Lanier, carves out and names what is already here.
In my interviews with Gates, West, and the GAASA founders, I sensed a hyper-awareness of the potential danger that comes with foregrounding the particular racism that Generational African Americans face — it feels like a step away from invalidating racism against Black immigrants and their children.
I felt this danger as I began writing this piece.
But that’s exactly what white supremacy wants us to do: to make us feel we have to choose between divisiveness and naming specificity. To make us believe that, to keep the Black community whole, we must remain in the amorphous tension that precedes calling a thing a thing.
Before becoming GAASA’s faculty advisor, Gates wanted to ensure that it would embody a collective mindset, a kind of unity across the diaspora.
Recounting the more than fifteen Black organizations at Harvard, Gates says, “the more the merrier, as far as I’m concerned, as long as they’re not in competition with one another, as long as they coordinate their activities, as long as they’re keenly aware of the fact that we are all part of the global Black experience, whether your fourth great-grandfather or fourth great-grandmother was born in what’s now Nigeria or your grandfather or grandmother was born in Nigeria.” He emphasizes, “We are all part of the Black experience.”
Ultimately, his uncertainties strengthened the organization, O’Sullivan and Bos say. After their meeting, the GAASA founders sought to ensure that collaboration with other organizations was central to their mission. They met with leaders of the Black Students Association, Harvard African Students Association, and the Black Community Leaders, to stress how they envisioned GAASA as “a kind of ethnicity club, under the umbrella of BSA and BCL” and not an “offshoot where we were against BSA and BCL,” Bos says.
As the leader of the student organization meant to “represent all facets of Blackness,” BSA president Opeoluwa M. Falako ’22 plans on collaborating with GAASA and publicizing their events. Leaders of other ethnic organizations are similarly looking forward to including GAASA. Katia M. D. Osei ’22, the president of Harvard African Students Association, writes in an email, “one of my goals is to make sure that every member of the Black community at Harvard knows that they’re welcome in HASA while maintaining the support system that HASA provides specifically to both international and first-gen African students.”
D. Toba Olokungbemi ’22 and Venus C. C. Nnadi ’22, the president and vice president of the Nigerian Students Association, say they aim to further their club’s mission of “fostering community through culture,” by continuing collaborations with various Black ethnic organizations, including GAASA. Nnadi adds that “a lot of African American culture is influenced by West African culture, so there’s unique opportunities there to explore similarities within our cultures. And even if it’s not exploring what’s similar within our culture, just sharing our cultures together.”
The white gaze blunts the kaleidoscopic reality of the Black diaspora, both within and outside of Harvard. As West put it, “on the vanilla side of town, most of our white brothers and sisters just see Black in this broad, generic sense.”
It feels like a hopeless choice: Articulating specificity, on the one hand, is necessary to disprove this simplification — but it can also create division.
But hope abounds in the fact that these choices are false.
“I think there should be more of all of us,” O’Sullivan says.
— Staff writer Josie F. Abugov can be reached at josie.abugov@thecrimson.com.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Nathaniel Stinnett, founder of the Environmental Voter Project, discussed how his non-profit combats poor voter turnout among environmentalists in the United States at a panel Wednesday .
The panel was a joint effort spearheaded by the Harvard Office of Sustainability, the Ash Center for Democratic Governance and Innovation, and the Institute of Politics.
The Environmental Voter Project’s work begins by identifying its target demographic: registered voters who list the environment and climate as a top priority but have never cast a ballot. Sinnett said his group has “individually identified” over 2 million voters in 12 target states and sought to reach them through texts, calls, mail, and digital advertisements.
As a non-partisan organization, the Project cannot endorse or lobby for candidates, and chooses to not discuss environmental issues with voters. Instead, it selects its targets through hundreds of randomized control trials and “behavioral science-informed messaging,” according to Stinnett.
In an interview after the panel discussion, Stinnett said the project is aimed at “dramatically increasing the amount of political power that the climate movement and the environmental movement has.”
“The way we're going to do that, is to get as many environmentalists to vote in as many elections as possible, because we know that politicians go where the votes are,” he said.
The Environmental Voter Project mobilizes voter turnout with the help of its 6,000 volunteers. Through years of research, Sinnett has discovered that leveraging certain methods — including standard persuasion techniques like chastening voters for missing an election and promising to follow up — boosted voter turnout.
To ensure habit reinforcement, volunteers regularly view public voter files and personally thank voters who are casting ballots.
Currently, the organization has identified over 2 million non-voting environmentalists in 12 states by conducting polls, isolating individuals who care about the environment, extrapolating that information, and building models that can predict which voters are likely to list climate and the environment as a top priority.
Stinnett said the project uses “juvenile peer pressure methods” like sending voting history report cards directly to their demographics to pressure them into voting. Rather than persuading voters, they focus on increasing voter turnout.
“We go into states that have lots of non-voting environmentalists,” he said. “And we just use every election as a behavioral intervention opportunity to try to turn them into super voters. And our goal is to make it impossible — impossible for politicians to ignore these issues.”
After the organization targeted Pennsylvania, North Carolina, and Florida, it is reporting surges in early voter turnout among their demographic in those three states this election cycle. Stinnett said that voters concerned with environmental issues are voting at higher rates than regular voters, a reversal in the three states' usual trends.
Stinnett said he started his non-profit because he said he was deeply frustrated by the lack of representation for environmental issues on campaigns.
“This is a huge pool of latent political power out there, and there really needs to be a nonprofit that doesn't necessarily care about winning the next election,” he said. “Even though of course, that's always important. Instead, they focus on just dramatically increasing the number of environmentalists who vote in every election.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The City of Cambridge Election Commission has installed five additional voting drop box locations to ensure an efficient collection of ballots in the upcoming state and presidential election.
In an Oct. 5 press release, the Commission announced the installation and location of the new voting drop boxes, which are available for use until Nov. 3 at 8 p.m. Due to a nationwide backlog of voter box orders, the city had only one drop box location during the state’s primary election in September, but has since received five additional boxes.
The voting boxes are evenly distributed across the city at locations including City Hall and the Cambridge Police Headquarters. The drop boxes are an alternative to using the United States Postal Service to send in absentee ballots.
Although some residents have yet to receive their ballots, many have already begun depositing their ballots at all six locations, according to Cambridge City Councilor Patricia M. Nolan.
“We’re getting many ballots already,” Nolan said. “They were only put in place last week and a couple others just recently opened, so it’s very early. But so far, the indications are that people are quite grateful for them.”
Given Cambridge’s high budget and access to resources, the security of mail-in voting should not be a concern, Nolan said. She added that Cambridge has made voter security a priority through an increase in poll workers and COVID-19 measures to allow in-person voting. However, she said, this notion of election security can not be assumed nationwide.
“For example, in California the GOP were putting up ballot boxes that weren’t even the official ballot boxes,” Nolan said.
In July, the state implemented new state laws about voting in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, including allowing any voter to request a ballot with no excuse needed. Although these laws are set to expire at the end of the year, Nolan argued that a permanent extension would help to combat voter suppression.
“We as a state should stand up and have same-day voting registration, allow early voting all the time,” Nolan said. “So, I hope that our experience with this pandemic will promote the country to have more accessible voting for all.”
Nolan said she wished Cambridge allowed individuals to vote in any precinct and not just in their assigned one. Nonetheless, Nolan said she is hopeful that the Cambridge voting system — especially the drop boxes for mail-in voting — will be implemented nationwide.
“We should be able to do this for all elections,” Nolan said. “My hope is that we learn from this and remove barriers that are set up for voting.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
More than 600 signatories have endorsed a petition that calls on University President Lawrence S. Bacow to designate Election Day — Nov. 3 — as a University holiday.
Jack M. Swanson ’22, who organized the petition, said he hopes the change would give a “renewed sense of importance to Election Day” and provide students, faculty, and staff with ample time to vote and engage in other civic activities.
“Voting is not the only way you engage civically,” Swanson said. “We need to open up the space for people to be able to work at the polls.”
He said he was in part motivated to launch the effort because of a recent “pro-voting” email Bacow sent and the belief that action carries more weight than words.
Last week, Bacow encouraged members of the Harvard community to register to vote and “affirm and uphold the ideals of democracy.”
“The Harvard we have come to know and love, to challenge and change, is a uniquely American institution,” Bacow wrote. “Our strength depends, in many ways, on the strength of the union, and we must do our part to ensure that every person’s voice is heard. If you are eligible, please register and vote.”
Swanson acknowledged that the administration may cite logistical or financial concerns with implementing an official University holiday in less than three weeks' time. Faculty and staff receive paid time off on University holidays.
But he said he is “optimistic,” in part because there is “precedent” for such a change.
Bacow announced on June 16 that the University would close on June 19 in observance of Juneteenth, a commemoration of the Emancipation Proclamation.
“There's no reason we can't get this done in the time frame that we've been given right now,” Swanson said.
Alexandra P. Grayson ’22 said she signed the petition because she will have classes on Election Day that prevent her from volunteering to work the polls.
“The pandemic highlighted that a lot of poll workers are older people, and that’s been fine in the past, but is now not the best situation,” she said, citing health concerns related to COVID-19. “My county needs poll workers, but at the time when they need them, I’m stuck in class.”
Grayson also referenced the messages from Bacow and others at the University encouraging voting as a reason to instate the holiday.
“You talked about it, why don’t you make it a University holiday?” she asked.
Swanson pointed to the other 12 holidays on Harvard's calendar — New Year’s Day, Martin Luther King Day, Presidents Day, Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day, Columbus Day or Indigenous Peoples’ Day, Veterans Day, Thanksgiving and the following day, a half-day on Christmas Eve, and Christmas.
“Why do we get Black Friday off, but not Election Day?” Swanson said.
The petition also cites peer institutions — including Brown University, American University, and the University of Utah — that have designated Election Day as a holiday or cancelled classes.
Swanson said he believes Harvard has “a lot of push in the higher education scene” and could motivate other universities to cancel classes on Election Day or further longstanding efforts to deem it a federal holiday.
Jason A. Newton, a spokesperson for the University, declined to comment on the petition.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The National Institutes of Health awarded nine Harvard scientists grants as part of its High-Risk, High-Reward Research Program.
The nine scientists are among a class of the 85 who the NIH selected to receive $251 million to further their research in accordance with the program’s mission — to support innovation in the biomedical, behavioral, and social sciences.
Christopher D. Harvey, an associate professor of neurobiology, was picked as one of 10 winners of the NIH Director’s Pioneer Award, given to researchers with an outstanding record of innovation.
Harvey’s work focuses on how mammals’ brains execute the computations — including decision-making, short-term memory, and spatial navigation — that underlie cognitive functions.
“It's quite a bit of money that allows us to kind of pursue all the ideas that we want to go after, and allows us some flexibility to pursue, kind of, you know, some of the riskier or crazier ideas that we’re thinking about,” Harvey said.
The program also awarded Harvard Medical School assistant professors Andrew C. Kruse and Debora S. Marks — who study Biological Chemistry and Molecular Pharmacology and Systems Biology, respectively — a Transformative Research Award. The grant aims to foster multidisciplinary approaches to alter current methodology and scientific models. Kruse and Marks’s work uses machine and technology-based learning to develop monoclonal antibodies from yeast.
Marks said she hopes to make the results of her work widely available to labs.
“This is about trying to find the language of life, the language of proteins such that we can design libraries that can hugely accelerate this process and make it available to any lab, and to any research, and to people who want to develop therapeutics,” she said. “We’re learning the language of life and biology.”
The NIH also selected several Harvard scientists to receive New Innovator Awards.
Molecular and Cellular Biology assistant professor Doeke R. Hekstra and Medical School assistant professors Eunjung Lee and Miles A. Miller were among 53 winners chosen in recognition of their ability to apply inventive strategies to biomedical challenges.
Hekstra researches proteins and their physical and mechanical characteristics. Miller is examining how molecular structures control and regulate information processing and decision-making in multicellular systems, a key component of systems biology. Lee is conducting research on the significance of transposons, elements of DNA which may create immune response molecules in ageing and diseased human tissues.
“My proposal actually raises a new perspective that’s saying transposon deactivation in ageing and human tissue might be a new source of immunogenic molecules,” Lee said. “That’s actually the theme, and to investigate that aspect of transposon biology, I really need to utilize genome sequencing, and single cell sequencing, and all those cutting edge technologies.”
Waring Trible, a fellow in the Center for Systems Biology; Hyunghoon Cho, a fellow at the Broad Institute; and Sarah J. Hill ’05, an assistant professor of radiation oncology at the Medical School are among 13 winners of the Early Independence Awards, which the NIH grants to scientists who recently received doctoral degrees or completed their medical residencies and moved directly into independent research positions.
“I was very excited, and very humbled. It's a big honor. And it’s also a lot of responsibility,” Trible said.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Two Harvard researchers developed a 3D simulation that may help explain the hexagonal pattern of a large storm observed on Saturn.
Researcher Rakesh K. Yadav and Geophysics professor Jeremy Bloxham published the study, titled “Deep rotating convection generates the polar hexagon on Saturn,” in the journal Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences in June. They were the first to produce a simulation that closely resembles many aspects of Saturn’s distinctive hexagonal storm pattern.
Yadav and Bloxham interpreted the simulation results as evidence that the hexagonal storm may stretch thousands of kilometers deep into the gas planet, rather than being part of a shallow layer of atmosphere.
“The hexagonal flow pattern on Saturn is a striking example of turbulent self-organization,” the researchers wrote in the article. “Here, we argue that the hexagon is likely very deep.”
The pair’s simulation displayed multiple important features that resembled Saturn’s storm pattern: the location of the storm at the planet’s north pole, the storm’s non-circular shape, and the storm winds’ direction.
“I wasn’t expecting it to produce several observations in one fell swoop,” Yadav said. “This computer simulation ended up describing a bunch of things.”
Instead of trying to reason their findings with complex mathematics, Yadav and Bloxham adopted the “numerical simulation approach.” They used physics principles to simulate the basics, then ran their calculations through supercomputers.
“A lot of people try to understand it mathematically using something called the analytical approach. You try to use some mathematical wizardry to see if you can get the observation,” Yadav said. “In our group, we said, ‘Okay, we know the fundamental physics, let’s give the computers conditions that are similar to Saturn and see whether the fundamental physics spontaneously produced the observation or not.’”
Christopher R. Mankovich, a planetary science researcher at the California Institute of Technology, said that while Yadav and Bloxham’s simulation does not mirror the exact location and shape of Saturn’s storm, it still marks a step forward in researchers’ understanding of the planet.
“There’s definitely work that still needs to be done when it comes to pursuing models like this,” Mankovich said. “But that’s something that the authors note in the study, that this is intended as proof of concept.”
Though the study’s authors concluded that their results support the deep hexagon hypothesis, Mankovich said scientists have yet to reach widespread agreement on the matter.
“There’s not necessarily consensus on the origin of this kind of model,” he said. “While it shows a really good explanation, it also doesn’t necessarily discredit any of the models that appeal to the hexagon being a more shallow phenomenon.”
Yadav said he hopes the simulation will lead to a more refined understanding of the storm.
“Any model that comes up that has a smaller number of assumptions compared to earlier models, that’s a step in the right direction,” Yadav said. “In our model, we were able to basically take a couple of steps in one go.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Javier Ortega-Hernández, an Organismic and Evolutionary Biology professor at Harvard, reconstructed the history of the versatile organisms which lived more than half a billion years ago in his Wednesday evening lecture, “Wonderful Cambrian Beasts.”
The Harvard Museum of Natural History presented the lecture in a Zoom webinar as part of its ongoing Evolution Matters Lecture Series.
Ortega-Hernández, who also serves as curator of invertebrate paleontology at Harvard’s Museum of Comparative Zoology, researches the early origins and evolution of animals, particularly during the period known as the Cambrian explosion.
The Cambrian explosion was an event more than half a billion years ago in the fossil record when complex animal fossils appeared for the first time. In an interview before the event, Ortega-Hernández described it as a critical transitional period in the history of life on Earth
“Unlike other parts of paleontology, like dinosaurs, for example, not a ton of people necessarily are as familiar with the Cambrian explosion, even though it is massively important,” Ortega-Hernández said in an interview.
During the event, Ortega-Hernández described his research, which involves using unique biological features in fossils to pinpoint relationships between modern animals and those preserved in fossils. He pointed to the example of the link between Hallucigenia sparsa fossils recovered at a site in China and their modern-day counterpart, small invertebrates known as velvet worms.
By analyzing old fossil records, Ortega-Hernández, working alongside researchers in China, was able to identify the similar construction of claws and jaws in the two animals.
“The fossil record does play this pivotal part because it gives us a deep time perspective, which is really central towards understanding evolution,” Ortega-Hernández said.
Ortega-Hernández and the other researchers were able to take nearly flattened fossils and create 3-D models using imaging technology to breathe new life into the fossils of early animals. Ortega-Hernández encouraged those attending the lecture to access some of the models via QR code on their personal devices. Attendees were able to zoom in on highlighted features and rotate the models of the fossils.
“It's just a great opportunity for giving this kind of otherwise lesser-known [organism] a time to shine,” Ortega-Hernández said.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
In an unprecedented semester of virtual learning, seniors concentrating in social science disciplines say they have faced a host of new challenges in completing their theses — but also a few upsides which come with an all-virtual writing process.
Students in fields such as Social Studies, Psychology, and Economics are working around the challenges of virtual thesis advising and solving logistical difficulties posed by research, such as archival access or field work.
Despite the challenges of working away from campus resources, several students said one upside virtual learning has brought is increased access to professors — not only at Harvard but at other schools.
“The one thing that I've really seen is, professors, both from Harvard and from other schools, have been a lot more accessible than they would have been pre-COVID,” Economics concentrator Joel P. Byman '21 said.
“I can email a professor from another school and ask to get on a Zoom call to ask if they have any guidance,” Byman added.
Other students said it has been challenging to have never met their thesis advisors in person.
“The main sort of strange difference would be the fact that I've actually never met my thesis advisor in person, even though at this point I know him pretty well,” Social Studies concentrator Daniel L. Aklog '21 said.
Many Psychology concentrators have had to rework in-person study plans, according to Psychology concentrator Ryan R. Chappel '21.
“My thesis has been one of the few in Psychology that hasn't had to change that much — I was already doing an online study,” he said.
Other concentrators, such as Elizabeth R. Kaye '21, whose thesis examines friendship development in the first year of college, have had to rework the structure of their research altogether.
“I was initially planning to recruit only Harvard first years, especially during orientation. As I was not on campus to recruit, I needed to expand my recruitment to colleges across the country,” she wrote in an email.
Social Studies concentrator Rumi M. A. R. Khan '21 touched on another big challenge presented by virtual thesis-writing for social science concentrators — access to archives.
Khan, who is writing a thesis on the economic history of China, has also had to shift gears and build his analysis primarily from secondary sources.
“I’m looking at historical data, using mostly secondary sources which kind of changes the scope of my analysis. A lot of people are transitioning more to secondary sources rather than primary sources,” he said.
Aklog also mentioned the lack of archival access as an obstacle.
“I'm writing my thesis on the second Ku Klux Klan. And there’s a lot of good microfilm newspapers that exist in Lamont and Widener but I can't really use them,” Aklog, a Crimson Editorial editor, said.
For most Economics concentrators, archives are not as crucial to the writing process, which lends itself more to an online format than other disciplines, according to concentrator Nicholas R. Lore-Edwards '21.
“The main resource for thesis writers in Economics is how you get your data, and a lot of that can be done online,” Lore-Edwards said.
However, Lore-Edwards noted that online research comes with its own drawbacks.
“Zoom fatigue is real. Working on your thesis as an economic concentrator involves a lot of staring at a computer screen because we're running regressions or doing online research,” he said.
“Having to be at a computer all day and then go and work on your thesis on a computer has been pretty challenging,” he added.
Nonetheless, many students said they recognize the inevitability of the challenge of writing a thesis virtually during a pandemic.
“It's something that I've just sort of had to accept and run with — you just kind of have to adjust,” Aklog said.
—Staff writer Natalie L. Kahn can be reached at natalie.kahn@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @natalielkahn.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard undergraduates reported that they and their families have shouldered severe personal and economic burdens over the past several months, with nearly 10 percent of respondents to a recent survey saying a family member or personal contact has died from coronavirus.
The 877 undergraduates who filled out The Crimson’s 2020 College Survey revealed that the coronavirus pandemic has had far-ranging ramifications for students’ lives since Harvard evacuated undergraduates living on campus in March.
The economic toll of the virus has cast a wide net: 16.2 percent of survey respondents indicated that members of their household had either lost their jobs or had been furloughed during the ongoing pandemic.
The survey responses showed that COVID-19 has had disparate impacts for the families of students from different socioeconomic backgrounds, reflecting disparities seen in the population at large.
For example, 53.8 percent of respondents who said their parents earned less than $40,000 indicated that at least one household member had lost their job or been furloughed.
Out of over 100 respondents whose parents earned more than $500,000, however, not a single one indicated that a member of their household had lost a job. Only 3.9 percent within this cohort reported that they had family members who had been furloughed.
Despite the virus’s impacts on students’ families, only a small percentage of students actually reported being infected. Just 2.9 percent of respondents indicated that they had tested positive for coronavirus.
Still, many students reported that they took on extra responsibilities at home after leaving campus in March. Six percent indicated they helped with childcare, 7.9 percent reported caring for a family member or friend, 26.8 percent reported taking on a full- or part-time job, and 54 percent said that they assisted with household chores like cooking and cleaning.
The survey also provides insight into the opinions of both students living in the dorms and those off campus this semester.
The quarter of College students — largely freshmen — who are residing on campus this semester signed a “Community Compact” pledging that they would adhere to the College’s social distancing rules and safety guidelines.
Students living on campus generally reported being more likely to comply with these social distancing guidelines themselves than their peers were.
While 41.3 percent of students said they thought their peers were very or somewhat unlikely to commit to neither hosting nor attending illicit gatherings, only 6.1 percent indicated that they themselves were unlikely to do so.
Similarly, while 63 percent of undergraduates thought their classmates were very or somewhat unlikely to respect Harvard’s prohibition on guests in residences, only 16.3 percent suggested that they themselves were unlikely to follow the rule.
The College has formed the Community Council — composed of student volunteers, faculty, and staff members — to arbitrate alleged violations of social distancing guidelines. Affiliates may bring apparent violations to the council’s attention through an online reporting form.
However, despite students’ distrust in their peers, only 24.5 percent reported they would be somewhat or very likely to inform Harvard administrators if they witnessed behavior that violated the College’s social distancing rules. Over 50 percent indicated that they were very or somewhat unlikely to report in such a case.
The Community Council sent home three freshmen living in Mather House earlier this month after finding that they hosted a party inside with at least three other guests.
As for the students who were not invited to live back on campus, around half reported living at home this semester, while 34.9 percent are living in a rental either in Boston or elsewhere.
When Harvard announced it would invite only freshmen and select upperclassmen with extenuating circumstances back to campus this fall, many low-income students said — unlike their more well-off peers — they could not afford to find off-campus housing if their home environments were unconducive to study.
Only 15.5 percent of students whose parents’ income bracket is below $40,000 are living in a rental this fall while 53.3 percent of students’ whose parents’ income bracket is over $500,000 are living in a rental, according to the survey.
Conversely, 75.9 percent of students whose parents’ income falls below $40,000 are living at home this semester while just 38 percent of those whose parents earn more than $500,000 are doing so.
—Staff writer Juliet E. Isselbacher can be reached at juliet.isselbacher@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @julietissel.
—Staff writer Amanda Y. Su can be reached at amanda.su@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @amandaysu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
With this virtual semester well underway, you might be feeling pretty desperate over the monotonous nature of this new academic lifestyle, ripe with daily Zoom sessions, lower back pain, and WiFi-dependent social interactions. We also might be projecting. Nonetheless, there is no greater joy these days than holding fun, private Zoom conversations while your professor figures out how to share their screen. If you’re looking to find a reliable lecture or section friend, check out these tips to successfully slide into someone’s Zoom DMs!
Pset Buddy?
This is truly a classic, and holds up well even in a virtual setting. Feel free to hit someone up with the ever-reliable, “Want to pset for this class together?” for an easy, painless interaction. After all, everyone is always looking for those juicy, virtual connections during these ~unprecedented times~. There is no greater coping mechanism than lamenting the different Canvas page set-ups across your classes while completing assignments together. Can all the professors just get together and agree on what the “Modules” page actually includes? Just remember to ask people who are likely in the same time zone as you for maximum efficiency and minimal awkwardness in your conversations!
Foodies Unite
Are Zoom calls starting to feel like virtual lunch dates with you, the ten random people in your section, and your TF, or is that just me? My steamed dumplings are not going to eat themselves. With class time slowly transforming into snack time, sometimes those novelty Trader Joe’s chips your classmate is munching on might actually be a fun conversation starter. During one of my sections, a girl and I took continuous, unintentionally synchronized bites of our snacks that we “brought” to class. After I sent her a message pointing out our tasteful section habits, the pointed eye contact and shared [muted] laughter that followed was truly a vibe. If they’re really going at that breakfast burrito though, it might be best to let them enjoy their meal in peace.
Mutual Misery
Remember the good old days during in-person class when Section Kid would make some questionable comment and you’d make eye contact with that one person you didn’t really know but whose vibes you sincerely appreciated so you could make incredulous yet comedic faces at each other? Yeah, so do we. While this doesn’t quite have the same effect, whipping out a good old “????” during those moments of online class makes for some pretty entertaining interactions. The combined adrenaline rush of trying to not accidentally send your message to everyone while watching the other person struggle not to laugh on-camera is simply unparalleled.
Compliments!
Are you intrigued by their Studio Ghibli-inspired virtual background? Jealous of their cute blue-light glasses? Suspect you might be seeing a fellow plant lover based on their windowsill set-up? A genuinely thoughtful compliment is almost always sure to make someone smile, even despite the endless series of Jamboards and Slack channel plugs throughout each lecture. In all honesty, it can even make you feel warm and fuzzy when you see their face light up on-screen in response to your message. When delivered with the purest of intents, the right person is sure to respond with equal enthusiasm, marking the beginning of a wholesome slew of red “private” texts in your Zoom chat window.
Just because we’re all sitting in front of our laptop cameras certainly doesn’t mean your opportunities for human interaction have disappeared. While you may have to be a little more creative with your socialization strategies, there are plenty of potential friendships waiting for you deep in that Zoom participants list. So, turn on your gallery mode and chat away!
Sections
With only freshmen and a handful of upperclassmen on campus, getting to know the people around you is far harder than usual. One of the best ways to adjust to college is by talking to upperclassmen — people who have gone through the same things you are going through right now. However, there are some good ways to reach out to people in other class years… and some bad ways too. Enjoy some tips from an upperclassman for sending a successful first message over Zoom or GroupMe.
DO: Ask Questions
All of the upperclassmen know the campus, have taken online courses, have dealt with professors, and more. For almost anything you are struggling with, there will be other students who struggled with it too and will know what to do. Take advantage of this resource, especially since we upperclassmen have no use for this knowledge once our four years are up. Let us pass the information on!
DON’T: Complain Nonstop
Yes, I know college is hard and you’re drowning with work. I don’t need to hear about how many all-nighters you’ve pulled or how it’s so unfair that your classes already have exams. We were all freshmen, and you have the other people in the class to commiserate with if that’s what you really want. If you really are that busy, why are you wasting both of our time? (We mean that in the nicest way possible.)
DO: Tell Them Why You Reached Out
Maybe they are in one of your classes and had a great discussion post or said something insightful in lecture. Maybe they seem like a fun person in one of the clubs you joined. Everyone likes a genuine compliment and will be much more receptive to starting a conversation if you let them know why you are here. NOTE: THIS DOES NOT INCLUDE HITTING ON PEOPLE. Please do not try to hit on someone over Zoom (but if you want to, check out our other Ok Zoomer article first!).
DON’T: Explain How You Want to Get Around the Rules
Most upperclassmen are stuck off campus with little hope of returning this year if freshmen don’t follow social distancing protocols. Your party stories and questions on how to sneak people into your room aren’t cool — they’re upsetting. We know that you envisioned your first semester of college to be more fun than this, but don’t ruin our chance at having even a semblance of a last semester of college by selfishly flouting the rules.
DO: Be Yourself
These are other students, not professors or TFs! You should feel comfortable expressing your personality, whether that’s mentioning interests or cracking jokes. Genuine always reads better than trying to be what you think they will like. Most people want to get to know others, especially after being locked away for 6 months, so they’ll be excited to feel like they’re actually getting to know another person.
DON’T: Lead With Your Accomplishments
Sorry, but no one cares. What you did in high school will come up naturally, so don’t be the pushy person who needs to let everyone know about their perfect SAT score the moment you meet. It’s really not going to score you any points here.
If you’re thinking about reaching out to the people around you, try to follow these tips and remember that people like meeting genuinely interesting and kind people. We all are trying to be there for you, so make our jobs easier by being yourself.
