News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
In honor of Valentine’s Day, this 14-track playlist encapsulates the love and affection — or the absence thereof— that will certainly be in the air. Ranging from much-hated country to beloved soul, there is bound to be a track here to play on repeat and fill the quiet, hollow void you call your love life.
“Best I Ever Had” by Drake
No Valentine's Day playlist would be complete without a song from the artist who inspired the word “draking,” defined by Urban Dictionary as “when someone is behaving emotionally.” The track is upbeat — don’t want you crying just yet — and speaks to Drake’s thankfulness for a certain, special lady in his life.
“Falling in Love” by Sam Cooke 
It’s time to turn on a love ballad by one of the most important soul singers of all time. Cooke’s raw voice cuts straight to the heart as he bemoans the lack of reciprocated feelings and effort from his love interest. Tell me about it, Sammie.
“Someone To Spend Time With” by Los Retros 
This lovely song from the indie-soul band Los Retros, with mellow instrumentals and warm vocals, melts the listener into a lonesome puddle of contemplation. The track quickly makes it clear that FOMO in love is a real, common struggle.
“One Last Time” by Summer Salt 
“Oh, alone, alone again on Valentine.” How did you know, Summer Salt? The old-timey swing and soothing “ooh”s do their best to soften the blow of another year alone. Alone again on Valentine’s, indeed.
“Best Friend” by Rex Orange County
A bop. If you’re looking for a high energy song that still speaks to the complexities and conflicts that can occur within a friendship sprouting into something more, then this just might be the song for you.
“STUCK ON U” by Michelle
A bittersweet tune with a slightly funky bass line and an array of chorus-like instruments rotating in and out of the sonic space. Definitely passes the vibe check.
“Over The Moon” by The Marías 
The faint synth that solidifies as the bass and drums kick in is simply heavenly. Pair with an angelic voice that caresses your eardrums and this song radiates utter blissfulness on such an emotionally charged day.
“Ugotme” by Omar Apollo 
The kick. The fuzzy purr of the bass. The harmony. The licks. The current king of Latin R&B gifts us with a beautiful song recounting the singer’s attempts to come to terms with the end of his love for his significant other.
“I Love You So” by The Walters 
The Walters waltz right into your feelings with this heart-wrenching song that touches on the struggle of getting away from the grasp of a toxic relationship.
“Tennessee Whiskey” by Chris Stapleton 
A country classic — I promise it is not as horrendous as you might be assuming. Chris comes in hot with the pipes, doing runs that cause goosebumps. So at least you’ll have something in (or on) your arms for Valentine’s Day. While this is a sweet song, the lyrics suggest that the singer is switching out his alcohol habit for an addiction to his lady — drunk off the love and not the liquor.
“What a Difference a Day Makes” by Sarah Vaughan
Let’s get a bit of jazz into the mix. Imagine asking your crush out for Valentine’s. Now let’s be optimistic and say it went swell. As you walk back to your dorm at the end of the wonderful night, you pop in your earbuds, listen to this song, and do a little hop or skip as you realize what a difference a day can truly make.
“Velvet Light” by Jakob Ogawa 
If Daniel Caesar had a bedroom-pop baby, it would be Ogawa. This is one of the few songs in the playlist that can be played as you snuggle up with your loved one for the night. The steady, thumping, squirmy bass gives it a funk-R&B groove you can feel in your bones.
“My Kind of Woman” by Mac DeMarco
An antsy, lovesick anthem from the Prince of Indie Rock. For best results, listen while either driving down the lonely interstate on a gloomy night or in the pitch black of your dorm room. In conclusion, sad boi hours.
"You Say I’m in Love” by Bane’s World
A real groovy one. A perfect blend of instrumentals and vocals, it hits the sweet spot to create a mushy, wavy state of listening. The ethereality of the song contradicts the somber lyrics, but it’s still a vibe.
—Staff writer Brian Medrano can be reached at brian.medrano@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
With the Beanpot Tournament in the rear view, the Harvard men’s hockey team could finally turn its attention solely to the home stretch of the conference slate: just six games over three weekends to lock in the ECAC playoff seeding.
Yet, the No. 18 Crimson (11-8-6, 9-4-5 ECAC) went winless in its first of these weekends. Saturday night, it tied Brown (6-17-2, 6-10-2), 1-1, after Friday’s much more eventful 4-4 gridlock with Yale.
“I give Brown credit,” Harvard coach Ted Donato ’91 said. “I’m frustrated with our group, but I’m frustrated more that we didn’t create more and take what was given to us. We would’ve had to have hard offense, down low and holding onto pucks and taking pucks to the net. Lately, we just haven’t consistently had enough guys that want to do that.”
After a Brown equalizer early in the second frame, the teams skated neck and neck for the next 25 minutes of game action. Each group tested the other’s goaltender, but the backstops held firm.
Midway through the final stanza, Bears forward Colin Burston received a game misconduct for hitting Crimson sophomore Jack Drury from behind. Drury remained on the ice after the illegal check near his own bench, and he even exited through the tunnel for a moment before returning to the game.
With Burston ejected and the teams knotted at 1-1, Harvard sent its NCAA-best powerplay (30.7%) onto the ice for a five-minute, non-releasable opportunity — a game-altering chance if there ever was one.
Despite Harvard’s skilled man-up unit, the Bears staved off the attack, preserving the tie. Ten additional minutes of trading chances, plus a five-minute overtime period, could not determine a victor.
“I said to our guys after: ‘[I’m] disappointed and frustrated, but not surprised,’” coach Donato said. “We had a five-minute powerplay. We had a couple of empty nets, one on the powerplay and one otherwise, and we have to create more opportunities. When it’s all said and done, we’re now at the time of the year where one play can really change the game.”
For just the fifth time in 25 games this season, the Crimson failed to nab a powerplay goal, going 0-for-2 with the extra man on Saturday.
What’s more: for the second consecutive night, an Ivy League foe with an inferior record took Harvard to — and through the end of — overtime.
“That five-minute powerplay, that’s when our powerplay is supposed to be No. 1 in the country,” Crimson defenseman Reilly Walsh said. “We have to score one. Then again, we had plenty of chances, too…. Two ties is tough [against] teams that we should theoretically beat, but at the same time it’s the ECAC and this is crunch time.”
Harvard broke the ice on its first shift Saturday night. Drury received a cross-ice pass in the neutral zone and strode down the left side of the ice. The center left a drop pass for defenseman and classmate Jack Rathbone, who one-timed a missile past the glove of Brown goaltender Gavin Nieto (1 GA, .968 SV%).
The early tuck marks the 18th time in 2019-2020 that the Crimson has scored the first goal.
Harvard was able to hold its lead for a bit more than a period. Five minutes into the middle stanza, the Bears evened the ledger courtesy of junior forward Joachim Weberg.
On a neutral-zone regroup, captain Zach Giuttari sauced a stretch pass to Weberg, who darted into the Crimson’s zone upon receiving it. Drury, trying to break up the in-alone chance, hooked Weberg as he closed in on Harvard net-minder Mitchell Gibson (1 GA, .963 SV%).
The referees awarded Brown a penalty shot, and on the ensuing play Weberg bested Gibson, marking the first time since March 21, 2003 that an opponent has cashed in on a penalty shot against the Crimson.
“We caused our own problems that led to the penalty shot,” coach Donato said. “There really is no way around it. You can’t give up a better chance than that.”
The penalty-shot goal was Gibson’s only blip. His 26 saves, including several crucial stops early in the tilt, earned him his sixth .950-or-better save percentage in a game this year.
For Harvard, a two-point weekend was far from desirable as the conference standings begin to take shape. Nevertheless, next weekend the Crimson, currently ranked fourth in the ECAC, will make its final road trip of the regular season — the famed “North Country” trek.
“Our auto-bid chances are pretty much over,” said Walsh of his group’s path to the NCAA Tournament. “It’s ECAC or bust for us at this point. I think that we have to take that in and look to go to North Country this weekend and get at least three out of four points… to get that top-four bye.”
Points are of the essence as coach Donato’s group vies for a top-four seed and first-round bye in the conference tournament. For an NCAA Tournament berth, Harvard likely needs to rally through the ECAC bracket and bring the Whitelaw Cup home from Lake Placid, N.Y.
“We’re kind of too often one step forward, one step back,” coach Donato said. “When we decide to make the commitment to do all the little things that help you find victory, then we’ll have a better chance at having some consistency.”
—Staff writer Spencer R. Morris can be reached at spencer.morris@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @SMorrisTHC.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
