News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
They told us to pick sides early on, probably before we even knew the difference.
"And you," my first-grade homeroom teacher Madame Halliwell would say in her French-Canadian accent. "When you grow up, will you be an artist or an engineer?"
First-grade me would look up over a colorful copy of Le Petit Prince. "Both — an artist-engineer!"
She'd smile-sigh. "It doesn't work that way, honey. But you'll choose one of them soon enough."
That's what we've always been told: scientist or novelist, doctor or lawyer. One or the other.
The science-humanities relationship has always been fraught. Now, it’s deteriorating. On the first page of “The Selfish Gene,” Richard Dawkins quotes zoologist G. G. Simpson: “‘[A]ll attempts to answer [‘What is man?’] before 1859 are worthless … we will be better off if we ignore them completely.’” That is to say, toss out any fundamental analyses predating Darwin and Wallace’s theories of natural selection. Meanwhile, British chemist and novelist C. P. Snow’s famous “Two Cultures” lecture describes humanities scholars content to think in scientific illiteracy. On campus, it probably sounds more familiar as, “I’m a humanities kid — I don’t do STEM.”
Specializing in either the sciences or humanities (or the social sciences, which lean toward the latter) is not a bad thing, obviously. But nothing happens in a vacuum. Politicians may flaunt the fact that they aren’t scientists, and Stephen Hawking and Steven Weinberg may claim that “philosophy is dead.” But current and future crises such as climate change, artificial intelligence, and nuclear proliferation, interlacing both scientific and social questions, will require us to employ and address tenets of both.
Despite incredible technological progress on so many frontiers, solutions to the most pressing issues seem further away than ever. The science-humanities disconnect stymies collaboration and ultimately effective solutions. The pandemic has particularly pushed us to confront several seeming paradoxes at the nexus of science and culture. How do we deal with the politicization of science? How do we balance freedom of thought with the risk of misinformation transmission? What does it mean to be a social human without in-person connection?
Even beyond the pandemic, our generation is on the brink of something huge, both by design and by accident. Scientists blatantly promise human immortality, “perfect humans” built with CRISPR gene editing, and massive growth in artificial intelligence. Historically, even at a much slower technological pace, humanity has been short-sighted regarding long-term consequences of scientific endeavors. Introducing invasive species, overusing antibiotics, and popularizing hydraulic fracturing (fracking) all seemed like irreproachable ideas, initially. Yet, calamities caused by unchecked growth of the last generations is trivial compared to the potential consequences of current innovation.
At the ground-zero of man-made destruction — Hiroshima, Japan — President Obama proclaimed, “Technological progress without an equivalent progress in human institutions can doom us. The scientific revolution that led to the splitting of the atom requires a moral revolution as well.” We need a techno-cultural revolution. We must bring forward new thinkers to build a bridge between the sciences and the humanities. Implementing interdisciplinary efforts like Science, Technology, Engineering, Arts, and Mathematics — commonly known as STEAM — curricula are important, but they are not enough. Developing a high-tech vaccine is important, but so is the collective consciousness of mask-wearing. The sciences and the humanities must work together to redefine each other's fundamental premises and boundaries.
In other words, it’s time for the Third Enlightenment. According to Anthony Gottlieb’s “The Dream of Enlightenment,” two Enlightenments — bursts of creativity — have fundamentally shaped Western philosophy: the First Enlightenment in the sixth century B.C. birthed the humanities; the Second in the 17th century grew the sciences. And now, in the 21st century, we urgently need a Third Enlightenment to harmonize the two.
Notably, previous Enlightenments occurred in spaces that valued free thought and discussion — the First in the ancient Greek agora and the Second in French salons and European equivalents. We should similarly initiate forums to facilitate the exchange of ideas between these two cultures, across schools, tech startups, and think tanks.
For that, Harvard could be a good starting point. How about a Third Enlightenment Salon that meets weekly or biweekly to host guest thinker interviews and student discussions to reshape humanistic inquiry and scientific destiny? Each Salon gathering could focus on the same three questions — the current state of the sciences and humanities, where we are going, and what should be done about it. By inviting representatives of a spectrum of generations, disciplines, and opinions, students would effectively gain the perspectives and tools necessary to analyze the science-humanities relationship and determine how to powerfully fuse the two.
Even before a Third Enlightenment Salon opens its doors, one crucial lesson must be learned: We don't need to — and shouldn't — choose sides. In Raphael's School of Athens, there is space between upward-pointing, philosophic Plato and downward-pointing, scientific Aristotle — space we should fill. Only such a realization will facilitate a Third Enlightenment that will push and redefine both the sciences and humanities. I have confidence in the future artist-engineers of the world. I know that we will synergize rather than pick sides.
Julie Heng ‘24 lives in Kirkland House. Her column appears on alternate Thursdays.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Who’s partying on the banks of the Charles River? How about in Harvard Square? It’s not clear, but an educated guess would tell you it’s Harvard kids. Whoever it is, Mather House held a meeting on Tuesday to review norms and guidelines for social distancing, as reports grow of deviant socializing and outbreaks erupt on campuses across the country.
We were encouraged to hear that the Mather meeting was not intended to be punitive. Instead, the house opted to take a more community-based approach by seeking to have an honest conversation to bolster conformity to and morale around the College’s current rules. Harsh, widespread punitive measures would not make for an effective solution to this problem. The college is right to not rush into more punitive measures as colleges have. Northeastern, for example, sent 11 students home, and New York University sent home more than 20.
And the evidence speaks to Harvard’s credit. To date, Harvard has been extremely successful in containing COVID-19. The University expected up to 50 cases upon students returning to campus, but has had only eight positive cases among undergraduates and 41 cases among all Harvard affiliates. These numbers are remarkable — and a testament that the vast majority of students are abiding by the College’s strict rules. Especially considering what has happened at other colleges around the country, students and administrators deserve praise.
It is also, however, a display of the privileged position Harvard occupies relative to other schools in terms of its resources and finances. All Harvard students are being tested for COVID-19 three times a week and getting results back on the same day in some cases. The University has conducted over 45,000 tests since June 1 through its rigorous testing program.
That’s simply not possible for the vast majority of higher education institutions at a time when many are already in financial jeopardy. As of May, the number of colleges and universities at risk of closing or merging in New England had doubled from 13 to 25. And without a national plan to help these institutions, it is hard to blame the individual schools for their shortcomings in virus containment and hasty reopenings as compared to Harvard.
The University, in recognition of how successful they have been in containing the virus, has expressed a willingness to ease its strict rules — and already has, allowing students to gather in groups of up to 10 outside.
So to our peers, remember that you have everything to gain by continuing to follow the social distancing guidelines. It is not only in the interest of the public good and public health, but also in the interest of your own future freedom. Your friends, professors, and, frankly, the world are all watching.
This staff editorial solely represents the majority view of The Crimson Editorial Board. It is the product of discussions at regular Editorial Board meetings. In order to ensure the impartiality of our journalism, Crimson editors who choose to opine and vote at these meetings are not involved in the reporting of articles on similar topics.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Prior to COVID-19, it appeared that the United States had enjoyed a robust recovery from the Great Recession of 2008. Gross domestic product, consumer confidence, and spending were all rising; stagnation seemed to be a thing of the past. Unfortunately, the real story was much more nuanced.
In fact, almost all of the nearly 20 million jobs added between the Great Recession and coronavirus were in metropolitan areas. If cities were removed from the equation, many economic indicators would have remained below pre-recession levels throughout rural America.
So why does this geographic inequality exist?
According to economists, this is due to something called “agglomeration”, which Merriam-Webster’s defines as the trend toward, “a localized economy in which a large number of companies, services, and industries exist in close proximity to one another and benefit from … this proximity.” In other words, agglomeration is the flow of firms into cities and out of rural areas.
Every year, because of this agglomeration, more and more young people leave their rural home towns for a handful of megapolitan areas and countless smaller metros all across the country. Consequently, rural tax bases contract in a way that further threatens the survival of these areas.
The outcome of this cycle is a dynamic in which the rural 90 percent of America’s land mass is forced to face Herculean challenges without the help of young local leaders — or funds to support them. In short, agglomeration is the reason that 60 million rural Americans have been left behind by economic growth.
Nonetheless, educational institutions largely ignore the issue; their cosmopolitan career cultures serve to draw rural students farther from any rural roots that they may have as they are shuffled into careers in America’s largest metropolitan areas.
Top schools rarely offer training that could lead to other pathways. Despite the unique challenges facing rural areas, rural studies departments are hard to come by; as are classes. Even at Harvard, a simple search of the course catalogue reveals dozens of courses related to urban issues and about ten touching upon rural ones; several of those don’t even mention domestic issues in the rural United States.
As long as Americans continue to disregard the study of rural areas, small towns everywhere will continue their backslide into addiction, poverty, and population decline. Present circumstances are especially dire as these towns face COVID-19 after rampant hospital closings have rendered many communities medically impotent.
These economic challenges and restricted opportunities in rural America are not just a “white people problem;” the many Black people, trans people, gay people, Latinx people, Native people, women, and members of other marginalized groups who call rural America their home face pronounced challenges that are unique from the struggles of these groups in urban America due to the underserved nature of rural areas.
The solution is two-fold: orchestrating a concerted effort to encourage rural college students to return home after graduation while simultaneously undertaking serious efforts to change the economic incentives that caused rural “Brain Drain” in the first place.
It is my sincere hope that my recently launched Rural Leadership Initiative (RLI) and its inaugural cohort will be a catalyst in achieving that goal. Of course, RLI is merely a stipend program; real change will require that we all demand better from institutions like Harvard.
As we pursue that goal, we must demand more from faculty, their peers, and the career culture that underlies so many of the issues discussed herein. In doing so, I hope that we can all be Hometown Heroes who fight for America’s rural communities.
After all, if a place like Harvard isn’t preparing us to improve our hometowns, then why be here?
Jack Alex White III ’23 is a Government concentrator in Leverett House. He is the founder of the Rural Leadership Initiative (RLI).
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
In an 1881 speech at the Harvard Club of New York, Richard T. Greener, Class of 1870, lavished his alma mater with praise: “[Harvard] answered the rising spirit of independence and liberty by abolishing all distinctions founded upon color, blood, and rank,” he told an applauding audience. “There has been but one test for all. Ability, character, and merit — these are the sole passports to her favor.”
Such sentimental remarks may come as something of a surprise coming from the first Black graduate of Harvard College. The University, after all, had not been a friendly place to most who came before him and many who came after — nor, at times, to Greener. Indeed, the Harvard Club of Washington, D.C. would reject his own application four years later for no reason other than his race.
Greener’s rosy recollection of Harvard reflects a series of contradictions that characterized his life, both during and after college. Greener was a light-skinned Black man straddling racial divides in a segregated world. He received life-changing opportunities at a university where he struggled with loneliness and lacked faculty support. And despite his tremendous contributions in activism and public service, he remains relatively unknown to historians today.
***
Born in Philadelphia, Pa. in 1844, Greener was raised by his mother in Cambridge after his father disappeared to California during the Gold Rush. Although he showed an early aptitude for literature and classics at the Broadway Grammar School, he left school at age 11 to support his family. His odd jobs in Boston put him in the center of what he called “the storm and stress of 1855-62,” when racial justice debates erupted throughout the city. Eloquent abolitionist speakers like Frederick Douglass, Charles Sumner, and Ralph Waldo Emerson impressed Greener with their rhetoric as well as their cause.
Greener asked his employer, jeweler Augustus E. Batchelder, for the opportunity to continue his studies, promising to “do nothing else but study for the next ten years if necessary.” Batchelder agreed to fund Greener’s education — first at the Oberlin Academy preparatory school, where Greener felt snubbed by “colorphobia,” then at Phillips Andover, where he excelled in public speaking.
After Greener graduated from Andover, Batchelder recommended him to Harvard President Thomas Hill as an “experiment” in the education of Black students. Hill, wishing to modernize the university, granted Greener a spot at the College and declared, “I love the young man and admire his spirit.” Greener was the second Black person admitted to Harvard College and the first to matriculate. (The first accepted Black student, Beverly G. Williams, died of tuberculosis mere weeks before the 1847 school year began.) The Civil War had just come to an end, and Greener’s admittance marked the beginning of the Reconstruction era at Harvard.
For the first two centuries of Harvard’s existence, the only times a Black person had stepped onto campus had been to clean the facilities, serve a wealthy white student, or participate in racist polygenic experiments conducted by Louis Aggasiz. When 21-year-old Greener stepped into Harvard Yard in the fall of 1865, however, he was entering as a student who “felt confident [he] could keep up with [his] class.”
During his freshman year, Greener continued to earn recognition for his oratory talent, winning second place in the Lee Prize for excellence in reading aloud. However, he struggled in other subjects. His preparation in math and science had been “far below the eastern standard” at Oberlin and almost completely absent at Andover. Greener also felt isolated from other students in his single room in the College House dormitory, known as where “the poor and struggling lived.” His classmates speculated about his race and background — as he recounted, rumors swirled “that I had escaped from slavery with innumerable difficulties; that I came direct from the cotton field to college; that I was a scout in the Union army; the son of a Rebel general, etc.”
Hill wrote to Batchelder with unfortunate news in the second semester: “[Greener’s] mathematical preparation was so utterly insufficient that he cannot possibly keep up with his class in that department . . . [the faculty] therefore strongly recommend him to withdraw from College and come back in September to join the next freshman class.”
Still determined to graduate, Greener worked with a private mathematics tutor, returned to college, and found his second freshman year much more successful. He wrote for the newly founded Harvard Advocate, joined the Pi Eta society for literature and theater, and became friends with the second Black student in the freshman class. He would go on to win First Bowdoin Prize for a dissertation on Irish land tenure and graduate with honors in 1870.
“I have an undoubted right t0 feel proud of my alma mater, since her green and elms and red brick educational factories were among the first familiar objects of my childhood,” Greener later said. That he should reflect on his undergraduate experience in a uniformly positive light was no doubt enabled by Hill’s progressivism, but it was likely also due to Greener’s fair complexion, which sometimes allowed him to pass as white — an acquaintance once remarked that he was “very little tinged [with] the hated color.”
To most of the outside world, though, he was Black nonetheless, and lacking the financial stability and political connections his classmates possessed, Greener could not immediately pursue his goal of attending law school.
During the brief period of Reconstruction era integration, he taught at the University of South Carolina before eventually earning his law degree there in 1876. In an 1894 essay, he wrote that the so-called “Negro Problem” was actually the “White Problem,” attributing America’s racial divide to “white bigotry” rather than Black inferiority. To begin to mend these inequities and create permanent pathways for all young Black men to access higher education, Greener worked to offer hundreds of full scholarships and provide greater support to under-prepared applicants.
Although Greener’s reputation in his own time rivaled those of Booker T. Washington and Frederick Douglass, today he is best remembered as the first Black student at Harvard College. One hundred and fifty years after his graduation, Greener’s portrait, painted by Stephen E. Coit ’71 and unveiled in 2016, today hangs in Annenberg. His framed figure stands confidently in front of his dorm in Stoughton Hall, forever proud of the green and elms and red brick.
— Staff writer Sophia S. Liang can be reached at sophia.liang@thecrimson.com.
Sections
These days, mornings at Harvard start the same way they have for decades: Some students set off on a daily riverside jog, others head to the dining hall to grab breakfast, and still others sleep in until just a few minutes before lecture begins. But unlike years before, every student now shares the same, abbreviated commute to class: a few quick steps from their twin XL bed to their dorm room desk. Harvard freshmen — the only full cohort living on campus — have no choice but to try and get close to each other from six feet away.
With classes online and on-campus gatherings strictly limited, this is a tall order. Ashley Herrera ’24 says she messages peers she gets along with in Zoom breakout rooms to get their numbers and hang out together outside of class. “So that’s one way I’ve been [meeting people], and I know a lot of people have been doing that too,” she says with a laugh. “You have to get over that initial step of it kind of being awkward.”
Online classes have lent themselves to debacles that would have been impossible under normal circumstances. Harry H. Shams ’24 recalls that during one of his classes, his philosophy teaching fellow taught the entire section with his screen upside down. Shams quickly switched to gallery mode, where he found a kindred spirit cracking up as well. He automatically deemed him a potential friend.
For almost all students on campus, meals are an al fresco affair. Limited by the official maximum of three dining partners, students must navigate strict regulations while being careful not to shatter their early and fragile friendships. Grab-and-go food from HUDS comes cold, and the microwaves provided to all dorm rooms are the only way to warm it. But once you’ve swung by the dining hall, who wants to leave their friends to heat up lunch? “We are eating cold chicken and stuff,” Madeline C. Kitch ’24 says.
Friends are met and made in the Yard or house courtyards, come rain or shine. “Today it was raining,” Melissa Meng ’24 says. “But a lot of my friends are like, ‘I’m going to go outside anyways.’” Because students can’t invite anyone into their suites, time outdoors is the only University-sanctioned way to socialize in person.
Students living in the houses traditionally reserved for upperclassmen say their closest friends have come from the shared courtyard spaces. “There’s always somebody to talk to,” says Hererra, who lives in Dunster House. Living in this community made up entirely of freshmanstudents was a sort of “gift,” says Neil F. Katzman ’24, who lives in Mather. “I haven't had any trouble meeting people because almost everyone is a freshman trying to meet people.”
Of course, such plenty is relative. Freshmen prefaced each story with the maximum group size allowed at the time: “this was when we could only be in twos,” or “once we were allowed up to ten.” The number of times a student has tested negative for COVID-19 shapes the geography of their life on campus. Katzman says it has been exciting to interact with people outside of Mather, which he says he was only able to do after his third negative result.
A socially distanced campus life doesn’t necessarily coincide with a surplus of free time to dedicate to academics. Libby Wu ’24 explains how, after making sure her mental and physical health are cared for, she feels as if she is left with little time to commit to her assignments. “I usually have to prioritize a social life over always having to catch up on homework, because it’s already so hard to meet people here,” she says.
Groups on campus were limited to ten students, all of whom must be masked and distanced outdoors. Students told Fifteen Minutes their class has thus far been very compliant, especially with mask regulations. But some, frustrated by on-campus limitations, have ventured off of Harvard grounds, to local cafes or public libraries, where they can gather in groups as large as they see fit.
Christy J. Jestin ’24 recounted a game of ultimate frisbee on the Quad lawn, shut down by a proctor who feared transmission between the ten masked students through touching the same frisbee. Jestin’s game ended, but he pointed out that if they had wanted to, it could easily have migrated to one of Cambridge’s nearby public parks.
Quincy House, where Jestin lives, had previously set up outdoor tables, but after some students were seen eating in groups of five or six — exceeding the ruled maximum of four — the tables were stacked away and wrapped in caution tape. “Everyone was understandably upset,” he says.“It seems to me like Harvard’s biggest concern is that we don’t transmit while on campus.”
Proctors and administrators aren’t the only ones looking out for social distancing violations. Known colloquially to some as “Yard Rats,” certain students have announced they, too, are prepared to call out others for noncompliance, sending pictures of too-large groups to proctors. Hererra is critical of Yard Rats — she feels people have been largely compliant, and this behavior doesn’t “foster a good community atmosphere.” Jestin agrees, but also pointed out that breaking the rules can be a privilege. “FGLI [first-generation or low-income] students can’t always handle just going home.”
Only a few weeks into college, freshmen have little certainty about the rest of the semester, as changing weather and changing restrictions may limit their social lives in new ways, unlike any class before. Yet, despite the fact that his first semester of college is not unfolding as he would have predicted a year ago, Katzman recognizes that “at least it’s a good story.”
— Staff writer Nicole B. Farina can be reached at nicole.farina@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @nicolefarinaa.
— Staff writer Marka F. X. Ellertson can be reached at marka.ellertson@thecrimson.com.
Sections
Posters forbidding visitors plaster the walls. Common spaces are empty, no longer full of grandchildren and laughter. The rise and fall of conversation among residents has disappeared.
In senior care centers, only silence and waiting remain during the COVID-19 crisis.
One of the populations most at risk for developing a severe COVID-19 infection, the CDC has advised seniors in particular to self-quarantine at home and avoid social contact. For long-term senior care centers, this often translates to a necessary ban on all visitors, including family, and a requirement that residents maintain adequate social distancing with friends within the center. With these meaningful social connections largely eliminated, many seniors say loneliness is more prevalent than ever.
Following the conclusion of classes in May, Kathryn Tian ’22 visited her grandmother, who has Alzeihmer’s, in the nursing home where she lives. She recalls “listening to a lot of the employees talk about how they’re struggling with providing programs to get people to communicate with others.” At that time, she and Andrew Li ’22 were seeking ways to help their communities amid the pandemic. Li remembers feeling that they were “stuck at home… stranded and powerless.”
In response, Tian and Li decided to launch a program they called Connecting All, Reaching Everyone (CARE) to provide support for seniors in nursing homes. CARE brings together two groups on the ends of the generational spectrum — seniors and college students — in an effort to create meaningful virtual relationships. The program’s general structure consists of two students meeting with a senior on a weekly or biweekly basis for 30 minutes to an hour over Zoom or by phone. At the end of each meeting, students and seniors write a reflection about their experience. Nursing home staff can read these reflections from residents and understand what additional resources they should provide, such as more convenient grocery shopping.
While virtual meetings are the only way to safely bridge the gap between seniors and students during a pandemic, some participants have struggled with CARE’s technology-centric design.
“One of our primary challenges is navigating technology barriers,” Li says. “A lot of seniors in the Boston area don’t have access to computers, tablets, phones, or even WiFi.” The CARE website provides instructions on how to set up Zoom or Google Meet, but Li says disparate access to technology remains a key limitation to the program.
Despite these obstacles, Tian and Li are encouraged by CARE’s small successes. Tian, for example, spent the summer in contact with an elderly woman who had contracted COVID-19. The woman was forced to self-isolate from her friends and family but said that CARE kept her feeling connected to the outside world.
“She just felt a lot of comfort in getting to talk to people,” Tian says, adding that the sense of connection extended both ways. She explains that students often forget “how relatable seniors can be to [younger generations],” and she is often struck by how engaging and pertinent conversations with seniors feel. The idea that both senior participants and student volunteers have something valuable to give to each other is at the core of Tian and Li’s vision for the program.
As for CARE’s future after the pandemic, Tian and Li say they intend to lay the framework for a larger program that serves seniors across the country. They plan to coordinate with multiple Department of Veterans Affairs branches to pair elderly veterans with student volunteers. Tian and Li also hope to bring awareness to the lack of exposure seniors have to technology and provide tools and resources to educate older populations about communicating online.
“We hope that by fostering these intergenerational connections on both ends, we will feel like we’ve learned much more about the other,” Li says. “We’re more powerful than we think. We can do a lot, we can make a big difference, and we can have a genuine impact on peoples’ lives.”
— Staff writer Felicia Y. Ho can be reached at felicia.ho@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @HoPanda007.

— Staff writer Vera E. Petrovic can be reached at vera.petrovic@thecrimson.com.
Sections
A shadow pandemic has accompanied COVID-19, one of deteriorating mental health. Formerly mundane acts, like buying groceries, now require a complete safety checklist as well as constant hyper-vigilance about one’s body and surroundings. Many are stuck in a crushing isolation. The pandemic itself acts like a vortex, sucking in all thought and conversation and spitting out anxiety over physical and economic health. One study found that the number of adults in the U.S. reporting symptoms of anxiety or depression has almost quadrupled from last year.
John Torous, the director of the digital psychiatry division at Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, recognizes the disparity between growing mental health needs and available resources — and believes only technology can help health professionals keep pace. “How do you immediately increase access to medical healthcare in a scalable, reliable way?” Torous asks. “It really does have to come down to a technology in the smartphone.”
The COVID-19 pandemic has accelerated an enormous technological shift in psychiatry: Already, virtual therapy sessions have become the norm, with most clinicians reporting no difference in outcomes compared to in-person visits. Torous hopes he and other doctors can continue to steer this transition — he researches how technology, and mobile devices in particular, offers an opportunity to revolutionize mental health care. “I think we know where we want the field to go,” he says, “but everyone wants to make sure we do it right.”
Smartphones have become ubiquitous, and for many, especially younger generations, they are the primary tool for learning about and communicating with the world. It is in this ubiquity that Torous sees potential: Synchronous telehealth, such as individual or group therapy in real-time, creates lag between the limited pool of clinicians and demand for care, and asynchronous care through mobile devices can fill that gap. Doctors might one day use smartphones to gather information between sessions — passive data such as GPS location, and active data such as daily questionnaires — and provide small, real-time interventions like mindfulness exercises. By working with patients to interpret smartphone-collected data, therapists might improve their practice — by jumping right into problem-solving, for instance, rather than having to collect information a smartphone has already provided. “The visits become more rich, more evidence-based, more data-driven,” Torous says. “In between sessions there’s more feedback, there’s more practicing skills.” The division of digital psychiatry at BIDMC is already experimenting with this hybrid model.
Torous is also developing and testing his own digital mental health app called “mindLAMP” (Learn, Assess, Manage, Prevent). Clicking on the mindLAMP icon — a lightbulb split into four colorful puzzle pieces set against a sky blue background — brings users to a menu with options for daily mental health surveys, tips for stress, breathing exercises, and much more. Based on interviews with 100 college-age students about their preferences for a mental health app, the app is designed to be customizable and secure: Users know the app is used for clinical purposes only. Because it is designed in-house, it doesn’t involve third parties.
Torous researches college students because he believes they show a particular interest in mobile mental health technology. He claims that that age group, undergoing brain maturation and facing new academic and social stresses, is at high risk of developing new mental health conditions. Though colleges try to meet this need, many of the corresponding resources fall short. In a recently-published study of 218 mental health apps recommended by various college counseling services, Torous found that 28 percent were no longer available for download, and 44 percent of the remaining apps had not been updated in over six months. Many of the existing apps either had no privacy policy or shared user information with third parties. Only 16 percent had been studied for efficacy. Just because smartphones have the potential to improve therapy, Torous says, doesn’t mean all apps can do it well. In the same way that it would be “ludicrous” for a college to display a list of medications and ask students to pick, especially if some of those medications were out-of-date or toxic, not all apps can provide the same quality of services. As an alternative, Torous’s team keeps an updated database of mental health apps that people can search to find the best fit for themselves.
The mindLAMP app is designed to avoid these pitfalls. In a study of 100 college students who used the mindLAMP app over the course of one month, Torous found that the results from the app’s mental health surveys correlated closely with “gold standard,” in-person clinical assessments. Although Torous is still analyzing the data, these results suggest that smartphone apps might be an easier way to understand how people are feeling. A few simple questions on a phone can provide that understanding over time, rather than a snapshot at the time of appointment.
Aside from a population-level correlation between erratic sleep schedules and a higher risk of mental health problems, Torous found that other correlations were highly personalized. The effect of time at home on mental health is contextual, and the effect of screen time depends on the types of online activities: Three hours of virtual volunteering and three hours of scrolling through Reddit are not comparable. Of course, more population-level correlations might become apparent with a larger sample. Regardless, these personalized signals, Torous explains, show how smartphones are primarily a tool that patients and psychiatrists must put to use by figuring out what each signal means for each person. “It’s not just the technology,” he says. “That’s one of the factors. It takes the users and the clinical part to make it all work, all of the pieces.”
Despite the potential he sees in this “hybrid model” of telehealth and smartphone care, Torous expresses caution: “Anytime something transitions or is new, there is potential for benefit and potential for harm,” he says. Apps that work through algorithms and artificial intelligence, for instance, have limited evidence to support that they are effective. Privacy concerns abound. And much more work needs to be done to prove the smartphone’s clinical promise. His next step is a similar study of the mindLAMP app with 1,000 college students nationwide. The trial will also test “mental health nudges” — if the app detects that a user may need a mental health intervention, it a small action.
“Sometimes apps are seen as a panacea because technology can solve a lot of problems,” Torous says. “I think we are at the beginning of this journey.”
— Staff writer Matteo N. Wong can be reached at matteo.wong@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @matteo_wong.
Sections
It was a beautiful morning to say goodbye.
I gave my younger sister a hug to seal our unconventional parting. Instead of the celebratory college move-in I anticipated months ago, I spent much of the morning by myself. Left alone with my thoughts and hungering for closure, I set out the door to walk through Harvard’s campus once again.
Typically in late August, the courtyards of the dormitories and houses swarm with eager students, tutors, and deans trying to help their newest residents feel at home. There are first-year receptions, sophomore outings, and a multitude of welcome-backs for juniors and seniors. Students, staff, faculty, and administrators reorient themselves to the unparalleled rush of campus life. But most of all, I remember ear-to-ear smiles, indicative of the apprehensive joy a new semester brings.
This August, the houses were quiet. Their residents didn’t congregate in the common spaces, and incoming students wrestled their belongings inside alone. I counted less than a dozen people in Harvard Yard, and for the first time in my life, I didn’t see anyone standing on Widener’s steps.
Looking out across the scarcely populated campus, I said goodbye — for now — to the school I knew and loved. I consider myself an optimistic person by nature, but something in me grieved for what could have been. I now find myself scouring emails more closely for anything that transports my mind to campus. I’m grateful to those who have made every effort to connect me to Cambridge, and I’ll hold onto all of it for the time being. But as I turned my back on the college that became a home, I grappled with the thought of driving back to North Carolina with one less passenger.
***
My younger sister has been a built-in best friend for more than 18 years. She was the sense of normalcy and comfort I found in returning home. No matter where we lived — and we moved often — she was there.
For years, we shared a room and exchanged stories before bed. Our parents coordinated our Halloween costumes when we were young and matched us in photos. We sang in the car on the way to school and curated playlists for the drive.
We exchanged glances and facial expressions without speaking, communicating in the way only sisters can. We agreed, bickered, and apologized often, repeating the natural and unavoidable siblinghood cycle. My moving to college hundreds of miles away disrupted this.
On campus I was swept into a packed routine: I checked in from time to time, but distance and overcommitments prevented me from witnessing those high-school-defining milestones. Her recounts of homecoming proposals and dancing with friends at prom were told over the phone rather than face-to-face, and I was the second to know about preparations for college applications and their respective results. I recognized she was growing up, but getting a secondhand experience stopped me from registering that it was happening so quickly. By the time I returned home this past March, it was hard to comprehend that she would move out in only a few short months.
***
When I left home for the first time, I tried to imagine what it would be like for my younger sister. The bedroom down the hall is suddenly quiet. A pair of running shoes rests by the front door, unmoved. Drives to school, once hastened by Taylor Swift’s entire discography, feel strangely quiet without company. But the truth is, no matter how hard I tried, I couldn’t comprehend what it meant to be the one left behind — until now.
Memories of my first and last days on campus continue to circulate on my phone. The two mile distance separating my sister and me stretched to hundreds of miles apart. Plans for Boston meet-ups will stay unfulfilled. I don’t have to imagine what it’s like to be the sibling at the house: It’s a continuation of remembering what was, what could have been, and what is now.
Selfishly, I wish she was here. The soothing series of routines we fell into over the past few months have faded into the unsettling quiet she experienced years prior. But the promise of this quiet pales in comparison to the pride I felt in watching her start this next chapter of her life. Brilliant and bold, she’s ready to tackle the challenges this year and the forthcoming years will present, even if I can’t move beyond the image of the dependent co-passenger I still hold in my mind.
Fully absorbed by the emotions accompanying solitude, I’ve rediscovered gratitude for our sisterhood and a commitment to more frequent calls. No longer in the same city, I’ve been cast into the role of cheerleader, enthusiastically encouraging from the sidelines. But most of all, I’ve realized I have the privilege of watching my best friend grow up — without the unsolicited advice from her older sister.
There’s a certain beauty in goodbyes, too, I suppose.
— Staff writer Michelle G. Kurilla can be reached at michelle.kurilla@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @MichelleKurilla.
Sections
“Do I feel like I’m in college? No,” says Ellie M. Zisblatt ’24, speaking on the phone from her home in Los Angeles, Calif. Zisblatt is one of a small fraction of freshmen who have decided to begin their college educations at home.
For Zisblatt, traveling to campus posed logistical challenges. By July 24 freshmen had to choose between an in-person or remote experience — just two weeks after the College announced classes would be completely online. At the time, Los Angeles was a COVID-19 hotspot, raising concerns about whether she would be able to travel safely. In order for her family to help her move in, they would have had to quarantine on both ends of the trip. “It really just made a little bit more sense for me to stay home,” she says.
According to College spokesperson Rachel Dane,, 1,415 students are enrolled this year as part of the Class of 2024. Of this number, 1,168 are living on campus — meaning 247 students, a little over 15 percent of the class, are enrolled remotely.
Shraddha Joshi ’24 is another freshman who chose this path. “Originally I had gone back and forth between being on campus, but eventually decided to stay home because I was awarded the Cameron Impact Scholarship,” Joshi says. The scholarship covers her tuition for the semester, and staying home helped save money from room and board fees. She didn’t want to defer her admission because she had already taken a gap year, participating in a fellowship in Morocco.
For Henry C. Addison Jr. ’24, staying home was an opportunity to relieve stress for his family, who were concerned about his health and well-being. “To me, it made a better decision to just stay home and take this time to readjust,” he says. He also cites the general chaos of the current moment, from the pandemic to a nationwide reckoning over racial injustice, as another reason to enroll remotely. “Everything is kind of heightened right now, and tensions are very high. I didn’t want to risk it.”
Embarking on an entirely remote first-year experience, however, comes with sacrifices — including meeting classmates in person and experiencing the independence of campus life.
Both Zisblatt and Addison agree that the greatest sacrifice they’ve made is social. Though they have met other freshmen through classes, pre-orientation events, and entryway meetings, Zoom socializing doesn’t compare with meeting face-to-face.
“Those moments happen when you’re in a group chat and everybody’s like, ‘Hey, who wants to meet up?’” Addison says. In those moments, he sometimes doubts his decision to enroll remotely. In contrast to the spontaneous social interactions that are possible for freshmen on campus — at least to a certain extent — remote students have to schedule almost every interaction through emails and Zoom invitations. Because of this strangely scheduled socialization, Addison finds his classmates feel more like “close associates… everybody is just this 2-D figure on my screen.”
Zisblatt also laments missing out on “the opportunities of being around so many interesting, great, motivated people.” She had hoped to engage with the greater Cambridge community and is now trying to become involved with virtual PBHA activities.
But some freshmen say Zoom social life isn’t always so bad. A self-proclaimed procrastinator, Addison finds that having scheduled times to meet friends helps him organize his day and even makes him appreciate the time more. “You really start to cherish those moments,” he says. Zisblatt hopes that the virtual connections she’s made so far will lay the groundwork for deeper friendships in the future. “When I get on campus, that’ll be a really good starting point to then, in person, make it an actual relationship.”
Remote learning does have a few other perks. The comfort of home and the reduced commute time leave students with more time to pursue side projects. For example, Joshi recently accepted an internship offer for a podcast series called Kerning Cultures, which covers stories in the Middle East. “It does get to be a little tedious to be at home all the time,” Joshi says — but she does appreciate that she’s been “staying busy and doing things that I wouldn’t have been doing in high school, such as different activities, interning, and taking classes that I actually care about.”
Learning from home can also ease what is often a tough academic transition for freshmen. “Even if the academics are very rigorous, I’m familiar with home,” Addison says. Professors have tried to facilitate a smooth transition by incorporating more breakout rooms and discussion segments, to prevent students from being “lost in the shuffle,” as Zisblatt puts it.
University presidents and administrators often toss around the idea of the “Harvard experience,” referring to some nebulous, borderline-magical adventure — one that includes far more than academic classes, ranging from clubs to arts to spontaneity with new friends. This year’s freshmen students have to reconceptualize their expectations for what “the Harvard experience” means — remotely-enrolled freshmen most of all.
Addison is optimistic: “This is a one of a kind experience; probably nobody has ever had their freshman year like this.” He continues, “We’re all going to be so eager to know each other that it’s going to push the momentum for our social lives together for the rest of the years.”
Zisblatt has also learned to shift her perspective. “I think the new experience is just learning to take advantage of what is offered in the situation, which is so much, still. Yes, it’s online and over Zoom, but if anything, I feel like I’m inundated in an amazing way.”
— Staff writer Maliya V. Ellis can be reached at maliya.ellis@thecrimson.com.
— Staff writer Virginia F. Tiernan can be reached at virginia.tiernan@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @virginia_tier16.
Sections
I open the link to a black screen and the words of a little-known worship song. “Cry for the sin in you / judgement is coming soon.” Over choreographed piano push-pulls, the chorus of “Open My Eyes” repeats again and again. “Jesus please open my eyes / Show me the sin in my life.” 
I can recognize the soundtrack of evangelical Christianity anywhere: the mechanical rhymes, the slow, plodding drums, the pleading chords before a choreographed release. Eyes close and hands lift as the music rises; the rhythms of repentance begin in minor keys. The room swells, a building chorus mingling guilt with relief.
This time, the familiar contours play out not in a smoky auditorium, but in the virtual world of the 2020 Revoice Conference. The video format isn’t the only thing that separates it from an ordinary evangelical worship service.
At Revoice, almost everyone in the audience is “same sex attracted.”
“I am the reason you died,” goes the end of the song’s bridge. The death of Christ is a common call for a crowd well acquainted with shame. An electric keyboard bows our heads on cue, while we wait for the key change that will suck our brokenness out of the air within a final, ecstatic release. “Paradise waits for you,” whispers the end of the chorus.
At the inaugural Revoice Conference two years ago, they sang the hymn “It Is Well With My Soul” by Horatio Spafford.
“At the words “[my sin] is nailed to the cross, and I bear it no more,” the room erupted in spontaneous applause,” recounts Ethan McCarthy in a blogpost entitled “A Tenacious Witness.” “I felt my heart swell up in my chest as I sensed — not for the first time that weekend — the unfettered joy in the praise of these dear Christians, many of whom (most of whom, even) had suffered a pain, shame, and exclusion at the hands of the church that I couldn’t imagine.” That pain, of course, was living with “same-sex attraction.”
I first learned about the Revoice Conference in mid-July, from an email list I rarely check anymore. In a series of messages headlined “Want to bring your LGBTQ+ friends to Jesus?”, Tyler S. Parker ’17, a full time ministry fellow for Harvard College Faith and Action, beckoned his organization’s hundreds of members to join “the nation's largest gathering of LGBTQ+/same-sex attracted (SSA) Christians who affirm the joyful goodness and righteousness of the historical Church teachings on sex and sexuality.”
It had been over a year since I’d thought about HCFA, a student organization I tried out as a freshman. I’d grown up in the world of evangelical Christianity, and was drawn in by their promises of rigorous Bible study and, in Parker’s words, openness to “differing perspectives.” It didn’t hurt that my dad’s face lit up whenever I talked about it. But I quickly realized HCFA reminded me a little too much of the church I grew up in — the same friendly euphemisms, the same limited options.
Parker’s email surprised me. On the one hand, the subject line felt painfully familiar — the same framing of “LGBTQ+ friends” and “Jesus” as inevitably separate. But then again, no one I grew up with would dare use the word queer.
As long as I’ve known about HCFA, they’ve faced criticism from both student activists and University administrators for their posture toward the queer community. In 2018, the organization hosted Christian rapper and writer Jackie Hill Perry, who opens her book “Gay Girl, Good God” by asserting that she “used to be a lesbian.” Several students and faculty members protested the event, calling Hill Perry homophobic and arguing that she condoned conversion therapy. Days later, the University placed HCFA on “administrative probation” and The Crimson reported that it had pressured a female student-leader to resign from a leadership position the previous fall after she began dating a woman.
Several students left the organization, many outsiders continued to protest, and those who remained recounted “a lot of infighting within HCFA,” according to a former HCFA member who spoke to The Crimson on the condition of anonymity to safely describe her own experience with “same-sex attraction.” Many students wondered whether the largest Christian community on Harvard’s campus — and, by proxy, the evangelical Christian church it represents — offered a space for queer believers.
HCFA’s invitation to the Revoice Conference — complete with daily “discussion groups” moderated by Parker that functioned, in the words of Patrick R. Koenigs ’22, a friend who also attended the conference, like “AA meetings,” — seemed to signal a shifting posture toward queer Christians. With language wrapped in the earnestness of “self love,” Revoice speakers claim to advocate for inclusivity and affirmation. In an evangelical environment historically hostile to the idea of queerness as an identity, Revoice has angered those on its conservative flank by building queer community that doesn’t revolve around becoming “ex-gay.” I wondered if this conference’s “diverse gathering of Christians,” as Parker put it, could finally be a place where I could love both King Princess and C.S. Lewis, instead of always having to choose.
But Revoice has its own rules, I soon found.
To some, the conference provides a sanctuary where conservative, “same-sex attracted” Christians can come as they are. For others, it represents a softened form of conversion therapy.
So, what, exactly, does the conference “revoice”?
The summer after my senior year of high school, my little sister and I went shopping for bermuda shorts.
It had been three months since I last wandered through the spiral-carpeted Sunday school rooms and secret basement hideaways of the church I grew up in. Grace never asked why I’d started staying home “sick” on Sunday mornings, but there was a silent understanding. I had to give her “happy place” — a tiny Christian music camp founded by friends of Billy Graham — a try. It was a “little old fashioned,” Grace admitted: no phones, devotions every night, morning hymns in a tiny, sunlit chapel, and a strict dress code. I thought of the Sundays we used to sing together, the way we’d stand on our green folding chairs so we could see the stage and fight over our favorite harmonies. I wanted to show her I could still hold on to those memories, that she didn’t have to be so scared to have a gay sister. So I agreed, packed a hymnal, and left my usual wardrobe at home.
Before we left, we spent hours scouring Macy’s clearance racks, desperate to find a long-enough pair of shorts. Per camp rules, if your fingertips extended past the cuffs of your shorts when you hung your arms at your sides, you had to wear sweatpants for the rest of the day. I groaned in the dressing room as we cycled through a revolving sequence of cargos and capris and practiced clenching our shoulders in just the right way so that our arms sat slightly higher.
I still have a pair of those shorts, buried somewhere in the back of my closet. I haven’t worn them in years. I think I like knowing that if I ever needed to, I could still pass the dress code.
If you want to get close to evangelical Christians, you have to follow their rules. Difference is instantly palpable, threatening.
Revoice’s community also has its conditions. On the one hand, it holds out a promise of love, acceptance, and belonging for queer people within a religious landscape that has often held no place for them. But the dress code it requires is, as founder Nate Collins calls it, a “straight-passing” relationship or a life of celibacy.
Collins and the conference’s keynote speaker Wesley Hill have fostered momentum for the “celibate gay Christian” movement since 2015, when Hill published his book “Spiritual Friendship: Finding Love in the Church as a Celibate Gay Christian.” Many of the book’s tenets would inform the conference’s ideology. But in order to make the “traditional sexual ethic” for which he advocates more palatable to young LGBTQ people — or, rather, LGB people; Revoice uses this language because “sexual orientation and gender identity… are different enough to warrant individual attention” — Collins says he wants to “revoice, or refurbish” the words evangelical Christians use to describe them.
“You’re not alone in this ocean of otherness,” he tells LGBTQ listeners on an episode of “Hole in My Heart,” a podcast hosted by two fellow Revoice speakers. As he puts it, Collins hopes that a young, closeted Revoice attendee’s first takeaway is to “come out to someone.” Revoice says it “models charitable language” — allowing some to use the term “gay,” not just “same-sex attracted,” a phrase that has traditionally been associated with conversion therapy efforts. Revoice also asserts that sexual orientation “very rarely changes.” For this, the conference has earned harsh criticism from conservative organizations like The American Family Association and The Gospel Coalition.
They’ve heard criticisms from the other side, too, arguing that what they’re promoting is, in the words of LGBTQ advocate Heron E. Greenesmith, just “soft conversion therapy.”
Leading the first full day’s morning session for “Pastors and Leaders,” Pieter Valk works to respond to both sets of criticisms.
“Limited, high-quality research demonstrates that only three to four percent of people who participated in sexual orientation change efforts experienced any meaningful change in their same-sex attractions,” he says to a global audience of around 1,500. For these parents and pastors of queer teens, he advises them to “mourn in private, so as not to hurt your child.” He also advises to “pray for a miracle” — but not expect one. Then, he encourages parents to counsel young people that “if you realize your broken sexuality is impacting you in any way, I want you to know that it’s not your fault.”
For more than 40 years, conversion therapy — efforts to change sexual orientation via emotional abuse, public shaming, or forcible associaiton of negative, painful stimuli with queer attraction — was evangelicalism’s default. Many of Revoice’s keynote speakers either led or attended conversion therapy programs, but they’re quick to tell you that Revoice is different.
“‘Pray the gay away’ practices inside churches and counseling centers have led millions of LGBT+ Christians to lose their faith or commit suicide — and these ideas and practices continue today, albeit in more subtle ways,” Valk writes in a blog post called “Church, Repent.” “The Church must repent of what we have done, and we must make sure it never happens again.”
When I tell him about criticisms that Revoice amounts to “soft conversion therapy,” Valk responds with three paragraphs. He writes that he himself was the victim of conversion therapy programs that sought to change his sexual orientation, and claims that Revoice is fundamentally different from these programs in that it encourages gay Christians to “recognize their sexuality.” Rather than forcing them to become “ex-gay,” then, Revoice offers gay Christians the option to “embrace either celibacy or a mixed-orientation marriage in a way that is mentally and emotionally healthy.”
Valk asks that I print his response in full. I decided to honor his request:
In other words, Revoice doesn’t want you to “change your orientation” — just to avoid queer relationships.
Other Revoice speakers hold similar opinions.
“I don't know of anyone who believes that accepting our sexuality means living a life without any sexual boundaries or sexual ethics,” says Gregory Coles, who spoke at the conference on his book “Single, Gay, Christian.” “We all have views about sexual ethics that are distinct from our views on sexual orientation. We need to normalize loving, respecting, and advocating for people of all sexual orientations in the midst of our differing understandings of sexual ethics.”
But of course, there isn’t a single speaker at the conference who’s “understanding of sexual ethics” is a same-gender relationship.
I didn’t expect my interview with Nate Collins to be so hard.
The Revoice founder has long identified as a “gay man,” but has been married to a woman for 13 years. In his words, they’re in a “mixed-orientation marriage.”
“I will never say that I’m straight, or that I’m bi, even,” Collins explains. “My latent orientation is 99 percent gay — but I also have a ‘one-woman orientation.’” He goes on. “I hear from people who say that they’re wanting to be open to mixed-orientation marriage, what should they do? What kind of best practices are there?”
The question takes me by surprise. I feel my breath catch.
“Pursue more intimate relationships with friends,” he says, answering his own question. “Grow in your faith.”
For a second, I want to stop the interview and tell him I spent 18 years trying to do just that.
He keeps talking, and my mind throws the words back at me. “Grow in your faith.” I think of entire days memorizing Bible verses, furiously writing down notes in every sermon. “Pursue more intimate relationships with friends.” The ritual of listening to the same mismatched love songs and searching for every hint of their words in the boy I thought I loved. The pit in my stomach when my dad liked him right away, just like I knew he would. The stifling Sunday afternoons when I was finally alone, watching the air collapse around me as my lungs forgot how to breathe. The trying only made it worse.
Eventually I remember the next question I was supposed to ask. “Is it healthy to go through life with a desire to meet that one person that might be ‘the exception’ to your general orientation?”
I hear him hold his breath for a second, too. “It’s hard to answer.”
After the interview, I forget to turn off the recording. When I finally replay the silence after he hangs up the phone, I can hear myself gradually begin to breathe the way I used to.
For critics of Revoice, these “mixed orientation marriages” are one of the conference’s most blatant offenses. Koenigs, my friend who also attended Revoice, found them particularly troubling. “The way they talked about mixed orientation relationships...made it seem like it was really just a matter of will: If you worked hard enough, you could be in a straight relationship,” he says. “They’re saying ‘we’re not asking you to be straight,’ but ‘we're asking you to be in a straight relationship and you should pretend to be straight,’’ he continues. “I don’t know what the difference is.”
For LGBTQ advocate Heron E. Greensmith, who specializes in advocacy for bisexual and pansexual people, this mindset is “toxic” — and not just for people like Collins who are “99 percent gay.”
“To say that you can be yourself if you only behave in certain ways is incredibly harmful to folks who are bi who are really struggling with accepting themselves and think, ‘If I maintain this specific relationship, then I can have a relationship with my family or a relationship with my church.’”
They continue: “Queer identity is very complex. It’s not just the way you act; it’s the way you love, the way you are, the way you present yourself. And to reduce it to this facile understanding that it is a way that you act and therefore only a choice is certainly harmful, both to folks who grew up with that understanding or are finding it now in places that they would normally find shelter and support.”
Collins did not reply to a request for comment on those concerns.
On its face, Revoice, with its emphasis on acceptance and self love, stands far removed from its explicitly conversion therapy-oriented predecessors. But at least for some, the inevitable end of its ideology is functionally the same: a gay man smiling in a photo next to his wife and three kids. What, after all, differentiates a “straight-passing” relationship from a “straight” one?
I hadn’t realized how much Revoice would still rattle me. I stop writing this piece for a week or so, toying with the idea of just telling HCFA to take me off their email list and finally moving on. But something doesn’t sit right.
Revoice’s ideology isn’t limited to my laptop screen.
When asked to comment on the connection between HCFA and Revoice, co-presidents Caleb K. King ‘23 and Joshua T. Walton ‘21 chose their words carefully. “HCFA is not affiliated with Revoice,” they wrote, “nor did HCFA officially advertise or encourage members to go. HCFA members going to the conference simply shared it over our groupme and email list.
“Since HCFA does not, nor has ever, supported conversion therapy of any sort, we saw no reason to stop the pubbing of Revoice Conference, an organization which does not support conversion therapy,” they added.
Still, Revoice’s ideology is woven into the community HCFA offers for “same-sex attracted” people — and into its rules, too.
I talked to Tyler S. Parker, the ministry fellow who had first advertised Revoice over the HCFA email list, too. With every other breath, he tells me how much he loves the organization that became his home at Harvard, long before it was his job. “The kinds of friendships that I found in HCFA are friendships that I’m positive I will have for the rest of my life,” he explains. “I regularly dream about being in my friends’ weddings.”
Parker, who identifies as “bi” or “same-sex attracted,” explains that Wesley Hill’s book “Spiritual Friendship” “literally changed my life.”
“What God desires to make out of my attractions to people of the same sex is far more beautiful than sex with somebody of the same sex would be,” he continues. “God desires to make me ‘spiritual friends’ with people of the same sex, and He desires to make me a generous servant of people of the same sex.”
During the COVID-19 pandemic, Parker has continued to live a life modeled off of Revoice’s ideology. When interviewed, Collins answered how “same-sex attracted” Christians could fulfill the need for family and “domestic intimacy,” by suggesting “a scenario where a single person is actually living with a family and taking on duties as part of that family unit.”
Several months ago, Parker’s former HCFA student leader offered him just that. “At the beginning of COVID, because I’m a radical extrovert, I got lonely almost immediately,” Parker recounts. When his old friend asked him how he was doing, Parker mentioned feeling lonely.
“[He] immediately said, ‘Well, it’s kind of boring here, so why don’t you just come hang out with us?’” Parker recounts. “I think that that’s spiritual friendship, where people are sort of willing to lay down their comfort and almost lay down their rights in order to ensure that other people get to experience the fullness of life.”
Being a self-described “radical extrovert,” outreach comes easily to Parker.
“We make fun a lot — a good reason half of our fellowship is in HCFA is because Tyler reached out to them,” explains Walton, who counts himself among that group. “He chased down freshmen in the Yard; he’s just persistent trying to find people and trying to get them in the community.”
Walton and King call Tyler a “role model” and mentor for many in the organization.
That kind of mentorship is integral to HCFA’s mission. “From the moment I got into HCFA, there were adult mentors, people that were graduated that were mentoring you,” Jadyn K. Broomfield ’21 says. “Every course has [leaders] who are a year older [than the students taking it].”
As a student-leader herself, she said she would often “go to a place in the Square with the girls — Tatte was a favorite spot.” (Student-leaders, like ministry fellows, receive a budget for meals with their mentees.)
For Alice, a now graduated HCFA member who spoke to The Crimson on the condition of anonymity, that mentorship was the reason she stayed in the organization. As someone who grew up “nominally Christian,” she hadn’t planned to join a Christian group in college. Then she heard about the free ice cream.
Struggling to transition to life at college her freshman year, Alice says she was drawn in by HCFA’s “intentional” and “deliberate” approach to “friendship building.” She soon joined the organization’s Bible courses and talked to fellow members about her “same-sex attraction.”
“Was HCFA important in the process of navigating same-sex attraction?” I asked her. Alice answered that “a lot of figuring out in this process was talking to them. Just, like, them listening to all the craziness that was going on in my head was incredibly valuable.” She decided whether or not to act on her same-sex attraction was “too big an issue for me just to choose for myself… I couldn’t keep hearing so many different voices telling me different things.”
In describing HCFA’s “involved” approach to outreach, Aric B. Flemming — a former freshman proctor — has his concerns. “First years coming in who are easily influenced, looking to find community, could get sucked into like HCFA thinking that it’s a faith organization that’s really for them, and then they come to realize that no, this is not what I need to be in — and then the damage could already be done.” In other words, extricating yourself from this “tight knit community” is easier said than done.
In response to this criticism, Parker writes, “HCFA’s outreach isn’t aggressive. It’s just thorough. We want students to feel like we actually care about them, so we follow up with them, ask them how their days are, pray for them, and stuff like that.” He continues, “When I was a freshman, HCFA was one of the only clubs that actually followed up with me and invited me to fun events that helped me get over my homesickness.”
Walton and King add, “In a year that has proven to be isolating and lonely for many first years at Harvard, we are striving to serve all of Harvard by being an open and welcoming place.”
I ask Alice — who herself stumbled into HCFA as a lonely freshman, and who found one of the most formative communities of her college experience there — whether her leadership role in HCFA was conditional on celibacy.
She requested a few days to answer, so she could “follow up with her [HCFA] ministry fellow.”
Three days later, she sent me this:
“I was honest and open with peers and leaders in HCFA about my same-sex attraction in the same way I was honest about my other spiritual battles, and in the same way other members of HCFA often shared their struggles with trusted friends. I was welcomed on ministry teams and as an assistant bible course leader (ABCL). I was honest about my genuine commitment, even if imperfectly practiced, to observing a traditional Christian sexual ethic inconsistent with acting on same-sex attraction. To be Christian sometimes requires us to be at war with ourselves in order to be what God has called us to be, and it is critical to remember that sexuality is not the only battlefield in this campaign.”
Alice ultimately chose to never act on her “same-sex attractions” and has remained celibate to this day.
“During my four years in HCFA, I never felt like I fought alone,” she concludes.
Of course, that was never the problem. The problem was “fighting” in the first place.
“In that moment… I felt God. There was no shame. There was no guilt. It was crazy. I mean, ‘cause I spent so many years believing that kiss would mean one thing, and in a second, I realized everybody had been wrong.” — Joy Oladokun, “Sunday”
The day before I finish this piece, I scour the internet for the perfect song. Two minutes into the music video for Joy Oladokun’s “Sunday,” I know I’ve finally found it.
For the first few minutes, you can feel the dancer holding her breath. “Sunday, bury me under the weight of who you need me to be,” Oladokun sings. Pulsing beneath anthemic drums, tension twists through the dancer’s shoulders. “Sunday, carry me, carry me down to the water / Wash me clean.” But near the end, the camera finally pans — and you realize she isn’t dancing alone. Just behind her, her girlfriend slips her arm up her shoulder, and you can feel her entire body breathe. After 12 years as a contemporary dancer, it was only the second duet with two women that I’d ever seen.
It’s the most natural thing in the world.
“‘Sunday’ is the song that 12-year-old Joy, seated in the back of church youth group, needed to hear,” Oladokun told Pride (she’s talking about herself, of course, but the irony is striking). “She needed to hear that you can be queer and happy. Queer and healthy. Queer and holy. She needed to see married women kissing and playing with their kids.”
“Queer and holy.” Was there a possibility for the full, authentic embrace of queer love, queer families, queer joy within the walls of Christianity?
Flemming — who, in addition to being a proctor, is a Harvard Divinity School Graduate and “third-generation pastor” — would answer with a resounding yes. “Church as an idea is functioning antithetical to its origins if we’re not doing the work of looking out for the people who stand the farthest on the margins,” Flemming says. As the pastor of UNDRGRND Church, Flemming has chosen to live out that commitment by using his church’s tithes not for food or building upgrades, but for donations to “homeless trans brothers and sisters who have been in need of shelter.”
He bases his beliefs in a stance against biblical literalism: The Bible is “not one big document that God dropped out of the sky,” he says. When reading it, you have to take into account the text’s sociological context. “Homosexuality was not even a word until after the text was written. Most of the time when you read words referencing this idea of homosexuality, they actually mean a kind of a focused, sexual violence against someone, more like rape, molestation, or abuse — not a consenting, same-gender loving relationship,” he explains. “Two totally different things.”
For Mandi Rice, a fellow Harvard Divinity School graduate who’s interviewed nearly 100 LGBTQ Americans on their “spiritual journeys,” religion isn’t just compatible with queer love — it can help strengthen it. “From a theological claim, she shares, “I do feel like divinity is supporting me and supporting other queer people in making truly affirming and loving space for one another.” She’s found her church in particular, which “had a trans man in leadership roles and a queer woman as the rector of the church,” to be a “space of religious healing.” As she’s come to embrace that “Christian and queer can be overlapping things,” she’s found “queer people in religious leadership... have expertise in doing spiritual care with people who've experienced this kind of harm and rejection.”
Since I first signed up for the Revoice Conference, I’ve asked every question I can think of of evangelical Christianity. Out of all of them, though, I think Revoice speaker Gregory Coles, the author of “Single, Gay, Christian,” got the hardest one. We’d already been talking for over an hour — about failing our driver’s tests, loving English because of C.S. Lewis, feeling at home in a body our evangelical upbringings had often taught us to hate.
“I was doing some driving lessons with my dad,” I started off, tentatively. These days, we spend more time talking about Heaven and Hell than the rules of the road. Coles and I had been equivocating for a while, and I just wanted to know what he really thought. “If I did everything right, if I followed every scriptural teaching to a T, and I still ended up marrying a woman — would that mean that I was going to hell?” I took a second to brace myself.
“His answer was yes. Is that the answer you would give?”
In an answer over ten minutes long, Coles gave me just about every thoughtful, eloquent qualification in the book. He cited one of my absolute-favorite C.S. Lewis quotes (“I tell no one any story but his own”), wove in and out of analogies about the impossibility of entirely knowing “the going to Heaven people and the going to Hell people,” sent me the entire chapter of his book he’d written on the implications of this exact question. But, eventually he still worked up to the fatal words of 1 Corinthians 6:9-10, two verses I guessed we both already knew by heart. “Do not be deceived: Neither the sexually immoral, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor men who practice homosexuality… will inherit the kingdom of God.”
Wrapped in the most well-meaning, compassionate words in a biblical-literalist dictionary, the answer was still the same.
Correction: September 20, 2020
A previous version of this article incorrectly stated that a former HCFA ministry fellow offered Tyler S. Parker '17 help. In fact, a former HCFA student leader did so.
— Staff writer Joy C. Ashford can be reached at joy.ashford@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @joy_ashford.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The United States First Circuit Court of Appeals heard opening oral arguments Wednesday afternoon from Harvard and anti-affirmative action group Students for Fair Admissions in the group’s appeal against the District Court’s November ruling that the College does not intentionally discriminate against Asian American applicants in its admissions process.
In the 80-minute-long hearing, SFFA challenged the extent to which Harvard used race as a means of admitting students while a Harvard representative defended the District Court’s previous ruling.
SFFA attorney William S. Consovoy opened oral arguments by stressing that the Harvard admissions process is susceptible to racial bias and discrimination through subjective criteria. Consovoy alleged that Harvard admitted more Asian American applicants after SFFA filed its suit.
For the Class of 2019, Harvard admitted 21 percent of Asian American applicants, up from 19.7 percent the year before. The percentage of Asian American admits reached 24.5 percent for the Class of 2024.
Assistant Attorney General Eric S. Dreiband of the United States Department of Justice, which filed amicus briefs in support of SFFA in February, continued by highlighting the harm racial balancing in admissions and the “suspicious nature” of the personal rating — a score that is consistently lower for Asian American applicants.
The Department of Justice is leading its own investigation against Harvard’s admissions process, which was ongoing as of December 2019. In a separate investigation, the Justice Department found last month that Yale University also discriminates against Asian American applicants.
Former Solicitor General and former member of Harvard’s Board of Overseers Seth P. Waxman ‘73 defended Harvard’s race-conscious admissions policies, citing the lack of SFFA witnesses that testified about implicit bias. He also accused the research used by SFFA from Duke University economics professor Peter S. Arcidiacono of inaccuracies.
Waxman rebutted Consovoy’s claims that Harvard altered its admissions percentage and policies by providing a wider pool of statistics.
“The plaintiff claimed that the evidence here is that there was some dramatic increase in 2019, which was the class that was admitted just after this lawsuit was filed,” Waxman said. “With all due respect, that is like the rooster taking credit for the dawn.”
David Hinojosa of the Lawyers’ Committee for Civil Rights argued the University rejects academically-strong African American and Latinx students every year and provided anecdotal evidence to back Harvard’s claim that it evaluates the entire applicant irrespective to any specific criteria, including race.
“Race-conscious admissions programs like Harvard’s remain a viable tool in pursuing some of the educational benefits that flow from a diverse study body, and they also help ensure remarkable, well-rounded underrepresented students of color are not overlooked in the admissions process,” Hinojosa said.
NAACP Legal Defense and Education Fund Senior Deputy Director Jin Hee Lee, representing 26 Harvard-affiliated organizations, presented the profiles of several students of color at Harvard to argue overruling the District Court’s ruling would severely diminish overall diversity and the campus experience.
Lee also highlighted the difference between race-conscious admissions and racial stereotyping.
“Every one of the organizations that I represent condemns race discrimination against any person,” Lee said. “But this case does not seek to eliminate bias against Asian Americans, as demonstrated by the sole remedy that SFFA gives, which is the complete elimination of race conscious admissions and nothing more.”
Consovoy closed the first day of oral arguments by asserting that Asian American applicants receiving lower personal ratings can only have one explanation.
“Either Asian Americans have worse personalities and deserve lower personal scores, or something is awry,” Consovoy said. “It is one or the other.”
In an emailed statement immediately following the conclusion of oral arguments, SFFA President Edward Blum said SFFA was ready to challenge the District Court’s ruling to the end.
“It is our hope that this court will carefully examine the massive amount of irrefutable evidence we presented at trial that proved Harvard’s systematic discrimination against Asian-Americans and reverse the lower court’s ruling,” Blum said. “If necessary, Students for Fair Admissions is prepared to take this case to the U.S. Supreme Court.”
—Staff writer Benjamin L. Fu can be reached at benjamin.fu@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @BenFu_2.
—Staff writer Dohyun Kim can be reached at dohyun.kim@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @dohyunkim__.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Harvard Art Museums will remain closed through at least December 31, 2020, Director Martha Tedeschi wrote in an email to “friends and colleagues” of the museums Wednesday.
The museums shut down along with much of the rest of Harvard's campus in mid-March, toward beginning of the United States’ COVID-19 outbreak. Their decision to stay closed was informed by Harvard’s broader coronavirus safety protocols, Tedeschi wrote; only a small percentage of the student body is present on campus, and all teaching for the year will take place remotely.
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts allowed museums — among other institutions, including movie theaters and libraries — to open when it entered the third phase of its reopening plan on July 8. Few museums in Greater Boston opened immediately, however. The Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum opened on July 15, while the Boston Museum of Fine Arts is not set to open until September 26. At the time, Harvard Art Museums did not set a reopening date.
“We have been heartened to see some of our peer institutions reopen and begin to bring visitors back in safe, limited ways,” Tedeschi wrote. “As a part of the Harvard community, we are supporting the university’s careful efforts to limit the number of people on campus this fall.”
Starting in late September, some staff will be able to work onsite in the Harvard museums, supporting “high-priority” endeavors such as research, remote teaching, new acquisitions, conservation, and preparations for reopening.
Tedeschi encouraged patrons to make use of the museums’ online resources while the facilities remain closed to the public. Offerings include recorded talks, essays, and virtual tours.
“While we know virtual resources cannot take the place of experiencing the collections in person, they are nevertheless powerful in their own right and accessible to all, whether near or far,” Tedeschi wrote.
Tedeschi wrote that in the coming months, the museums will evaluate their ability to reopen next year in person “pending university approval and guidance.”
“We look forward to welcoming everyone back to the museums as soon as it is safe for the entire community,” she added.
—Staff writer Oliver L. Riskin-Kutz can be reached at oliver.riskin-kutz@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @OLRiskinKutz
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Bucking a trend among Democratic presidential tickets spanning decades, neither Joseph R. Biden nor Kamala Harris have an Ivy League degree. The same does not appear to hold true for this cycle’s political staffers, though, as many Harvard students take time off to work on political campaigns across the country.
After Harvard announced it would welcome most freshmen — along with select upperclassmen — back to campus and conduct its courses entirely online in the fall, many undergraduates expressed interest in taking a gap year or semester.
The 20 percent of undergraduates who eventually took the plunge had to confront how to spend their fall, unencumbered by coursework and other academic commitments. Some students interested in government or social justice ultimately decided to devote themselves to campaign work, voter mobilization, and other politically-oriented endeavors.
Currently based in Lorain County, Ohio, William M. Imbrie-Moore ’21 is spending the fall semester managing the campaign of Zach Stepp, a 24-year-old candidate running for the Ohio State House.
“It's a really, really close district, and he’s running a really competitive campaign so it’s an exciting time on the ground,” he said.
As campaign manager, Imbrie-Moore is responsible for overseeing the campaign’s voter outreach, fundraising operations, endorsements, and more.
“The virus has made it challenging not being able to knock on doors like we want to, but it's definitely been a great experience to apply a lot of the experiences I've had on campus at Harvard to this campaign and lead a big voter contact and political operation,” Imbrie-Moore said.
While some students are working at the state level, others are engaged in local elections.
Patrick Barham Quesada ’21 deferred what would have been his final year at the College to support Democrat Daniella Levine Cava in the race for Miami-Dade county’s mayorship.
“It's the second most powerful position in Florida, and it's a really important race for Democrats, at least, because it’s a chance for us to flip it,” he said, explaining that Republicans have held the post for 20 years.
Barham Quesada, who concentrates in Government with a secondary in Sociology, said he manages social media, communications, and press releases for Levine Cava’s campaign.
“Basically everything that's forward facing — everything that comes out of the campaign — originates in my office, on my team, and it's been really cool,” he said. “I think there's certainly a value to having that grassroots experience — of campaigning and all that. So often people go straight from Harvard or Ivy League institutions right to strategy or right to high level positions and they miss out on knowing how it worked on the ground.”
Though working on a campaign is “a unique opportunity,” Barham Quesada, a Crimson Editorial editor, said it is as much, if not more, work than school. He estimated working up to 80 hours per week this semester.
Ben Gallagher ’23 is working as a fellow with the Michigan Democratic Party to help elect Democrats “up and down the ballot” in the Great Lakes State. He said he spends his time phone banking and field organizing.
“With the election being so high stakes, in my mind at least, having the opportunity or possibility — or maybe just it being more normalized — to take time off allows me to work on something that I see as important,” he said.
In addition to fulfilling a moral imperative, Gallagher said this experience will give him the “foundational” skills he needs to pursue his interest in potentially entering the public sector.
Beyond working on campaigns, some students are engaging in political research and consulting more broadly.
During his semester away from campus, Andrew S. Charroux ’23 said he is working full-time for Way to Win, a “homebase” for progressive donors and organizers looking to strategically approach political funding and advance “transformative” policy.
Though Charroux committed to taking a leave of absence before he had officially locked in his political internship, he said he saw the decision as a “leap of faith.”
“My decision to take time off was rooted in optimism about my potential to make a political difference,” he said.
“I knew I wanted to do something to help progressive Democratic leaders with the kind of research needs that I could offer,” he added. “I did a lot of digging online for job postings to see where I could be best used in this political fight for a more progressive future.”
Charroux said he plans to assist on-the-ground organizers and community leaders with political research and strategy to build a more “united and well-funded” progressive movement in the Democratic party.
“It's all about looking at the future of what the Democratic party could be if you invest in underrepresented candidates and community leaders who can have the grassroots organizing base for progressive leaders to really rise out of these communities,” Charroux said.
Charroux said he is also working part-time with the political and corporate research firm Jones Mandel, where he will work on vetting candidates as well as conducting and compiling “comprehensive” and “digestible” research for various clients.
Diverging from some of her peers, Sofia Andrade ’23 is making her foray into politics as a journalist, rather than as an organizer or a campaign worker. During her leave this fall, she is working at the outlet Who What Why to cover the 2020 election in Florida, with a focus on electoral policies and voter suppression.
“It's definitely been great to learn more about the political process from a journalist’s perspective. I really have to go very deep into everything I write about,” said Andrade, a Crimson Arts editor. “I become like an expert on each little thing.”
Like Gallagher, she said her fall semester job might bear on her plans post-Harvard.
“Moving forward career-wise, I do want to go into journalism or some sort of political job,” Andrade added. “This job has just been really great in dipping my toe in the water in both of those sectors.”
Though Charroux said he has not decided whether he will return to campus after the fall, he said he is certain he will continue working in politics after the November election.
“With politics, when you're looking to really change the direction of the country and have long lasting policy wins, you can't just focus on the election,” Charroux said. “There's more than just the election cycle and after November, there's still gonna be more work that needs to be done.”
—Staff writer Juliet E. Isselbacher can be reached at juliet.isselbacher@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @julietissel.
—Staff writer Amanda Y. Su can be reached at amanda.su@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @amandaysu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
As budgets shrink and student activities go remote, campus extracurricular groups are scrambling to remain financially viable amid the uncertainty created by the coronavirus pandemic.
Akanksha Sah ’21, the president of Harvard Student Agencies, said the non-profit has prioritized its financial resources to continue employing as many students as possible since having to discard its initial budget and financial projections in March.
“Our initial projections were thrown out the window pretty quickly, and then we had to make sure we were using whatever money we did have to funnel it into the right places,” Sah said. “It’s not easy being a company in a pandemic economy, but we’re trying our absolute hardest to make sure that we set HSA up for many more years of success in the future.”
Harvard Student Agencies employs more than 600 student employees each year who are responsible for a variety of tasks, ranging from manning The Harvard Shop's storefronts to collecting and delivering laundry to students across campus. However, these positions have been largely understaffed due to a current University policy that bars Harvard students from in-person employment.
Despite running into hiring obstacles due to University policy, Sah added that HSA is “really happy” about the new microfridge partnership between the company and the University this year.
“Normally, we rent microfridges out directly to the students,” Sah explained. “This year, given that the students all have grab-and-go meals and they are all cold, we and the University worked over the summer to put a microfridge in every single dorm so every single student who is living on campus could have one.”
Financial reassessment has not been the only challenge faced by extracurricular groups in recent months. When undergraduates were mandated to leave campus in March, many student groups were forced to shift their operations to the video conferencing platform Zoom.
Among the groups affected are several performing arts organizations, which often relied heavily on ticket sales and advertising to generate revenue in past semesters.
Jennifer Y. Wang ’22, president of the Harvard-Radcliffe Orchestra, said ticket sales make up the bulk of the organizations’ annual revenue. That usually includes sales from a tour in China — an excursion HRO cancelled this year. The reduced earnings from ticket sales is negated by the lack of concert costs, according to Wang.
“It all balanced out because for most of our concerts, we also do end up spending a decent amount of money,” she said. “But not having a final performance last year meant that we got to save that, even though we didn't generate any revenue from ticket sales.”
HRO alumni have also provided aid to the group to combat the difficulties presented by the remote format.
“We have an alumni foundation that fundraises for us, which wasn't affected too much by the pandemic because they can still operate as normal,” Wang said.
Mary L. Reynolds, music director for the Harvard-Radcliffe Gilbert and Sullivan Players, said the organization's board is working on “finagling” the budget to account for the loss of ticket revenue and plan for the future. She added, however, that ticket revenue is not the first concern of the group, but rather its members' wellbeing.
“It is not the priority of the board to generate revenue through ticket sales this semester,” she said. “And we don't and have never and would never ask for member dues.”
Reynolds also said that the order to vacate campus back in March came at a very “inopportune time” for the group, which was ramping up efforts for a new show at the time. She added, however, that profits from past shows created enough “cash on hand” to support the group’s activities throughout this semester — which will be the first in decades in which the group will not perform.
Though the unfamiliar format of a remote semester leaves student groups without a roadmap, organization leaders have worked to innovate in their group’s operations.
Wang said that in lieu of physical concerts, the HRO will create an online concert composed of member students performing their parts individually and having the production professionally edited. She said this project, along with events such as socials and professional masterclasses, will keep members engaged this semester; however, the new format will still be a challenge, according to Wang.
“We are a student organization and we are part of Harvard,” she said. “But we're not getting money from Harvard. When we want to do things, we have to get that money ourselves. We have to fundraise. We have to figure out things on our own.”
—Staff writer Sydnie M. Cobb can be reached at sydnie.cobb@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @cobbsydnie.
—Staff writer Declan J. Knieriem can be reached at declan.knieriem@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter at @DeclanKnieriem.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Following Harvard Kennedy School’s decision to conduct an entirely online fall semester, students at the school are navigating novel challenges ranging from faraway time zones to childcare.
For some students, the decision to enroll this fall was a difficult one given HKS programs' often short timespan and students’ expectations of a Harvard education.
Allan D. Franklin, an international student enrolled in the Kennedy School’s mid-career Master in Public Administration program, said moving online was an “off-putting” prospect.
“When I heard I got accepted to Harvard, you kind of get an image in your head, being on campus, doing all the types of campus things, seeing people going to buildings, going to classes, meeting people, in person,” Franklin said. “So up until maybe, I don't know, mid-June that’s the image I had in my head. So now, just being here and stuck in front of my computer is a little bit off-putting to say the least.”
Franklin — who is currently residing in Barbados — is participating in a one-year program. He may never get the chance to be on Harvard's campus.
“A number of the persons associated with the program are like ‘We will see you in spring,’” Franklin said. “But my survival mechanism, I can't think of a spring at Harvard. I don’t want to build up my hopes because there's still a very real chance it may not come true.”
For other students, the decision to have the fall entirely online has been an unforeseen advantage in their studies. Danielle A. Callaway, who is also enrolled in the Kennedy School’s mid-career MPA program, said taking classes from her home country of Kenya has allowed her to have a more steady work-life balance, as she has more widely available childcare back home.
“It's possible to have either a live-in or kind of full-time nanny,” she said.
“It's been very easy for me in terms of juggling, childcare, and school, and definitely much easier than if I were in Cambridge,” Callaway added.
Callaway — who has to deal with a seven-hour time difference — said her professors have been very accommodating and that most of her courses are taught during her waking hours. The professors of courses that happen during odd hours have allowed her to take classes on her own time, she added.
Callaway is not alone in facing the challenge of balancing parenting with being a full-time student at the Kennedy School. For students like Allison M. Agsten, whose children’s instruction is entirely online, facilitating their classwork as well as succeeding in her own courses has posed a new challenge.
Still, Agsten said she has been able to adjust her courseload to “manage that moment.” The Kennedy School has offered alternate schedules for courses in order to accommodate students. Agsten, who is from California, has had to make adjustments in order to accommodate her children’s school, even taking classes as early as 4:30 a.m.
“I have skewed my schedule towards the very early morning. My classes start between 4:30 a.m. and 7:30 a.m.,” Agsten said. “But I'm done mid-morning, and that way I'm able to help facilitate my kids’ distance learning as needed and then be available when they're done at the end of the day to help with homework or anything they might want to go over in their day.”
“It's a lot,” she added. “It's much more difficult than if my children were in school during the day, and we had some physical separation from one another.”
Kennedy School student Yaneth J. “Joana” Ortiz, had to manage health and personal challenges posed by the COVID-19 pandemic. Ortiz said that the death of a close relative forced her to leave her residence to spend time with family.
Ortiz, a member of the school’s Latinx Caucus, said she is a first-generation of “pretty much anything you can think of” and that her relative’s death demonstrates the disparate ways the pandemic has affected Harvard students.
“We're a Latino family in Texas. We are a statistic. We’ve added numbers to the disproportionate statistics. And so I, to be honest, felt kind of alone in that,” Ortiz said. “I'm not saying that others aren't dealing with the same thing, but the majority of my class aren’t dealing with this direct cause, just because of the accessibility of resources.”
Ortiz said this moment forced her to grapple with the lessons people can learn from the pandemic and who it is affecting.
“Something I’m reflecting on is, just what are the different levels of privilege?” she said. “What can we learn from this? And how can that impact and influence our learnings and how we take that into our careers in less than a year?”
Despite their distance, students have been able to connect with each other through technology and social media. The mid-career MPA program made a WhatsApp group for enrollees.
“To say that we have an active WhatsApp culture in my class would be an enormous understatement,” Agsten said.
Callaway said those who chose to enroll this year, even given the circumstances, call themselves the “Harvengers—like a Harvard Avengers.” She added that she thinks taking the risk to enroll despite the uncertainty makes them “superheroes in their own right.”
“Those who said yes [to enrolling] care less about the Harvard experience per se and more about changing the world when the world needs it most,” Agsten said. “Those are the kind of folks that I want to be around. So I'm glad I made the decision to come to HKS.”
—Staff writer Raquel Coronell Uribe can be reached at raquel.coronelluribe@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @raquelco15.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Organismic and Evolutionary Biology assistant professor Javier Ortega-Hernández, as part of a team of international paleontologists, has discovered a new shrimp-like species originating from the early Cambrian period through a technique called micro-computed tomography.
The species — whose discovery was announced in a paper published in BMC Evolutionary Biology this summer — lived approximately 518 million years ago and is the distant ancestor of some of today’s arthropods, such as spiders and crustaceans.
The species, named Xiaocaris luoi, possessed 810 dagger-like spines distributed among its 54 legs, which it used to tear apart prey it found on the ocean floor. The species, however, was quite small in length, measuring 2 centimeters. Through micro-CT imaging, the researchers were also able to determine that the shrimp-like creature had a boomerang-shaped head and a pair of antennae capable of detecting the environment.
Ortega-Hernández said that while his was not the first research team to employ micro-CT imaging, the technique’s application to studying fossils such as these was novel. Micro-CT, unlike conventional imaging methods, allows paleontologists to visualize fossils which have been tightly bound into rock.
“Many of the fossils we work with are pretty flattened, so that leaves us with only one side of the fossil to work with,” Ortega-Hernández said. “We really risk damaging these important specimens if we are not really careful, so it is not practical to attempt to dislodge them from the rock to which they are attached.”
Through micro-CT imaging, the researchers were able to take advantage of the difference in density between the fossil and the attached rock in order to take X-ray photographs of the fossil. The X-ray machine is able to take thousands of photographs of the fossil as the fossil slowly turns on a rotating stage.
“So by the time this process finishes, we have a 360-degree view which we can compile into an interactive depiction of the animal,” Ortega-Hernández said.
“We have an opportunity to re-study tens, almost hundreds, of species we knew of before, but with the potential of obtaining critical new information from them,” Ortega-Hernández added. “Even though it is the same material, we now have tools that allow us to get much more detail from them.”
For the past five years, Ortega-Hernández has collaborated with Yu Liu, a paleobiology professor from Yunnan University in China, to study the Cambrian fossils. Since many of the fossils originate from Yunnan Province — in an area replete with well-preserved fossils known as Chengjiang Biota — Liu’s lab in China conducts the majority of micro-CT imaging. The digital scans are then sent to Ortega-Hernández, where he remotely studies the fossils.
In describing his partnership with Liu, Ortega-Hernández said he has had “many fruitful discussions which led to insights, and ultimately this discovery” since first connecting in 2015.
Chair of the OEB Department Elena M. Kramer wrote in an email that she believes Ortega-Hernández’s approach of applying micro-CT to analyze previously unearthed fossils will “yield startling details and insight.”
Director of the Museum of Comparative Zoology James Hanken similarly wrote in an email that Ortega-Hernández’s research has “revealed a vast, underappreciated diversity of species during the Cambrian era.”
“These data are helping to resolve longstanding debates regarding the evolutionary relationships among invertebrate animals alive today and of how these groups--and their ancestors--waxed and waned over geologic time,” Hanken wrote.
—Staff writer Meera S. Nair can be reached at meera.nair@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Researchers affiliated with MIT, Cardiff University, Harvard, and other institutions have discovered potential signs of life on Venus in the form of phosphine gas in the planet’s atmosphere.
The presence of phosphine, the scientists argue in a study published Monday, cannot be explained by currently known chemical and physical processes. The possibility of extraterrestrial life, therefore, could present a possible solution.
While astronomers around the world have been exploring the moons of Jupiter and Saturn — as well as exoplanets outside our solar system — for signs of life, Venus’ apparently uninhabitable conditions previously rendered it an unlikely candidate. A rocky planet around the same size as Earth, Venus features scorching surface temperatures of over 860 degrees Fahrenheit and contains corrosive sulfuric acid droplets in its atmosphere.
But although the theory of life on Venus is unexpected, the researchers have ruled out other known explanations for the presence of phosphine in its atmosphere, according to Sukrit Ranjan, an MIT postdoctoral fellow and co-author of the study. One of their only remaining hypotheses is that the phosphine was produced by anaerobic microbial organisms, as occurs on Earth.
“We asked, ‘Can any of the things that we currently know about explain the presence of phosphine in the planet's atmosphere?’” Ranjan said. “The answer to that question was no. And then we asked, ‘What's left?’ Well, what's left is some kind of physics or chemistry or geology that we don't know about, or by analogy with phosphine production in modern Earth, what's left is biology.”
The study—which was a collaboration between scientists in the U.S., U.K., and Japan—originated from work conducted by Cardiff University astronomy professor Jane S. Greaves, who set out to test previous theories of life on Venus by inspecting the planet’s atmosphere. After unexpectedly discovering phosphine gas in the clouds of Venus, Greaves was put in touch with the lab of MIT planetary science and physics professor Sara Seager, who had been studying phosphine gas as a potential indicator of life on exoplanets.
Using more advanced telescopes in Chile and Hawaii, the teams detected 5 to 20 parts per billion of phosphine, a few orders of magnitude more than in Earth’s atmosphere. The scientists conducted additional experiments to test whether currently known processes could have produced the gas.
Although the initial results of the study show astonishing findings, Seager wrote in an email that to fully confirm the existence of phosphine on Venus, the team would have to detect the gas particles at different wavelengths, such as infrared.
“We’d like to see phosphine gas absorption on Venus at wavelengths other than the detection wavelength,” Seager wrote. “The discovery was made with radio telescopes. The confirmation might happen at IR wavelengths. However phosphine has very weak absorption at IR wavelengths so might be a challenge.”

In addition to detecting phosphine through telescopes, Seager’s team also hopes to verify its findings via a space mission to the neighboring planet.

“I’m leading a privately-sponsored study to consider a space mission to Venus to search for signs of life or even life itself,” Seager added.

—Staff writer Ethan Lee can be reached at ethan.lee@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
To most at Harvard, Richard A. Smith ’46 is perhaps best known for what former University President Drew G. Faust called his “last gift” to the University: the donation that enabled the redesign and renovation of what is now the Richard A. and Susan F. Smith Campus Center. But his generosity to Harvard extended well beyond just the hub for student gatherings.
After inheriting his family’s chain of drive-in theatres at the age of 36, Smith built the General Cinema Corporation into the nation’s largest movie theatre chain, in part by incorporating cinemas into shopping centers.
He also purchased the American Beverage Corporation — where he created the brand Sunkist — the chain Neiman Marcus, and a publishing company.
His success, though, was not self-serving.
Over the course of his lifetime, Smith donated over $750 million dollars to organizations in Greater Boston — including over $100 million to the Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, where he chaired the board of trustees. He also gave multiple gifts to Harvard, including endowed graduate fellowships.
After a lifetime of charity, Smith died last week at his home in Chestnut Hill at the age of 95.
In addition to his financial largess, Smith was generous to Harvard with his time, serving on both governing boards of the University.
From 1989 to 1991, he sat on its second-highest body, the Board of Overseers, before being tapped for the Harvard Corporation, where he was a member until 2000.
He also sat on the board of the Harvard Management Company, which oversees the University’s endowment, and served as a member of the Harvard College Fund Council.
University President Lawrence S. Bacow wrote in a statement that Smith loved the University and often viewed it with a “critical eye.”
“Dick Smith loved Harvard, and he always looked on the institution with a critical eye — wondering how it could and should be improved for the people who would care for it after him,” Bacow wrote “The University we know today would not be the same without his efforts and his generosity.”
“Together with his wife Susan, Dick created for all of us a campus center that has truly become the heart of our community, a gathering place that celebrates the best of what we can be when we are together — creative, energized, and optimistic,” he added. “He will be greatly missed and fondly remembered.”

Faust wrote in an email to The Crimson that Smith was “deeply devoted” to the University.

“Dick Smith was deeply devoted to Harvard, serving as a member of the Corporation and supporting an array of endeavors across the University, ranging from scientific research and graduate fellowships to his landmark gift establishing the Smith Center,” Faust wrote.
She added that it was a “privilege” to work with him on the development of the Smith Center. The construction of the Center, from 2013 to 2018, overlapped with her tenure as president, from 2007 to 2018.
“It was my great privilege to work with him on this last gift and to witness his excitement about the potential to transform the heart of the campus community by creating a central space for gatherings and interactions,” she wrote. “His vision and generosity will live on and continue to shape all our lives.”
Smith was predeceased by his wife, but is survived by three children, eight grandchildren, and six great-grandchildren.
Correction: September 18, 2020
A previous version of this article incorrectly stated that Richard Smith lived in Brookline. In fact, he lived in Chestnut Hill in Newton.
—Staff writer Camille G. Caldera can be reached at camille.caldera@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @camille_caldera.
—Staff writer Michelle G. Kurilla can be reached at michelle.kurilla@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @MichelleKurilla.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Dear Snow Day,
Let us start with the facts. Some online digging has shown that between November and April, it snows for about 22 days every year in Cambridge. Considering that we were on campus for most of that time, it’s reasonable to hope that Harvard would have had a big snow storm at some point. In particular, we mean big enough to get class cancelled. Spoiler alert — this didn’t happen.
We are pretty disappointed that you never came. Yes, it’s easy to be mad when snow gets in your boots and makes your socks wet, or when it piles on trees in the Yard and flies into your eyes when you take a walk. But while some people associate snow with sniffles and shivers, I like to think about the snowflakes and hot chocolate and most importantly, you.
You probably don’t know or realize how much we miss you, but believe me, twenty-four hours of no class and complaining about the weather is exactly what every college student needs in the middle of midterm season. I don’t know what your excuses are for not happening this year. Maybe you didn’t feel like it. Maybe you were running late. Or maybe global warming just didn’t let you (I’ll forgive you if it was this one).
A single snow day may not sound like a big deal to Northeast natives, and it’s probably not. But believe me when I tell you, many of us who come from places where it doesn’t snow have been WAITING for you for months. Now that we’re in quarantine in California or Hawaii or Florida or anywhere else with warm weather, all of us winter-wannabes will never get to meet you.
Before you say you’ll be back next year, I must sadly remind you that the rise of Zoom may render you obsolete. Next time we’re snowed in, will it be a day of virtual backgrounds and remote class? I hope this isn’t goodbye forever, but rather only goodbye for now. As long as the snow keeps coming, we hope you will too.
Sincerely,
Your friends who miss you the most
Sections
Of all the things we’ll miss the most this semester, Lamont definitely makes the top of the list. Who wouldn’t miss those late night study sessions-turned-hangouts-turned-all-nighters? Do you consider yourself a Lamonster? Are you craving those delectable, one of a kind LamCaf snacks and drinks? C’mon, we know you do. But even though Lamont might be hundreds or thousands of miles away, we’ve found some ways to recreate that unique ~ambiance~ at home.
— For the times when your taste buds are feeling a bit nostalgic, try to recreate the delicious tastes of LamCaf. We know that java chip drink isn’t actually coffee, but who cares? Make it and show off that hand-crafted drink to your Zoom section :)
— If you’re feeling like a chef, recreate one of those delicious vending machine snacks that only seem to exist in LamCaf (for real though, why do some snacks ONLY exist in Lamont and not CGIS?). Want a salty, yet sweet snack? Try making yogurt covered pretzels, or if you’re too busy finishing up that assignment or are stuck in Zoom meetings for days, order them online (that’s probably what we’ll do).
— Though Lamont might be a library, the noises of Lamont would say otherwise. Miss finishing up that last minute paper amid people talking (yelling?) in the nooks of Lamont? Background noise comes in many forms, so check out this background music from the mindfulness genre (hopefully this three hour clip will be enough time to finish your CS50 pset!).
— 24/7. Save your work for the last minute just like you did when you knew you could always head over to Lamont. Just kidding.
— Recreate your LamCaf table by setting up a virtual one! For real. Send out a Zoom invite to all of your Lamont friends, bring some snacks and drinks, and study or talk until the wee hours of the morning (or until your computer runs out of charge or the 45 minutes of Zoom expire).
Though recreating Lamont might not be exactly the same as Lamont itself, these tips and tricks will definitely help on those nights when you really do miss it. And if you’re really missing it a bit too much, print out a picture of Lamont and paste it on top of your desk for ~inspiration~. We’ll also probably be doing that too.
