News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
A postponed Commencement is trivial compared to the larger traumas the COVID-19 epidemic has caused. But it is still a symbolic loss for our graduating class, the kind of loss that newsfeeds, declining case numbers, and response plans do not heal. There is perhaps only one thing we can say to help: It happened before.
Harvard Commencement has been disrupted many times because of epidemics. The first time was almost 300 years ago, in 1721.
It was a different world then. Massachusetts Bay Colony was a British Royal Province, enjoying a moment of peace between wars with France. You would probably cross the Charles River by ferry, paying a toll that went to Harvard College. Harvard consisted of just a handful of buildings; only Massachusetts Hall survives. The entire graduating cohort would fit in a small classroom: somewhere around 70 white males, split roughly in half between bachelor and master’s degree candidates. The majority of the class would embark on religious or academic careers — among them Isaac Greenwood, who became the first professor of mathematics at the College, and Ebenezer M. Pemberton, who would co-found Princeton University.
As one can imagine, students of 1721 also expected a different kind of ceremony. Commencement generally happened in early July. Students performed orations in Latin and Greek, and answered questions on Metaphysics and Ethics, among other topics. They wore usual black habits, but gowns were not yet required. There were no official personal diplomas yet either, although individuals could commission their own. The governor of Massachusetts would be there, along with the general public. There were some troubles and “extravagancies,” so that year Harvard prohibited mixed drinks with distilled spirits.
But in April 1721, passengers infected with smallpox traveled from the West Indies to Boston on the H.M.S. Seahorse. The disease spread rapidly, killing over 800 people in the city. There was no vaccine and hardly any medicine. Many simply fled — and Harvard decided that only a small, private commencement would be held.
Smallpox did not stop one Boston doctor, Zabdiel Boylston, from courageously fighting back. Boylston was asked in June 1721 by Cotton Mather (the youngest Harvard graduate in history and the son of former Harvard president Increase Mather) to try inoculation, the medical technique of injecting into a healthy patient the cells of an infected patient who had recovered. Though inoculation was controversial at the time, Boylston accepted. He inoculated his six-year-old son and 180-250 people in Boston, of which only six passed away.
Despite his success, Boylston was accused of poisoning and of “taking God’s work out of His hand.” He was regularly criticized in the columns of a newspaper managed by James Franklin, the older brother of Benjamin. Nonetheless, the idea of inoculation started to slowly gain ground — so much so that in 1777, George Washington decided that his soldiers would be inoculated. And in 1796, English doctor Edward Jenner twisted the process by inoculating people with cowpox and successfully created a vaccine.
Although Harvard Commencement would still be canceled several times due to smallpox after 1721, by the time the last smallpox epidemic hit Boston in 1903, the vaccine meant that Commencement could be held. And 76 years later, the World Health Organization announced the global eradication of smallpox.
So, what lessons can we take from the story of smallpox at Harvard?
First, Harvard’s DNA is full of stories of epidemics. These start not in 1721, but actually track back to the founding of our University. In 1638, one of the members of the first Board of Overseers, the gallant lieutenant-colonel Roger Harlakenden, died from smallpox. Half a year later, the Board was likely mourning his death when it decided that this college in Newton, Massachusetts (soon to become Cambridge) would bear the name of a generous benefactor who had just died from tuberculosis — John Harvard.
Second, history helps if we are willing to feel smaller than our own. It takes humility to recognize that we still feel as powerless in front of a virus as our predecessors did 300 years ago. But this is the same kind of humility that can help us feel more empathy regarding the generations that will come after us.
Third, change takes more than a lifetime, and we should feel happy about it. It took 258 years and the continued leadership, courage, and creativity of so many others for Zabdiel Boylston’s dream of fully eradicating smallpox to materialize. As we leave Harvard, let’s recall that we won’t necessarily see all the changes we seek. Our action will help future generations, and it should already give us great joy.
We are part of a story of tragedy and epidemy. Our ancestors went through the same uncertainty we do. Their courage, imagination, and unity can inspire ours. They carried on, so we can carry on. And this is maybe worth all the selfies in regalia, the chanting Facebook posts, and the graduation trips that we have lost. It is, at least, the best we can hope for.
Henri J.X. Brebant is a graduate student at the Harvard Kennedy School. 
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The British author Aldous Huxley forever canonized a phrase that became the title of his most famous novel: a “brave new world.” Though originally from Shakespeare, it is employed by Huxley with a bitter sense of irony, referring to the novel’s dystopian and unrecognizable world of the future.
It’s hard not to apply the allegory to our current predicament, as we start the “first inning” of what may be many months of wearing face masks, keeping six-foot distancing, and avoiding gatherings in public places. As we settle into this routine, it’s also difficult not to feel some acute sense of loss, particularly within our own College community; in some ways, the transitions that we have made — and will continue to make — as a College may be more abrupt than even a Huxley novel could have imagined.
In March, the whole situation seemed most cruel to seniors, who lost their last two months of college and their Commencement. As the projections for this virus lengthened, however, it turned out that juniors were hit pretty hard as well. Their final year of college will look vastly different from the junior year that they left behind, and it’s possible that much of their senior year could be online. Many lost summer internships — either canceled altogether or vastly reduced in length — that they had originally lined up, often a year in advance. Others could be looking for a post-graduate job when unemployment levels are at their highest since the Great Depression.
We could say the same, though, for sophomores and freshmen. Sophomores will see significant disruptions — in areas ranging from athletics to student organizations — after investing a great deal of time in these groups during their underclassman years. Freshmen have been put into Houses that they may not step foot into for a long time, and they have left campus without even declaring a concentration.
Not to mention newly admitted students, who simply won’t know Harvard like we do for quite some time. They won’t know what it’s like to see sunsets over the Charles, make a midnight run to Jefe’s, or wake up on winter mornings to see the Yard blanketed in snow. And even upon return, it’s very possible that their Harvard experience won’t look the same. They might not even have freshman roommates, eat together as a class in Annenberg, or come to know a group of blockmates in the same way that most of us did. By comparison, the seniors that got 3.75 normal years of Harvard seem rather lucky.
So, the point in saying all of this? We can make the argument that one class is worse off than the next. Which is probably true, but also a little irrelevant.
There’s a saying in golf that you have to play the ball where it lies. In other words, you can’t shift the ball from where it landed on your previous shot. The bigger lesson of this, however, is that the position is already set. It’s a given. Whatever time we dedicate to thinking about the ball’s lie takes away from our focus for the next shot. To borrow an economic term, we are dealing with something that is similar to a sunk cost; what’s already happened can’t be recovered, and our decision-making from this point forward shouldn’t take that spilled milk into account.
And while 2020 may bring the beginning of a brave new world, let us offer up a different interpretation than Huxley’s. We should define a world that is brave because it is courageous. One that — despite being “made weak by time and fate,” as Alfred Tennyson wrote — continues to push forward with “one equal temper of heroic hearts,” synchronized to the singular goal of making the best of what is to come.
There are stories of experiences, unique in the centuries-old history of Harvard College, to be written in the coming semesters. They will be about new and continued friendships, the constancy of a world-class education that will resume in the fall, and a community that has shared a common challenge unknown to almost all students in Harvard’s past. So while we have lost quite a bit, the Classes of 2021 through 2024 will also be the ones to shape these moments. We ought not to miss them by looking in the rearview mirror.
Andrew W. Liang ’21, a Crimson Editorial editor, is a Social Studies concentrator in Adams House. His column appears on alternate Thursdays.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard administrators have yet to respond to a petition they received over a month ago calling for an extension on non-tenure-track faculty appointments due to the coronavirus pandemic, a group of non-tenure-track faculty wrote in a press release Monday.
More than 1,100 people have signed the petition, which urges Harvard to extend non-tenure-track faculty time caps by at least one year given the bleak economic outlook and public health crisis. Faculty organizers delivered their demands to University President Lawrence S. Bacow and Provost Alan M. Garber ’76 on April 7, according to History and Literature lecturer Alex W. Corey.
The petition states that, without a policy change, non-tenure-track faculty who are “timing out” this spring may be left without income and health insurance during the pandemic. It further argues the pandemic stripped some non-tenure-track faculty of months of research and job-seeking opportunities.
The Monday press release argues non-tenure-track faculty will serve a critical function whether the upcoming fall semester is on campus or not, citing the teaching awards non-tenure-track faculty have received and their advising relationships with undergraduates. The University previously announced it will open in the fall, though the semester may be partially or fully virtual.
“Whether the fall semester is remote or on campus, non-tenure-track faculty will be indispensable to assuring its success,” it reads.
The petition organizers calculated that non-tenure-track faculty taught 53 percent of Harvard undergraduates during the fall 2019 semester.
Faculty of Arts and Sciences spokesperson Rachael Dane declined to comment on the petition or the press release.
FAS Dean Claudine Gay declined to say in an April interview whether she would extend non-tenure-track faculty appointments, drawing a distinction between the different “contexts” in which tenure-track and non-tenure-track faculty are hired.
She said non-tenure-track faculty are in teaching appointments “based on curricular need,” whereas tenure-track faculty are not. FAS evaluates faculty for tenure based on a combination of research, teaching, advising, and “citizenship,” according to its tenure-track handbook.
“Lecturers and preceptors play a very important role in carrying out our teaching mission at Harvard,” Gay added.
In March, Harvard offered one-year contract extensions to many tenure-track faculty, citing the disruption to their research the pandemic caused.
While administrators have not offered a similar extension to all non-tenure-track faculty, some academic departments have extended appointments of non-tenure-track faculty based on curricular need, according to Dane.
Ron R. Ramsubhag, who has been a preceptor in Chemistry and Chemical Biology for three years, said he learned in mid-April that his appointment would not be renewed this year due to cutbacks in his department.
Ramsubhag said although he knew there was a chance he would lose his job this year, the transition to Zoom classes made it difficult for him to enter the job market.
“With the whole pandemic happening, it’s so hard to concentrate on applying for jobs when you have to go online,” he said. “I couldn’t even apply for jobs or think about jobs, because all I'm thinking about right now is that I have to make sure that the class is still running.”
Ramsubhag added the pandemic has created one other issue for his job search: increased competition for his next position.
“When you find out that you’re losing your job and it’s almost May and you're like, ‘oh, wait a second, you want me to find a job in two months with this going on?’” he said. “I'm pretty sure a lot of people are looking for jobs.”
—Staff writer James S. Bikales can be reached at james.bikales@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @jamepdx.
—Staff writer Kevin R. Chen can be reached at kevin.chen@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @kchenx.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
In wake of the University’s announcement last month that Harvard would resume teaching and research in the fall, undergraduates penned a petition to the administration arguing against a virtual fall semester.
Signatories to the petition — dubbed #NoVirtualFall — condemned the University’s plan to hold an open fall “no matter what.” The petition has garnered signatures from nearly 700 undergraduates, parents, and alumni as of Tuesday evening, according to organizer Sanika S. Mahajan ’21.
“We call on Harvard College to postpone, rather than virtually begin, the fall semester if COVID19 conditions prevent the timely commencement of on-campus activities,” the petition reads.
Mahajan said more than 150 signatories provided comments explaining why they oppose an online fall semester and sharing the difficulties virtual learning poses to them.
She added that she decided to launch the petition in response to University Provost Alan M. Garber’s ’76 email last month announcing that Harvard would open for the fall term. The email elicited anxiety and confusion from students, who raised concerns about continued changes to inequality, grading, international travel, and extracurriculars.
Mahajan said she hoped the petition would press the University to prioritize student feedback alongside public health considerations.
The petition cites challenges “vulnerable students” taking online courses might face, including inability to access consistent WiFi, quiet study spaces, and in-person academic resources. It raises further concerns on behalf of students with medical and mental health concerns which may be worsened by studying at home, as well as students in toxic or abusive home situations.
“Harvard has long admitted that one of the most important factors in ensuring the richness of such an education is the diversity of its admitted students,” the petition reads. “Virtual learning, however, also threatens to tear the very fabric of this diversity by eliminating the equalizing force of campus life.”
It also argues that the inequities of virtual education will prove especially detrimental to the incoming freshman class.
“The academic, social and personal rigors of undergraduate life require great adjustment, and facing them virtually without the support of peers and community will intensify the negative effects,” the petition reads.
Finally, the letter expresses skepticism over whether the College has the remote infrastructure to support students from afar.
Mahajan said she worries a fully virtual fall would bring an end to some of the measures Harvard took to level the academic field this spring. In March, the Faculty of Arts and Sciences adopted a universal Satisfactory-Unsatisfactory grading system to account for challenges wrought by COVID-19 after weeks of student debate.
“A virtual fall is rife with inequities, similarly to the end of the spring semester that was conducted virtually,” she said. “This is especially concerning if there was a return to letter grading.”
Dean of the College Rakesh Khurana wrote in an email to undergraduates last month that FAS intends to decide no later than July whether the College’s residential campus will reopen for the fall semester.
The #NoVirtualFall effort is not the first petition to express misgivings about the prospect of a virtual fall. Before Garber’s announcement, parents of undergraduates and a group of prospective students both pushed the administration to delay the semester until it can be held on-campus.
Khurana wrote in an emailed statement Tuesday that he appreciates students’ suggestions about how the College might open for the fall. He also wrote that administrators will aim to consider these ideas alongside other pragmatic factors, such as the pandemic’s course and testing availability.
"As many students have expressed both directly to the College and in this petition, I want nothing more than to have our students living and learning on campus this fall. With that said, the College will not bring students back to campus unless or until we can do it safely,” Khurana wrote. “While I appreciate students' desires for the fall semester, we must plan for all possibilities and do so with their health, safety, and academic progress as our ultimate priority."
Mahajan said she and other signatories do not presume full knowledge of the factors Harvard will weigh in its planning for the fall term.
“While it’s not our aim to act like we know best about all of that, I think we are putting forth a very clear preference between two options,” Mahajan said.
“Currently, it's a situation where no one even knows what the options might be in a few months,” she added. “But as those options become clearer and clearer, we want to be regularly informed as an entire study body and be involved in those decisions.”
—Staff writer Juliet E. Isselbacher can be reached at juliet.isselbacher@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @julietissel
—Staff writer Amanda Y. Su can be reached at amanda.su@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @amandaysu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Dean of Students Office is currently preparing for a multitude of scenarios for the fall semester as uncertainty continues to swirl around whether undergraduates will return to campus, Dean of Students Katherine G. O’Dair said in an interview Tuesday.
O’Dair said her office is currently examining altered possibilities for residential life, pre-orientation programs, and programs relating to student engagement.
“We do not have any information about what the College or the University will do in the fall yet,” O’Dair said. “What we’re doing now is thinking about our work and our goals and what we have outlined to plan for any type of scenario.”
Though Harvard has committed to resume classes in the fall, it is still unclear whether the undergraduates will learn in-person or virtually.
With the semester in flux, students have voiced concerns about the possibility of remote learning. Many are even considering taking leaves of absence, citing the burden of tuition and the perceived lower quality of virtual instruction.
O’Dair also said the uncertainty about the fall precludes any firm decisions about what residential life might look like for students. She also declined to comment on possible housing policies if students return to campus.
“We do not know what the plan is for the fall, and so therefore all of those questions we simply just can’t answer right now,” she said.
Associate Dean of Student for Engagement Alexander R. Miller said the DSO has started “scenario planning” in case pre-orientation programs must be held virtually. Last month, the leadership of several pre-orientation programs advised their members that the programs would likely be significantly altered due to coronavirus.
“There haven’t been fall plans announced yet, but I’ve asked our teams to start scenario planning,” Miller said. “We will wait to see what the pre-orientation directors come up with, because they know their programs the best.”
Though the fall semester remains in limbo, O’Dair said the DSO will continue to fulfill its role to meet the needs of students.
“I know that this uncertainty is a great source of anxiety for students, and we wish that we had more clarity, we wish we had more answers,” O’Dair said. “What we’re doing is taking whatever actions we can right now, based on what we know right now to ensure that we are going to meet students’ needs, regardless of the scenario.”
For the few hundred students who did not leave campus in March, the DSO offered an option for these students to petition for summer housing at Harvard. Associate Dean of Students Lauren E. Brandt ’01 said the petition criteria largely remained the same.
“We had a criteria that was agreed upon by a committee that reviewed the petitions,” she said. “I think the criteria was very similar to what happened in March. We feel confident that we were able to meet the students who expressed need.”
Brandt said that the petition process for summer housing has concluded, but declined to cite the number of accepted applicants.
The DSO imposed strict social distancing rules for students remaining on campus and provided each student with pre-made meals and personal bathrooms.
Brandt added that the summer arrangements include “access to kitchens and Harvard University Health Services,” but there will be limited operation of Harvard University Dining Services.
Miller — who will leave Harvard in June — said he believes that he has laid the groundwork for the Office of Student Engagement to succeed after his departure. During his 4-year tenure, Miller helped expand the College Events Board and worked to implement policies regarding independent student organizations.
“I tried to build systems and programs that can be sustainable,” he said. “I think the only difference now is it’s under a different context.”
“No one has had any kind of playbook for how we would do the work, but I think I have secured a very good team of folks who care deeply about students, and I think I’ve helped build a great culture on campus around student organizations and their involvement,” Miller added.
The University has implemented a hiring freeze due to the coronavirus pandemic, which could postpone the hiring of Miller’s potential replacement. O’Dair said the DSO is working on a “transition plan” towards new leadership at the Office of Student Engagement, but declined to provide further specifics.
—Staff writer Sydnie M. Cobb can be reached at sydnie.cobb@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @cobbsydnie.
—Staff writer Declan J. Knieriem can be reached at declan.knieriem@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter at @DeclanKnieriem.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
As longtime Education professor Howard E. Gardner ’65 recalls it, around 50 years ago, Harvard's Graduate School of Education found itself in a tenuous position.
“There was a while in the late ‘70s and early ‘80s where there was no tenure at the Ed School, because the Corporation felt that the school wasn’t financially — what word shall we use — viable,” Gardner said.
Today, however, the school is one of the preeminent institutions for training leaders in education. It boasts master’s, doctoral, and professional education programs; produces high volumes of research; and consistently ranks first among education schools across the nation in national indexes like U.S. News and World Report's.
“I don’t think anybody nowadays would seriously consider getting rid of it," Gardner said.
This year — as celebrations and new initiatives mark the Graduate School of Education’s 100th anniversary — faculty, alumni, and educators reflected in interviews on the collective work and impact of the school throughout the past century.
A Storied History
The Graduate School of Education was founded in 1920, after then-University President Abbott Lawrence Lowell, Class of 1877, decided the College should not include vocational training in its offerings. In response, Henry W. Holmes, Class of 1903 — then chair of the Division of Education, which had previously been affiliated with the Faculty of Art and Sciences — spearheaded fundraising for the establishment of a separate school.
In the 1940s, with a temporary home in Lawrence Hall and no set mission, the Graduate School of Education struggled to fit in with the rest of the University. The Harvard Corporation and then-University President James B. Conant Class of 1914 considered shutting the school down.
But instead, Conant took a risk and hired a dean who lacked a doctorate, but would change the course of the school: Francis Keppel ’38.
Keppel recruited renowned scholars who shared an interest in education, such as the historian Bernard Bailyn and the philosopher Israel Scheffler. By hiring psychologist Robert R. Sears, who set up the Laboratory of Human Development, Keppel solidified the Graduate School of Education as a research institution in line with the research mission of the broader University.
The Laboratory of Human Development hosted many researchers at the forefront of the field of psychology. For instance, Gerald S. Lesser, one of the first scholars to study the effect of television on children, conducted his work through the lab as a member of the Ed School’s faculty.
Lesser’s research and affiliation with NBC led to development of the popular children’s show “Sesame Street.” According to The New York Times, Lesser “poured the pedagogy” into the show, ensuring it would be both instructive and enjoyable for children. From then on, Lesser worked closely with the Children’s Television Workshop to ensure pedagogy and research would be included in television scripts.
While the Ed School continued to attract experts in the 1970s, many ultimately left because the school could not offer them tenure-track positions, according to Gardner. It was not until the 1980s that faculty members received tenure, after then-Ed School Dean Patricia A. Graham — the first female dean of a Harvard faculty — successfully negotiated with former University President Derek C. Bok ’71 to grant them the distinction.
Many scholars have since joined the tenured ranks of the school — including Gardner, who said offering tenure-track positions at a professional school was a significant move for an arts and sciences university at the time.
“I think that actually gives you some insight into the school, because in a university that's dedicated to arts and sciences, the place of professional schools is always a bit questionable,” he said.
Gardner said Graham’s work gave the Ed School a specific mission, finally setting it apart from its former place as a Faculty of Arts and Sciences division.
“The Ed School now tries to really be a bridge between serious disciplines and the needs of education,” Gardner said.
Celebrating a Century of Accomplishments
To commemorate the centennial, the Ed School has launched several projects aimed at collecting stories and reflections from its affiliates.
One such initiative, entitled “100 Years, 100 Stories,” highlights different programs and anecdotes about the Ed School. The tone of these articles vary from lighthearted accounts such as “Transformational Teaching — With Muppets,” to serious topics like “Breaking the Cycle of Poverty.”
With over fifty articles already published, “100 years, 100 stories” has archived much of the Ed School’s storied past by focusing on its leaders, innovations, and experiences with diversity and inclusion.
Another initiative called “Voices of Appian Way” allows members of the Ed School to informally share their thoughts on the centennial to the community via social media.
Additionally, with the novel coronavirus outbreak, the project has evolved to be a platform “for the HGSE community to share how [they] are coping and finding solutions during this time,” according to its website.
Necessary Today, More Than Ever
Gardner said the Ed School has undergone major changes during his 53 years at the school, including an increase in the diversity of the student population.
“One very major change is the diversity of the student body,” Gardner said. “A sizable percentage of our domestic students are people of color and people with sexual identities that are non-cis. But we also have a very large foreign student contingent, and speaking just for myself some of my best students come from Asia, China, India, Singapore, Korea.”
Gardner also said the influence of the Ed School within the University has increased in recent years.
“I think the ties to the Ed School are much stronger, and I think it’s really the first time in the last ten to fifteen years where other parts of Harvard actually look to the Ed School for insights about how to teach,” he said.
Bridget Terry Long, who was appointed as Dean of the Graduate School of Education in 2018, said that despite the Ed School’s work over the past century, many problems in educational equity remain.
“Despite advances in policy, principles for leadership, approaches to teaching, and technology — many of which were significantly shaped by HGSE faculty and alumni — other aspects of education remain stagnant, including persistent opportunity and achievement gaps by income, race, and gender,” Long said.
Hannalore B. Rodriguez-Farrar, chair of the Graduate School of Education’s Alumni Council, noted the centennial comes at an important period in history, as the world experiences the novel coronavirus outbreak.
“This is a crucial time for education, with the world responding to the vast challenges of COVID-19. HGSE’s leadership role and its potential to make an impact are incredibly important right now,” Rodriguez-Farrar said.
Part-time student Hillary R. Casavant, who is set to graduate from the Ed School this year, said she appreciated the Ed School continuing dedication to its mission amid the interruptions caused by COVID-19.
“I think that the tradition has been as good as it can be under the circumstances,” Casavant said. “There’s been a lot of extra outreach from our program director and lots of opportunities to check in remotely, so that even though we’re not on campus, I feel like that community still feels like it’s there.”
Long said the global situation has only affirmed the importance of the Ed School’s work.
“This situation has only cemented our commitment to our mission: to improve outcomes for all learners, to prepare outstanding educators and scholars, and to advance the field of education,” Long said. “This work has never been more critical.”
Long emphasized that regardless of the pandemic, the centennial is timely with respect to the need for education reform.
“It’s appropriate, in some ways, that our 100th anniversary is occurring during a time when dramatic transformation is not just needed, but required,” Long said. “It has never been clearer that we need a revolution in education—one that prioritizes equity and opportunity for all.”
—Staff writer Raquel Coronell Uribe can be reached at raquel.coronelluribe@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @raquelco15.
—Staff writer Kavya M. Shah can be reached at kavya.shah@thecrimson.com.
When the real estate firm Asana Partners arrived in Harvard Square in 2017, it did so with a simple message to the community: It wouldn’t be changing much.
To an outsider, it would seem this promise has been mostly upheld. The two Brattle Street buildings that Asana paid a whopping $108 million for are still intact — and most businesses in their ground-floor storefronts are selling many of the same items that they were when the company came to town.
But at several locations, the faces behind the counter have changed. Sky-high rents on Brattle Street have forced several small businesses out, sparking concerns among community leaders and earning Asana mixed reviews from proprietors and patrons alike.
Asana, a Charlotte, N.C.-based real estate investment company that owns swaths of retail property around the country, purchased 1-8 Brattle St. and 17-41A Brattle St. from the Dow and Stearns family trust in December 2017. The sale came two years after the family trust sold off its properties at the Abbott Building on John F. Kennedy St. and Brattle St. to another national real estate group.
“We’re not trying to create a mall here,” one of Asana’s founding partners, Sam E. Judd, told the Boston Globe at the time of the sale.
Since the company came into the Square, though, a steady stream of local businesses have closed their doors, most citing rising rent costs.
When Asana bought the Brattle St. buildings, 11 of its ground-floor storefronts housed locally-owned businesses. Less than three years later, five of those local businesses have been shuttered or moved — and all but one of them have been replaced by national chains.
The trend of rising property costs in Harvard Square was hardly created by Asana. The assessed value of Harvard Square property almost doubled between 2012 and 2017, and closing Square businesses have been complaining about rent spikes on the way out for years.
While the Brattle St. properties were owned by the Dow and Stearns family trust, “they had had an incredibly strong record of support” for local businesses and nonprofits, according to Harvard Square Neighborhood Association President Suzanne P. Blier.
After Asana took over the properties, local business owners who left the properties said rents skyrocketed when their leases ran out. Black Ink, Crema Cafe, and Flat Patties all departed the Square citing a breakdown in negotiations or unsustainable rent hikes.
MDF Motto, a jewelry store, moved to a new location in the Square and Beyond — a shoe store formerly known as The Tannery — closed up shop in Cambridge.
“They’re increasing rent to a level that is not tenable for small businesses,” said Theodora M. “Theo” Skeadas ’12, the executive director of the local business group Cambridge Local First. “The rents are unsustainable.”
So far, no local businesses have replaced the shops that have left, though Fóumami, a Boston-based Asian sandwich shop, is expected to take over in the Flat Patties location.
Beyond has been reconstructed as a Patagonia store, Crema was replaced by the Australian coffee chain Bluestone Lane, Black Ink’s shop will soon re-open as Topdrawer — an international retailer selling gifts and travel accessories — and MDF Motto’s location is now occupied by a Ray-Bans store.
“I think it really changes the character of the Square and, especially for Cambridge residents, what kind of place they think it is — a place that they see for themselves … that caters to everyone, or if it’s only a place that caters for people who can pull in six figures,” first-term city councilor Jivan G. Sobrinho-Wheeler said.
Thomas J. Brush — who co-owned Crema and Flat Patties before they closed their doors and continues to operate Felipe’s Taqueria — said he doesn’t fault the company for seeking high rents given the fiduciary responsibility it has to investors. The Felipe’s lease was negotiated before the firm took over.
“They’re going to lease to whoever pays the top dollar,” Brush said. “And I respect that. That’s the way life is.”
Asana is financed by an array of private equity investments, including public and private pension funds, endowments, and insurance companies.
Brush said the company has been helpful in allowing him to expand the Felipe’s roof deck and has made improvements to the buildings.
“They’ve been great to work with,” he said.
Other Asana tenants described a different relationship.
One Asana tenant, who spoke on the condition of anonymity in order to protect their relationship with their landlord, said communication with the company has been limited, and that the firm has been “very aloof.”
The coronavirus pandemic, which has led to an economic calamity that has shuttered businesses across the country and created a mass spike in unemployment, has cast a cloud of uncertainty over the future of many small businesses in Cambridge.
Asana has not yet offered rent reduction amid the pandemic, according to one tenant, though negotiations may differ from tenant to tenant.
In Atlanta, another Asana tenant described a similar story. Ming Yang, the owner of Richard’s Variety Store said she has been contacted by the firm’s lawyers after not paying April’s rent. Yang said she has been unable to afford the payment due to the economic downturn caused by the coronavirus.
She said her store was scheduled to move out of its current location and into a nearby mall by the end of April, but she claims it has been unable to do so due to the virus. She attributed the move to rising rent costs.
“I think Asana is out of touch,” Yang said.
Asana did not respond to a request for comment.
Some area landlords are allowing for increased flexibility on rent as Massachusetts operates under a stay-at-home advisory with only essential businesses open.
John P. DiGiovanni, the president of the Harvard Square Business Association who owns property around Cambridge, said “the vast majority” of his restaurant and retail tenants are not currently paying rent. He said he has not sent any default notices to local tenants.
The University, which owns a significant amount of Square real estate, has been handling negotiations with their Square tenants on a case-by-case basis, according to Vice President for Campus Services Meredith L. Weenick ’90.
“We’ve been in contact with all of our retail small business tenants and continue to work to address their individual concerns and needs,” Weenick wrote in an emailed statement. “Depending on their individual circumstances, Harvard has offered different rent-relief options.”
Weenick added that the University has lifted mandatory minimum operation hours for its commercial tenants.
Denise A. Jillson, the executive director of the Harvard Square Business Association said Asana’s relationship with HSBA has been “very good.” Chris R. Dalton, a director of asset management for Asana, sits on the Association’s board and often flies in to attend meetings.
Jillson said she is “very confident” that the percentage of locally owned businesses in the Square will remain at around 70 percent, where she said it has sat for the last 15 years.
Richard B. Peiser, a professor of real estate development at the Harvard Graduate School of Design, said Asana opting to bring in more national tenants is unsurprising.
“It’s just a fact of retail life that every landlord wants the strongest tenants they can get,” Peiser said. “When you get the national chain stores … the value of the shopping center is significantly higher than it would be with tenants who do not have national credit ratings for the very fact that in downturns like the ones we’re seeing in the COVID crisis, the mom-and-pops are the first ones to go under.”
The closure of several of the Brattle St. businesses, and construction being done on the Abbot Building, which is owned by Regency Centers, has sparked debate among city leaders and residents about how to best preserve independent proprietors in the Square.
Brush, the Felipe’s co-owner, said that he, too, laments the loss of businesses like Black Ink. But he said he faults the city for not previously enacting stricter zoning regulations.
“I do not blame Asana,” he said.
In March, the City Council unanimously approved a Harvard Square zoning overlay petition backed by Blier, the Harvard Square Neighborhood Association president. The order established a Harvard Square Advisory Committee to review major developments in the Square with the goal of maintaining 70 percent local ownership of ground-floor businesses.
Sobrinho-Wheeler, the city councilor, said he supports zoning initiatives that prop up local businesses, but he cautioned that their regulatory power can be limited in scope.
“There’s only so much you can do with zoning,” he said. “We, at the end of the day, can’t choose which tenants [are] there. We can’t control what the rents are like.”
Likewise, Skeadas said that Cambridge Local First, which represents more than 500 businesses from around the city, is limited in its ability to prevent local turnover in Harvard Square.
“There’s not that much we can do, realistically,” she said. “We live in a relatively open-market system, and things are sold to the highest bidder. As a small non-profit, we can do some advocacy, but we can’t change the rules of the market system.”
She said she views zoning as “an important tool in the toolkit,” but added that she does “not attribute this change predominantly to inadequate zoning.”
Sobrinho-Wheeler, who worked for the Lincoln Institute of Land Policy prior to being elected to the City Council, said he supports the city looking into alternative models of property ownership, such as community land trusts. He said he hopes to launch a task force looking into starting a Cambridge community land trust this year.
Longtime Harvard Square resident Christopher Mackin, who sits on the board of the Harvard Square Neighborhood Association, said he backs the idea of the city “building the financial resources and institutions” to compete in the real estate market with a land trust.
“They’re no better and no worse than a dozen others who could’ve taken their place. The problem is not Asana,” he said.
“I’m more in favor of mom-and-pop ownership of real estate — and, even better, community land trust ownership of real estate — than I am of investment groups coming in and buying this stuff,” Mackin said.
Blier said she hopes the economic recovery after the pandemic will be advantageous to local businesses.
“The whole country — the whole world, really — is going to be reshaped through the circumstances of this pandemic,” she said. “We have a choice — all of us — about how we respond to it. And hopefully we can help to build a much stronger local base and economy out of it that will end up being even more vibrant than it was before.”
—Staff writer Jasper G. Goodman can be reached at jasper.goodman@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @Jasper_Goodman.
—Staff writer Hannah J. Martinez can be reached at hannah.martinez@thecrimson.com.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
After their jobs were altered and lives upended by the COVID-19 crisis, University employees working across a broad range of trades and fields said they are concerned they will be out of work and pay when the school’s extension of guaranteed pay and benefits comes to an end on June 28.
Carrie Barbash, president of the Harvard Union of Clerical and Technical Workers — which represents more than 5,000 workers across diverse work areas — said the union is glad the University extended its pay guarantee, but many members remain concerned that they will face loss of pay once the guarantee expires, four months after it was enacted.
Harvard Executive Vice President Katherine N. Lapp announced in an email sent to staff and faculty last month that the University would extend guaranteed compensation and benefits to directly-hired and contracted workers through June 28, past its previous guarantee through May 28.
However, given the unprecedented financial concerns Harvard is facing in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic, Lapp suggested there may be a need for furloughs and layoffs for some workers in the future — though it remains unclear whether the University will pursue such actions.
Barbash said the possibility of layoffs and furloughs is a key concern for HUCTW members, and that the union would like the University to extend the compensation guarantee past June 28.
“Ideally, we’d like to just see the pay extended for another month or longer,” Barbash said.
She added that the union is primarily focused on guaranteeing no members face unemployment due to financial shortcomings from the University.
Roel R. Torres ’95, a laboratory administrator in the Chemistry Department, wrote in an email that he is concerned by the fact that the University set a firm date through which it would guarantee pay and benefits to employees.
“It does concern me that there is a specified date, as opposed to extending pay and benefits indefinitely,” Torres wrote. “Realistically, I understand that Harvard cannot sustain losses in perpetuity. Nobody can. But it does create a looming specter on the horizon as we get closer to June 28.”
He added that though his lab is better situated for remote work than many others, he worries for his colleagues due to the uncertainty in employment after June 28.
“I worry about furloughs and layoffs, not even specifically for myself, but for my friends and colleagues who would be affected by a loss of income and benefits,” Torres said.
Victoria Groves-Cardillo, who works as a communications and events manager at the Kennedy School, said that though she is able to perform some of her job functions from home, many of her coworkers in events organization are concerned that they will be left out of work.
She said she hopes the University will continue to support its workers as it has done so far.
“I would hope that the University would continue their current level of support for all of us, but especially for those folks who can't do their jobs while this is happening,” Groves-Cardillo said.
Barbash also said some HUCTW members were concerned with using up their sick time and personal days too quickly, along with being unable to deal with family responsibilities at home.
Harvard’s advanced sick leave policy requires workers to use their accrued sick time to maintain compensation while dealing with COVID-19 related concerns, including caring for family members. If they use up all their available sick days, the policy allows for employees to take out a loan of extra time that will be deducted from their sick time for next year.
Groves-Cardillo said that as a “full-time worker and full-time caregiver” for her two-year-old daughter, managing her work schedule in tandem with her husband’s has posed an additional challenge.
She also said her supervisors have been supportive in allowing her flexibility in her work schedule, as she often has to finish her work late at night.
“I know it’s not true for everyone but flexibility is key and it’s helpful to a lot of people when it can be provided,” Groves-Cardillo said.
—Staff writer Davit Antonyan can be reached at davit.antonyan@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
When students are selected for the Dubin Graduate Fellowship for Emerging Leaders at the Harvard Kennedy School’s Center for Public Leadership, they make a commitment to effect positive change on the world.
Endowed by billionaire donor Glenn R. Dubin in 2010, the fellowship offers financial scholarships and a co-curricular program to a handful of students each year who have shown “strong character, academic excellence,” and “the ability to thrive and lead in the face of adversity,” according to the fellowship’s website.
This year’s incoming and outgoing classes of Dubin fellows expected to focus their efforts on academics and extracurriculars, working to fulfill that mission. Instead, some found themselves investing outsized energy into a campaign to sever their fellowship’s ties to its benefactor, who maintained a decades-long rapport with the deceased financier and convicted sex offender Jeffrey E. Epstein.
“None of us expected to have a year filled with scandal and a year filled with this level of internal organizing,” Dubin fellow and Master in Public Policy candidate Rebecca M. Mer said. “We’re just a few of many, many students who are incredibly concerned and upset about HKS's ties to donors who are closely tied to Epstein.”
Dubin is not the only donor to the Center who had a relationship with Epstein. Billionaire Leslie H. Wexner, who also endows a fellowship at the center, engaged Epstein as a financial advisor beginning in the late 1980s.
Roughly a dozen Kennedy School students — including four current Dubin fellows — denounced the Kennedy School’s support for donors who had relationships with Epstein in interviews with The Crimson. Many also criticized the Kennedy School for not acknowledging those ties or for inadequately addressing students’ concerns.
Students who receive funding from the donors said Harvard has put them in a thorny situation: They now weigh the value of a Harvard education — which some would not have access to if not for donors’ financial support — against their moral opposition to the individuals who provide that funding.
Several Dubin fellows characterized the situation as ironic. Alluding to the Kennedy School’s description of their fellowship, the fellows said Harvard selected them due to their ability to show leadership when faced with difficult circumstances. But this past year, as students mobilized around ethical concerns about their school’s indirect ties to Epstein, they said they believe Harvard itself failed to demonstrate that quality.
After new information about Epstein’s activities began to surface with his July 2019 arrest, reports of Harvard donors’ ties to Epstein sparked a tumultuous year at the Center for Public Leadership.
After Epstein was convicted of procuring sex with a minor in Florida state court in 2008, he and Dubin continued to maintain friendly ties.
In 2010, Dubin donated $5 million to the Kennedy School to establish his eponymous fellowship at the Center for Public Leadership.
Wexner and his wife, Abigail S. Wexner, meanwhile, are the founding benefactors of the Center. In addition to financially backing the Center’s Wexner Israel Fellowship, Wexner donated more than $42 million to the Kennedy School prior to 2012; one building at the Kennedy School is named for him. Since then, he too has come under scrutiny for his ties to Epstein.
Epstein served as Wexner’s financial advisor, facilitating a donation that funded the construction of Harvard Hillel. Wexner was one of Epstein’s only known clients.
Wexner has maintained that he cut ties with Epstein following the latter’s 2007 arrest. Thomas Davies, a spokesperson for Wexner, wrote as much in an emailed statement to The Crimson.
“Mr. Wexner has condemned Jeffrey Epstein’s abhorrent behavior in the strongest possible terms and severed all ties with him more than a decade ago,” he wrote.
Earlier this year, the New York Times reported Wexner failed to address inappropriate conduct and a culture of misogyny inside L. Brands, the parent company of Victoria’s Secret. Following the reports, Wexner stepped down as chairman and chief operating officer nearly six decades after he started the retail company.
Kennedy School students said in interviews they were frustrated to learn about donor controversies through the media while their school’s administration remained largely silent on the issue.
Though both Wexner and Dubin have denounced Epstein, students continue to protest those donors’ relationships to Harvard.
Throughout the past academic year, Dubin fellows entered into private conversations with senior administrators at the Kennedy School and Center to discuss their concerns regarding donor relations, according to four fellows.
Dubin fellow and Master of Public Policy candidate Katherine Miller characterized those conversations as “frustrating.” She said she was not at liberty to disclose details of the meetings due to administrators’ requests that they be kept confidential.
The Center and the Kennedy School have not publicly acknowledged their donors’ ties to Epstein or students’ concerns.
Kennedy School spokesperson James F. Smith wrote in an emailed statement that Wexner and Dubin’s financial contributions have benefited the Kennedy School. He also noted that Kennedy School Dean Douglas W. Elmendorf and Center for Public Leadership Director Wendy R. Sherman have participated in discussions with Kennedy School affiliates, including students, about the donations.
“Their donations have enabled Harvard Kennedy School to provide hundreds of student scholarships, hire additional faculty, and transform the physical campus for 21st century learning,” Smith wrote. “This support has significantly advanced our mission of educating future generations of principled and effective public leaders.”
Though the Kennedy School continues to argue in favor of the gifts’ utility, students have questioned the status of the school’s current relationships with their donors in light of recent events.
In February, Harvard removed Dubin and Wexner’s names from a University website listing the members of the Center’s advisory council. Wexner co-chaired the advisory council with his wife, whose name has also been removed. Dubin’s name was also scratched from the Kennedy School’s Dean Executive Board.
At the time, Kennedy School students said they were unsure what the disappearance of the donors’ names from the boards meant about Harvard’s relationship to them. A Kennedy School spokesperson told The Crimson in March that Dubin and Wexner’s departures were routine.
Around the same time, the Center sent an email to fellowship applicants encouraging them to vet the donors who fund their prospective programs.
Several Dubin fellows also said this academic year marked the first time Dubin did not arrange an in-person meeting with the students enrolled in his fellowship. They added that they believe the Epstein controversy precipitated the change.
Still, Dubin spokesperson Davidson Goldin wrote in an emailed statement to The Crimson that the Dubins remain committed to the fellowship.
“The Dubin Graduate Fellowship for Emerging Leaders was established over a decade ago and remains an important focus of the Dubins’ philanthropy,” he wrote.
Current fellows said they understand that the fellowship’s funding may dry up within the next two years. A spokesperson for Dubin did not respond to a question asking whether Dubin will provide another donation to continue the fellowship when it runs out of money.
Several Dubin fellows said revelations about their donor’s relationship with Epstein have had a negative impact on them personally. They also criticized the Kennedy School for not being forthcoming about their donors’ ties to Epstein.
Dubin fellow and Master in Public Policy candidate Mike Yepes said that, as a survivor of sexual assault, Harvard’s relationships to donors with Epstein ties have created “a very difficult dilemma internally” for him.
“What's been very difficult for me is navigating this dichotomy of being a survivor myself and then having the benefit of a full ride, but a full ride given to me by someone who — regardless of whether or not we know what happened with Dubin specifically — has had a relationship with Epstein, who is a convicted sex offender,” Yepes said.
Yepes added that the onus should be on Harvard — not him or any other individual student — to vet donors.
“The responsibility to find donors who can support those students, one of whom I am, is Harvard’s and not mine as an individual,” he said. “It is their responsibility to routinely vet donors and seek out new donors when questionable situations arise.”
Dubin’s relationship with Epstein has led some Dubin fellows to conceal their fellowship’s connection with its benefactor.
Dubin fellow and Master in Public Policy candidate Joshua Baltodano said he has updated his LinkedIn profile to omit mention of Dubin from the fellowship title.
“I definitely don't tell people I'm a Dubin fellow anymore,” he said.
“It is disappointing to be referred to as a Dubin emerging leader fellow, because my emerging leadership didn't come from supporting partnerships with sex offenders,” Yepes said. “It came from being a survivor who has fought for justice.”
Miller said she believes the Kennedy School failed to show leadership from the time media reports surfaced of Dubin’s ties to Epstein.
“We found out not through the Center for Public Leadership not through Glenn Dubin but through watching the news just like everyone else,” Miller said. “I think that that has mirrored largely how the administration — foreshadowed how the administration was going to see and handle this issue in that they have not really been proactive in identifying this as a problem or an issue that's very salient to us and merits our involvement.”
At the center of student outcry against ties to Wexner and Dubin has been uncertainty regarding what vetting process, if any, Harvard conducts of its donors.
Until recently, the University’s guidelines for prospective donors were shrouded in secrecy. But a recent report released on May 1 shed new light on the University’s ties to Epstein and its gift policies — and has prompted Harvard to develop more stringent guidelines.
University President Lawrence S. Bacow requested a review of Epstein’s donations in September 2019, after a partial financial review revealed he had made significant donations to Harvard. Led by Harvard’s Office of the General Counsel and the outside law firm Foley Hoag, the full review found Epstein donated around $9.1 million between 1998 and 2008, and that Harvard did not take any gifts from Epstein following his 2008 conviction.
The report also furnished a set of recommendations the University will act upon “immediately,” according to Bacow. One of those recommendations states that its Gift Policy Committee — a group of faculty and administrators tasked with reviewing prospective donations — should create a comprehensive, University-wide process for vetting donors and share it with faculty and staff.
That process, the report recommends, would include identifying “triggering criteria” to avoid certain gifts and donors.
“The criteria might include the gift’s size, a donor’s lack of prior connection to Harvard, any known concerns about a prospective donor’s actions, including criminal record, and any negative information found in the news media,” the report reads.
Neither Dubin nor Wexner are mentioned in the report, which focused on Epstein’s direct donations to Harvard. Though the review also examined gifts Epstein “directed” and “facilitated,” the final report did not detail every gift made to the University in which donors may have had an association to Epstein.
Several Kennedy School students said they hope to see more student involvement in the drafting of donor guidelines.
“I think we would love to see greater student involvement in the [Gift] Policy Committee and the creation of a robust gifts policy,” Mer, one of the Dubin fellows, said. “I see that is coming out of this report, but I do not see any mechanism for student involvement in that process.”
Miller also said she believes students should have a voice in University decisions regarding donor guidelines. She said students would bring an important moral perspective to those discussions, whereas administrators might prioritize the financial prosperity of their programs.
“I think that students can really bring a moral standard to it,” she said. “We're the Dubin fellows — you know, that is part of our lives forever. We are forever to a degree separated from Jeffrey Epstein.”
“I think just having that seat at the table when it comes to making these decisions can go a long way,” she added.
Ultimately, Miller said she would like to see Harvard more fully confront its relationship to those tied to Epstein — and to Epstein himself.
“Epstein uses Harvard ties to basically absolve himself of the crime that he had committed and ingratiate himself back into society,” she said. “That was his play, and he used Harvard to do it.”
She argued that, through the Dubin fellowship, that play still may be happening.
“Harvard needs to reckon the extent to which it was used — we were used — to better the reputation of Jeffrey Epstein,” she added.
—Staff writer Michelle G. Kurilla can be reached at michelle.kurilla@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @MichelleKurilla.
—Staff writer Ema R. Schumer can be reached at ema.schumer@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @emaschumer.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
United States Senator Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.) and U.S. Representative Andrew S. Levin (D-Mich.) called on Harvard and its graduate student union to set apart their differences and settle the union’s first labor contract in a virtual conversation posted to Twitter in late April.
Warren, a former Harvard Law School professor, said bargaining has been “dragging on” since it first started, and the two sides must settle on a contract immediately.
She added that the University and Harvard Graduate Students Union-United Automobile Workers should reconcile their differences despite the ongoing public health crisis.
“We are in the middle of a pandemic — this is a crisis. But that doesn’t mean that we shouldn’t push forward and get this bargaining done,” Warren said. “Now’s the time.”
Graduate students voted to unionize in April 2018. The University and HGSU-UAW engaged in their first bargaining session in October of that same year; since that session, the two sides have engaged in multiple bargaining sessions, but remain at odds over three key areas of concern — compensation, health care, and sexual harassment and discrimination procedures.
Echoing Warren, Levin — whose son is a member of the bargaining committee — said the two sides must settle on a contract as soon as possible. He added that, given the nature of remote bargaining sessions, it is easier and simpler than ever to finish bargaining and get a contract done.
“My observation to both sides would be to get a contract finished,” Levin said. “At the end, you just have to go into marathon bargaining.”
Since the University announced it would switch to remote instruction due to the COVID-19 pandemic, Harvard and the union have engaged in virtual mediation sessions and reached new tentative agreements, though they still remain divided over HGSU-UAW’s key issues.
The union highlighted Warren’s and Levin’s support for graduate student workers in a press release sent as part of its #ForABetterHarvard awareness campaign.
“May 1, 2020 marks the two year anniversary of Harvard recognizing the Harvard Graduate Students Union-UAW and agreeing to bargain in good faith with student workers,” the email read. “But so far, there are still no assurances from the university on basic agreements including fair pay, healthcare, and protections from harassment and discrimination.”
History Ph.D. candidate Marian “Nate” Nathan Grau said in the press release that the University should be particularly supportive of graduate student workers facing “fear and uncertainty” during the novel coronavirus outbreak.
“The last thing workers need - is a university administration dismissing our basic needs,” Grau said. “We’re doing our jobs. It’s time for Harvard to come to the table and have our back.”
In response, University spokesperson Jonathan L. Swain declined to comment, pointing to a May 1 announcement in which Harvard proposed a contract that addressed compensation and health care concerns. The update, which shortened the original multi-year pact to a one-year agreement, came in response to the “economic uncertainty for future fiscal years,” according to associate provost Doreen Koretz and director of employee and labor relations Paul R. Curran.
—Staff writer Davit Antonyan can be reached at davit.antonyan@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Burton “Bud” D. Rose had already written a textbook that his colleagues referred to as the “nephrology bible.” Still, he wasn’t satisfied.
Rose knew his book could only stay accurate for so long before he’d have to update it — which, for most volumes, happened every five years.
But Rose wanted to keep his textbook up to date constantly. So he asked his publisher if they’d assist him in transferring the textbook to a computerized format, which could be regularly updated. They refused — so he decided to do it himself.
In 1992, aided by his wife, Gloria, Rose created a computerized database of medical information called UpToDate from their home. Today, the digital platform is used by over 1.5 million clinicians worldwide.
Aside from his online pursuits, Rose worked as a professor at Harvard Medical School and a nephrologist at Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center. He died on April 24, from Alzheimer’s disease complicated by COVID-19, at the age of 77.
Theodore I. Steinman, a professor at Harvard Medical School and a senior physician at Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, called UpToDate the first “living textbook.”
“He was probably the most influential person ever in the world with regards to medical information and education,” Steinman said.
Mark L. Zeidel, a professor at Harvard Medical School and physician in chief and chair of the Department of Medicine at Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, often calls Rose the “Steve Jobs of Medicine.”
In part, that moniker stems from the fact that Rose created UpToDate with a piece of technology from Apple, the hypercard. But Zeidel also saw UpToDate as an example of “disruptive technology” like the computers and phones Jobs created.
Both Steinman and Zeidel said that Rose could have been in contention for a Nobel Prize in Medicine, which cannot be awarded posthumously.
“He really was deserving of the Nobel Prize in Medicine because of his worldwide impact on medical education and medical information technology,” Steinman said.
“I regret that it never occurred to me, but we could have actually put him up for the Nobel Prize in Medicine and he might have won it because of the significance of this contribution, because people around the world are using it constantly,” Zeidel said.
Zeidel said that most of the 170 interns and fellows at Beth Israel Deaconess regularly use UpToDate.
“When I come in and do rounds, they don't quote the textbook,” he said. “They quote UpToDate. Because at two in the morning, they can call it up on a computer right at the point of attack where they're working, and they can look up what they need to find, find it quickly, and get the authoritative information.”
Isaac Kohane, the chair of the Department of Biomedical Informatics at Harvard Medical School, said Rose’s creation “revolutionized” medicine.
Rose had a unique mix of “vision and pragmatism” that allowed him to create such an impactful technology, he added.
“That resource was so singular, and the editorial process that was put together was so rigorous and so strongly academic, yet because of his leadership, so determinately practical and focused, that it became the unquestioned standard,” Kohane said.
Despite the fact that UpToDate took more and more of his time, Rose remained active as a clinician and professor.
“He always took time to be an attending physician on the renal service at Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, and he was always a wonderful one on one teacher,” Steinman said.
Martin Pollak, a professor at Harvard Medical School and chief of the Division of Nephrology at Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, called Rose a “beloved teacher.”
“He just had a very clear, concise way of breaking down complicated concepts,” Pollak said, and he used his skills to teach medical students and patients alike.
He taught an annual course at the Medical School on kidney disease that people from all over the world flocked to, Pollak said. In 2009, the American Society of Nephrology granted him the Robert G. Narins Award, the highest award for education in nephrology.
Gloria Rose, his wife, said he approached pursuits outside the hospital with the same verve.
She recalled that, while at work, he was looking at the names of their immediate family members, and created the acronym “Badgers” — short for Bud, Ann, Daniel, Gloria, and Emily Rose.
“So then he started calling us the Badgers,” Gloria said with a laugh. “He was just always thinking outside the box, he was very funny in that way.”
Rose was also a romantic, Gloria said. One day, he surprised her with flowers and a cake, announcing that it was the 10,000th day since they had met.
“He was goofy in a good way,” she said. “He was very spontaneous.”
He loved basketball and tennis, and spent hours at a time bettering his technique.
“With everything that he did, it wasn't that he wanted to be the best. He wanted to improve his game. Always,” Gloria said. “He would go out on the driveway and keep shooting, until he just got it.”
With UpToDate, Rose refined medicine, too.
Denise Basow, the CEO of Clinical Effectiveness at Wolters Kluwer, the company that currently runs UpToDate, wrote in a statement that his work changed the medical field over the last three decades.
“Once he had the idea for UpToDate, he wouldn’t let anything get in the way of pursuing it,” Basow wrote. “That pursuit has impacted the practice of medicine and the lives of patients for almost 30 years.”
—Staff writer Camille G. Caldera can be reached at camille.caldera@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @camille_caldera.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Several Harvard-affiliated Fulbright scholars were forced to cut their projects short and end their scholarships early after the coronavirus pandemic upended travel plans and research proposals.
As the outbreak spread worldwide, directors of Fulbright programs in various countries alerted participants that their programs could be impacted.
The Fulbright Program awards grants to scholars from all across the globe to pursue extensive in-field research projects and offers teaching position opportunities both domestically and internationally.
Harvard is a top provider of Fulbright scholars, and serves as a popular host institution for international scholars wishing to pursue research in the United States.
Catherine L. Zhang ’19, a Fulbright scholar based in Taiwan, said she received an email on March 20 from the executive director of the Fulbright program in Taiwan encouraging all participants from the United States to prepare to return home.
According to Zhang, Taiwan was initially deemed a “special case,” giving participants the opportunity to choose whether or not they wanted to remain in the program.
Three days later, she received notice that Fulbright Worldwide was suspending all programs — including the Taiwan program — and mandated that U.S. participants return home.
Zhang said the abrupt cancellation of the program was a “jarring” experience since life seemed so normal.
“We were still going about our day-to-day activities, still going to school, still going to coffee shops,” Zhang said. “To have this dissonance of having Fulbright Worldwide be suspended and being told you have to come back to the United States right now was a very big difference for me.”
Zhang describes her return trip to her hometown of Pittsburgh as “hectic,” as she faced a slew of last-minute cancellations.
“My flight home was originally scheduled on Wednesday, but then I learned that all flights that day had been canceled as well as all the flights on Thursday,” Zhang explained.
Though Zhang faced setbacks in returning home, she said her colleagues in Taiwan ensured she was well-equipped to travel amid the coronavirus pandemic.
“My colleagues so graciously had given me multiple masks, rubber gloves, Clorox wipes, disinfectant spray, goggles, and my director even gave me a hazmat suit to wear,” Zhang said.
Gennadi Pobereƶny — a Fulbright scholar and researcher at the Harvard Ukranian Research Institute — was studying the Soviet Genocide in Ukraine when the pandemic hit.
After getting the go-ahead from the Fulbright office in Ukraine and a government agency, he organized a lecture tour in Ukraine that was supposed to start in March. However, right as it was about to start, he found out he would have to end his project early and travel back to Ukraine as international quarantines took effect.
“I took a long time to set it up and convince people that it would be a good idea to have it done,” Pobereƶny said.
Although he is currently transitioning his lectures to a remote format, Pobereƶny emphasized the difficulty of keeping them equally engaging.
Other scholars said they found success in their projects despite the COVID-19 restrictions.
Fulbright scholar and Harvard Medical School associate professor Ateev Mehrotra was researching remote telemedicine in Australia before the suspension of the Fulbright program. Though he was not able to complete his research in Australia, Mehrotra said he has been able to make some progress in the United States.
“We didn’t get a chance to publish anything, because we were forced to come back,” Mehrotra said. “To some degree, I’m still in touch with my hosts, we still have calls here and there. Some stuff has continued, but I think much less so than previously.”
Joseph Rowlands, a Fulbright Future Scholar recipient and visiting PhD researcher from Australia, was studying how to develop and measure quantum computing hardware with Professor Amir Yacoby when the Fulbright suspension was announced.
“By the second week, the gates of campus were shut, and I was forced to return to Australia,” Rowlands wrote in an email. “I think I now hold the record for the world’s shortest successful Fulbright program, so at least that’s something!”
Though he wrote he was “incredibly impressed” with the University’s swift response to the virus, Rowlands added that he hopes to continue his research at Harvard at a later date.
“I still have a lot to learn from the researchers there, but at this stage I just hope things can start going back to normal,” Rowlands wrote.
—Staff writer Davit Antonyan can be reached at davit.antonyan@thecrimson.com.
—Staff writer Sydnie M. Cobb can be reached at sydnie.cobb@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @cobbsydnie
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
More than two months after the World Health Organization officially declared the coronavirus outbreak a pandemic, experts trying to envision ways to safely return life in the United States to normal have agreed that having a vaccine is a crucial component of any plan.
As of May 11, the coronavirus pandemic has claimed the lives of 283,271 worldwide, with more than 4 million confirmed cases in more than 200 countries.
Moderna Therapeutics, a Cambridge-based biotechnology company founded in 2010, is now at the forefront of coronavirus vaccine development. The company recently received FDA approval to move onto Phase 2 of vaccine testing, in addition to 500 million dollars’ worth of grants from the Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority, a government organization that assists companies through the development process of drugs and vaccines.
The company employs messenger RNA to create medicines that enable a patient’s cells to create proteins to treat disease. Messenger RNA — dubbed “the software of life” on the company’s website — provides instructions to cells to make proteins for various functions in the body.
Timothy A. Springer, a professor at Harvard Medical School and founding investor in Moderna Therapeutics, said his fellow faculty member, Derrick J. Rossi, asked him if he would be interested in investing in a company using Rossi’s research on modified RNA.
“Modified RNA seemed a very exciting new technology with lots of potential,” Springer said. “I said, ‘Yes, I would love to invest, and I’d also like to help you get it started.’”
“Derrick Rossi — who was a professor at Harvard, a young professor — he had made a finding about how you could add certain types of RNA to cells and make them kind of like what’s called a stem cell,” Robert S. Langer, a co-founder of the company and professor at MIT, said.
Rather than just using this strategy for what Langer calls “tissue engineering,” Langer suggested using it for drugs and vaccines as well.
“One of the beauties of messenger RNA is that you can make it and you can make it quickly,” Langer said. “But then what happens is you can just inject a little bit of it in a nanoparticle, you inject it into the body, and then the body is actually the factory that makes it.”
ENTERING TRIALS
According to the World Health Organization, there are currently eight candidate coronavirus vaccines in clinical evaluation. Moderna is one of the first companies to receive approval for Phase 2 of clinical evaluation.
The National Institute of Health announced in late March that it would begin Phase 1 study of Moderna’s vaccine.
“There were 45 healthy volunteers. The NIH ran the trial, and that trial is still proceeding, but they expanded the population of what was prior — healthy 18- to 55-year-olds — has now been expanded to include 56- to 70-year-olds and 71-year-olds and above,” Raymond C. Jordan, the head of corporate affairs for Moderna, said in an interview with The Crimson.
“We’ve also been cleared by the FDA to enter what’s called a Phase 2 trial. And that trial will go into hundreds — roughly 600 healthy volunteers — across the full spectrum of age from 18 years old, right up through the older and elderly population,” Jordan added.
Moderna is also already scaling up its own production capacity and partnering with a manufacturing organization to further increase capacity.
“We’re doing this before having all of the final efficacy data that we would want from the earlier trials,” Jordan added.
Moderna CEO Stéphane Bancel said that, in a best case scenario, people may be able to start receiving vaccinations as early as September.
“This is a timeline assuming everything goes well. Any bumps on the road would just push the time out obviously,” Bancel said. “Last week we got the green light from the FDA to start the Phase 2, around 600 subjects, and the plan is to start the Phase 3 early summer.”
“We’re expecting to be able to make up to tens of millions of doses a month this year, and as many as a billion doses in 2021,” Jordan said.
Barry R. Bloom, a professor of immunology and global health at the School of Public Health, explained that the process of development, approval, and mass production for vaccines traditionally takes much longer. The fastest vaccine was for mumps and rubella, which took four years, while other vaccines — like varicella, which took 27 years — have taken much longer.
But according to Bloom, even before the pandemic, the Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority had been coordinating an expedited vaccine approval process with the National Institute of Health.
“The unique part of BARDA was that it not only dealt with scientists, which is what NIH largely does — it dealt with 300 companies. So that becomes a way to save another major problem in the timeframe,” said Bloom, explaining that the need to mass produce so many doses in so little time presents significant difficulties.
Moderna has benefited from this expedited process.
“In 65 days, they [Moderna] had the vaccine from the DNA sequence, cDNA sequence, healthy RNA, to getting the first shots into Phase 1 — people’s arms — which is astonishing and unprecedented,” Bloom said.
Though Moderna is among several companies racing to develop a vaccine, Springer — the Medical School professor — said Moderna brings something to the table the others do not.
“I think Moderna does have a very strong advantage over the rest of the field,” he said. “It’s multifold. They have hugely invested in the technology underlying RNA science, which hasn’t really previously been studied throughout industry.”
“They're using modified RNA,” he said. “It requires a very deep understanding.”
Thoughtful recruiting was key to Moderna’s efforts, Springer said, adding that biochemist and molecular biologist Melissa J. Moore, whom he described as “one of the most outstanding RNA scientists in the world,” serves as the company’s Chief Scientific Officer.
‘NOT OUR FIRST RODEO’
In addition to technology, Bancel said that Moderna’s team has valuable experience in developing vaccines quickly, including against MERS, another coronavirus.
Bancel said his team has already shown “the ability to move very, very fast.”
“It was not our first rodeo — this is our tenth vaccine to go into clinical studies,” he added.
Noubar B. Afeyan, another co-founder of Moderna, explained how the company must adapt its operations during this new project.
“This has, in a significant way one could argue, interrupted many things and required a lot of resource allocation, the scarcest version of which is our management attention,” Afeyan said. “We are implementing processes as a company that would usually be necessary much later in the development, but we have no choice because we’ve been thrust into that mode sooner.”
Indeed, Bancel said his team has been working hard to adapt to these unusual times.
“Often we get emails at two o’clock in the morning or on weekends,” Bancel said. “People are working very hard — the team at Moderna has been — seven days a week.”
There is some concern over what would happen if the current strain of coronavirus were to mutate, but Jordan and Langer feel the vaccine could be easily adapted.
“If you think for instance of the flu — the sort of annual flu, the seasonal flu vaccines — once you’ve got the platform for addressing it, you can change it each year without having to go through a full process of clinical trials,” Jordan said.
Bloom emphasized the importance of successfully developing a vaccine in order to end the pandemic.
“Historically, the only way to interrupt that timeframe, which is dictated by the virus, is to have a vaccine that interrupts transmission and provides immunity. That’s it,” he said.
“There are no other alternatives.”
—Staff writer Natalie L. Kahn can be reached at natalie.kahn@thecrimson.com.
—Staff writer Taylor C. Peterman can be reached at taylor.peterman@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @taylorcpeterman.
Sections
Besides the John Harvard Statue, the colorful chairs in the Yard are its most iconic decorations. These chairs have been the star of several articles, Quora queries, and even Tiktoks wondering why they’re there, how they got there, and why Harvard is spending our tuition money on $700 chairs.
First added to Harvard Yard in 2009, these chairs come from Fermob’s Luxembourg Collection. They are a reinterpretation of the Luxembourg Garden’s armchairs by designer Frédéric Sofia.
The chair’s stackable nature, curved sides, and aluminum form draw inspiration from a rustic garden chair. They’re intended for “coastal climates,” which may be why the chairs are removed and placed in storage for the winter — it’s not just a signal to tell students it's spring and time to crawl out of hibernation.
In response to a query asking, “Why are there a bunch of chairs in Harvard Yard?” Quora user and former Harvard student Marc A. Bodnick ’90 wrote that he was told that “the city of Cambridge pressured Harvard into adding these chairs.” Whether this is true or not, these chairs were added as part of the Harvard Common Spaces initiative in 2009. Since then, the chairs have been tools to share poetry or props for outdoor performances. By providing contrast to the Harvard aesthetic (and being... not crimson), they aim to make the Yard a more accessible space while creating a waiting room of sorts for tourists trying to pose with the John Harvard statue.
Many sources have incorrectly claimed that these chairs cost $762.00 each. On Fermob USA’s website, they are listed as costing $381.00 per chair. However, a minimum quantity of two chairs is required for purchase. Other sites including Wayfair and Perigold have listed the item at $762 for a set of two. Nonetheless, $381 is still an exorbitant amount to pay for a chair — especially since Harvard purchased 500 of them (grand total of $190,500). After all, Ikea’s Roxö Chair looks pretty similar and only costs $20.
