News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
In light of the brutal murders of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor, Ahmaud Arbery, Tony McDade, Oluwatoyin “Toyin” Salau, and countless other Black people, conversations on race, videos of protests, and lists of fundraisers and resources have dominated the media over the last few weeks. At a time when the topic of race relations in America is on everyone’s mind, it makes sense that many people are looking towards art and media to fill in the gaps in their knowledge on Blackness in America. This may be why “The Help” (2011) became the current most watched movie on Netflix earlier this month. Given that “The Help” has garnered widespread criticism for whitewashing Black stories and centering a white savior narrative, its resurgence on Netflix during these crucial times is concerning to say the least.
Amid nationwide attention to the Black Lives Matter movement, streaming platforms like Netflix, Spotify, and Apple Music have taken it upon themselves to curate collections inspired by the movement. After seeing our own loved ones fall prey to the revisionist, feel-good narratives of movies and media like “The Help” or “Green Book,” we’ve decided to further the conversation with a list of films, television shows, music, theater and books that center Black people.
Want to watch “The Help?” Enjoy these Black entertainment staples instead.
Films:
“13th” — dir. Ava DuVernay
DuVernay’s critically acclaimed documentary begins with the end of the American Civil War, tracing the economic, political, and historical underpinnings of mass incarceration in the United States.
“Moonlight” — dir. Barry Jenkins
Jenkins’s Academy Award winning film follows Chiron, a young Black boy coming of age (and coming to terms with his sexuality) in Liberty City, Miami.
“Just Mercy” — dir. Destin Daniel Cretton
Based on the memoir of the same name by lawyer and activist Bryan Stevenson, “Just Mercy” tells the story of Stevenson’s efforts to appeal the death row murder conviction of Walter McMillian in Alabama in 1989.
“Miss Juneteenth” — dir. Channing Godfrey Peoples
Peoples’s directorial debut introduces viewers to Turquoise Jones, a single mother preparing her daughter to win the title of “Miss. Juneteenth” in Fort Worth, Texas.
“Sorry to Bother You” — dir. Boots Riley
“Sorry to Bother You” follows the story of Cassius Green, a young Black telemarketer who adopts a “white voice” in order to succeed at his job and in doing so, gets swept into a world of corporate greed.
“Get Out” — dir. Jordan Peele
Peele’s directorial debut and Academy Award-winning horror film “Get Out” follows Chris Washington, a young Black man, as he visits his wealthy white liberal girlfriend’s family in the suburbs. During his time in the burbs, Chris uncovers the family’s dark plans for his future. Spoiler alert: Voting for Obama doesn’t make you not a racist.
TV:
“Self Made: Inspired by the Life of Madam C.J. Walker”
A Netflix original mini-series starring Octavia Spencer, “Self Made: Inspired by the Life of Madam C.J. Walker” tells the legendary story of Madame C.J. Walker as she builds her natural hair care empire and becomes America’s first female self-made millionaire. Based on the biography of Walker written by her great-great-granddaughter A'Lelia Bundles, this star-studded series combines the challenges Walker faced with an inspiring celebration of her incredible legacy.
“When They See Us”
Ava DuVernay’s retelling of the horrific trial of the Central Park Five is all the more necessary given our current president’s history. “When They See Us” juxtaposes the innocence of the five young men with the unflinching racism of their prosecutors, making this deeply moving portrait impossible to forget.
“Black-ish”
Kenya Barris’s sitcom “Black-ish” explores contemporary sociopolitical issues as it follows the Johnsons, a middle class African-American family juggling their own personal issues. Since its debut in 2014, “Black-ish” has prompted two spin-off series featuring some of the original series’s main characters: “Grown-ish” and “Mixed-ish.”
“Dear White People”
A witty, incisive portrayal of racism on elite college campuses, “Dear White People” is painfully familiar and relentlessly honest — a must watch for any college student.
“Pose”
Featuring a diverse cast and crew of predominantly queer and trans people of color, Ryan Murphy’s FX series “Pose” explores Black and Brown queer lives and the New York City ballroom community in the 1980s and '90s, at the height of the HIV epidemic.
“Black Hollywood: ‘They’ve Gotta Have Us’”
Simon Frederick’s docuseries traces the history of Black cinema and the rise of Black actors and filmmakers in Hollywood. “They’ve Gotta Have Us'' features interviews from influential Black cinema creators, such as Earl Cameron and Spike Lee, as well as behind-the-scenes looks at how some of the biggest names in Black Hollywood came to be.

Music:
“Dirty Computer” — Janelle Monáe
Rife with masterful rapping, Prince inspired guitar, and references to Black culture and history that only other Black people would understand, Monáe’s third studio album epitomizes queer Black excellence. “Dirty Computer” is accompanied by what Monáe calls an “emotion picture,” a full length feature film in which the singer and visionary crafts a beautiful, queer Afrofuturist fantasy world.
“Lemonade” — Beyoncé
Beyoncé’s 2016 visual album “Lemonade” is a genre-bending exploration of Black femininity, Black womanhood, and Black love. Encompassing a variety of Black musical influences, “Lemonade” places present-day Black expressionism in conversation with past oppression to depict the experiences of Black women in America.
“A Seat at the Table” — Solange
Solange’s third studio album “A Seat at the Table” breathes life into a distinctly Black American experience. An album inspired by her own experiences with Blackness, such as having to tell others “don’t touch my hair” and hearing her father’s stories of segregation and integration, it is no wonder Solange spent eight years writing, recording, and perfecting “A Seat at the Table” before its release in 2016.
“DAMN.” — Kendrick Lamar
On his fourth studio album, Lamar showcases his skill and versatility as a songwriter and rapper as he uses his music to tell stories inspired by his life growing up in Compton. In 2017, “DAMN.” became the first non-jazz and non-classical album to be awarded the Pulitzer Prize for Music.
“Young, Gifted and Black” — Aretha Franklin
On her 18th studio album, the late great Aretha Franklin shows the world what it means to be “Young, Gifted and Black.” Inspired by Nina Simone’s original song “Young, Gifted and Black,” Franklin’s 1972 album puts at the forefront Franklin’s Black womanhood and remarkable voice. This album is an example of why the genre is called “soul.”
“Just Be Free” — Big Freedia
“Just Be Free” is a 2014 album by Big Freedia, otherwise known as the queen of bounce — a style of hip-hop that originated in New Orleans. “Just Be Free” incorporates characteristics typical to bounce, such as quick beats created by a drum machine and instruction to dance, with EDM and house music influences like big bass drops and heavy use of synthesizers.
Music Released on Juneteenth 2020
“I Can’t Breathe” — H.E.R.
With rich, pleading vocals, H.E.R. uses some of George Floyd’s last words — “I Can’t Breathe” — to punctuate and summarize her part R&B, part spoken-word statement on Floyd’s death and the protests that have followed it.
“Perfect Way to Die” — Alicia Keys
Initially written with Michael Brown and Sandra Bland’s deaths in mind, the song’s heartbreaking chorus bears the weight of a mother’s grief concluded with the twisted line “I guess you picked the perfect way to die.” In her Instagram announcement of the song, Keys explained, “Of course, there is NO perfect way to die. That phrase doesn't even make sense. Just like it doesn't make sense that there are so many innocent lives that should not have been taken from us due to the destructive culture of police violence.”
“BLACK PARADE” — Beyoncé
A surprise Juneteenth release from Queen Bey, “BLACK PARADE” is an unapologetically Black song in which Beyoncé reminds listeners that she is a proud Black woman from the American South and invites them to relish their Blackness as well.
“Song 33” — Noname
Noname doesn’t need one second longer than she uses on the 1 minute and 9 second call-out “Song 33.” A response to J. Cole’s misogynoir in “Snow on tha Bluff” and the recent murders of far too many Black people, the rapper, poet, and producer proves, once again, that she’s a leader of “the new vanguard.”
“Never Break” — John Legend
“Never Break” is the final song of Legend’s brand-new album “Bigger Love.” “An ode to love and hope and resilience,” as Legend describes it, the soaring ballad has taken on new meaning amid the Black Lives Matter protests.
“Never Gonna Break My Faith” — Aretha Franklin
On this new, never-before-heard solo version of Franklin’s 2006 hit, the Queen of Soul’s unparalleled vocals join The Boys Choir of Harlem for a true powerhouse of a song.
Theater
“Once on This Island”
“Once on This Island” tells the story of Ti Moune, a peasant girl from the French Antilles, who falls in love with a rich boy from the other side of her island. “Once on This Island” teaches audiences lessons on colorism and class divides while sharing with them some of the beautiful facets of French Caribbean culture.
“The Color Purple”
Based on the classic novel by Alice Walker, “The Color Purple” tells the story of Celie, a young Black woman in early 20th century Georgia, as she survives abusive relationships and bigotry and learns to love others and herself.
“The Wiz”
A staple in Black musical theater, “The Wiz” is a soulful retelling of the classic “The Wizard of Oz.” “The Wiz” uses contemporary African-American culture and musical influences to tell the familiar story of Dorothy as she navigates the fantastical world of Oz.
“Dreamgirls”
Six-time Tony Award-winning musical “Dreamgirls” follows three Black singers who form a music group and enter the competitive world of the music industry in the 1960s.
“for colored girls who have considered suicide / when the rainbow is enuf” 
Ntozake Shange first work, “for colored girls who have considered suicide / when the rainbow is enuf” is a series of 20 poems woven together with music and choreography to tell the stories of seven unnamed Black women as they experience love, empowerment, loss, and Black sisterhood.
“Fierce Love: Stories of Black Gay Life”
“Fierce Love: Stories of Black Gay Life” was the first show created by Pomo Afro Homos (short for Postmodern African-American Homosexuals), a gay Black American theater troupe that mixed dance, drama, hip-hop, and comedy to bring experiences of gay Black life in America to the stage.
Books
“I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings” — Maya Angelou
In her 1969 autobiography, prolific writer and poet Maya Angelou details her experiences as a young Black woman coming of age in the American South.
“Their Eyes Were Watching God” — Zora Neale Hurston
A classic novel born during the Harlem Renaissance, Huston’s “Their Eyes Were Watching God” tells the story of Janie Crawford, a Black woman raised by her formerly enslaved grandmother as she navigates life, love, and hardships in the post-Civil War American South.
“Citizen: An American Lyric” — Claudia Rankine
Rankine’s 2014 book-length poem weaves lyric poetry, prose, and images with Black history, Black culture, and Rankine’s own personal narrative. Through her use of text and media, Rankine explores American race relations and her identity as a Black woman growing up in the United States.
“Angela Davis: An Autobiography” — Angela Davis
In her 1974 autobiography, the remarkable Angela Davis recounts her life from her time as a fugitive to her arrest, imprisonment, and subsequent acquittal as she fought for Black liberation. Davis’s masterfully written story weaves together stories from her time as a political prisoner with reflections on her life in a Civil Rights Era Birmingham, Alabama and her journey to political self-discovery.
“The Autobiography of Malcolm X: As Told to Alex Haley” — Malcolm X and Alex Haley
Published posthumously in 1965, “The Autobiography of Malcolm X” follows the life of the political rights activist from the time of his mother’s pregnancy to his assassination right before the completetion of the book. In the book’s epilogue, Malcolm X’s co-author, journalist Alex Haley, summarizes the final days of Malcolm X’s life and details the nature of their collaboration.
“The Souls of Black Folk” — W. E. B. Du Bois
W. E. B. Du Bois combines personal narrative with critical race theory in his series of essays “The Souls of Black Folk.” A cornerstone of African-American literature and a seminal work in the history of sociology, “The Souls of Black Folk” is where Du Bois first uses the term “double consciousness” to explore the idea that Black people must be conscious of both how they view themselves and how the world views them.
—Staff writer Joy C. Ashford can be reached at joy.ashford@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @joy_ashford. Staff Writer Annie Harrigan can be reached at annie.harrigan@thecrimson.com. Staff Writer Allison J. Scharmann can be reached at allison.scharmann@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @ajscharmann.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
As the national reckoning on systemic racism continues, Harvard must translate the many written commitments to racial justice it has issued into a continuous effort to support its Black students, diversity its faculty, and to dismantle racism within and beyond Harvard’s gates. As an elite institution, Harvard serves as a gatekeeper of knowledge, scholarship, and power. To fail to use its institutional heft to advance justice when the moment so clearly demands it to would be a profound, tragic moral abdication.
In pursuit of this transformation, several aspects of University policy should come under scrutiny. The administration might begin by reexamining how someone’s criminal record factors into whether Harvard deems them worthy of admission. The over-policing of black communities, the school-to-prison pipeline, and systemic racism within the American criminal justice system make incarceration another form of legitimized oppression of Black communities. Under the United States’ current justice system, having a criminal record in and of itself is unreflective of an individual’s moral character. On any given day in the U.S., 450,000 people are serving prison time for nonviolent drug offenses. The fact that George Floyd was murdered by police for allegedly using a $20 counterfeit bill illustrates the horrifying imperfection of American law enforcement. Criminal history is certainly worth scrutinizing; however, Harvard should not unilaterally rule out applicants to any school or employment position because of a criminal record. Instead, it should lead other universities by releasing thoughtful principles for how to examine an individual’s criminal record in a manner cognizant of the obviously flawed justice system.
Harvard also locks faculty members of color outside of its gates. The diversity reflected in the College’s student body is not mirrored by those who teach them, with serious adverse effects. Diverse faculty enhance scholarship and instruction by bringing new perspectives and empathies to academia. By denying tenure to highly qualified scholars of color — such as associate professor Lorgia García Peña — working across different disciplines at different schools, the University sends the message that the academic world is meant for white people. Harvard must make an effort to make sure that the many talented academics of color can make a home at Harvard.
But the University’s obligations to Black students cannot stop after they’re in. One of Harvard’s most glaring failures in this regard is its refusal to create a multicultural center, which students, particularly from marginalized backgrounds, have been calling for 50 years. Peer institutions such as Yale, Princeton, and Brown built cultural centers for their students by the 1970s. Yet, as recently as 2019, Dean of the College Rakesh Khurana said more research was required before the College would consider doing the same. But isn’t a half a century of outcry enough? Now more than ever, the value provided by a multicultural center — a physical space on campus for Black and other minority communities to gather, support one another, and foster community in a predominantly white institution — should be apparent. In response to recent vile racist email attacks, University President Lawrence S. Bacow said that “we must stand strong and support each other, especially when others would seek to divide us.” Your Black students have made it abundantly clear that this is the support they are looking for. Now is the time for the administration to provide it.
Another crucial way Harvard can support Black students is to diversify and expand its mental health staff. Witnessing racial violence and experiencing discrimination are known to have dire psychological consequences for Black people; anxiety, post-traumatic stress disorder, and depression can develop in response. The apparent lack of mental health professionals of color at Harvard means that Black students who turn to Harvard’s Counseling and Mental Health Services for help coping with racial trauma face the possibility of being met with personnel who simply can’t grasp what they’re going through. Hiring diverse mental health personnel who can provide culturally contextualized services, especially now, is another important way the University can support black students.
Though these administrative changes would be valuable, genuine transformation requires much deeper, more systemic change. When students depart Harvard, they need to be sensitive to issues of race in their field. Race shapes nearly every facet of the American experience, and thus discussions of race cannot end in the African and African American Studies Department (nor in the severely understaffed Ethnic Studies field). We propose making a racial justice course a requirement for all concentrations to elucidate the racial dynamics at play in every discipline and future line of work. The specter of racism in technology, medicine, economics, and other fields needs to be part of Harvard students’ preparation in these fields so that the University doesn’t produce racially insensitive students set on becoming world and industry leaders. The University must ensure that race is treated as a society-wide, discipline-wide issue, rather than one that concerns only a select number of individuals. Perhaps the Black Lives Matter Movement would not have been so eye-opening for some Harvard students had they been better exposed to racial issues while in Cambridge.
Harvard continues to function as a gatekeeper to positions of influence in our society. Institutionalized racism that is pervasive within Harvard’s gates undoubtedly contributes to the endemic racism in the United States. University leadership has a unique and powerful position from which they can work to dismantle racism. This work begins by listening to student activists who continue to commit their labor to fight for racial justice, whom Bacow and others in the administration have in the past written off as naively hasty or unreasonable and unworthy of negotiation. Until we see some of these changes around our campus, President Bacow’s soaring rhetoric rings hollow.
This staff editorial solely represents the majority view of The Crimson Editorial Board. It is the product of discussions at regular Editorial Board meetings. In order to ensure the impartiality of our journalism, Crimson editors who choose to opine and vote at these meetings are not involved in the reporting of articles on similar topics.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard administrators are “disappointed” with an executive order regarding certain visas signed Monday by President Donald J. Trump, per University Spokesperson Jonathan L. Swain.
The order suspends temporary worker visas — including H-1B visas for specialty workers, H-2B visas for temporary non-agricultural workers, and J-1 visas for exchange visitors — through the end of 2020.
“While the University appreciates that yesterday’s executive order does not affect student visas or Optional Practical Training (OPT), as an institution we are disappointed that the President’s order bans entry to certain new non-immigrant visa holders, including H-1B,” Swain wrote in an emailed statement. “In our view, this is a short-sighted policy that threatens scholarly engagement.”
University President Lawrence S. Bacow previously urged Secretary of State Michael R. Pompeo and Acting Secretary of Homeland Security Chad F. Wolf to enact “forward-thinking immigration policies” in a June 2 letter. Bacow specifically asked them to maintain the Optional Practical Training, which permits students to use their visas to gain professional experience in their field of study in the United States.
The executive order is the latest in a series of controversial immigration and travel restrictions Trump has made since the start of the coronavirus pandemic.
Stephen W. Yale-Loehr, a professor of immigration law at Cornell Law School, wrote in an email that the Executive Order could impact Harvard affiliates in a variety of ways.
“If Harvard has a new employee overseas who planned to apply for an H-1B temporary work visa or an existing employee overseas trying to renew his or her H-1B visa, the new proclamation prevents that,” Yale-Loehr wrote.
“If a Harvard employee is in the United States on an H-1B visa but his or her spouse is overseas and planned to apply for an H-4 visa, the new proclamation prevents that,” he added. “The couple may be separated for a long time.”
Between October 2019 and March 2020, Harvard received certifications for 134 H-1B visas. Positions included postdoctoral fellows, research associates, and assistant professors. The University only provides H1-B sponsorship to administrative employees in “rare instances.” Numerous hospitals affiliated with Harvard Medical School also sponsor H1-B and J-1 visas for their medical residencies and fellowships.
Any international alumni applying for an H-1B visa to return to the United States to work will also be unable to for the remainder of 2020, Yale-Loehr wrote.
Swain said the significance of the order for Harvard extends beyond its direct impact, and to the “message” it sends.
“The University remains concerned that it sends a chilling message to the world’s best and brightest who seek to contribute their talent and energy to solving our world’s most persistent problems through scholarship and research at institutions here in the United States,” Swain wrote.
More than 42,000 H-1B visa positions were certified in Massachusetts in Fiscal Year 2016, according to the Department of Labor. Of Massachusetts cities, Cambridge boasted the second-most certifications after Boston, at nearly 3,000.
Sabrineh Ardalan — the Director of the Harvard Immigration and Refugee Clinical Program — wrote in an email that the Executive Order seeks to ban individuals who are “critical” to the economy and “integral to our communities.”
“This proclamation is yet another example of the administration’s misguided efforts to scapegoat immigrants and shut down immigration in a political maneuver designed to distract from the administration’s failures to respond to the pandemic and to systemic racism,” Ardalan wrote.
The Harvard International Office wrote in a statement on its website that it is still waiting for additional information concerning “waivers of the proclamation” and “other details.”
“We will update our website as we learn more,” the statement reads. “We continue to strongly recommend that visa holders in the U.S. avoid all non-emergency international travel.”
—Staff writer Camille G. Caldera can be reached at camille.caldera@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @camille_caldera.
—Staff writer Michelle G. Kurilla can be reached at michelle.kurilla@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @MichelleKurilla.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
