News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Boston LGBTQIA+ Artist Alliance, a volunteer artist-run organization, is displaying works by local queer artists at the Distillery Gallery in South Boston until late July.
The showcase, titled “some assembly required,” opened to the public earlier this month, and features pieces of various mediums by 30 queer artists from the Greater Boston area.
Ena Kantardžić, one of the show’s curators, said the collection was organized following an open call for art submissions last year, as part of a larger effort to “revitalize” BLAA.
“It’s been in the works for a while,” Kantardžić said. “BLAA is an organization that was kind of quiet after 2019, and it felt like such a loss to the community, so a small-ish group of us came together and tried to breathe life into it.”
Jasper A. Sanchez, the show’s other curator, said the exhibition presents diverse media, from collages and sculptures to paintings and photography, related to themes including the situational aspects of memory and queer identity.
“Because of this past pandemic and a lot of us spending time in home and sort of ruminating on space and place, there are these explorations of memory and queerness in relation to things like public or private, indoor or outdoor, and also binaries like masculine and feminine,” Sanchez said.
“It’s definitely hard to separate the artists from the art,” Kantardžić said. “A lot of work that is featured in the gallery is regarding the self.”
In addition to their curatorial role, Kantardžić is showcased as an artist with their assemblage “Untitled Poem (information as non-duration),” which imagines a future in which computer sciences are integral to art-making.
Adjacent to Kantardžić’s piece in the gallery space is a projection of Anukriti Kaushik’s digital animation “death of a woman.” Kaushik, a recent college graduate who was classmates with Kantardžić, said the short film challenges conventional notions of womanhood.
“It’s kind of like reclaiming agency over my own body, over my own gender, over my own sexuality,” Kaushik said. “I’ve realized that a lot of people relate to it and I’ve received so much positive feedback.”
Kaushik, who grew up in India, said the subject of their other work on view, the mixed media painting “Godhood,” was influenced by their spiritual upbringing at home.
“It was inspired by a lot of the gods and goddesses that I grew up with because I come from a fairly religious family, so I was always exposed to Hinduism,” Kaushik said. “It was like an experiment to see if I could create my own goddess and create an inspiration for myself, and make it as large as I possibly could.”
In the same room as Kaushik’s painting stands Mia Fabrizio’s “There Is A Light That Never Goes Out.” Fabrizio said her sculpture references the “fluidity” of gender roles within her Italian-American family’s multigenerational home, which also houses the family-run hair salon her grandfather built decades ago.
“Cultural residue is met by the individual spirit, and we just don’t fit into one box or one label,” she said. “We ascribe our self-identities to many things.”
Two embroidered works on display from Scott Walker examine how popular culture resonates with queer people, especially queer youth.
Walker said “Tiger Beat July 2004,” which portrays a cover of the teen fan magazine, was inspired by celebrities and musicians who were “so open to expressing their feminine side” during the early 2000s. His second piece, “Toni Collette as Annie Graham in Hereditary,” depicts an image of the actress’s performance in the 2018 horror film that he found captivating.
“I think a lot of queer men especially are drawn to these troubled women characters,” Walker said of the Collette portrait. “I couldn’t get that image out of my mind.”
Walker said he was introduced to embroidery as a child because both his mother and grandmother practiced the craft. He said a “strong, feminine part” of his identity was drawn to the art form.
“It definitely feels like a way of communicating softness and femininity, and also a familiar, nostalgic element,” Walker said. “There is also a little humor and irony in something you might associate with old-fashioned grandma and then infusing that with millennial, even Gen Z, pop culture references.”
Outside the gallery space, BLAA has sought to unite the show’s artists by providing mentorship and other support for participants who are in the early stages of their careers, according to Sanchez. Kantardžić said the organization recently hosted an in-person meet-up for the artists.
“That was the goal of the show,” Kantardžić said. “The intention that BLAA had was to bring these people together.”
Kaushik said it was “beautiful” to interact with a diverse group of artmakers after a year of social isolation.
“The experience has been incredibly heartwarming, especially coming right out of the pandemic,” they said.
Above all, Fabrizio said she was heartened that the exhibition elevates each artist’s unique perspective.
“That was the most exciting part — that everyone was being seen, and voices and expression was being valued,” she said.
BLAA’s “some assembly required” remains on view at the Distillery Gallery through July 23.
—Staff writer Alex Koller can be reached at alex.koller@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
I am the oldest child of two moms in a progressive town once dubbed “Lesbianville, USA,” which boasts a women’s college, a 35,000-participant annual gay pride parade, and a population of two-mom families over five times the national average. My moms, my younger twin sisters, and I are blissfully normal here. But when I tell people outside of my hometown — at Harvard, at my summer internships, near my grandparents’ house, when I travel — that I have two moms, they have a lot of questions. And that’s understandable! In fact, I welcome questions. (Well, some of them ...) It often means that people are trying to educate themselves about family structures they are unfamiliar with.
So, here are my answers to the most common questions I get — the good, the inappropriate, and everything in-between:
What’s it like to have two moms?
What’s it like to have a dad? Our perceptions of what is normal and what is abnormal are shaped by our own experiences — and because I have never known anything different, I have never been able to answer this question.
Who is your real mom?
They both feel pretty real to me when they won’t let me borrow a car or when they’re complaining about how many pairs of shoes I leave lying around the house … Should I keep going?
But really, who is your real mom?
In all seriousness, this is not an appropriate question to ask. It’s 2021. You should know (or be able to learn from Google) that biology isn’t what makes a family and that equating shared genetic material with parenthood erases many different types of families, including adoptive families.
This question assumes that biology makes a parent “real,” and it erases the role of caretaking in parenthood. If you’re asking which mom gave birth to me, that’s information I share with friends or when necessary. It’s not a secret and I personally don’t consider it private information. Anyone who knew my moms 20 years ago knows which one was pregnant. But the answer to this question is rarely relevant to the conversation, and answering it only serves to perpetuate the falsehood that biology is everything.
Who is your dad?
I don’t have a dad, remember? I have two moms … that’s what this whole article is about.
First, a clarification: Many people don’t call the men who provide sperm to lesbian couples “dads” or “biological dads,” preferring the term “donor” to reflect the amazing gift someone has given a couple to enable them to have children but also to reflect the fact that this man, this “donor,” isn’t a parent. That being said, some lesbian couples and their donors have an arrangement in which the donor is also a presence in the child’s life. In such cases, the donor may very well be seen as a dad. Other couples choose to use an anonymous donor, and even then there are myriad options — donors who want to remain anonymous, donors who are willing to be contacted by the child when they turn 18, and so on.
I assume that what you’re really asking is how my moms conceived me. Simply put, this isn’t an appropriate question to ask.
Okay, so if you don’t have a dad, which mom is the dad in the relationship?
They’re both … moms. There are two of them. That’s kind of the point. Plus, the question itself is steeped in antiquated notions of gender roles in heterosexual relationships. There are dads who cook dinner and moms who mow the lawn. Wake up, Rip Van Winkle.
Did your moms use an anonymous or known donor?
I get it. You’re curious! But just don’t ask this question. Ever. If you’re my doctor, or you need to know the answer to this question, or if the answer to this question is relevant to our conversation, or I simply want you to know it, I’ll tell you. But it’s none of your business, and no one is entitled to this information. And, if I’m being honest, you’re exponentially more likely to get the answer you seek if you don’t ask the question.
What do you call your moms?
Annoying.
Real talk: This is actually a really good question to ask — and it’s one that same-sex couples discuss before having children. Most children of two moms use variations of the word “Mom,” but I’ve known some who call both parents by their first names and others who call both of them “Mom.” I personally call my moms “Mommy” and “Mama” because that’s what they chose for themselves before I was born — and I’ve kept calling them those names for no other reason than the fact that it embarrasses my ultra-sophisticated, easily mortified sisters when I scream “Mommy!” down a grocery store aisle.
How is your life different because you have two moms?
Well, I’m not really sure, but I’m guessing that most families don’t see Provincetown as the only acceptable vacation spot and have the local pride parade on the family calendar months in advance, for starters.
I’ll hold the snark to say: Having two moms has given me perspective on feminism, on BGLTQ rights, on parenthood, on this country, and on life that I wouldn’t have gotten elsewhere. The answers to these questions will likely look different for every child of two moms, but one thing is true for most (if not all) of us: We wouldn’t change it for the world.
Orlee G.S. Marini-Rapoport ’23-24, a Crimson Associate Editorial editor, is a History and Literature and Studies of Women, Gender, and Sexuality concentrator in Adams House.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
“I started crying, walking down the street when I saw Black Sheep Bagels and their [pride] flags” on Harvard’s campus, R. Elizabeth “Liz” Hoveland ’22 says. After living alone in her dad’s office building in Bigfork, Mont. during the pandemic, she returned to Cambridge this summer. “I went from a state where I thought I could get murdered for being gay, to being loved,” Hoveland says.
Just before June 2020, when the Supreme Court ruled that the Civil Rights Act protects BGLTQ employees from discrimination based on sex, Hoveland was fired from her job at a coffee shop in Bigfork. She believes she was fired because of her queer identity.
“They didn't outright say it,” she explains. “They said that they didn't like my lifestyle and my beliefs.” It was at that moment that Hoveland says she realized the extent to which she could not be herself in her hometown, a place she describes as extremely conservative and unaccepting of BGLTQ individuals. While in Montana during the pandemic, Hoveland says she struggled with situational depression and essentially “went back into the closet for about a year.”
Hoveland’s experience is not uncommon. According to the Trevor Project, a national organization focused on preventing BGLTQ suicides, 64 percent of BGLTQ-identifying youth who had to move home from college as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic say that the move negatively impacted their ability to express their identity.
Trans Lifeline, a crisis hotline for transgender and nonbinary people, reports that calls related to both Covid-19 and suicidal ideation have increased by 89 percent since the start of the pandemic in March 2020. This includes an 81 percent increase in calls about lack of community support, a 47 percent rise in calls about family rejection, and a 300 percent increase in calls about housing instability.
Beth, a female student in the Class of 2022 who identifies as bisexual, said that moving from Tennessee to Harvard her freshman year came with a lot of freedom that she lost when returning home during the pandemic. At home, there was the constant, nagging hum of Fox News. There were frustrating microaggressions, like her father discussing how queer people “can get married, but they shouldn’t call it marriage.” There was the inability to participate in Zoom discussions about queer media for her English or theater classes, for fear of outing herself to her family.
However, even in Cambridge, there are moments that feel reminiscent of home, when Beth — to whom The Crimson granted anonymity for her safety and privacy — is reminded of the silent, but sizable population that does not support or accept queer existence.
One day, while walking by the Judy Jetson hair salon near Porter Square, Beth noticed that a window usually adorned by pride flags had been “brutally smashed.” Although she didn’t see the actual event, it made her realize that “people think like that here also.”
Following the onset of the pandemic, Kristin B. King ’24 spent time in their hometown in Wisconsin and then lived alone in Arizona beginning in 2021. Although King describes Wisconsin as “a fairly red area,” college campuses and university centers offer opportunities to meet other queer individuals near their home. However, there aren’t “a lot of older [BGLTQ] folks” and there is an absence of long-term community infrastructure in the state, they said.
After coming out as genderqueer their freshman year at a Catholic high school, being at Harvard meant not having to “fight for [them]self” and allowed them to “exist in a more comfortable space.”
Still, King emphasizes that the queer experience cannot be generalized. “We can't talk about the needs of queer students without talking to trans students, nonbinary students, students of color, and international students,” King says.
King explains the pandemic forced many students to find their own housing and build new support systems, and in their experience, they noticed there are limited and inaccessible resources for students like King who were on leave. They also explain that this situation could be uniquely challenging for queer students in unsafe home environments, unlike students of other marginalized groups who oftentimes share racial, ethnic, or socioeconomic identities with their families.
At Harvard, students have mixed responses to available queer spaces and resources — including queer group chats, queer parties, the BGLTQ office (known informally as the QuOffice), virtual Qoffee (Coffee) chats, social transition funds, CAMHS support groups, and a “Pride at Harvard” campaign in June that features students who want to be visually represented on social media or at Smith Campus Center.
This year, freshmen did not have a chance to connect with fellow queer students or faculty at more low-stakes in-person events, or to explore their identity in a new environment.
“There's absolutely no casual interaction,” says Sam, a student in the Class of 2024 who was granted anonymity by The Crimson to protect his safety and privacy. “You just don't see anyone unless you're actively reaching out and sliding into people's DMs.”
He recalls that while living on campus last fall, he “consciously” tried to develop relationships in which he could have conversations about “queerness and movies and media,” because he wouldn’t have that back in his rural hometown. Once at home, he says it was an “added stress” to have similar conversations on Zoom since his parents might be home, and he was not out to them.
“There was a required advising meeting, and they said everyone needs to be in a space where they can talk openly,” Sam says, describing the challenge of finding private spaces for conversations while at home during the pandemic.
In an emailed statement, Harvard spokesperson Jason A. Newton notes that to address this challenge during telehealth therapy appointments, CAMHS made accommodations “such as utilizing the chat feature during Zoom sessions or holding sessions over the phone so students could go for a walk to assure privacy.” Still, individual therapy sessions were not an option for many students living internationally or across state lines, due to the limitations imposed by licensing laws.
While support for the queer community takes different forms, sometimes powerful sources of support are simple, such as the web page “Out @ Harvard,” which lists faculty, staff, and graduate students who are publicly out. “Even if you never talked to [these queer Harvard community members] it's just being like, ‘there is a next stage in life,’” Beth says.
“Coming from the South, I'm not used to seeing queer people post-college,” she says, describing that she did not have any teachers or people in her professional networks who were publicly out until coming to Harvard. Her freshman year proctor, who also identified as first-generation, low-income, and queer, was instrumental as she sought to get situated.
Other sources of support such as the QuOffice are situated within a more complex history that illustrates how the college’s resources adapted over time.
Roughly 100 years ago, the Secret Court of 1920 — composed of five University administrators, including then-University President Abbott Lawrence Lowell, and Chester Noyes Greenough — put students on trial for their queer identity. The court conducted 30 interviews and expelled or severed the university’s association with students, a recent graduate, and a professor who were suspected of being queer. The court’s proceedings were uncovered in a 2002 Crimson article and significant progress has been made since these disturbing events.
In 1997, Harvard’s first Queer Straight Alliance was formed and the year after, a BGLT and Supporters Resource Center opened in the basement of Holworthy Hall. In 2009, Thayer basement housed a Queer Resource Center and 2011 marked the first time Harvard employed full-time, paid staff for the center. In 2012, the BGLTQ office officially opened in Boylston Hall, and moved to Grays Hall in 2017, where the office is currently housed.
Associate Dean for Inclusion and Belonging Alta T. Mauro says the office “is really young in the life of Harvard, but it's also really young in the light of support for queer communities on college campuses.”
Historically, college campuses and college groups have been important to gay liberation. University of Massachusetts, Amherst director of the Stonewall Center Genny Beemyn argues that gay activism from radical college students, especially at Cornell and Columbia as early as the late 1960s, laid the groundwork for widespread movements following Stonewall. Beemyn writes that these student groups asserted “a sense of pride in being gay” by sharing their personal experience and they “made gay liberation an important concern for many non-gay people.”
At Harvard, visibility looks different for each student. Hoveland says she loves the QuOffice but walking down the Grays basement steps while there are constantly admission tours, professors, and passersby at the crowded intersection nearby can feel like a “neon flashing sign” identifying her as BGLTQ.
Though non-queer allies are always welcome into the office, Hoveland says that resources could be made subtle for students who are not out and that the onus to seek queer spaces should not fall onto students. Additionally, these queer resources are not always integrated into the larger campus community.
“They [members of the QuOffice] do incredible work, but are those resources being shared by other organizations or other student clubs?” King says, describing the need for the College and its student population to commit to supporting queer students, regardless of the pandemic.
Hoveland shares the sentiment that the College could make supporting queer students a more widespread, public priority. For example, this could include simple, yet clearly visible signs of support, like a pride flag above the John Harvard statue or an email from Dean of the College Rakesh Khurana explicitly acknowledging the difficulties of queer students, she says.
Likewise, the college can work on more tangible inclusion efforts; for instance, the college’s IT department can work on ensuring that students can selectively change their name or pronouns in my.harvard without alerting their parents.
“I know a lot of people, myself included, who are more safe at school than they are at home,” King says. “We need to address that when students return to campus, a lot of students have really experienced a lot of pain in the last 15 or 16 months.”
Though the work toward liberation is ongoing and returning to campus will be an adjustment, there is much to rejoice in.
Hoveland says, “I'm so, so overwhelmingly proud of my identity, proud of my path, and proud of how many people have fought for me to have the rights that I do.”
— Staff writer Akila V. Muthukumar can be reached at akila.muthukumar@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @akila29m.
— Staff writer Kendall Shields can be reached at kendall.shields@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @kendallishields. 
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard students with the Academic Public Health Volunteer Corps have been working to support local health agencies in advancing health equity and improving public health since March 2020.
With more than 900 student, alumni, and expert volunteers from around 140 communities across Massachusetts, the APHVC is the first program developed by the Academic Health Department Consortium — a partnership between the Massachusetts Department of Public Health and eight local public health schools and organizations, including Harvard’s, formed in 2019.
In an April interview, Harvard School of Public Health Dean Michelle A. Williams lauded the importance of Harvard students and faculty already being involved in the Consortium prior to the Covid-19 pandemic.
“That is a remarkable illustration of how prescient our students and faculty were in partnering with the state health department before Covid — leveraging that partnership during a time of great need,” Williams said.
According to Antonia Blinn, the director of performance management and quality improvement at the Massachusetts Department of Public Health who co-leads the APHVC, the Consortium formed the volunteer corps in response to the critical need for support for local public health departments when the pandemic first hit.
“It was the really critical time when our local public health [agencies] were really exhausted, and just going and going and going and kind of like the Energizer Bunny,” she said. “And so the volunteers really provided some reprieve in a moment that they really needed it.”
Amy E. Bantham, who led the APHVC teams for Avon and Somerville before graduating with her doctorate from HSPH in 2020, said the volunteer program’s work was a “huge undertaking,” particularly during the start of the pandemic. Team volunteers assisted with contact tracing and made frequent phone calls to residents explaining quarantine guidelines and providing Covid-19 test results.
HSPH student Julia A. Healey, a volunteer for APHVC’s Central Communication Team since October, said she has been working on creating social media graphics and flyers to combat misinformation about the coronavirus and available vaccines.
She also noted that the APHVC has allowed her to form unique connections in the midst of a remote year at Harvard.
“It’s been really a great opportunity with having so many other schools involved and meeting other students in the public health field who have common interests as me,” she said. “It’s really been helpful in this past year, given how hard it is to meet new people and network within a completely virtual environment.”
Blinn added that APHVC has been not only a great learning opportunity for students, but also fostered a “pipeline of new folks” excited and knowledgeable about local public health issues.
“The formation of this group will outlive Covid,” she added.
—Staff writer Ariel H. Kim can be reached at ariel.kim@thecrimson.com.
—Staff writer Anjeli R. Macaranas can be reached at anjeli.macaranas@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
