News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard believes in the transformative potential of liberal arts education. And it is through this remarkable power of liberal arts that Harvard pursues its mission to “educate the citizens and citizen-leaders of our society.” But has Harvard really done justice to the spirit of liberal arts?
Harvard’s model for imparting its liberal arts education has been its flagship General Education program. At Harvard, students do not just take courses in their field of study.
In addition to taking a course in the natural sciences, the social sciences, and the humanities, students must take General Education courses across four categories: aesthetics and culture; ethics and civics; histories, societies, individuals; and science and technology in society. These requirements, together with the mandatory expository writing requirement to be completed in students’ first year, a foreign language requirement, and a quantitative reasoning requirement, form the core of Harvard’s liberal arts curriculum.
While this model gives the impression of fostering intellectual breadth, it leaves a lot to be desired.
A typical Gen Ed course meets twice a week in a large lecture hall where between a couple dozen and a few hundred students passively listen to their professor’s monologue. In these Gen Ed classes, one can get away with never speaking up in class, ever talking to the professor, and most crucially, without ever meaningfully engaging with the topic. There are smaller, tight-knit discussion sections led by graduate students that meet each week, but these sections can often feel fleeting, incomplete, and futile. These courses often fail to generate sufficient interest among many students, who treat these classes as an unavoidable inconvenience. It is thus no wonder that many students end up enrolling in “gems” that require little effort and guarantee a good grade.
However, this culture of treating Gen Eds as a nuisance is antithetical to a true liberal arts education. At its core, a liberal arts education is meant to develop critical thinking required to challenge various assumptions and biases underpinning our beliefs, stimulate intellectual growth through a holistic approach to knowledge, engender inquisitiveness about the most pressing issues facing humanity, and cultivate a strong moral character. The ethos of liberal arts, I believe, can be summed up in this famous quote from Plato’s Socrates: “the unexamined life is not worth living.”
To be educated in the liberal arts, thus, is to be curious about the world around you, to engage in intellectual debates to get closer to truth, to meditate deeply on the human condition, and to lead a meaningful life. But how successful is Harvard’s curriculum in encouraging this?
Currently, Harvard’s commitment to liberal arts is too shallow. It does not have to be this way. In envisaging a true liberal arts education for its students, Harvard could derive inspiration from Columbia’s core curriculum. At Columbia, each student has to take a certain number of small, discussion-based humanities courses that delve into interdisciplinary topics and engage students with primary sources. Every student at Columbia takes these courses during their time at college, where they critically engage with the dominant themes of our contemporary civilization and study the masterpieces of literature and philosophy, music, visual art, and modern science.
By the end of their first year at Columbia, students have a shared academic experience of reading and discussing texts that have shaped our world in fundamental ways. This experience makes students better thinkers and contributes to creating a more cohesive community by facilitating open discussions and free exchange of ideas in dining halls, dorm rooms, and libraries. In this way, students are encouraged to learn from their peers and empathize with diverse perspectives even outside the classroom. This, I would argue, should be the hallmark of any liberal arts education.
While any liberal arts curriculum prides itself on academic flexibility, what Harvard needs, paradoxically, is a more rigid curriculum that is sufficiently rigorous and challenges students to get out of their comfort zones. The purpose of a liberal arts curriculum should be to inspire students to be independent, life-long learners, and fostering independent learning requires guidance. A core curriculum consisting of timeless works that trace the history of ideas and examine the human condition can serve as the foundation for cultivating the independence and intellectual inquiry essential to a complete education. This would also serve as an antidote to the excesses of career-oriented learning that’s ubiquitous at Harvard. Instead, students will be encouraged to learn for the sake of understanding the world.
To that end, in their first year, all students should be exposed to great works of art, literature and philosophy from around the world in small discussion seminars led by Harvard faculty. These classes should abstain from passive pedagogy and should instead be styled in the Socratic tradition. Each student should be expected to produce original, thought-provoking work at the end of these courses reflecting on their sense of purpose in the world.
Ultimately, in addition to nurturing student-faculty relationships, the aim of this model would be to promote human flourishing through helping students discover themselves. This would go a long way in making Harvard’s promise of a true liberal arts education credible.
Tarun Timalsina ’22 is an Economics concentrator in Pforzheimer House.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Over my short time thus far at Harvard, I’ve been shocked at some of the racist comments and actions of my professors. Even more disturbing, however, have been the discussions and debates over what to do with these professors when their words and behavior are brought into the limelight.
It is clear to me that despite the many claims I’ve heard about wanting to create a safe and equitable environment for marginalized students, their wellbeing is rarely prioritized. In conversations about how Harvard should handle members of its community that spread racism or other forms of bigotry, I’ve been frustrated because the potential growth of the perpetrator, and the debate over how much they are to blame, often takes center stage over the healing, safety, and comfort of those harmed.
Even when students make bigoted comments or ask questions with bigoted assumptions or implications in class, the problem is often brushed aside; in fact, people sometimes comfort and reassure the commenter that although they may have said something problematic, it is a “learning experience” and that it is okay to make mistakes. While perpetrators are being coddled, the harm or hateful environment they create for other students remains unaddressed. While the centering of whiteness at Harvard is clearly on display in these situations, another insidious problem that forms the core of many people’s approach to accountability is also rearing its ugly head: The concept of blame itself must be unlearned and responsibility reimagined.
The specific conception of blame I’m referring to is rooted in the common idea that all people have the power to decide their actions and thus could have made another choice. However, this standard is not applied to everyone in our society equally. A “you get what you choose” logic is applied to marginalized people to justify their suffering under systems of poverty, inequality, and the criminal justice system. Yet, when the subjects become predominantly white, male, and upper-class, the idea of blame flips to defend them.
Suddenly, multiple scenarios and circumstances are recognized as compromising people’s ability to make choices, such as being tired, being too young to know better, experiencing peer pressure, etc. Now the concept of blame introduces a game in which the actual harm done is deemphasized as the circumstances surrounding the perpetrator are examined to determine their moral status and, therefore, how much suffering they deserve, how guilty they should feel, or how much they should be resented.
In addition to the disparate application of blame between the marginalized and the privileged, the exercise of trying to ascribe agency and intent in any situation is a fruitless endeavor. No one can go back in time into someone’s head to truly understand all of the factors influencing their decision. Instead, the concept of blame should be thrown aside in favor of a new concept of responsibility: One in which people are responsible for the harm they cause others whether or not they intended it. We shouldn’t focus on moral culpability, but rectifying the harm done.
Holding people responsible thus becomes about creating a safer space, disincentivizing future harm, and rehabilitation. When determining what to do with a professor who made racist comments, the well-being of students of color should be all that matters. If students cannot be sure whether their professor still believes that they aren’t worthy of being in Harvard’s classroom because of their race, no excuses can justify keeping the professor in the position and forcing students to figure out how to navigate their classes or rearrange their academic plans.
This conception of responsibility also frees perpetrators from the need for self-resentment, which isn’t actually productive or helpful. We can be kind to ourselves and others while still holding each other responsible and not decentering those harmed.
However, I am not saying that anger or a desire for perpetrators to recognize wrongdoing isn’t justified. The acknowledgment of wrongdoing can help victims feel valid and gain closure. Regardless, it is critical that as a community we make sure that victims feel valid whether or not perpetrators apologize by centering their healing and caring for their needs.
Marginalized people are also valid in not wanting anything to do with those who make bigoted comments. Those who claim to be allies, however, cannot just assign blame and call it a day. Allies of marginalized people are also responsible for confronting and engaging with perpetrators to prevent them from doing future harm.
While the personal growth of perpetrators should never take precedence over the harm and consequences for marginalized people, I would not advocate for an elevated understanding of responsibility if I did not believe in people’s power to change and grow. In fact, because learning to treat others with respect and unlearning bigotry is a critical part of preventing future harm, this reimagined concept of responsibility promotes more growth than making excuses and playing the blame game.
David E. Lewis ’24 lives in Quincy House. His column “Unlearning Everything” appears on alternate Thursdays.
​​Have a suggestion, question, or concern for The Crimson Editorial Board? Click here.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Undergraduate Council has passed legislation advocating for the creation of a committee, equal parts faculty and undergraduate, to review the Faculty of Arts And Sciences’ Free Speech Guidelines. The resource, designed in part to guide student groups on who to invite to speak, seems to be collecting dust on campus; we doubt most undergraduates are aware it exists. The UC’s recommendation to revisit them may prove to be just as much of a non-factor. In fact, we hope for as much.
It is hard for us to parse what this new measure will actually mean for anyone at FAS. A committee may be convened on the basis of the legislation, but does not have to be. This committee’s review may change the document, but also may not; it may not even recommend an overhaul, as was the case in FAS’s recently concluded tenure policy review. And updates to the Free Speech Guidelines, drafted in 1990, will only matter if these guidelines are consulted regularly, if ever, by students and faculty.
The suggestion of a committee review is thin, but fine. Still, the UC’s time would be better spent disseminating our current guidelines more widely, or championing adherence to our current free speech standards across Harvard’s campus.
As is, Harvard’s Free Speech Guidelines offer much to be proud of. Proclamations like “we do not promote the censorship of noxious ideas” sit alongside the qualification that “there are obligations of civility and respect for others that underlie rational discourse.” Our “high priority on free speech” is forcefully articulated alongside an admission that “there is a need to weigh the right of freedom of expression against other rights.” When students and faculty must ultimately make “hard decisions” about what speakers to welcome to campus, we should favor free speech, but be thoughtful. In essence, it's a document that proclaims our highest ideals and encourages us to think.
We are extremely wary of any attempt to reduce or alter the freedoms that these guidelines promote. We worry that a committee such as the one the UC proposes, at least without understanding the true purpose of the legislation, would threaten to do just that.
The guidelines that we set for ourselves reflect not just what we are, but also what we aspire to be. And both the Free Speech Guidelines and this Board agree that we aspire to be a community dedicated to “discovering and disseminating ideas.” Students and faculty alike come to Harvard with countless different ambitions, but all of us — regardless of where we come from and where we hope to go from here — are committed to this communal project of critical inquiry.
Seeking the truth is difficult. It requires us to confront views that we believe just cannot be right, and that confrontation can be bitterly painful. But approaching those truths is what universities – and especially one dedicated to the pursuit of Veritas – are for. Turning ourselves and others away from claims we dislike, or even abhor, cuts off our scholarship and education from what can make each exceptional.
When we refuse to hear unpopular speakers out, we close our ears to the possibility that they might be correct. Even worse, we lose the chance to face views we know are wrong — to test our deepest commitments by grappling with challenges to them and, after hearing out our opposition, to develop iron-clad rebuttals. We learn not only what we believe to be right and wrong, but may more deeply understand why we do so. It is in facing these obstacles that we advance our beliefs from blind dogma to clear-eyed knowledge.
We must acknowledge that these recommendations permit events that may upset our community in the short term — but we believe that these should be given the go-ahead nonetheless. The writers of the Free Speech Guidelines carve out space to clarify that views that demonstrate “grave disrespect for the dignity of others” should not be given a campus audience. But ideas that fail to clear this bar and are merely “noxious” should, as the document argues, be heard out.
We are confident that Harvard students will be able to examine and critique wrongheaded ideas, and in doing so, sharpen their own. And of course, de-platforming controversial speakers at Harvard will, more likely than not, simply offer them a larger and newer platform amongst those who take glee in decrying the illiberalism of liberal arts institutions — only elevating these speaker’s profile and esteem in certain circles. In trying to protect Harvard students from menacing beliefs, we would merely foist them onto the rest of the nation.
For the sake of our mission as a university, free speech must be protected here — and really, if anyone bothered to read them, that is what the current guidelines already tell us to do.
This staff editorial solely represents the majority view of The Crimson Editorial Board. It is the product of discussions at regular Editorial Board meetings. In order to ensure the impartiality of our journalism, Crimson editors who choose to opine and vote at these meetings are not involved in the reporting of articles on similar topics.
Have a suggestion, question, or concern for The Crimson Editorial Board? Click here.
Correction: Oct. 14, 2021
A previous version of this article incorrectly stated that Harvard's Tenure Track Review Committee did not recommend any changes. In fact, the committee recommended several changes, though overall, it upheld the tenure system as structurally sound.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Raising his hands as if at a pulpit, cast under the fluorescent light of his new office, Cornel R. West ’74 reflects on his recent departure from Harvard. He wears his daily uniform: golden Africa-shaped cufflinks, a black scarf, and a three-piece suit. He leans forward, his voice strained. He has one question for Harvard: “What the hell is so controversial and fraught about giving tenure to somebody who you gave a university professorship to 20-something years before?”
On July 12, after months of conflict over the University’s decision to not consider him for tenure, West tweeted his letter of resignation, dated June 30. He accused Harvard of harboring “spiritual rot,” casting “the shadow of Jim Crow,” and attributed his rejection, in part, to “cowardly deference to the anti-Palestianian prejudices of the Harvard administration.”
West wants to understand Harvard’s decision at its core. “Based on academic grounds? I want to know. Age grounds? I want to know. And if it’s not academic grounds, not based on age,” he says. “Must be political.”
His departure is one in a string of recent incidents across the nation in which a university denies tenure to a professor of color whose scholarship and politics dispute the foundational ideals of the United States. Most notably Nikole Hannah-Jones, creator of the 1619 Project, was initially denied tenure at UNC Chapel Hill in June; at Harvard, Lorgia García Peña, a scholar in Ethnic Studies and vocal immigrant rights activist, was denied tenure less than two years ago. Both had their work politicized and belittled by those in more traditional realms of academia. And all this concurrent with Harvard and similar institutions committing themselves to recruit scholars from, to use the University’s words, “the widest possible pool of exceptional talent, unifying excellence and diversity; promotion processes should be characterized by nondiscrimination and should recognize excellence in all its forms.”
We met West on 121 St. at the campus of Union Theological Seminary, where he was first hired as a professor 45 years ago and is now tenured. On a September evening, he takes us to his office inside a gothic tower overlooking Harlem and Columbia University’s main campus. The room is sparse, its perimeter lined with walls of bookshelves and framed images, including a signed “Funkadelic” George Clinton tour poster.
It’s already 9 p.m. when West greets us for one of the first extensive interviews he’s given about his 51-year relationship with, and turbulent departure from, Harvard. Only when his wife calls him, three hours later, does he walk the few blocks home, carrying just a plastic bag with his laptop inside.
West’s relationship to Harvard spans five decades: He was an undergraduate in the early 1970s leading demonstrations for Harvard to establish what was then called ‘Afro-American Studies’; he became a University Professor in 1998, a tenured position and the most recognized position a Harvard scholar can hold; he departed after a dispute with then-University President Lawrence H. Summers; and he returned five years ago.
West is not known to hold his tongue, and his recent viral departure is in keeping with a history of high-profile conflict. When he resigned from Harvard in 2002, his meeting with Summers was so salacious it made headlines in the New York Times. He also captured headlines away from the University — West was one of President Barack Obama’s fiercest critics from the left. In 2017, he charged that Ta-Nahesi Coates “fetishizes white supremacy,” sparking a debate on Twitter that became so contentious it drove Coates off of the platform.
A radical figure like West seems almost fated to clash with an institution like Harvard — one so established it verges on calcification. His recent letter of resignation provides an electrifying critique of the University, steeped as much in the structural as it is in the interpersonal, vacillating between a condemnation of Harvard's “narcissistic academic professionalism” to grievances about his salary. His condemnation, at heart, also offers a prediction: his alma mater, which he still loves, risks falling into decay.
“When I think of Harvard, I always have a smile and a critique at the same time,” West says.
If Harvard can appear obsessed with its status, hubristic, and lethargic — the last Ivy to add the study of women, gender, and sexuality as a degree; embroiled in controversy over establishing an Ethnic Studies department, with multiple high-profile departures of faculty of color proceeding García Peña’s; criticized for being overly-preoccupied with endowment returns — West presents an alternative vision to the “narcissistic” core most visible to the public.
He recalls a William James speech from 1903, “The True Harvard,” in which the esteemed philosopher said there is the Harvard of social clubs, money, and status, but also the True Harvard, the invisible Harvard, the best of Harvard. James — and West — call those who embody this divergent tradition the “undisciplinables.”
James said, in his speech, “The true Church was always the invisible Church. The True Harvard is the invisible Harvard in the souls of her more truth-seeking and independent and often very solitary sons.” With his unruly commitment to truth — to “Veritas,” Harvard’s motto and a staple of his vocabulary — West proudly follows this faith. His multiple clashes with the University are another chapter in an ongoing struggle between these two opposing sects within Harvard.
That Harvard’s own mystique would end up consuming its substance was James’s ultimate concern. West shares this anxiety: “If Harvard slips down the slope of self-institutional idolatry and loses sight of the best of its past and its present,” then the True Harvard will be subsumed. Left behind, West continues, will be “an empty institution obsessed with itself, dishing out different kinds of status, but the excitement, the vitality will be gone.”
University spokesperson Jonathan L. Swain declined to comment for this article.
When West recalls hearing from the University that there was, “no way under any conditions that [the administration] would consider that recommendation of tenure,” he says he interpreted this decision as an act of profound disrespect.
“If they make a recommendation, and say, ‘well, you’re not worthy,’ then you’re messing with my integrity,” West says.
Many of his peers agree. UCLA professor Robin D.G. Kelley, one of the foremost historians of African American history, put it bluntly.
Not even bringing his tenure application up for review “was just stupid,” Kelley says. “Because what, they thought that Cornel’s gonna be like, ‘Oh, yes, boss. Yes, massa. I know my time on the plantation is coming to an end, but massa, you know, I understand, I go back to the slave quarters.’ Like, really?”
West felt he was left with no option but to defend his dignity.
“Harvard disrespect me, I come out fighting,” he says. “That’s just the way it is.”
West arrived at Harvard as an undergraduate in 1970 during what he describes as the “second Golden Age of the philosophy department.” In a low and rhythmic tone he lists his undergraduate influences: John B. Rawls, Hilary W. Putnam, Stanley L. Cavell, Robert Nozick, Roderick Firth, H. Nelson Goodman ’28. Professor Orlando H. Patterson, who West deems “the greatest Black scholar in the academy,” was his tutor.
Born in Tulsa, Oklahoma in 1953, West was raised in South Sacramento. His mother was an educator and his father worked at McClellan Air Force Base.
“I had people in my life who loved me so deeply, sustained me. And not just family, but those people I was talking about at Harvard,” he says. “They weren’t just my professors. These are people who loved me. These are people who cared for me.” It was his first encounter with the “True Harvard.”

Under the personal guidance of Martin L. Kilson, the first Black scholar appointed to a full professorship at Harvard, and J.G. St. Claire Drake, who created one of the first African American studies programs in the country at Roosevelt University, West decided to become an academic during his freshman year, at the age of 17.

West says he already entered college with “certain decolonized sensibilities and decolonized perceptions.” He and his classmates “were riding the crest of the social movements” of the late ’60s and early ’70s. In college, he volunteered for the Black Panther Party’s breakfast program and, every Sunday after church, travelled 30 miles from Cambridge to Massachusetts Correctional Institution-Norfolk, where Malcolm X was incarcerated, as part of the Panthers’ prison program.
As co-president of the Black Students Association, West’s on-campus activism included multiple takeovers of University Hall. “I was taking it in with tremendous joy — just to learn,” he says, “the sheer adventure of being rooted in the life of the mind and relating that life of the mind to the world of actions, struggle, and passion.”

After his freshman year in Holworthy Hall, West moved to Leverett House with a group of six friends, including Sylvester Monroe ’73, who went on to become an editor at The Washington Post, and James T. Brown ’73, later the sportscaster of the James Brown Show.

Placed in two adjacent suites of three, the young men dismantled the connecting door so they could move freely in a makeshift, six-person rooming set-up. Monroe describes his friend group as “very militant activists, all of us,” concerned with “changing the world and changing Harvard. It was about changing Harvard, getting Harvard to accept us for who we were, who we are, and not trying to turn us into Black versions of Harvard students who had been there for years and years.”
In 1969, the number of Black students who matriculated to Harvard, 100, doubled from the previous year. Monroe, who is currently writing a book on Harvard’s Black student body in the graduating class of 1973, attributes this jump to the assassination of Martin Luther King, Jr. and the University subsequently making a greater effort to recruit Black students.
West spent an inordinate amount of time with his head in a book. “We’d be at a party, and when there was a lull in the music or something, you’d see Cornel with a book, reading some great philosopher. He always had a book, even at a party,” Monroe says. During a takeover of University Hall in protest of Harvard’s investment in Angola, West jumped out of a window, ran to a nearby building to take a Hebrew test, then hurried back into the occupied building.
Despite these flashes of eccentricity, “he was just one of us,” Monroe recalls. He describes West in college as down-to-earth, fun, and even unassuming. He wouldn’t don an afro or a daily three piece suit until years later. West’s closest friends knew he had an unbelievable intellect, but he was never obnoxious or condescending. “He’s imposing in that he’s so smart, but he doesn’t make you feel like an idiot when you’re around him,” Monroe says.

West describes, at various points, his undergraduate days at Harvard as “fructifying,” “magnificent,” “empowering,” and “enabling.”
“It allowed me to become fruitful in my quest for truth and goodness and beauty, and I remain a revolutionary Christian, so I include the holy as well,” he says. Even so, he cut his college days short. Worried about his scholarship money running out, he enrolled in eight courses his junior fall and spring, got A’s in all but one, and graduated a year early.
After West’s graduation from Harvard, he was soon hired by Donald W. Shriver as a professor at Union Theological Seminary in New York, at age 23. He stayed at Union for eight years before being hired by the Divinity School at Yale in 1984, where he was later appointed to a joint position in the American Studies department.
Very little time passed before West ran afoul of the Yale administration — a year into his time at Yale, he says he became “the first Yale professor in its history to get arrested on Yale property” while protesting in support of a clerical workers union.
West recalls that after his arrest, then-Yale President Angelo B. Giamatti summoned West to his office. He informed West that “we can’t have faculty getting arrested” and ended West’s sabbatical a semester early. However, West had already committed to teaching courses at the University of Paris, so he flew between New Haven and Paris every week to teach at both institutions.
This conflict proved irreparable, and West left Yale for Union the following year. “I can’t put up with these kinds of conditions,” he recalls thinking. Shortly after his return to Union, Toni Morrison invited him to form “an intellectual neighborhood” with her at Princeton; he accepted, beginning one of the most prolific periods of his academic career.
He won the 1992 Critics Choice Award and the 1993 American Book Award. In 1992 West released “Race Matters,” propelling him from prominence in academic circles directly into the American zeitgeist. That book sold a million copies and firmly cemented West as one of the leading Black intellectuals of the decade.
Two years after the publication of “Race Matters”, West left Princeton and joined the “dream team” that Professor Henry Louis Gates Jr. was forming in the Afro-American Studies Department at Harvard, which included other prominent Black academics such as the philosopher K. Anthony Appiah and sociologist and statistician Lawerence D. Bobo.
Four years after his return to Harvard, he became a University Professor and expanded his teaching to cover religion and philosophy. He released an album, “Sketches of My Culture,” a project that again brought West’s work to a broader audience. “It's intellectual without being cerebral,” he said in an interview with the New Yorker in 2001.
The same year that album was released, Summers became Harvard’s 27th president; tensions between him and West ensued immediately.
West alleges that Summers met with the head of every department with the exception of Afro-American Studies. Gates says he cannot speak for other departments, but that Summers “did not reach out and have a meeting with our faculty — that’s absolutely the case.”
In an email statement to The Crimson, Kelly C. Friendly, spokesperson for Summers, says that the Afro-American department was “the first department he met with.”
Gates, then head of the Department of Afro-American Studies, says he wrote a four-page letter to Summers on West’s behalf describing “how brilliant of a professor West was.”
Soon after, West says Summers summoned him to his office. Immediately, West says, Summers requested West’s help in “effing up Harvey Mansfield,” the conservative professor of Government.
With some edge to his voice, West recounts that “[Summers] in his little truncated sensibilities thought we gon’ become friends. ‘Oh, you a Black man, you must hate Harvey Mansfield.’” West took offense to this assumption and says he considers Mansfield “a brother of mine.”
When West refused, he recalls, the conversation turned. West says Summers “launched into all his different attacks,” claiming that West was missing class, embarrassing Harvard with his support for a potential 2004 Al Sharpton presidential campaign, inflating grades, and humiliating Harvard by associating it with an art form like hip-hop through his album.
Friendly wrote that “the suppositions are ludicrous and nonsensical, but it would be inappropriate for Professor Summers to discuss the details of any conversation with faculty for whom he had oversight responsibility.”
West waxed about his initial bout with Summers: “Here was a neoliberal gangster, upfront. But he’s honest about it, he’s candid,” West continues, “He is not wearing a mask, he’s not posing, and he’s not posturing.” According to West, Summers indicated that the days of the Afro-American Studies’ department centrality to the University’s mission, which it had been under the previous administration, were numbered.
Gates recalls that Summers made it clear during their first meeting that “President Summers didn't regard the field with the same esteem as President Rudenstine did.”
Friendly wrote that Summers “highly valued the African American Studies Department as a vitally important part of the FAS,” adding, “President Rudenstine made the department his top priority when he became President. Ten years later, Larry’s top priorities for the FAS were the student experiences, elimination of family costs to attend Harvard for low and middle income families, offering opportunity to younger faculty and growing the faculty, especially in the sciences.”
The clash with Summers continued a streak of fierce public conflicts, which would only grow in notoriety in subsequent decades. These conflicts feed West’s celebrity — a reputation that seems tangential to his scholarship but has become inextricable from his status as a public intellectual.
Reflecting on the meeting with Summers, West says, “From that moment on, it was clear we were gonna have a real, real struggle.” And he was right. West and Summers’s relationship would continue to sour. In April of 2002, West announced that he was leaving Harvard for Princeton.
“The saddest day of my academic career was when Cornel West and Anthony Appiah left,” Gates says. “The second saddest was when Cornel left again. I spent 14 years trying to get him back.”
Between 2002 and 2016, when West was invited back to Harvard, he had stints at Princeton and at Union Theological Seminary. He garnered criticism from journalists, academics, and other public figures for a purported decline in both the quality and quantity of his academic output. A review of “Black Prophetic Fire”, published in 2014, called the book “a strange and disappointing culmination of [West’s] metamorphosis from philosopher to celebrity.”
Even some former allies of West felt his forceful critiques of both Obama and Coates reeked of jealousy. “In truth, West is a scold, a curmudgeonly and bitter critic who has grown long in the tooth but sharp in the tongue when lashing one-time colleagues and allies,” Michael Eric Dyson, a former collaborator and friend of West, wrote in a 9,000-word attack of West published in The New Republic in 2015.
When West was a University Professor at Harvard 20 years ago, he taught more classes than required and relished in his day-to-day role as a teacher. When we ask him about his decision to return to Harvard in 2017, he answers confidently, “I was under the impression that I would just be what I am and teach and have a good time.”
West quickly became a fixture of campus life, especially within communities of color. The energy he brought to the classroom breathed life into the study of Black history and culture. For Undergraduate Council President Noah A. Harris ’22, West was the first Black teacher he ever had. In West’s popular “Introduction to African American Studies” course, Harris remembers engaging with the history of Black art in a way that felt novel. Harris remembers West speaking to the class and saying, “we’re engaging with black culture, not by reading just about the history of music,” but instead, “we’re gonna listen to it, and we’re gonna get up and dance, and we’re gonna have a good time.”
West’s approach in the classroom seems unconventional to some, even undisciplined — and that might be the point. A Black man rocking an afro encouraging students to dance, playing hip-hop music in class, and unapologetically critiquing white institutions does not fall under the rubric of respectability politics that many Black professionals contend with. Yet West’s experiential methods and confrontational scholarship are just as legitimate as his academic publications.
“I thought being a professor was teaching freshman seminars. I thought being a professor was teaching introductory courses to be able to revel in the minds of 18-year-olds who are just showing up unjaded, at least for the moment,” West says.
Suraj Yengde, a former postdoctoral fellow at the Harvard Kennedy School, was one of West’s most notable mentees. Before Yengde arrived in America, West was one of two scholars he was aware of (Gates was the other). When he got to Cambridge, West became his primary mentor — Yengde is now a leading scholar of Dalit studies, and his recent book, “Caste Matters”, is a clear allusion to West’s canonical text.
Towards the end of the fall of 2020, West’s joint appointment as Professor of the Practice of Public Philosophy at the Harvard Divinity School and the Faculty of Arts and Sciences was up for renewal. Divinity School Professor David Carrasco, one of the faculty members at the Divinity School in charge of evaluating West’s position, says that “we recommended him at the end of our report, that he should not only be renewed as professor of the practice but that he be put in the process for tenure evaluation.” Gates says that the African American Studies department voted unanimously to put West forward for tenure review. But the University refused, marking the beginning of the conflict that drove West to leave Harvard.
Swain, the Harvard spokesperson, declined to comment on the specifics of this article, but he told the Boston Globe in February that West’s performance review followed “normal procedures” in which a faculty committee from both schools West was affiliated with evaluated him and recommended his reappointment to the same rank. Swain told the Globe that the committee did not itself have the authority to conduct a tenure review.
But three Harvard professors on the committee, including Carrasco, wrote a statement in March stating that while Swain’s description of the committee’s report to reappoint West was technically accurate, it was “neither a full nor a forthright characterization of [the] report’s contents and recommendation.”
Carrasco rises in his chair and almost shouts with indignation that the letters of recommendation for West’s renewal compared him to some of the “major philosophers of the last hundred years.” He adds, “This man is making a contribution to human thought.”
One of those letters came from Kelley, a leading scholar of American History at UCLA. His letter to Dean of Harvard Divinity School David N. Hempton includes the following:
“I will confess that I find the entire exercise of writing letters of evaluation for such a towering intellectual figure as Dr. West to be absurd, though I’m sure such letters must exist for the likes of Hannah Arendt, Herbert Marcuse, W. E. B. Du Bois, Michel Foucault, John Dewey, Angela Davis, Slavoj Žižek, and the like. But it does seem like an abuse of time since, honestly, if Professor West produced nothing since his appointment and tenure review in 2016, Harvard’s Divinity School would still bend over backward to retain him.”
Similarly, Gates notes, “To me the most important criteria for tenure is academic excellence,” and that “there is absolutely no question that Cornel West exemplifies academic excellence. In fact, I believe that Cornel West is a genius.”
Hempton, in an earlier statement to The Crimson “on behalf of Harvard Divinity School,” wrote: “We had hoped to retain [West] on our faculty for many years to come. We nonetheless wish him every success in his future endeavors. We will miss him very much.” Bobo, Dean of the Social Science division, declined to comment.
After hearing of the University’s decision, West says he wanted to speak to the President. He sat down with Bobo and told him, “I want to talk to brother Bacow,” but says Bobo discouraged him.
“Why not?” West asked. “I’ll sit down and talk to the brother, person to person, eye to eye, soul to soul. Over a drink, I’ll buy the cognac.”
West alleges that after public outcry surrounding his case, the University reversed its decision and offered to consider him for tenure. But that came after West’s announcement that he would be leaving and, in his view, the decision only compounded the original affront. Swain declined to comment on whether the University made this offer.
“I think Harvard goes around as if everyone’s replaceable, and we’re not,” says Harris, who sponsored a student-led petition against the University, favoring West’s tenure review. “If you want to keep the best, you have to treat them with the respect that they deserve. And so you can’t replace Cornel West.”
West has repeatedly contended that the reason the University refused the faculty committee’s request to consider him for tenure was that he is “too controversial” — referring in particular to his vocal support for Palestinians.
He argues he could not have been refused on academic grounds. “If it was just, some isolated Black man [who had] been around Harvard 47 years, I would be very, very, very, very reluctant and careful to say this has anything to do with anti-Palestinian prejudice. But once I saw it was a pattern of behavior, I said, ‘It’s hard to deny this.’”
West lists a number of Harvard affiliates whom he alleges have been pushed out of the University in part for their positions on Palestine; multiple sources interviewed for this story concurred. Kelley points to a broader trend in academia, saying he has “lived through the past decades of University presidents who just close rank in terms of attacking any members of the faculty, or any organizations that are critical of Israel's occupation, in illegal wars, on Gaza.”
When West publicly stated that Harvard declined to review him for tenure because of his stance on the Israel-Palestine conflict, Rabbi Jonah C. Steinberg, the Executive Director of Harvard Hillel, responded that West’s comments risked stoking conflict. Following an op-ed published by Steinberg in The Crimson, the two convened for what Steinberg calls a “warm and amiable” dinner at a Cambridge restaurant. Steinberg remembers asking West “if he had any evidence at all for his claim that he was denied tenure because of his views on Israel and the cause of the Palestinian people,” and says West did not.
At the end of the dinner, West says Steinberg acknowledged that they may not come to a satisfying agreement on the Israel-Palestine conflict. West responded, “We all have a right to our opinion. But the truth is the truth. I’m not a relativist. A domination is a domination.”
It may be too simplistic to claim that West was not considered for tenure solely due to his stance on the Israeli-Palestine conflict, especially given the black box of Harvard’s tenure review process and bureaucratic hurdles posed by his non-tenure-track appointment.
It’s also too easy to dismiss West’s claims as unfounded or to write him off as peddling anti-semitism — which would fit into a longer tradition of discrediting Black leaders and activists through character assassination. Supporting Palestinian human rights is not anti-Semitic, and West has deeply engaged in scholarship on Black and Jewish relations; in 1996, he wrote “Jews and Blacks: a Dialogue on Race, Religion, and Culture in America” with Michael Lerner, a progressive rabbi and activist.

“If by trying to speak the truth, I am sowing division, then I stand accused: I’m guilty,” West says.
Yet focusing only on the significance of Palestine in West’s experience with tenure may distract from how the structures of the University affect scholars of color. And the very opacity of Harvard’s tenure process, which many argue is at the root of the problem, makes it impossible to pin down the role West’s stance on Palestine played.
West’s being denied the opportunity to be considered for tenure differs from the outright denial of tenure to Professors García Peña or Ahmed Ragab (the first Muslim professor to be considered for tenure at the Divinity School). While all three are distinguished scholars of color and vocal activists, only West’s position as Professor of the Practice was not tenure-track. Administrators may have been legitimately constrained from putting West up for tenure review or providing public clarification on the bureaucratic complexities.
Yet these procedural differences produced similar results. That overwhelming support from faculty at the Divinity School and in African and African American Studies, as well as peers in academia, could not even get West considered for tenure reveals an unyielding rigidity. At a time when Harvard purports a commitment to diversity, its inability to overcome superfluous and bureaucratic barriers illustrates the entrenched complacency of the University.
“It’s built into the system,” Kelley says when asked about the nature of West’s case. “The system is one that has a façade that claims, on the one hand, to be fair, impartial, focus on standards, but on the other hand to be racist, sexist, classist, patriarchal, and succumb to big money. That’s just how it is.”
Dean of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences Claudine Gay declined to comment for this article, but through a spokesperson, referenced an earlier comment where she acknowledged West’s controversy fuels debates over “whether Black scholars can succeed at Harvard.”
“It’s a legitimate question to ask of a university as old as ours, with a past represented rather instructively by the portraits on the walls of our Faculty Room,” Gay said in March. “And I understand why it can be difficult to answer.” Kelley is careful to note that he heard Gay “wasn’t opposed to [West] coming up for tenure, but it’s not her choice to make.”
Thirteen percent of tenure-track faculty at Harvard are underrepresented minorities, a marginal increase from the 11 percent in 2007. Last January, 107 faculty signed a letter questioning Harvard’s opaque protocols surrounding tenure, citing García Peña’s case among others, which prompted Gay to initiate a review of the tenure process. The results, released last Tuesday, found the FAS tenure-track system was “structurally sound,” even as faculty expressed “mistrust and low morale” in the process.
Speaking to the Harvard Gazette, Professor Hopi E. Hoekstra, who chaired the committee, said they thought about bias mitigation and “also made several recommendations about how we can better and more fairly assess contributions to teaching, advising, mentoring, and service.”
Decisions like West’s denial, which determine an academic’s worth and come from some nameless heart of the University’s administration — seemingly indifferent to a professor's commitment to educating students and antithetical to values the school supposedly holds dear — may feel most salient to the student body. After the public announcement of his case, hundreds of graduate and undergraduate students signed petitions in support of West.
But the strength of the institution’s inner workings relative to even someone of West’s stature, with so much public support, are overwhelming. “It’s their house, they are boulders, we are just passengers in this journey,” Yengde says. “And you know, it would be mad to think that we are the occupants, or we are the permanent residents of this house.” Paradoxically, the positions of those who embody the “True Harvard” are often the most precarious.
West has decades of accomplishments, accolades, and a magnetic presence; he has attracted just as many controversies, criticisms, and personal feuds. In other words, he is human. After what happened to West, the knee-jerk reaction may be to treat his case as exceptional — but it is not. Both the quiet and sensational forms of alienation West experienced happen to undergraduates, adjuncts, and postdocs, and spill over to the students, peers, and mentors whose lives they touch — countless people whose names you will never hear. “The True Harvard,” William James wrote, “is the invisible Harvard.”
Before West’s departure in 2002, he says he angrily told Summers, “I’m just as much, or more, Harvard as you are.” He first stepped foot on campus 51 years ago. He studied under Rawls. He took over University Hall when the Black Panthers were still running a breakfast program in Jamaica Plain. He was central to establishing one of the leading African American Studies departments in the nation.
In his “True Harvard” speech, James wrote that those who embody this alternative ethos are drawn to the school because “of her tolerance of exceptionality and eccentricity, of her devotion to the principles of individual vocation and choice.” To lose this spirit would be the death of a persisting heritage at Harvard.
“Like any other institution, [Harvard] can decay, it can deteriorate, and it can undergo serious bankruptcy, spiritual intellectual bankruptcy,” West says.
There is — and always has been — a danger of a disquieting homogeny consuming the rebellious spirit.
Over a hundred years earlier, James said, “​The day when Harvard shall stamp a single hard and fast type of character upon her children, will be that of her downfall. Our undisciplinables are our proudest product. Let us agree together in hoping that the output of them will never cease.”
— Staff writer Josie F. Abugov can be reached at josie.abugov@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @_JosieJo.
— Staff writer Harrison R. T. Ward can be reached at harrison.ward@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter at @HarrisonRTWard.
Sections
Beacon Street smells like sweat and burnt sage, and the crowd has quieted enough to hear Jean-Luc Pierite finish telling a story. “The sun plucked a feather from the eagle. She kissed it and she scorched the tip black. She said you will give this back to the Indians and you will tell them to wear it,” he says. “And you will tell them: As long as there is a sun, there will always be Indigenous peoples.”
It’s Saturday, Oct. 9. Pierite is a member of the Tunica-Biloxi Tribe of Louisiana and president of the board of directors for the North American Indian Center of Boston, one of several organizations hosting today’s march in support of Indigenous Peoples’ Day, for which hundreds of people have gathered at the edge of Boston Common. Behind Pierite looms a large tablet commemorating the sale of the park from a British-educated reverend to the Puritan inhabitants of the city.
The Saturday march has been designed in part to call for Massachusetts, a state steeped in colonial history, to officially recognize Indigenous Peoples’ Day. “One land, one people,” reads one attendee’s sign. “Una tierra, un pueblo.” Another says: “You are on stolen land.” Buffy Sainte-Marie’s “Bury My Heart At Wounded Knee” is playing from the speakers.
Indigenous Peoples’ Day falls on the second Monday of October — the same day as Columbus Day, which it was designed to replace. Native activists have rallied for recognition of the holiday for decades; on Oct. 6 of this year, Boston Acting Mayor Kim M. Janey officially established it in place of Columbus Day. The decision brought Boston in line with other nearby cities, including Somerville and Cambridge, and with several states across the country. On Oct. 8, President Joe Biden became the first U.S. president to recognize the holiday at a federal level. Biden also continued to recognize Columbus Day, which the organizer Mahtowin Munro dismissed as “talking out of both sides of his mouth.”
But in some ways the recognition of a holiday is the least substantive of the organizers’ goals for the march. Munro, a member of the Lakota nation and a leader of United American Indians of New England, calls for the passage of a series of bills currently before the Massachusetts legislature. In addition to establishing a statewide Indigenous Peoples’ Day, they would ban Native American mascots in public schools and teach indigenous history in classrooms. Munro and Pierite also demand the abolition of Immigration and Customs Enforcement, reparations for Black Americans, and the end of development on indigenous land “without free, prior and informed consent.”
The people at the march span the spectrum of race, age, and gender. One speaker, Rebecca Lodgepole, a member of the Chippewa Cree, expresses gratitude for the turnout: “Finally, today, I see everybody is listening,” she says. “It brings joy to my heart.”
But a kind of anger accompanies that joy.
“We want everything back,” Lodgepole says, “not reparations. We want everything back, from our missing and murdered to our children and boarding schools, to everything that they have done to us.” She is referring in part to the uncovering this year of the remains of thousands of indigenous children in Canadian boarding schools.
She notes that the march is more than just a symbolic reclamation of colonial history. Instead, the importance lies in how the march provides the time and space for conversation about otherwise overlooked issues.
“We want you guys to stand up and spread the word,” she says, emphasizing that word of mouth is the only avenue for the news to get around the media’s “complete block on [them].”
“They will not report on us,” she says.
Lodgepole asks the attendees not just to recognize the importance of renaming Columbus Day to Indigenous Peoples’ Day, but also to acknowledge the goal of this action: for people to reorient their priorities, attention, and energy toward the movement for indigenous rights.
The march moves east on Market Street to Christopher Columbus Waterfront Park, where the crowd gathers around an empty pedestal. A  statue of Christopher Columbus used to stand there, until June of 2020, when it was removed and decapitated. Three children whom Lodgepole identifies as Taíno climb up the marble slab.
“We’re standing here today because of the strength of our ancestors,” Lodgepole says. “They fought, they struggled, and they made sure that we made it out alive. We are fighting for the seventh generation, my children, all of our children.”
Sections
At the community pool during a middle school summer, I started to get a headache. Or maybe it was brainfreeze, one popsicle too many that afternoon. The cause was dubious; the feeling was profound. I began to picture my brain swelling in my skull, flashbacks to a medical drama pulsing through my head. The surgeons would have to cut a hole in my skull to release the pressure, I just knew it. I used the phone at the check-in desk to call my mom, who reassured me that I was just fine. But I called again and again and again, until finally, she picked me up.
My hypochondria started that summer, around age 11. I thought that my throat was closing up every morning. That my heart would suddenly stop. That I might choke on my dinner and require an emergency tracheotomy.
High school yielded a new generation of anxieties. Gay sex was never mentioned in health class — and Googling terms like “HIV” and “AIDS” only generated more fuel for my anxious fire. I cut myself off from these search terms when I couldn’t staunch the flow of information. Alone and unsure, I told myself a purple vein was nascent Kaposi’s sarcoma, that a cough was the beginning of pneumocystis pneumonia. My fear of being gay in South Carolina was transplanted to the medical: I worked the idea into my mind that I was always a few steps away from fatal peril.
A month into my first semester of college, I went to Harvard University Health Services for my first STI panel, intent on the idea that I was a longtime, unknowing carrier of deadly disease. The wait for my results to appear online was so excruciating that after several days, I went to ask for them in person. Riding the shaky elevator to the office, I was petrified, my limbs paralyzed by my inconsolable nerves, betraying and repudiating my body.
That screening was the first of many. In the following year, I watched my purplish blood fill up tubes at HUHS and sexual health clinics in Atlanta, Philadelphia, and Cambridge. With each negative HIV test and repeated exposure to the doctor’s office, I grew a bit more confident. I found educational resources, scheduled my own appointments, and got on PrEP. I was determined to hold onto the autonomy I was building for myself, which had sat out of reach for years.
In March, I opted to see a primary care doctor for this ritual. I got my blood drawn at Brigham and Women’s — a tube more than usual — for a Complete Blood Count, a rundown of blood standards like platelets and red blood cells. HUHS and the clinics I’d visited in the past had never taken a CBC, but in the heart of Longwood’s enormously dense medical campus, it was routine.
My doctor called me on my way home. Over the rumble of the 47 bus and the staticky announcements on the PA system, I learned of the 1.2 million platelets per microliter swimming in my bloodstream. My too-thick, clot-prone blood. Swelling in my arteries. Creeping like molasses up my veins. My heart beat into my throat, and the static in my mind felt like fire.
The name itself was a tongue-twister: essential thrombocythemia, a hematologist later pronounced. It held a distinct, unwieldy significance — and the WebMD cache I discovered in my anxious internet somersault did me no favors either. This condition increases the number of platelets in my blood, and it is classified as a myeloproliferative neoplasm, or what is technically a form of non-life-threatening blood cancer. It is benign but chronic, and in some cases it can morph into myelofibrosis or leukemia.
A sinister unease crept up as I learned more about my diagnosis. Now living away from home and making independent medical decisions, I was confronted by what had mobilized my hypochondria in the first place: powerlessness in the face of a chronic, asymptomatic condition. The agency I’d built for myself was in an instant made fragile, and it began to melt.
I picked up the phone and called my mom. She told me how, over a decade ago, she’d navigated a labyrinth of medical resources after she was diagnosed with breast cancer — if I wanted to get answers, I’d need to do the same.
By necessity, I took even more of my medical decisions into my own hands. I called different hematologists in Boston and found that the MGH Cancer Center could take me within two weeks. The pieces of self-determination began to click back together. My condition would be treatable with the help of hematologist oncologists at MGH, or blood cancer doctors. Most patients can live long and normal lives, and for the few who develop aggressive forms of cancer, new treatments are developed every year.
My first visit to the MGH Cancer Center was the most jarring. I was there for a bone marrow biopsy, my hip set to be drilled into by a wizened hematologist who, in the words of the nurse on the phone, preferred “using the old-fashioned equipment.” The biopsy could detect what genetic mutations, if any, caused my condition. As the IV pierced my vein, my clammy hands gripped the armrests, and I crinkled against the papered plastic chair.
But the nervousness that overcame me in the Cancer Center held a different weight, stripped of the power it once had. The nurse held my hand and stroked my back while she made light conversation. An extractive pain began to pull and pull from within my bone. My anxiety was no longer an avalanche, its former power undercut by a confidence and trust that felt like bright, warm light filling my chest.
No genetic mutations turned up in the biopsy. Like most essential thrombocythemia patients, I carry a non-inherited somatic mutation yet to be discovered. I am living something no one in my family has ever known, something which arose in my own blood. And, like countless other young queer people, I carry another legacy that extends beyond the biological — the fear of being eaten up by the viral monster that killed millions before us, a fear inherited not from familial ties but from an inescapable piece of our identities.
Yet even without these chromosomal links, I found family members to talk to as I was navigating my diagnosis and friends to lean on as I pitifully limped home from my biopsy and melodramatically confronted my mortality. What I’d always feared would happen went on to happen, and their support served as an antidote. My hypochondria now lies remarkably dormant. A cough is a cough, my brain remains its normal size, and thick blood is just that — thick blood.

— Staff writer Henry N. Lear can be reached at henry.lear@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter at @Henry__Lear.
Sections
“Cigarettes are a necessity.”
“A great deal of care should be exercised to make everything appear spontaneous and prevent the impression that respondents are being manipulated. For this reason it seems undesirable to play Russian music.”
“Russian men are extremely fond of vodka. Its cautious and judicious use as an aid to rapport can be helpful.”
These were all guidelines written based on the experiences of interviewers working for the Harvard Project on the Soviet Social System, an ambitious, Air Force-funded sociological survey of hundreds of Soviet refugees undertaken at the height of the Cold War.
One of the refugees interviewed, Case 19, was born sometime between 1905 and 1916 to a family of farmers in Russia. She grew up singing in a choir, but was expelled due to her status as a “hostile element.” After a stint working as a bookkeeper in a publishing house in Kharkov, she earned a spot at a musical conservatory studying opera. She graduated on June 19, 1941, three days before Germany invaded the Soviet Union during World War II. Case 19 told her story in Munich, Germany over the course of three days in September 1950 to a researcher from HPSSS.
Svetlana Rukhelman, the steward of HPSSS — meaning that she manages the collection and fields requests from scholars who want to access the physical documents — points to Case 19 as one of her favorite stories from the archive. It is just one of 343 interviews composing the A-Schedule of the project, which contains personal accounts of the participants’ lives. Topics ranging from participants’ love affairs to their food preferences to their experiences in prison were broached in the natural flow of these personal conversations.
The B-Schedule, which involved 364 participants, with some participant overlap with Schedule A, consisted of a more narrow line of questioning on “special topics” like economics and government, as well as psychological tests meant to investigate the Soviet understanding of childhood, religion, and tradition. Rukhelman explains, “The idea was that understanding how the Soviet citizen thinks, and understanding what the social structure is, from the inside, will help U.S. policymakers to make predictions about how the Soviet government and the country’s citizens will behave in response to various policy decisions.”
Soviet archives were not made available until the fall of the Soviet Union in 1991, with sources prior to 1991 being limited to official Soviet material and anecdotal information. “The Harvard Project really was the first opportunity to have something that looked like data, rather than just anecdotalism. And for social history, that’s really important,” says David Brandenberger, a professor of Russian history at the University of Richmond and author of the guide to working with HPSSS online.
The project, conducted over a four-year period from 1949 to 1953, guaranteed anonymity to all participants. Since the study’s publication, scholars have traveled from all over the world to visit the leather-bound volumes kept in Harvard’s Davis Center for Russian and Eurasian Studies. From 2005 to 2007, these archives were digitized into a publicly accessible, keyword-searchable database.
Though funded by the U.S. Air Force with the primary goal of information-gathering for military intelligence, the project also served as a resource for scholars of the Soviet regime.
“The Harvard academics who ran it took the Army’s money but decided to do a full, broad spectrum sociological study of the Soviet Union,” says Brandenberger. “They didn’t want to just do a defense assessment. They wanted to … create a much more representative portrait of Soviet society.”
Launched at the peak of Cold War tensions, the project did not come without controversy. “There was a lot of pushback that all this federal money was being spent on interviewing some commies, right?” Rukhelman jokes. The desire of the researchers to capture the totality of the Soviet experience — the good, the bad, and the mundane — wasn’t always welcomed by those steeped in Cold War-era anti-Communist sentiment.
According to Brandenberger, HPSSS was subject to heightened speculation of “nefarious intent” given the reputation of U.S. academics at the time as sympathetic to the Soviet cause. Some senators, upon reading the HPSSS reports submitted to the Air Force, characterized the project as “insane” and consisting of “a lot of ‘professor’ theories.” Back in the Soviet Union, as the project’s research became more widely known, the Soviet government denounced the project as part of a greater American “plot to weaponize academia,” said Brandenberger. They cited the project as evidence that the CIA had burrowed itself deep into university culture.
Living in exile, most of the interviewees had a vested interest in presenting themselves a certain way during the study, consequently affecting the reliability of the data. “They probably felt a lot of pressure to be anti-Stalinist and anti-communist [in the interviews] because many of them had pending papers, hoping to emigrate to the U.S. or Canada,” says Brandenberger. Many denied ever having been members of the Communist Party and went to great pains to denounce communism, but when asked about their views on health care or education, for example, these alleged capitalists answered as would what Brandenberger termed a “social democrat.”
But there was much more to these interviews than capturing the ideological beliefs of their participants. HPSSS researchers sought to reveal the full scope of the Soviet experience, far beyond what the Air Force had expected, pushing back, in a way, against the strong anti-Soviet culture in the U.S. during the Cold War. “It was very brave of them to take the government [funding], but deliver a much more profound piece of work than they were asked to do,” said Brandenberger.
In one of the HPSSS interviews, a woman who worked as head of the educational section of an Industrial Institute recounts her student’s experience with heartbreak. “He told me, ‘I fell in love with a girl, madly in love, and she left me. I don’t want to live, I cannot live without her. I am leaving the Institute, as I cannot live in the same city with her and see her in the streets. I want to go to military school and die in a war, fighting.”
As the majority of these refugees had not been in the Soviet Union for years, these anonymous interviews may have been, for many, their first opportunity to speak to someone candidly about their life stories, indulge in nostalgia, and convey the suffering they had endured — an unexpected and colorful layer to a U.S. government-funded project intended to inform Cold War strategy.
Sections
It’s a Friday afternoon in Los Angeles. Samuel T. Rukeyser and David S. Lu Zoom in from their backyard, where they’re seated in white lawn chairs. Lu, who wears a simple gray sweatshirt, leans back with his legs crossed. Rukeyser has on a T-shirt with a pair of sunglasses tucked into the neck. They look, for lack of a better word, cool — pretty close to what you’d expect from two guys who dropped out of Harvard to create their own app. In their case, the app is Airr, an audio sharing platform.
When Lu and Rukeyser first launched Airr in 2019, they envisioned an app where users could share highlights from their favorite podcasts. Both creators were longtime fans of the medium, which Rukeyser likens to “an I.V. to the brain of information and insight,” but recognized that sharing an hour-long episode was a hassle. With Airr, they sought to enable users to more easily broadcast short clips and specific insights. Similar to how you might post a tweet or a photo on other platforms, you could share audio segments (“AirrQuotes”) with your followers on Airr.
In recent months, however, Airr’s focus has shifted. Lu and Rukeyser noticed that many of their users, particularly those who created audio content, wanted a way to continue their discussions outside of the traditional podcast format. In talking to users, Rukeyser “realized that the most exciting thing we could be working on was actually helping facilitate the audio conversations themselves.”
Enter “AirrSpaces.” Introduced in June 2021, the new feature enables users to participate in asynchronous audio conversations. It functions as an audible group chat: users record themselves speaking and then send voice messages to others in a discussion thread.
“We’ve actually been working with a lot of audio creators in sports,” says Rukeyser. “People often are sharing their opinions, they’re sharing their takes on news or developments, and our format makes it very easy for them to reach their audience instantly.”
Beginning in the fall of their junior years, Lu and Rukeyser took an indefinite leave of absence in order to pursue Airr full time. They still lived near campus, which allowed them to see their blockmates.
But as Lu reflects, “A year in it became clear that it would be most helpful for us not to be in Cambridge.” He and Rukeyser decided to move to Los Angeles, which they perceive as “a much more dynamic and better environment for startups.”
While Lu and Rukeyser insist that they have no regrets about leaving school, they admit that it took some time to convince their families to support the decision.
“You have to be slightly naïve at first, because the odds are so stacked against you when you’re working on a startup, to take that leap,” says Rukeyser. “It’s definitely a different type of learning than what you get at Harvard, but it’s an intense learning experience nonetheless.”
Although Lu and Rukeyser are two-and-a-half years into the app’s journey, they are still not worried about monetization. Instead, they are more concerned with creating a positive user experience. “We’re really just focused on building [the] best creator tools,” says Lu, who heads product design. Rukeyser reaches out to creators, cultivates business relationships, and ensures user satisfaction. The Airr team also includes Ivraj S. Seerha ’19 and Noah C. Putnam ’19, who contribute to product design and engineering.
Throughout their creative journey, Lu and Rukeyser have learned several key lessons. Lu says the most important is that “the best and fastest way of learning is really just by doing, by building the products, talking to the users, and iterating on it.” Rukeyser adds that the duo have made plenty of mistakes, but he believes that lessons learned from these setbacks will eventually aid Airr’s growth and progress.
Despite their success with the Airr app, Lu and Rukeyser are hesitant to give blanket advice to those interested in dropping out and pursuing their own startups. They acknowledge that the decision to leave school depends on different personal circumstances, but Lu suggests that students simply explore their entrepreneurial ideas and determine whether “it’s worthwhile to you as something you want to pursue further.” As Rukeyser muses, “we’re both doing what we probably would have been doing post-grad anyways, so we just cut to the chase a little bit.”
Sections
A swab up the nose, a drop-off in a little gray box, and, some hours later, a text declaring the sample (hopefully) Covid-free — this is the greatest extent to which most Harvard students, workers, and faculty engage with the University’s Covid-19 self-testing program. But in the hours between the drop-off and the little ping of a notification, a complex system powered by dozens of people working from dawn to dusk sustains Harvard’s return to campus .
While many colleges have implemented regular testing as part of their reopening strategies, Harvard has gone a step further in establishing a self-sufficient testing site at the Harvard University Clinical Laboratory.
The HUCL testing initiative has been in place since spring of this year but only began to operate at full capacity this fall. Shortly after nearly 23,000 Harvard students and affiliates flooded onto campus  in early September, Harvard scaled its undergraduate testing protocol up from once per week to three times per week after an initial spike in cases. Suddenly, the labs went from testing 5,000 samples per day to 50,000. Following the increase in testing cadence, the rate of daily positive cases has dropped from 0.3 percent to 0.07 percent as of the Thursday of publication. Michele A. Hope, a laboratory manager at HUCL, attributes the success of this transition to Harvard’s contingency planning — how the University handles spikes in cases — and to the dedication of her team.
The lab collects and tests Covid-19 samples around the clock, working meticulously to deliver results quickly. The day starts just before nine in the morning, when Harvard Mail and Print Services drops off the first round of tests. In order to send back results within 24 hours, the tests are processed with assembly-line efficiency: Groups of technicians store, sort, rack, and log each sample even before they enter the lab. Inside the lab, other technicians inactivate any potential live virus in the samples and set up the actual tests, working until the lab closes at 11 p.m. The fast-paced environment requires workers to constantly adapt to new challenges, such as equipment failures or a temporary reduction in staff due to sick days. “It’s very rarely a perfect day where everything goes fantastic,” Hope says. “I think people who work in labs like that environment. Every day is a little bit different because it’s a new challenge.”
The lab tries to anticipate these obstacles when it can. HUCL works closely with Harvard’s medical advisory board, the committee responsible for the changes in Harvard’s Covid safety protocols. Extensive contingency planning prior to this fall’s return to in-person learning prepared the lab for full-capacity testing, but the sustained rush of tests still proved to be a challenge. “We were prepared for that initial surge,” says Hope. “I think what we weren’t prepared for was sustaining that volume.”
To maintain efficiency at this unprecedented level, the lab works with the Harvard administration to expand its staff, purchase additional equipment, and coordinate shifts effectively to avoid overworking employees.  To further manage the high volume of tests, some are sent to a lab at the Broad Institute, which is run jointly by MIT and Harvard..
In preparation for students’ return to campus,  the lab needed to adapt. “Once we knew that testing cadence was going to change, we started pulling levers to really do some more long-term planning around that volume level,” Hope says. Even in light of Harvard’s recent scaling down of testing from three to two times per week, Hope adds that another surge could come at any time, especially considering the upcoming holiday season. It has ceased being a question of if another spike in positive cases will come — it’s a question of when.
There is certainly a level of stress that comes with doing this work. “There’s always pressure around the fact that the sample that you receive in your hand belongs to a person who’s waiting for a result,” says Hope. “In this case, it’s a result that’s important to prevent the spread of Covid throughout the Harvard community.” But it’s this pressure that also motivates Hope and her team.
After all, throughout the rollercoaster of the pandemic, only one thing has remained constant for the lab: “an understanding that we do have an impact on the community.”
Sections
Ashley N. Emann ’23 has not had the typical Harvard College experience.
“No freshman wants to talk about raising their kids,” she chuckles. “They don’t want to talk about the struggles of trying to make dinner and catching your kids and then trying to juggle housework with homework.” In co-parenting her partner’s children, along with her “farm” of three cats and a dog, Emann has had a lot to manage while studying Chemistry and Mind, Brain and Behavior.
After four years of serving in the U.S. Marine Corps, Emann is one of 51 veterans currently enrolled at Harvard College, according to the Harvard Undergraduate Veterans Organization. The veteran population at the College has steadily grown in recent years, jumping from 24 students in 2020 to 51 students in 2021, amid recruiting efforts and increased support from organizations like Service to School and Next Step Inbound, which focus on helping veterans attend college. With this growth comes more students who, like Emann, enter their undergraduate years farther along in life than most of their peers.
Along with the challenge of taking care of her family while managing a steady drumbeat of problem sets, Emann says the mental switch from military to academic life has been jarring. She has even had to change the way she speaks: “It’s kind of like translating, you’re learning another language in the beginning,” Emann explains. “Before I speak, I have to translate and think, does that sound too gruff? Is it too forward? Is it just the right amount?”
Navigating college as an older student with an established life beyond the Yard is not, as veteran Jesse M. Carlos ’22 puts it, a “cakewalk.” Carlos lives off campus with his spouse and Pomeranian puppy, Keso. He describes how a lot of college life is not geared towards students living off campus — study groups go late and most students live seconds from facilities like gyms and dining halls. For his first years of college, he says, “I didn’t live on campus, so I didn’t eat at the chow halls.” Now in his last year, Carlos is on a dining plan and is better able to connect with other students.
Shifting from the rhythms of full-time work to those of student life also requires flexibility. “I miss going to a job with the same group of people working towards a common goal,” Carlos says.
For freshman and veteran John U. Ficek ’25, the transition from military to school has also felt odd. “​​It’s weird that my job is to do school now instead of just a normal job,” he says. “Now, it’s not just a nine-to-five but it’s more of a 24/7 thing where I can be doing homework at any time of the day.”
Yet Ficek says his military background has also been an asset in approaching school. “I’m glad that I’m 23 going through this now, because I got the learning about life out of the way first. I still have a ways to go, but I got all the basics out of the way, like how to do my taxes and how to do laundry and to take care of myself on a basic level,” he says. “Now, I can focus more on academics here.”
Emann has also found certain aspects of the military useful for approaching her academics at Harvard. “In the military, your failures are seen by others, and you're kind of judged by those failures, but at the same time if you’re open to discussing it it gets better,” she asserts. Emann has brought this mindset into the classroom. “Here, being open about my failures and the walls I run into has definitely gotten me to where I need to be faster.”
As the population of veteran students at the College has grown in recent years, so too has a support system to meet their needs. Founded in 2018, the Harvard Undergraduate Veterans Organization has sought to build out a network that supports veterans in their transition into academic life. HUVO’s Director of Outreach, Andrew J. Shaw, ’24, passionately describes the organization’s mission: “HUVO is here to advocate for and support veterans. We want to make sure that their transition is going smoothly, and either support them ourselves or point them in the right direction.” A veteran himself who served nine years in the Marine Corps, Shaw is excited about the rising veteran population on campus.
“The amount it’s grown has been just so great, just because of the richness of opportunity that Harvard presents to veterans who are trying to transition into a new career,” he says.
Sections
“In what ways are you different from the person you were five years ago? And how are you the same?”
This is Ashley E. Kirsner’s favorite question from “Skip the Small Talk,” an event designed to spark more profound conversations between strangers. Kirsner, who founded the weekly event program, explains that “one of the things I really strive for with the questions is getting people talking about internal states, as opposed to just facts about themselves.”
On Wednesday, October 6th, newcomers and returners to the event gathered at the brightly-lit Trident Booksellers & Cafe on Newbury Street in Boston, buzzing with anticipation as they prepared to pour their hearts out to strangers. In the corner, the bartender mixed “Truth Serum” — a sake cocktail (or mocktail) created specially for Skip the Small Talk.
At the ring of the bell, Kirsner gives her official welcome, inviting everyone to be more vulnerable than they normally would. She speaks to the importance of having compassion for ourselves and others. She mentions how, in her five years of hosting these events, there has not been one reported regret of sharing too much. And then, seated at tables separated by cardboard dividers, strangers from all walks of life — librarians, postal workers, engineers, researchers, students — began taking turns answering questions posed by Kirsner and her team, and the chatter in the room swells to a din.
It was frustration that inspired Kirsner to start Skip the Small Talk in 2016 — frustration at the abundance of small talk at social gatherings. “Because everybody is talking about small talk stuff, everybody thinks that everybody else wants to be talking about small talk stuff,” she says. “Then we just end up in this perpetual hell of eternal small talk at parties.”
As a volunteer for a suicide hotline, Kirsner realized that people wanted deep conversations but didn’t know how to start them. She remembers asking callers, “Do you have anyone in your life that you’ve told about what you’re going through?” The vast majority would respond, “No.” But when asked if they would be willing to listen to a loved one talk about a similar struggle, callers replied affirmatively. It wasn’t that people didn’t have enough friends; they were just uneasy being vulnerable when the stakes were high.
Skip the Small Talk seeks to create a low-stakes environment where people can both be and learn to be vulnerable. Kirsner compares vulnerability to strength training, calling it a muscle. “The skills you're building here become really relevant to the rest of your life,” she says. “Vulnerability is really the only way you can get to feeling connected with someone over time.”
Every 10 minutes, attendees shuffle themselves, choosing new conversation partners and questions. Kirsner emphasizes that her prompts are optional, and it seems that no matter the question, if people really have something to share, they would always find a way to share it. She observes that with the expectation of small talk lifted, a desire to share more intimate details immediately becomes apparent. At the event, one woman burst into tears at the first question: “How are you really doing?”
“People are just so ready to open up if you give them the slightest indication that you’re a safe person to open up to,” Kirsner says. Currently, she has set her sights beyond Boston, hoping to expand Skip the Small Talk to cities such as New York, Chicago, San Francisco, and Portland, Ore..
“My dream would be that you can basically move to any new city and say, ‘Oh, I’m not worried, I’m going to ‘Skip the Small Talk’ there first thing so that I can start to build a social group.’”
For Kirsner, participating in her own events has in turn made her more comfortable being vulnerable.
“I feel like I understand humans so much better,” she says. “It’s an anchor that keeps me believing that people are good.”
— Staff writer Dannie C. Bell can be reached at dannie.bell@thecrimson.com.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Schlesinger Library at the Radcliffe Institute for Advanced Study plans to continue its digitization efforts and diversify its collection as its staff members return to in-person work.
Several Radcliffe staff members said Covid-19 required the library to implement changes to transition online, and new adjustments are needed to accommodate the return to campus.
Ellen M. Shea, head of research services at the Schlesinger Library, said that the library accommodated students and researchers during the pandemic by digitizing requested materials.
“Through the entire pandemic, we did something close to over 200,000 pages of material digitized in house, and then another 80,000 pages of material we sent to our colleagues at Widener imaging services, who were also opened part time during the pandemic,” Shea said.
This digitization is in addition to the library’s separate “big digitization project,” which involves digitizing entire collections and making them accessible to all, Shea added. Librarians choose which collections to digitize based on copyright and on their relevance to Radcliffe’s values.
“We have a Radcliffe strategic plan called Radcliffe Engaged, and some of the subject areas that we’re focused on are law, education, and justice,” Shea said. “We prioritize digitizing collections of African American women that copyright allows us to. We digitized the collection of early women prison reformers because prisons and justice were a focus at Radcliffe.”
Librarians also had to transition the library’s instructional program to an online format during the pandemic. Tamar G. Brown, a research librarian and teaching coordinator, said she believed that prior to the transition the teaching at the library was done in-person because of the “thrill” of handling primary sources. Brown, however, added that she found teaching online “rewarding.”
“Covid was an interesting watershed moment in teaching at the Schlesinger, but also just in the world of teaching with primary sources in general,” Brown said. “We could do a lot more collective work with documents, so that was a nice discovery of how you can use digital facsimile as well in teaching.”
During the pandemic, the Schlesinger Library acquired, and is continuing to acquire, new papers and archives.
The library aims to be “partly responsive and also partly strategic” in acquiring its collections, according to library director and History professor Jane Kamensky.
Ultimately, the library acquires whatever “tells the story” of the library’s current chapter, Kamensky added.
The Schlesinger Library serves not only Radcliffe fellows, but researchers around the globe.
Because of this, Kamensky said the library makes it a priority to diversify its collections in order to create a “complex web” of diversity.
“We want to document all sides of the contest so that researchers, whether they’re from the Harvard campus or beyond, can understand those factions and points of view from the inside out,” Kamensky explained.
This past summer, the library acquired an expansive collection of materials from The Sisters of Life — a Catholic organization of women based in New York City which opposes abortion.
“From the pro-life side, it’s a huge collection,” Kamensky said. “Over 400 boxes that we’ll be able to serve up to researchers.”
The library was also able to acquire a collection of papers from South Asian filmmaker Mira Nair ’79. This was accomplished through a working group focused on acquiring materials relating to Asian American women and the history of their impact on society.
To make all of these collections readily accessible to researchers around the globe, the library set ambitious goals for its digitization project. Despite only having digitized 8 percent of its collections so far, the library’s digital archives are some of the largest in the world.
“The number digitized pages in the collection rivals that of the New York Public Library,” Kamensky said. “It really is a very big effort even though it’s a quite small part of the collection.”
With Harvard’s return to campus, the library has also returned to mostly in-person functions. Shea said, however, that the library is in the process of hiring and training a “whole new crew” due to increased vacancies during the pandemic.
She added that she hopes that the library will be back to “more normal operations” by the end of the semester.
Brown said students should take advantage of the library’s return to in-person assistance to use and benefit from Schlesinger’s large collection.
“The message that I just hope all students get is even though these barriers are there, they are still so welcome to come in and use the collections, and we hope that people do come,” she said.
– Staff Writer Christie K. Choi can be reached at christie.choi@thecrimson.com.
– Staff writer Jorge O. Guerra can be reached at jorge.guerra@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @jorgeoguerra_.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
While fall 2021 has marked a return to the in-person classroom for a majority of students and faculty, some classes within the Faculty of Arts and Sciences have continued to operate partially or fully online this semester.
Faculty cited a variety of factors that contributed to their decision-making in offering course components online, ranging from providing a smoother transition to the in-person classroom to accommodating immunocompromised individuals.
Patrick Mair, a Psychology senior lecturer, said Psychology 1900: “Introduction to Statistics for the Behavioral Sciences” tried to combine the “best of both worlds” by fusing in-person and remote learning when the teaching staff observed a rise in cases at the beginning of the semester.
“After the first unit, we had four Covid cases with students who were in my class right away, and several other [students] had to quarantine then who were in touch with them or in the same dorm,” Mair said.
“So we decided right away to do the exams remotely,” Mair added.
To further accommodate students, Mair said he is offering the option to take exams in the physical classroom if students do not have a quiet space within their dorms.
Romance Languages and Literatures senior preceptor Johanna D. Liander ’78, who heads both Spanish 30: “Four Countries and their Cultures” and Spanish 40: “Advanced Spanish Language I: Viewing the Hispanic World,” shared in an email that she also moved assessments online, including conducting oral examinations to Zoom.
“During their oral exam, neither student nor instructor need to wear a mask, allowing the possibility of speaking more naturally, observing how language is formed and other facial expressions, gathering non-verbal nuances, actually from both interlocutors,” Liander wrote.
Joseph K. Blitzstein, Statistics professor and director of undergraduate studies for the department, wrote in an email that he “thought hard about the exam format this year” for Stat 110: “Introduction to Probability,” ultimately deciding on an online format.
“First, as a safety precaution: the news on classroom protocols is encouraging but some students may not yet be comfortable being in a very crowded room, some are immunocompromised, some may be feeling a little under the weather on the day of an exam, etc.,” he wrote, referring to announcements from the University that it has yet to identify a positive case caused by transmission in the classroom.
“Second, Sanders is a beautiful theater and a fun place to teach in but a strange place to take an exam, with no desks,” he added.
African and African American Studies lecturer Linda D. M. Chavers, who teaches GenEd 1041: “How Did We Get Here? From Slavery to #MeToo,” shared that while she acknowledges the limitations of remote teaching, she opted to teach the course fully online for personal medical reasons.
“I love teaching and I’m pretty great at it but I’ve had to just accept that the quality of my course won’t be as awesome this term and I’m okay with that because I love being healthy even more,” Chavers wrote in an email.
—Staff writer Andy Z. Wang contributed reporting.
—Staff writer Meera S. Nair can be reached at meera.nair@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Just shy of 700 Harvard employees took buyouts last year as part of an early retirement program designed to cut costs amid the coronavirus crisis.
A total of 693 workers — roughly 46 percent of the 1,506 employees eligible — took buyouts as part of the 2020 Voluntary Early Retirement Incentive Program, according to data Harvard provided The Crimson this week. The program offered employees one year of pay on top of normal retirement benefits to incentivise them to retire early.
Harvard’s central administration — which includes more than two dozen departments — saw 311 employees take buyouts, the most of any division of the University. In the Faculty of Arts and Sciences, 154 employees opted to retire early.
University spokesperson Jonathan L. Swain declined to specify how many of the positions would be filled, writing in a statement that it is “premature to comment on the long-term status of positions left vacant by those who elected to take the VERIP.”
“Decisions regarding vacant positions and budget resources resulting from the VERIP are ones made at the School or Unit level,” he wrote. “In some cases, decisions have or may be made to reallocate positions to other job functions, to rehire into the same job function, or to eliminate the position.”
The University spent around $71 million on early retirement benefits in fiscal year 2021, Swain said.
“We’ve filled some of those positions,” University President Lawrence S. Bacow said in a May interview. “The intention all along was to fill some, but certainly we’ve not filled all, nor do we have an intention of filling all of them.”
Just shy of 40 Harvard Medical School employees and 31 Harvard Business School employees took buyouts — the third and fourth highest numbers among divisions of the University, respectively.
In 2009, when the University offered a similar early retirement program amid the Great Recession, 531 staff members took buyouts, roughly a third of those eligible.
Bacow, University Provost Alan M. Garber ’76, and Executive Vice President Katherine N. Lapp cut their salaries by 25 percent last year. Deans across the University’s 12 schools chose to either reduce their pay or contribute to a fund supporting employees experiencing hardship.
During the pandemic, the University instituted several other cost-cutting programs, including a voluntary time reduction program that allowed employees to reduce their work hours and pay. Harvard also instituted hiring and salary freezes due to projected budget shortfalls.
“In many cases, there are opportunities to think about how work is structured and restructure in ways that will not require that we fill every position,” Bacow said in May.
—Staff writer Jasper G. Goodman can be reached at jasper.goodman@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @Jasper_Goodman.
—Staff writer Kelsey J. Griffin can be reached at kelsey.griffin@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @kelseyjgriffin.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Public health professionals joined leaders from academia, government, and the private sector to discuss the biggest threats to climate and global health at a Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health forum on Wednesday.
Entitled “Clearing the Air: Why Now Is the Time to Tackle Global Air Pollution,” the event was moderated by CNN Correspondent Stephanie Elam and featured environmental advocates Ebony T. Martin and Mark Watts, World Health Organization officials Heather Adair-Rohani and Maria P. Neira, U.S. Senator Edward J. “Ed” Markey (D-Mass.), economist Michael Greenstone, and Clean Cooking Alliance official Donee Alexander.
School of Public Health Dean Michelle Williams opened the event by discussing how air pollution is one of the foremost hazards to public health.
“Every year, air pollution is estimated to cause seven million premature deaths and result in the loss of millions more healthy years of life,” Williams said. “That puts air pollution on par with other major global health risks, such as unhealthy diets and tobacco use.”
Neira, who leads the Public Health, Environment, and Social Determinants department at the World Health Organization, said adopting more restrictive air quality guidelines to limit particulate matter — tiny materials suspended in the air — can help prevent many of the 7 million annual premature deaths due to air pollution.
“If we are able, globally, to implement the recommended levels, particularly for PM 2.5, we could save 80 percent of those lives,” Neira said. “These are times now for ambition and speed in the name of public health.”
Martin, co-executive of environmental justice organization Greenpeace, said Black and Brown neighborhoods tend to shoulder the burden of environmental issues.
“If we look at the health conditions of our Black and Brown communities, they are disproportionately impacted by respiratory diseases, health disease, birth defects, asthma,” Martin said. “Black people are 40 times more likely to have asthma, and three times more likely to die from asthma.”
Markey discussed his attempt to pass a comprehensive climate change bill, which called for an 80 percent reduction in emissions by the year 2050.
He added that the efforts to defeat climate change legislation currently being debated in Congress were “no surprise” to him, given that opponents of his 2009 bill spent a record $700 million to defeat it.
“It’s a historic battle,” Markey said. “We’re at the crossroads.”
“We have to get something done so that the president has credibility in Glasgow, and the rest of the world will now have to put on the table their own plans to deal with this issue,” he added, referring to the United Nations Climate Change Conference beginning later this month in Scotland.
When Elam asked panelists what they would like to see people do to make a difference in climate change, Martin urged viewers to take advantage of the current political climate in America.
“We have an opportunity right now. We deserve to live in a world that’s beyond fossil fuels,” Martin explained. “I believe that we all have power. When we get out in the streets and we show up, we cannot be turned away. And that is what I would encourage everyone to do. Find your voice in this moment.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard’s graduate student union appears to be headed toward its second strike in two years.
On Wednesday, the Harvard Graduate Students Union-United Automobile Workers threatened a three-day strike beginning Oct. 27 if the University does not move closer to the union’s demands. Negotiations between the University and the union have stalled on issues including compensation, benefits, and procedures for handling harassment and discrimination complaints.
“Just this morning, at our second federally mediated session, Harvard once again showed insufficient interest in moving towards us on key rights or fair compensation even as we made major moves to get closer to a deal,” the union’s bargaining committee wrote to its members Wednesday.
In late September, HGSU-UAW voted overwhelmingly to authorize a strike — with 91.67 percent of its voting members in support of the move. Until Wednesday, the union had not set a deadline for a strike.
HGSU-UAW previously went on strike for nearly four weeks in December 2019 following more than a year of bargaining with the University. Similar to the current snag in negotiations, the two were at odds over compensation and harassment grievance policies. HGSU-UAW is calling on the University to offer its members an option for independent arbitration on discrimination and sexual harassment complaints.
University spokesperson Jason A. Newton wrote in an emailed statement Wednesday evening that a strike this month would be “unwarranted” as Harvard remains committed to reaching an agreement.
“Following HGSU-UAW’s agreement to the University’s proposal for mediation, two sessions have been held with the federal mediator and we feel progress has been made in key areas,” he wrote. “The University continues to engage in these negotiations in good faith and we are optimistic that we can continue to build on the progress made through this mediation and our six months of negotiations.”
The next mediation session will occur on Oct. 20 — currently the only scheduled meeting before the strike deadline. HGSU-UAW President Brandon J. Mancilla said in an interview that the union has asked for additional sessions.
“After we told them about the strike deadline of the 27th, the University seemed open to that,” Mancilla said. “We’re hoping to have more dates so that we can keep working at this agreement.”
Despite the bargaining committee’s disappointment in negotiations, Mancilla said he believes Wednesday’s meeting with the University suggested reaching a deal will be possible.
“That is why the deadline is set — because we think we can make progress by talking,” he said. “It’s not a sign of us wanting to stop.”
HGSU-UAW hopes faculty members will stand in solidarity with graduate students by respecting the picket line and refraining from holding campus events, according to Mancilla. Undergraduate students will be encouraged to walk out of class and join the picket line.
“The idea here is to be disruptive,” Mancilla said. “It is to show the University how essential we are to the daily operations of the University’s educational mission, so anyone else who is part of that mission is more than welcome on our picket lines.”
The strike would coincide with the College’s freshman family weekend and midterm exams, a move Mancilla said would allow the strike to “be as disruptive as possible.”
He emphasized that the union is committed to reaching a contract with the University before the strike deadline.
“We’re still committed to reaching an agreement with the University before that,” Mancilla said. “And if we don’t, they will see the full extent of withdrawing our labor power.”
—Staff writer Jasper G. Goodman can be reached at jasper.goodman@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @Jasper_Goodman.
—Staff writer Kelsey J. Griffin can be reached at kelsey.griffin@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @kelseyjgriffin.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Human Evolutionary Biology chair Daniel E. Lieberman ’86 offered evolutionary insights into physical activity in his virtual lecture, “Did We Evolve to Exercise?” Wednesday evening.
The Harvard Museum of Natural History hosted the webinar on Zoom as part of its ongoing “Evolution Matters” lecture series. The series, which has been running for the past 12 years, discusses a variety of topics related to the history of life.
Lieberman’s research focuses on human physical activity from an evolutionary and anthropological perspective. In the lecture, Lieberman spoke on exercise and why it is increasingly healthy for humans as they age.
A large portion of the lecture was inspired by key points from “Exercised,” Lieberman’s book published in January.
Lieberman began the talk by addressing the “exercise paradox” — the difficulty to exercise consistently despite understanding its benefits.
“Everybody knows that exercise is good for us, but only about 20 percent of Americans get what’s considered to be the minimum amount of physical activity recommended by basically every major health organization in the world — about 150 minutes of moderate to vigorous physical activity a week,” Lieberman said. “The other 80 percent of us don’t do it right.”
Evolutionary factors may explain why exercise habits are so difficult to build in modern society. While hunter-gatherers were “moderately physically active” when it was necessary or rewarding, they otherwise conserved energy, according to Lieberman.
He described a longitudinal study on Harvard alumni on the impact of moderate physical activity on death rates in comparison to sedentary lifestyles, highlighting the increasing benefits of physical activity with age.
“By the time alumni got into their 50s, the ones who were burning 2,000 calories a week through exercise had 36 percent lower death rates, and by the time they got to be 70 or older, the ones who were regularly exercising had 50 percent lower death rates,” Lieberman said.
Lieberman concluded the talk by discussing the applications of his exercise research to life at Harvard. In an interview following the event, he expanded on how the pressures of student life may result in less physical activity.
“We think it’s a tradeoff: ‘Time I spend exercising is time I’m going to lose from other important things.’ But I think the evidence shows that, actually, the time people spend exercising, they get back in increased concentration and better mood and memory, and the short-term benefits are huge,” Lieberman said.
Lieberman said even a slight lifestyle change to include more exercise can make a big difference.
“Just an hour a week, which is a little bit more than 10 minutes a day, can decrease your risk of mortality by 30, 40 percent. So no matter what level you’re at, a little bit of physical activity goes a long way,” Lieberman said.
“You don’t need to run marathons or swim the English Channel or climb Mount Everest. You don’t need to do extreme amounts of physical activity,” he added. “You just need to do it.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Coming off a grueling five-set loss on the road to Princeton last weekend, the Harvard women’s volleyball team (6-8, 3-2 Ivy League) responded with a huge 3-2 win at Yale (10-4, 3-2 Ivy League) on Friday, before falling to Brown (12-3, 5-0 Ivy League) 3-1 on Saturday.
The victory was the Crimson’s first on the road at Yale since 2017 and continued a strong stretch of play after opening the season with six losses in its first seven matches. Both teams entered play with identical 2-1 records in Ivy League competition, and the win temporarily vaulted Harvard into third place in the league standings.
“The first games of our season were rough because we were still figuring out what system worked best for us and working on our setter/hitter connection,” first-year setter Rocky Aguirre said.
Aguirre also identified several key injuries that hampered the Crimson’s on-court success at the start of the season. Nevertheless, these setbacks allowed first-year libero Lindsey Zhang, who was pressed into action in her first year on the team, to perform well in the role.
Harvard came out of the gate strong against Yale, winning the first set 25-14 and the second set 25-23. However, the Bulldogs responded with victories in the third and fourth sets, setting up a decisive fifth set, which the Crimson won 15-11. In four of five sets, Harvard held Yale to under a .155 hitting percentage, including a .091 hitting percentage in a dominant first set win. The Crimson also tallied 11 service aces, with sophomore setter Bella Almanza and first-year outside hitter Nicole Prescott each recording three.
“There's always a lot of nerves and tension when we go into a game like that,” said sophomore outside hitter/right side attacker Katie Vorhies, referencing the historic rivalry between the two colleges.
Despite the nerves and tension, especially as Yale clawed its way back into the match, Harvard jumped out to a 6-0 lead in the fifth set and never looked back, which Vorhies attributed to Almanza’s strong service game.
“By the fifth set, we were talking in the huddle and we said, ‘Look, the score right now is 0-0, and we're going to come up here and we're going to start off strong and take the lead,’” Vorhies said.
“I think the realization for them that they were about to be swept really made them turn it up a notch,” Aguirre said. “I think the same thing happened to us after we lost the fourth set – we realized that we could lose after being up 2-0, and we just would not let it happen.”
Harvard got off to a similarly fast start against Brown, winning the first set 25-20, but the Crimson went on to drop the final three sets by scores of 25-21, 25-14, and 25-19. The loss to Brown, which entered the match tied with Princeton atop the league standings with a perfect 4-0 record, dropped Harvard to fourth place. Despite the loss, the Crimson hung tough with a very strong opponent, as Harvard out-blocked Brown 8-6, and the score was tied 19 times.
“Brown was the better team that night, and they deserved the win, but I promise next time will be a much better fight,” Aguirre said. “Everyone is using the loss to fuel us for next weekend. I’m really looking forward to those matches because I know how determined we are to win [the Ivy League].”
Vorhies led the Crimson offense over the weekend with a team-high 15 kills against Yale and 13 against Brown. Prescott recorded nine kills at Yale and eight at Brown, while Almanza recorded a team-leading 46 assists over the two matches, followed by Aguirre, who had 31 assists.
On the defensive end, Harvard was led by sophomore middle hitter Olivia Cooper and junior right side attacker and co-captain Jaimie Rao, who each recorded six blocks over the two matches, while Prescott led the way with a combined 22 digs.
The Crimson’s first home matches of the season will take place this weekend against Cornell (5-8, 1-4 Ivy League) and Columbia (4-10, 1-4 Ivy League), which will be critical to maintaining pace in the Ancient Eight.
“There’s just a whole other level of energy when you have your fans and your home court, and I think that’s going to be another growing opportunity for us too,” Vorhies said.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Water polo action saw Harvard (13-2, 3-0 Ivy League) take a convincing, albeit sloppy, 16-10 win over their cross-Cambridge rivals, MIT (3-8). The afternoon’s victory added the 13th tick to the Crimson’s flaming-hot 13-2 record and marked Harvard’s 20th consecutive win in the pool for this particular all-Cambridge match-up.
Despite the comfortable win and generous six-goal margin separating Harvard from the Engineers, the atmosphere on the Blodgett Pool deck was not one of joy, but rather frustration. The fans piled into the stands expecting a steamroll victory by a margin reaching into the double figures. Instead, spectators were treated with frequent shot-clock violations from both sides, multiple mishandles of the ball, and too many off-target throws to count. And to the dismay of Crimson water polo fanatics, it was Harvard that conceded the first goal of the match.
“The game definitely didn’t start the way we wanted it to go,” noted first-year attacker Alex James when asked to comment on the opening minutes of the match. “We were a little asleep in the beginning. We went out slow. They got one early on us, and we shouldn’t have allowed it.”.
In the second half, however, the Crimson managed to turn things around and take charge of the game. Dominant hole performances from sophomore centers Kaleb Archer and Mot Stothart, who each scored three goals, as well as four goals from junior attacker Alex Tsodaze, reignited Harvard’s play. Fuelled by confident perimeter ball movement, the Crimson whip-kicked itself back into a shape recognizable as an offensive system expected from the 14th-ranked team in the nation.
“We’ve got to stick to our system,” James offered. “When a ball swings, it’s so hard for the goalie to react. [We] run through the percentages, what’s best for the team, and what’s best for the system. Once we realized that the game turned around. The score showed that we were the better team.”
The scoresheet is an avid supporter of this analysis, suggesting that over half of Harvard’s goals were served by assists.
Regardless of the team’s hiccups throughout the match-up, James is not at all worried about the Crimson’s potential for aquatic dominance.
“We’re just climbing stairs one step at a time,” James said. “We’re roughly halfway through the season now, halfway up the staircase. We’re not playing our best polo yet and shouldn’t be playing our best polo yet because it’s still October. We still have a long way to go.”
Part of this long journey includes a packed, four-game weekend for the team as it hosts the Harvard Invitational Tournament. Harvard will take on Gannon University and Wagner College in Blodgett Pool this Saturday. The Crimson also plays Salem University and St. Mary’s on Sunday.
Harvard must reinvigorate its play this weekend and beyond as they seek to improve on its 4-1 Northeast Water Polo Conference record and chase other loftier goals — such as a national title.
James explains that this all serves to motivate the team to continue putting in maximum effort.
“One thing that keeps us going is our end goal,” James said. “We want to win the conference; we want to get to a Final Four. We want to win a National Championship. You’re not going to do that by not fully committing.”
He is confident that the team has what it takes.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
While Housing Day is still (unfortunately) a semester away, it is never too early to reignite the House pride that all us upperclassmen have and that first-years will eventually be infected with. To help with that, we're blessing you with a ranking of house mascots based on the only criteria that matters: environmental impact. Because let’s be real, every House thinks it’s the best, so we needed to get a little bit objective here.

12. Lowell’s Blue Man
Let’s be real. If Lowell’s Blue Man is a man, no matter how much he tries to lower his carbon footprint, if he’s a citizen of the United States, he will still have a carbon footprint of 16 tons a year. And if he’s anything like the other blue men I know, he will have a blue house with a blue little window and a blue Corvette. I guess everything’s just blue for him.
11. Leverett’s Bunny
They may seem cute and cuddly, but the bunnies we see running around on campus are actually hard at work taking over the mythical land of Australia as we speak, hurting native species. As much as we love our bunnies, we also love koalas and kangaroos and we really need to call out Leverett for this. Our bunnies should be held accountable.
10. Kirkland’s Boar
We would much prefer to walk a puppy than interact with a wild boar in real life. These pigs are running all over the continental United States and uprooting natural vegetation. They can also hurt the birds and amphibians that form an important part of our ecosystem.
9. Dunster’s Moose
You have probably heard of farting cows, but have you ever heard of the belching moose? That’s right, meese aren’t as clean as you would think. Technically, the animals on Dunster’s crest are actually elk, so maybe it isn’t too late for the House to make a change.
8. Eliot’s Mastodon
Granted, the mastodon is extinct and not here at all, but what would happen if they were brought back? Flyby thinks this is a very important question to ponder. However, because we can’t know for sure, Eliot gets some leeway in the rankings. Maybe they would interbreed with the elephants and prevent the species from going extinct? Now that’s a positive environmental impact!
7. Winthrop’s Lion
We’re at the middle of the list. You know what that means. Houses that couldn’t be classified as either extreme too easily! Winthrop’s lions are ethical carnivores, only eating as much as they need. They also live together, which means that if they were to travel together, they would get on one bus instead of all driving different cars. Talk about environmentally friendly!
6. Pfoho’s Polar Bear
Polar bears are extremely useful because they are cute and people LOVE them. From encouraging mere humans to become invested in the fight against climate change to using their ~adaptations~ to conserve heat, polar bears are true powerhouses.
5. Quincy’s Penguin
While potentially less cute than polar bears, penguins are smaller, giving them the advantage of being able to consume less food in order to function. Eating fish is much more environmentally friendly than eating seals. All Harvard students should avoid adding seals to their diet. In addition, Emperor penguins collect in huge colonies to conserve heat. Working together for the good of others!
4. Mather’s Gorilla
Gorillas are mostly just like chill humans. They stick together, eat mostly plant-based diets, and don’t fly around in private jets. That might make them losers (our private jet is currently in Bermuda), but that does make them more environmentally friendly.
3. Cabot’s Fish
What do fish do? They swim around. They chill. Cabot does not specify what kind of fish is its mascot, yet from the shield, it is safe to assume that it is not the invasive lionfish. All in all, the Cabot mascot is rock solid. Unless it’s secretly the lionfish.
2. Adams’ Acorn
Let’s be real, if you’ve made it this far down, you definitely know which House is going to be number 1. And based on that, there’s only so much I can say for Adams. Yes, the acorn by itself is not emitting carbon dioxide, and thus not hurting the environment at all. Yes, it has the potential for greatness. But there’s one house that’s just way ahead of it.
1. Currier’s Tree
Currier wins the top spot as the only House whose mascot is actually protecting us from climate change. By photosynthesizing, the trees convert carbon dioxide into the oxygen we breathe (not sure about specifics, I am not a pre-med), which is pretty dang useful since I enjoy breathing.
