Sections
With Visitas coming up quick and Decision Day not too far behind, you may be feeling just a bit clueless about what this whole “college” thing is really all about. Lucky for you, our senior writers have been through it all, from the overwhelming number of club comps freshman year to senior thesising hell. As their time at Harvard comes to an end, enjoy a few words of wisdom from Flyby’s own seniors in the Class of 2021.
Prioritize making friendships and memories that you can look back on in 30 years, rather than trying to take the hardest classes, having the most extracurriculars, or landing the best job.
— Hannah J. Humes ’21
Dip your toe into everything that seems even mildly interesting to you — whether it’s academics, extracurriculars, or something else. You’ll eventually have to choose, of course. You can’t do everything, and you definitely shouldn’t overwork yourself. Still, you might fall in love with something that you never expected you would fall in love with, and that will make it all worth it.
— Lorenzo F. Manuali ’21
Harvard’s campus is amazing, but don’t forget to explore the nearby Squares (like Porter, Davis, and Central) and Boston itself! Make a bucket list for each year rather than an ultimate bucket list, because your four years will fly by (no pun intended) before you know it!
— Cindy Li ’21 
Do the things you care the most about, and don’t let other people pressure you in those decisions. Writing a thesis, doing research, or joining a certain club isn’t worth it if it never brings you any joy — you have to do what’s going to make YOU happy, not anyone else. And don’t worry, it really will all work out eventually!
— Claire J. Hoffman ’21
I know grades seem like they’re the be all, end all of school, but as the years have gone by, I’ve tried to focus on doing my best within parameters that let me be as happy as I can be. Doing things that fulfill you — hanging out with friends, playing video games, volunteering, acting, whatever — are so much more important than a paper only two people are ever going to read (if you even read your papers all the way through once you’ve written them).
Be conscientious and compassionate to others, and leave petty high school behavior in, well, high school. It’s old and it’s annoying. If you notice people around you exhibiting those behaviors, really evaluate for yourself whether or not they’re worth it. Also! You don’t have to make all of your friends right away! One of my closest friends I met during her senior fall, and we only knew each other in person for a semester + two months before getting kicked out. On that note, befriend upperclassmen. Advising here sucks tbh which I’m probably not supposed to say, but let upperclassmen be your guide. Have fun! Be safe! Try new things! And don’t let imposter syndrome get you down. xoxo.
— Rocket Claman ’21.5
Sections
For another year, Visitas is being held in the comfort of your own home. What could be better than listening to how ~transformative~ your years at Harvard will be while chilling in your pajamas in bed? Although it may be tempting to sign into Zoom and podcast the sessions as you do something else (maybe listen to the new Taylor Swift album?), we compiled a couple things that hopefully will help you actually get something out of Virtual Visitas.
Icebreakers And Possibly Friends
Yes, there will be breakout rooms and yes, there will be icebreaker activities. Having an interesting fact about you or where you come from can hopefully ease some of that awkward breakout room tension. If you see someone who looks cool and you’d like to be friends with, don’t be shy! Shoot them a Zoom DM and ask for their number or socials! Everyone is looking to make new friends so they're probably as scared as you are. Don’t be afraid to join group chats, join the smaller group hangouts and even plan to go to events with people! Buy into the hype of the event you’re attending and don't be afraid to actually participate.
~Networking~
Is it a friendly virtual hangout or a mutually beneficial networking meeting? At Harvard you’ll never know. Although there is no substitute for meeting someone for a coffee in the Yard, we have the next best thing. In the case “let’s Zoom sometime!” becomes an actual meeting, here’s how to make a lasting impression on your fellow peers. Dress almost-but-not-too-casually in your Harvard sweatshirt, make sure your Harvard banner is visible in the background, and name drop all the club events and people you’ve met. Extra points if you practice in the mirror how to look casually aloof as you mention how you interned at Google, saved the turtles, and was class valedictorian in your senior year. Don’t be shy to humble brag, that’s the Harvard way! And remember, these networks — oops, friendships — are going to be lifelong, so be sure to add them on LinkedIn!
Facebook and Freebies
Facebook groups don’t have much going for them, but once in a while you come across a diamond in the rough and find some cool events with free merch or food. To stay updated on all the events, join all the Harvard Class of ’25 Facebook groups, GroupMe(s), and Instagram pages. You can also make your own smaller groups as a way to keep in contact with people throughout Virtual Visitas and beyond. Harvard College’s main Instagram account is also a good stop to stay updated on general news and updates. And of course, follow flyby at @flybyblog to keep up with our Guide to Visitas!
Concentrations and Labs
Are you already wondering which classes you should take in the fall? Have you heard the horror stories of CS50? Is there a research lab you want to join? Look no further! Be sure to stop by the events on academic advising, research opportunities and concentrations (fancy Harvard speak for major) to ask all your burning questions on whether or not you should take Math 21a, Chemistry 15, and Physics 19 all in one semester while being a research assistant at a lab (spoiler, you shouldn’t). To get the most out of the sessions, take notes, have some questions ready, and even sign up for drop-in hours. If you have no idea what concentration or classes you want to take, that’s also okay! You will have plenty of time in the fall to decide which classes to take, so don’t stress.
Clubs 
In high school, you probably played a sport and a musical instrument, did mock trials, and still somehow had time for five other activities. Many try (and fail) to keep the same I’m-in-ten-clubs energy, but very few (read: none) maintain it. Clubs are a great way to meet new people, especially cool upperclassmen. Attend a variety of club events, even the ones that just seem remotely interesting. Step out of your comfort zone by attending a dance event, see what pre-professional clubs have to offer, meet new people in cultural groups, and explore different niches! Don’t know what club events to attend? Have no fear! Simply open the Visitas calendar or The Hub, close your eyes and blindly point at your screen. You landed on flyby? What a coincidence!
Once your GCal is full and overlapping with events, you are ready to take on Virtual Visitas and actually leave better than you came. But, make sure to not overextend yourself! Be reasonable, but also remember that you’re at Virtual Visitas to explore and learn — don’t overcommit, and allow some space for spontaneity. Have a great Visitas!
Sections
You’ve done it! You’ve impressed all of your relatives and friends, successfully completed your five-year plan from eighth grade, and updated all of your social media accounts to include H ‘25 in your bio. Now what? As shocking as it may be, there is a future at Harvard and after Harvard. Keep reading to find out yours based entirely on your Virtual Visitas experience (yes, it’s decided that early).
1. Which club events are you planning on attending?
a) All of them! I just don’t know when to stop!
b) Just the ones that sound interesting enough to take full advantage of my five minute attention span.
c) Anything that has finance or consulting or money in its name!
d) I pretend I do not see
2. What’s the random webinar that somehow made it into your schedule?
a) A HUDS presentation. I hunger for knowledge and food alike!
b) Something useful that I might have the chance to take advantage of soon, like study abroad! (Author’s note: RIP)
c) Larry’s Welcome. Never too early to get my network on.
d) A Bridgerton rewatch
3. How have you been meeting people from your class?
a) I created the class GroupMe, so they all know me already!
b) Created a Facebook just to send some ~friend requests~ a la Zuck
c) My LinkedIn just crossed 500+ connections
d) I accept their Instagram follow requests after wondering how they found me
4. What is your ~intended~ concentration?
a) I’ll explore some biology classes and then make my decision!
b) Probably not anything STEM-related...
c) Finance. Wait. Econ then.
d) Why can’t we just call them majors?
5. Most confusing Harvard lingo?
a) What’s the difference between El Jefe’s and Felipe’s?
b) Is Harvard Time a thing of the past?
c) What are all these Houses and how do I get one?
d) Anything with an acronym
Results
Mostly As: Over-Achieving Pre-Med
You’ve probably got another 10-year plan ready to go. And that’s totally great! Just remember to let yourself have some fun while you grind for these next four years and impress everyone you talk to!
Mostly Bs: The Well-Balanced Person We All Want to Be
Work-life balance? You’ve been besties for years, and we’re jealous of you for that. We (and the people from Harvard who will ask you for donations the moment you graduate) can’t wait to see what you will achieve.
Mostly Cs: Proud Snake
The worst kinds of snakes are those that pretend not to be. But you? You’re a snake and you’re proud. Whether it’s telling anyone who will listen about your stock portfolio or posting all of your finance-related clubs on your LinkedIn, you have a clear goal and will slither your way to success.
Mostly Ds: Still Figuring It Out
Let’s be real, this one’s most of us. The best part? You’ll have about four years to figure it out! You might change your mind multiple times, change it back, and finally actually find yourself. Can we ask for anything more?
Sections
Congratulations on getting into Harvard! Now that you’re in, you’re probably going to Visitas, which is our version of admitted students weekend that’s taking place on (where else?) Zoom this year. During Visitas, you’ll hear from several important grown-ups about the ~transformative experience~ that awaits, but you’ll also have the chance to interact with classmates for the first time! Read on for a few helpful tips on how to make friends (or perhaps foes) during Virtual Visitas.
Friend: Participate in icebreaker activities.
Sure, the game may be cheesier than a One Direction song from 2012, but it may help you loosen up and stimulate those handy endorphins! From Charades to Two Truths and A Lie, be a good sport and bond with the faces on your screen, who may be the people you’ll spend the next four years of your life with. By the end of the activity, maybe you’ll even gain a buddy or two! Just make sure to actually note their names and grab their contacts…
Foe: Make it clear that you’re already so over it, because you totally played this childish game when you attended that elite summer program two years ago.
Remember that you only get one chance to make a good first impression! Visitas is an opportunity for you to meet completely new people from all over the world, so leave that judgy look behind and go along with the activity, no matter how excruciating the Zoom world can be.
Friend: Pay attention to other people’s introductions and stories.
Whether someone is telling a funny anecdote about how they got a scar on their arm or they’re spilling their heart out about their lifelong hobby, lend an ear to your new classmate. Each person at Harvard was accepted because they have their own special something to bring to the table, and it’s up to you to be receptive to learning from them. Your peers are some of the coolest people you’ll ever get to speak with, so why not start now?
Foe: Brag incessantly about the nonprofit you started and the awards you received and the perfect standardized test scores you attained and the celebrities you met and the number of Ivy Leagues you got into and...
Yeah… we stopped listening already. Think twice before you flaunt your accomplishments, because people would rather be friends with someone with a big heart than a big resume. Take pride in what brings you joy, but know the difference between “chatting about your interests” and “unloading every award you’ve ever won.”
Friend: Be real about your emotions.
Many of you are probably “nervous but also excited!” and you should own that feeling! Don’t be pressured to downplay anything just because you fear that you’ll seem too eager or not strong enough. Authenticity is key to long-lasting friendships.
Foe: Act like uprooting your entire life to live in an arbitrary city in Massachusetts hundreds of miles away from your family is the breeziest of breezes, and anyone who doesn’t agree is so below you. 
Of course, there are many amazing things to look forward to in college, like the new friends and the (potential?) parties, but the transition poses unique challenges for everyone. Remember that everyone experiences this transition differently, so try to understand these different perspectives and be a supportive friend!
Friend: Smile! 
Especially on a Zoom screen, the best thing you can offer is a sincere smile. You’ll give off major #goodvibes.
Foe: Glare at the person who’s threatening your place in the spotlight.
You may have been your small town’s star student your entire life, but one of the most important lessons to learn in life is that it’s nice to let others shine too. How would you feel if someone rolled their eyes or snickered whenever you were talking? Do your best to show some enthusiasm, even if you are in the same childhood bedroom that you’ve been Zooming from for a while now.
Friend: Add someone to a group chat they didn’t know about.
Whether it’s a cultural affinity email listserv or a class-wide Facebook page, share the love and help others join new communities within Harvard. These group chats are a primary way to get to know (read: lurk on) your peers before the fall semester begins, and who knows – maybe someone will do the same for you too!
Foe: Follow someone on Instagram, accept their follow-back request, and then immediately unfollow them.
This one’s pretty self-explanatory. You’re definitely not developing any new friendships from trying to increase your social media presence at the expense of others.
Visitas is the first opportunity you have to meet your peers, so try to make a good first impression — but also keep in mind that Zoom Visitas isn’t going to make or break your college experience. As long as you put yourself out there and treat everyone with kindness, you’ll do just fine!
Sections
Once upon a time, I was disappointed when I learned Visitas was turned into Virtual-tas. Though I did not get the vlog-worthy admitted student weekend, the week-long Snapchat takeovers from Harvard were enough to get me to commit. Still, despite Virtual-tas being four days longer than the typical in-person event, there was so much of the true Harvard experience that was left out. So here you go, pre-frosh. Here’s a short list of all the things I didn’t learn from Virtual Visitas that I wished I had.
Don’t Wear the Lanyards
Sometimes, Harvard doesn’t feel like a college but rather a summer program full of stressed-out, sleep-deprived kids with identical lanyards. Pre-frosh, for the love of Flyby, do not wear your lanyard around your neck. Put your key in your wallet or even a fanny pack, you will look a lot less dorky than the first year walking around with that crimson-colored albatross around their neck.
Avoid These Bathrooms
In 2019, Janani Sekar ’23 gave us this wonderful rating of bathrooms on campus.
For the impatient and desperate students, here’s a TLDR version:
The ones in the basement of the Science Center: just no.
The ones in Lamont: a bit scary, approach with caution.
The ones in Northwest Labs: only if you have to.
The Cost of Signing Up for 100+ Mailing Lists
Pre-frosh, before you get too excited and subscribe to every single mailing you could get your hands on, imagine this scenario: it is 8 a.m. and you’re woken up by the sound of 50 email notifications from the clubs you signed up for on a whim in September and have since dropped, advertising the same event from the IOP. Save yourself the trouble now.
Don’t Overcommit
Sure, that youthful straight-out-of-high school enthusiasm might say that you CAN manage all the different clubs that you attended the info sessions for. But unless this looks like a fun Saturday to you, limit your involvement to just those activities that you truly are passionate about.
How to Drop the H Bomb 
Seriously. Do I just come right out and introduce myself as a Harvard student or do I play it cool and just vaguely mention that I got to college “near Boston”? What should I say to not come across as a braggy snobby Ivy Leaguer? Send help.
Avoid HUDS Banh Mi
It is my biggest fear that someone would try the Banh Mi at HUDS and then think that Vietnamese cuisine sucks for the rest of their lives. So here’s a PSA for all the pre-frosh: avoid HUDS Banh Mi and google what actual Banh Mi looks like before you judge it. To actually know the taste of authentic Banh Mi (Bon Me in the Square… isn’t quite it), take a train to Dorchester and check out Banh Mi Ba Le. Trust me, it will be worth it. — signed, a very frustrated Viet crimed
Sections
The number of events at Visitas can be overwhelming, especially on Zoom! With so many clubs planning exciting events, it can be difficult to pick and choose just a few. If you're deciding whether to skip or stay at an event, check out this flowchart to see if it's truly worth it!
Sections
Even though we lost track of time a couple months ago — anyone know if it’s still February? — we’re fast approaching the end of the spring semester. For high school seniors, this means it’s everyone’s been talking about Where You’re Going To College for, like, a billion years. You might have taken plenty of virtual tours by now, but it’s no secret that college tours don’t tell you the whole story. Curious about what the fabled Harvard Yard is actually like? Consider this your in-depth, behind-the-scenes tour of the Yard, courtesy of the lovely writers of Flyby Blog.
John Harvard Statue
As you embark on your first (virtual) journey through the Yard, you’ll inevitably be drawn to everyone’s favorite not-actually-John-Harvard John Harvard statue. Widely known for its not-so-secret tradition involving a certain foot — touch for luck if you’re not a student, pee on it if you are — every student knows about the piss, and if you listen as you walk, you can hear the Very Knowledgeable, Not-Like-The-Other-Tourists tourists imparting this knowledge to their friends.
You will be late to class at least once due to Yard crowds flocking to the statue, so be prepared to reroute your walk or get comfortable with hustling through groups lined up to touch John’s shiny foot. It’s more than likely that during some late-night adventure, peeing on the statue will seem like a fantastic idea. However, approach this tradition with caution: you or someone you know may inevitably be that one person who breaks an arm while scaling Piss Mountain. And, unless you want to see many half-drunk students trying to ~add to the tradition~, we’d personally recommend avoiding this tour spot at night.
Widener Library
Back in the olden days, Widener was known for three things: tourists, being the go-to spot for cute senior thesis pics, and sex. As of last fall, though, the Widener steps have become the spot for outdoor socializing, and apparently “meet me at the steps” is, like, a common phrase. There’s a lot to look forward to about the stately study space in the fall, whether you’re chilling on the steps or actually studying in the Stacks.
First things first, the validation of walking up the steps and studying in such an aesthetic place is truly unparalleled. Also, exploring the Stacks with friends (or friends-with-benefits) is always a fun time, since it’s truly a labyrinth in there! P.S., we’re not telling you that C West is a dark, more secluded corner of the Stacks, but we’re also not not telling you that. ;) Finally, Widener doesn’t just look better in the winter — it is better. Dear reader, it’s up to you to take part in upholding the time-honored tradition of sledding the Widener steps on a Dhall tray after a major snowfall. We hope you’re up to the challenge.
Lamont Library
Next up on this Urban Dictionary of virtual tours, we’ve got the ever-beloved Lamont Library. Sure, it may be unassuming on the outside, but on the inside? It’s a wonderland of students (affectionately known as Lamonsters) camped in its cozy seating on the main floor, or on the top floor, a strict no-noise zone with plenty of desks for doing *actual work*. The built-in cafe, a.k.a LamCaf, has all the coffee and snacks you could ever need for those inevitable all-nighters. If you’re really looking to dig into a pset or paper and not move for hours (or dare we say, days) or just don’t want to wade through tourists on your way to study (@Widener), Lamont’s your girl. Note: one of our writers loves Lamont with a burning passion, and stands firm in the claim that LamCaf serves the best lattes on campus. If they bring back BoardPlus, just accept that you’re going to waste invest plenty of your money here.
Sever Hall
Ah, Sever Hall. Good, reliable, and only smells a little bit like old people and students’ tears. As you may know from a more “traditional” tour, this classroom building will be a familiar site for anyone exploring GenEd or humanities courses — i.e., we would be shocked if you escape your freshman year without taking at least *one* class in this classic Harvard building. Don’t be scared of the chaotic entrance right when you walk in: here, you’ll really get to see a mix of everyone Harvard has to offer. Not to mention, the benches in each hallway are prime spots to get all the dirt on your section buddy’s latest entryway gossip.
A pro-tip from us to you: make sure to go get a coffee from LamCafe before you settle in for that next class! With the true power combination of being unusually warm, lacking caffeine, and a way-too-soothing professor’s voice in the background, you’ll inevitably find yourself snoozing through a class or two (don’t worry, we won’t judge). Now’s the time to break the high school habit of asking to go to the bathroom (especially in lecture classes — we promise, you can just go) and take a short break down in the basement where you’ll find the restrooms and a vending machine perfect for a mid-class snack.
The Warm Spot By Canaday
Have you ever thought to yourself, “Man, I really wish there was a vaguely garbage-scented patch of hot air right at the border between the Yard and the Science Center”? Well, dearest reader, dreams do come true. Right outside Canaday B (a first-year dorm on campus), there’s a squat little vent that emits some ~questionable~ steam. Much like your future section crush, you might initially think it’s a little odd and kind of trashy, but hey — it’s hot. Once Cambridge winters really get going, you’ll be grateful for the brief respite from the frost that the Warm Spot provides, and probably will end up using it as a toasty rendezvous point more than once.
Annenberg
It looks like Harry Potter! Hell yeah, it does. Berg is a mammoth of a building, and we can attest that her many stained glass windows are as beautiful as you think they are. Annenberg is actually just one part of a massive complex of Harvard buildings — truly the 3-in-1 shampoo of Harvard, but, like, in a good way. The back half is the famed Sanders Theatre, which hosts everything from acapella performances to CS50: “Introduction to Computer Science.” The ginormous basement of Berg is home to various classrooms, music practice rooms, the Cambridge Queen’s Head Pub (a fun place to grab mozz sticks and frequent host of trivia and other club events), and our mortal enemy, FlyBy (note the capital “B”). For the uninitiated, FlyBy is also known as “The Thing Under Annenberg”, and is a grab-and-go bagged lunch line for upperclassmen who can’t make it back to their House’s Dhall between classes. While FlyBy is an essential, in our unbiased opinion, Flyby is just a *little* better.
When you enter Berg, however, the first thing you’ll notice is not the gorgeous mahogany, but the sheer size of the dining hall. There are so many tables in the cavernous hall that the napkin holders are labeled with a letter and a number, so be prepared to inevitably send a “Hey, I’m at B-14, where are y’all??” text at some point. Architecture aside, Annenberg is also legendary for another reason — John! No, not the statue (John from Annenberg is much cooler). John S. Martin is the iconic and friendly card swiper at Annenberg and is a fantastic conversationalist. Other highlights of Annenberg include the cute holiday decor, the Veritaffle station on Sundays, randomly fancy meals, and an unfortunate tray return that will inevitably lead to you breaking a plate or two (probably in front of your crush).
Thus concludes the unofficial tour of the Yard! This list is definitely not exhaustive in terms of locations and details, but we hope we’ve imparted enough knowledge for you to explore the rest in the fall ;) Happy Visitas!
Sections
There may be a lot to do at Virtual Visitas this year, but don't worry! Flyby's got you covered with the most important ones. Try to hit as many items as you can on this bingo, and we can personally guarantee you would've had a classic visit weekend experience.
Sections
It’s sure been a wild ride in the post-coronavirus era, but at least Virtual Visitas isn’t unprecedented! Need some advice on starting college in a really weird, masked-up, socially distanced, and virtual world from people who’ve actually done the damn thing? Well, you’re in the right place. We may not be ancient — sorry, we mean wise — upperclassmen, but we’ve still got some helpful hacks and hints to share. Best of luck, webinar warriors, and see you in the fall!
Try to keep an open mind! I remember not wanting to go to any webinars because I was already sick of online stuff at that point (whoops), but attending events actually brought me to the coolest organization on campus (read: Flyby)! Go to the events! Or at least the Flyby ones!
— Matylda A. Urbaniak ’24
Reach out to people in your class! Even if it’s just a simple Zoom message (if that’s still happening) or an Instagram DM, making friends feels scary but is actually super easy and you’ll meet so many amazing people. You can form pset groups, chat up random people in the Yard, or check out fun extracurriculars where you’ll definitely meet a strong, tight-knit community!
— Tina Chen ’24
Harvard is great! Probably the best part of it has to be the people, as cliche as it may sound. Meet people on Facebook or Zoom meetings, and start making friends! And when you’re on campus, you’ll get to actually meet them in person!
— Manny A. Yepes ’24
Try a little bit of everything that even remotely interests you. There are so many options at Harvard and it’s easier to know what you don’t like than pinpoint exactly what you like. Go to events, try out new things, shop different classes, you truly never know what you’ll find! Also, don’t worry about making friends on the first day of orientation. You’ll find your people eventually!
— Sandra W. Mwangi ’24
Go but try not to feel overwhelmed! I remember feeling that this was an introduction to everything, but there will be more info sessions in the fall. Go to things that really interest you!! (And that you have time for.) Also pm people friendship shots! It works :)
— Mia A. Word ’24 
Don’t be afraid to reach out to people! At least this year, you won’t have to do it through Zoom DMs (hopefully). At the same time, don’t feel obligated to join every club or try every opportunity someone recommends to you. Choose a few things you’re truly interested in, and you’ll find your people!
— Sakshi Garg ’24 
It might take a little while to find people you connect with, but don’t stress yourself out about it! Everyone is trying to find their people and make friends. Don’t be afraid to put yourself out there and reach out to someone you got along with in a breakout room, they will probably be thrilled you want to chat with them. Most importantly, use this as an opportunity to explore your interests and learn more about what Harvard has to offer!
— Johneth R. Price ’24
It can be overwhelming at first, but try to go to as many events as you can. Reach out to people, which will feel totally weird and awkward at first, but just go for it! You can meet some of the greatest people! Virtual Visitas is what you make it. There are so many cool things to learn and love about Harvard!
— Ashton E. Body ’24
You never know where you’ll find the best experiences or meet the most amazing people. You should never feel pressured to be or do something that just isn’t you. Everyone is here for a unique reason, which is exactly what makes Harvard so diverse and exciting. At the end of the day, we are all here to learn and grow from our experiences, drawing inspiration from others but ultimately forging our own paths.
— Alina A. Taratorin ’24
Don’t be afraid to put yourself out there more than you normally would! Everyone else is looking for friends too, so it will never hurt to reach out to someone. Also, I would say that it can be so helpful to try a lot of different things to figure out what you really enjoy, but let yourself step back from things that you are not truly interested in so that you can have more time for what you’re passionate about!
— Katie E. Hennessey ’24
Freshman year has been amazing, even in a virtual world. The best part? Meeting fellow freshmen. Text people in your class, go up to others sitting in the Yard, start an at-first-awkward-but-eventually-not conversation with someone in the dining hall. Communities at Harvard are waiting to be found. It’s overwhelming, but exciting — register for events (online or not), reach out to professors, let yourself be inspired by Harvard and what it has to offer!
— Alexandra A. Kassinis ’24
Sections
Unsure of how to make a college decision in these ~unprecedented times~ when the closest you’ll get to campus is the Google Maps street view of Harvard Square? Confused might be an understatement... so, here’s some advice from Harvard administrators, faculty, and staff on how to make the most of your Virtual Visitas weekend.
From Administrators
“I know that this decision is hard, but what a wonderful decision to have in that you have been admitted to Harvard College! Virtual Visitas will give students a peek into the breadth and depth of opportunities here at Harvard College and I recommend that prospective first-year students participate in as many academic, social, cultural, spiritual, and student organization programs as they can. Above all, I recommend that they meet as many current students as possible — ask questions about their academic interests, research, what Yard life and House life are like, student activities, internships and career paths, campus culture, and campus traditions. We are many communities within one large and diverse Harvard College community. This place is amazing, but the most remarkable part of the Harvard College community is the students with whom prospective students will, live, learn, and engage with. I find Harvard College students to be deeply intellectually curious, compassionate, kind, supportive of one another, and interested in learning about themselves and others while they are here. Prospective students have the opportunity to join a student body that reflect multiple and intersecting identities, background, and experiences. It is a wonderful place, and we hope you will join us!”
– Katherine G. O’Dair, Dean of Students
From Faculty
“Connect!! To other Visitas-ers, to current students, *and* to faculty. Get personal!! Get beyond those predictable in-fact,-it's-on-the-website-type questions. You'll find that most Harvard faculty members — contrary to their reputation for being too exalted and too busy to devote time to undergraduates — are as excited to meet you as you are to meet them.”
– Andrew J. Berry, Assistant Head Tutor of Integrative Biology and Lecturer on Organismic & Evolutionary Biology
“Go to office hours and take advantage of opportunities to get to know your professors and instructors. Take classes or pursue subjects that you’re really curious or excited about, even if they don’t fit into preconceived notions of what you want to study/do down the road. Don’t get caught up in the comparison game, which is easy to do at Harvard — just do what you care about. And finally, the best writing happens over time, try to start early when you can!”
– Alexandra J. Gold, Preceptor, Harvard Writing Program
“Enjoy the summer; spend some time with the Course Catalog, looking for a smaller course that interests you for its own sake. Plan on taking a freshman seminar; find an activity or cause that will take you outside of yourself.”
– Richard F. Thomas, George Martin Lane Professor of Classics 
“Explore the wide range of courses on offer by visiting department websites (like Music!). Of course, there are the well-known offerings that attract hundreds of students each year, but there are also hidden diamonds with world-class artists. My.Harvard and word-of-mouth are great places to start, but don't let those be your only resources.”
– Michael S. Uy, Lecturer and Associate Director of Undergraduate Studies, Music Department, PhD '17
“Take advantage of every opportunity you can to connect in person with the people around you. Study together with a friend, eat breakfast with a stranger sitting alone in the dining hall, visit a professor in their office, say hello (and thank you!) to a custodial worker, and go to as many study breaks and student events as possible. This past year has shown us how quickly we can lose the ability to share time and space with those around us. You will have the privilege of learning and living with some of the most remarkable people from around the world, so don't take that privilege for granted! When you leave Harvard, you may forget many of the lessons you will learn in the classroom, but the experiences and memories you create with the people here will stay with you and define you long after you graduate.”
– Hakim J. Walker, Preceptor in Mathematics and First-Year Proctor
From Staff
“The Harvard International Office (HIO) is elated to welcome the Class of 2025 to campus this fall. The new class will join a rich and diverse community at Harvard including over 10,000 international students and scholars from 161 countries. We know visa and immigration can be stressful topics to navigate, especially during these unprecedented times. The entire HIO team is here to support our international students from their initial visa interview, arrival to campus, and throughout their time at Harvard.”
– Harvard International Office 
“Think of Annenberg like you think of your kitchen at home. We have almost 80 staff members and 7 managers on site at any given time and we are all here to ensure you have the best dining experience possible. If you can’t find a specific condiment, if you want to know where we ​buy our tomatoes, if you have a particular ​medically diagnosed allergy or intolerance and are not sure what you can eat, don’t be afraid to come speak to us. You can text or email us too! We are looking forward to meeting you!”
– Andrew W. Camuso, Senior General Manager of Annenberg Dining Hall
As every student will tell you, the best thing about Harvard is the people — don’t hesitate to not just make connections with fellow students, but with cool faculty and staff too! Virtual events might never replace the real thing, but there are so many amazing communities waiting to welcome you to Harvard. So, Class of 2025, we hope you join us next fall (and comp Flyby, of course)!
Sections
Welcome, Class of 2025, to the magical land of Harvard! Your first stop is Visitas, the university’s admitted students weekend and your first official taste of college life. Before you begin your journey, here are Flyby's ins and outs on how to stay calm and not be totally overwhelmed by these chaotic few days.
Lists, Lists, Lists
Just like how you would take note of things to do before going on a trip, channel your inner Jane Gloriana Villanueva and make a list of every category you can think of. For instance, keep a record of events to attend, activities you’re interested in, questions to ask, classes you’re confused about, etc. Pro tip: set up a new Excel spreadsheet and keep a different list on each column or page. Visitas is quite a chaotic experience, so go in as prepared as possible! But also, if extensive lists aren’t your jam, a simple Note on your phone can do the trick.
Lean Into Your Emotions
Whether you’re as “befumbled” as the queen Hannah B. or hyperactive at the thought of finally starting a new mask-free chapter in your life (we’re finally seeing the light at the end of the tunnel!), embrace every emotion because you’re only a pre-frosh once! Ask any upperclassman how they felt during their Visitas and they’ll reassure you that they felt completely in over their heads as well. If they claim otherwise, they’re putting up a false front (and that toxicity is a surefire sign that you might not want to join their club). If you’re nervous, be honest, because chances are, the other pre-frosh you’re talking to will feel the same way and voila! Friendship formed.
Dive Into the Harvard Website Rabbit Hole
Harness your CIA-level skill when you internet-stalk your crush to learning more about Harvard. At the moment, you may know absolutely nothing about this small liberal arts college outside of Boston, but after a few hours on a few informative websites, you’ll have a better idea of how this mysterious place works. To get started, look through the different fields of study in the Harvard College Handbook for Students, where you’ll find the descriptions and requirements of every concentration offered. Harvard has so many unique departments, from Art, Film, and Visual Studies to Human Developmental and Regenerative Biology to South Asian Studies, and you have four years to explore any of these fields! Don’t worry, you won’t need to actually declare a concentration until halfway through your sophomore year, but it’s nice to have some interesting fields on your radar.
Another website recommendation is TheHub, which catalogs a plethora of extracurricular activities, most of which are still active in the virtual year (the aforementioned Excel sheets will definitely come in handy now!). Even if you don’t know what anything means, you’ll at least gain a sense of familiarity with campus life and opportunities. We recommend that you save these lists and revisit them one or two years from now — it’s almost a guarantee that your passions will have changed, and it’ll be fascinating to see how you’ve grown!
Peruse Flyby Articles ;)
Honestly though, where else can you find raw, genuine advice other than The Blog of The Harvard Crimson? We, as wise elders (with the graying strands of hair and permanent bags under our eyes to prove it), can rattle off the pros and cons of each of the seven biology concentrations and break down any super extra Harvard lingo in a heartbeat, but also sometimes we just want to eat broccoli cheddar stuffed chicken all day. We’ve been through the ups and downs, the late nights finishing up (a.k.a. starting) three psets, and the sporadic 2 a.m. El Jefe’s runs with our best friends. In sum, we’re the real deal.
Go In With Zero Expectations
Despite all the anticipation and preparation, the best way to not feel completely overwhelmed during virtual Visitas is to have no expectations at all. If there’s anything we’ve learned from the past year, it’s that probably nothing will go as expected in these times. Sure, there may be some volunteer programs you’d like to check out at the activities fair, or you may want to learn about study abroad opportunities, but who knows if there will be a last-minute event cancellation or if your internet breaks down? The stakes are low, so try to keep perspective during the weekend. Best case scenario, you learn stuff and meet new people! Worst case, it’s not your favorite way to spend a weekend, but you have the rest of your college experience to look forward to.
Try to enjoy yourself as much as possible during Visitas! No matter what happens, keep in mind that admitted students weekend is just a small fraction of what the college adventure is actually like. We hope to see you in the fall!
Sections
Feeling lost or confused during conversations and infosessions? Fear not — we've compiled a field guide to 25 of the most common phrases used over the past year of virtual Harvard life.
1. Berg and Dhall
Berg = A nickname for Annenberg, the first-year-only dining hall. All dining halls, including Berg can be abbreviated as “Dhall,” home to the best and worst food you’ll taste at Harvard and a place where many friendships can be found.
2. Breakout Room
Smaller Zoom sessions that split off from the main Zoom room. Classes will use this to “build community” and “foster interpersonal relations.” Students will use this to endure the most awkward silences at Harvard or go on TikTok.
3. Campus Libraries
Lamont: Lamont is a 24/7 library in normal times, ideal for silent studiers. Lam Caf (the Lamont Cafe) is open until 2 a.m., so students who spend the night here studying (known as “Lamonsters”) have everything they need for their cramming session.
Widener: Widener, Harvard’s most famous library, has rooms with ornate decorations for any type of studying, endless stacks of books in which you can hide from the world as you finish your essay, and lots and lots of tourists posing outside for pictures.
Cabot Science Library: Cabot Science Library is a space perfect for group or individual studying. There are always people walking around heading from STEM class to STEM class, so people-watching can be a great distraction from studying.
4. Canvas and Discussion Posts
We would all be lost without this online platform. Each class has its own Canvas page, on which it will post all assignments, readings, syllabi, grading schemes, problem sets, zoom links and announcements. Discussion posts are mini, often weekly, assignments on Canvas that require students to “respond” to a specific reading/podcast/performance/image/lecture in about a paragraph.
5. Comping
This is a term used for the process of joining a club. Some clubs are “completion” based, which involves finishing various tasks or assignments over a period of time and attending meetings, some are “competition”-based, which may require an application and interview(s), and some have no formal “comp” process at all!
6. The Coop 
Pronounced as it is spelled (rhymes with ‘group’ or ‘loot’)
The ultimate destination for when your family comes to visit. The Coop is full of Harvard merch of all kinds (from Harvard shot glasses to 300 different types of Harvard sweatpants) that you will eventually accumulate over your four years here.
7. Entryway
A tight-knit group of around 20 people and a proctor who all live in the same dorm. This will likely be your first community when you get to Harvard!
8. Flipped Classroom 
When students watch recorded lectures asynchronously, or outside class hours (another Zoom-U feature). Unclear what they actually do during regular class hours.
9. Flyby
Flyby Blog (stylized as “flyby blog”) is The Harvard Crimson’s flagship blog, a publication by students, about students, for students. Also known as the Buzzfeed of Harvard, you can find humorous and helpful content alike produced by our FlyFamily, a fun and social community of Trader Joe’s-loving writers.
Click here to learn more about Flyby! ;)
10. Getting Quadded
The process of being sorted into one of the three upperclassmen houses in the Quad
11. Jefe’s and Felipe’s
Two iconic eateries in Harvard Square serving burritos, tacos, quesadillas, and nachos for days. You can tell what kind of person someone is by which one is their favorite.
12. Office Hours
Optional hours for extra help on problem sets or essays offered by the professor or TFs (see below).
13. Open Note Exams
Exams you can take with unencumbered access to any of your class notes. Arguably the best thing to come out of online school.
14. PAF
PAFs are undergraduate students who serve as a resource for getting all of your burning questions about Harvard answered, from school to social life.
15. Proctor
A proctor is Harvard’s equivalent of a Resident Assistant (RA). A graduate student (or other young professional working for Harvard) will live in your dorm and serve as your residential advisor as well as plan fun study breaks with your Peer Advising Fellow (PAF).
16. Psets
Psets, short for problem sets, are assignments that consist of a series of questions. A “pset class” is a class likely in a STEM department that primarily assigns weekly psets. Office hours and the Math Question Center (MQC) are widely used by students while working on their psets!
17. Rakesh Khurana
An icon. Also, the Danoff Dean of Harvard College and the face of many emails from the administration.
18. The River vs. the Quad vs. the Yard
First-years live in the famous Harvard Yard before being sorted into one of 12 upperclassman Harvard Houses, their home for the next three years. Nine of the Houses are located along the Charles River, and the other three are tucked away in the Quad.
19. Section
Larger classes pair lectures with a smaller 10- to 20-person class that meets once a week to go over the material covered during lecture. Other schools may refer to this as “recitation,” whereas students may refer to this as “so helpful” or “living hell.”
20. Slack 
The worst and most widely used messaging app ever created. Each class will often have its own Slack channel or workspace where students can post questions during or after class or have virtual discussions with peers or teachers.
21. TF, CA, PSL
A TF, or teaching fellow, is typically a graduate student who leads section and office hours. CAs (course assistants) and PSLs (peer study leaders) are undergraduates who have previously done well in the course and help current students during office hours.
22. Wellness Days
An excuse for your classes to assign you extra work or for your mental deterioration over time. Supposedly a time of relaxation to replace spring break.
23. When2Meet
A chaotic, not-so-user-friendly platform used mainly by extracurricular clubs to schedule meetings at times that work for everyone’s schedule.
24. ZM
Zoom DMs (Direct messages).
In a sentence: That cute section kid just slid into my ZMs!
25. Zoom
The closest thing students enrolled in the 2020-2021 academic years got to an actual Harvard classroom. Hopefully, to the Class of 2025, Zoom will be just another video conferencing platform.
Sections
Check out this year's edition of Flyby’s annual Guide to Visitas feature, where we’ve got the inside scoop on all things Harvard student life, advice from current undergraduates and faculty, and ways to make the most of this ~virtual~ week. Welcome to Harvard, Class of 2025!
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
As Weld Hall freshman roommates, Andrei Shleifer ’82 and J. Bradford DeLong ’82 spent evenings working through problem sets for Math 55 — among the most difficult undergraduate math courses in the country. Their collaborations soon turned to groundbreaking papers in behavioral finance and political economics.
Now a Harvard economics professor, Shleifer has been awarded the coveted John Bates Clark Medal and is IDEAS’ top-ranked economist in the world. DeLong is an economics professor at the University of California, Berkeley, and previously oversaw economic policy for the U.S. Treasury under President Clinton.
Filmed October 7, 2020. Hosted by Andrew W. Liang and Samuel W. Zwickel. Edited by Ryan N. Gajarawala.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
