News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Learning during the pandemic has been challenging, to say the least. But the administration at the Harvard Graduate School of Education has still been taking notes during these trying times, meticulously studying its own pandemic-era operations over the past several semesters. Now, as the distance dwindles and normalcy feels within reach, HGSE — like any great student — is set to take what they have learned and apply it.
In a recent announcement of its tentative plans for fall 2021, HGSE shared that it will be working to revitalize its campus with a return to in-person learning next semester. But interestingly, virtual offerings will not disappear from the course catalog entirely — a decision informed, in part, by the unique levels of access that online learning has offered to many of HGSE’s newest students.
Most remarkably, HGSE admitted an entire cohort of students last summer who ordinarily work full-time and thus would not have been able to travel to campus during a normal year marked by in-person instruction. Now, thanks to the HGSE’s continued virtual offerings, these mid-career students will be able to continue their fully remote studies next year. This development serves as an inspiring testament to the power of recognizing the positive elements of pandemic learning; and of ensuring that, even as we return to “normalcy,” these most fruitful new developments are cemented and preserved.
As we celebrate HGSE’s thoughtful preparation, it is vital to recognize that its position is not at all unique: The widespread school shut-down in March forced almost every educational institution across the country to navigate an unfamiliar online world, engage with new modes of inquiry, and adapt their pedagogical models accordingly. Now, as those emergency conditions recede, life reverts to normal, and droves of students return to lecture halls, all educators and administrators find themselves in a remarkably teachable moment — including those at the College.
Against this backdrop, we hope that Harvard College will look to the Harvard School of Graduate Education as an example of the planning for reopening our schools done right.
At the College, the options for continued online engagement are particularly bountiful outside of the classroom sphere. Worthwhile opportunities for personal development — such as career-focused coffee chats — should certainly remain available online. This past year, when these pursuits were made virtual, their increased ease of access enabled both students and mentors to take greater advantage of them and reap their most valuable benefits.
In-person office hours, too, have always been difficult to schedule and attend: The time we had to spend commuting to our professor’s office made dropping in for a quick question a tricky cost-benefit analysis. During the pandemic, however, the increased accessibility and availability made possible by Zoom has been a welcome change — one which we hope to see remain even as public health concerns begin to dissipate.
Within the classroom itself, the potential of benefiting from continued online instruction is less clear. On the one hand, recording more lectures while making synchronous lecture attendance optional could help to enhance some courses, especially those which are particularly large or have students with scheduling conflicts — some courses were doing this even before the pandemic. But still, context will matter. The logistical setup of each class, for one, will help determine whether continued online aspects will be helpful. Labs for example, must be in person — but lectures in Science Center Hall B? Perhaps not.
We also remain wary of “hybrid” course models with half of a course’s students on Zoom and half within the physical classroom space, especially for classes that are not lecture-based. For Zoom-ing as well as room-ing students, such models can feel disconnected, even fractured. And for the professors and technology support staff, managing these courses can be quite burdensome.
One thing, however, is clear: Harvard should not simply “move on” from the pandemic. Instead, we urge the College to interrogate what has worked well over the past year and to augment campus life with these new conventions moving forward. We hope that the College champions the best of the pandemic, while doing away with the worst — and, most profoundly, that it uses these trying times as a learning opportunity.
In these undertakings, the Harvard Graduate School of Education has begun to lead the way. Now all the College has to do is to follow.
This staff editorial solely represents the majority view of The Crimson Editorial Board. It is the product of discussions at regular Editorial Board meetings. In order to ensure the impartiality of our journalism, Crimson editors who choose to opine and vote at these meetings are not involved in the reporting of articles on similar topics.
Have a suggestion, question, or concern for The Crimson Editorial Board? Click here.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Not to brag, but I am a Never Have I Ever champion. I’ve won game after game and am regularly kicked out of games for being “too good.”
Unfortunately, despite being a champion, I have met my match in one of my best friends, Ethan. I’ve challenged him too many times to count, and lost every single time. But never have I ever given up easily — which is why I’ve made it a mission to develop the ultimate, undefeatable Never Have I Ever list (103 nevers and counting).
Having spent hours thinking about the game, take it from me: It boils down to recalling experiences that you haven’t had, but you know most have. The ultra-competitive think up experience gaps that are unique, unprecedented, and anything but normal. Sitting on my childhood bed, developing a ridiculously long list of all the things I’ve never done has made it hard not to confront that I’ve never had, and never will have, a normal first year of college.
As someone who was very much “not vibing” in high school, I desperately held onto the words of the adults around me. “College will be the best four years of your life,” they said. I’d regularly lose myself daydreaming about college life. College would be a fresh start in a new city, a world away from backyard alligators and Publix runs (though, as a good Floridian, I love them very much). I’d have my glow up; I’d be the main character — fashionable, cool, and witty — surrounded by people with extraordinary tales and experiences while learning about anything and everything I ever wanted to. I wouldn’t be misunderstood and resented for being outspoken and successful. I wouldn’t feel so lonely anymore.
In reality, it’s 4 p.m. and I’m still in pajama pants, or it’s 4 a.m. and I’m writing this op-ed. There truly is no in-between for me. Time is merely a social construct that has no meaning to me, to any of my classes, or to the professors who apparently believe that I either have all the time in the world or that I am a productivity god, neither of which are remotely true. The semester feels like an endless barrage of assignments in a world where it’s too easy to forget to breathe or even catch a meal. Though I’m lucky that I’m living at home, with the warmth of family and a year-round summer, I still remember the chilling loneliness of cold winter nights alone in my dorm last semester. In any case, I’m a ways off from my glow-up to main character status.
While my college experience definitely beats my high school experience, I refuse to count any year including a catastrophic pandemic as one of the best years of my life. Don’t get me wrong, it’s an immense privilege to be a Harvard student. However, I don’t think that we, the Class of 2024, are told often enough that it is completely valid to take the space to acknowledge what has been lost. From “never have I ever had a spring break in college” to “never have I ever set foot in a friend’s dorm” or, for many of us, “never have I ever set foot on campus,” this simply isn’t the college experience we once envisioned or dreamed of.
Sure, the past year has lived up to the “first” in first year in a myriad of ways, but, somehow, I feel stuck within the paradox of hardly feeling like a freshman and feeling like I may forever be one. We’ve lost the quintessential Harvard experiences — sharing a good meal with someone new in Annenberg Hall, studying all night in Lamont Library, living in the Yard, befriending Remy, screaming at problem sets in real life instead of over Zoom, Harvard-Yale. Experiences that upperclassmen talk about that all sound like long-lost history. To further my point, for that last sentence, I had to Google “Harvard experiences” for inspiration.
I hope Harvard understands that the circumstances of the past year have made the Class of 2024 champions of Never Have I Ever, college edition. To the administration: When moving forward with planning, please remember to accommodate us forever freshies. For starters, maybe we can get our own Opening Days too? That sounds like fun. At the very least, know that I definitely won’t know how to get to any of my classes (and not just because of my absolute lack of navigation skills).
Regardless of what the next three years hold, I’m excited. I don’t need to be the main character or have a glow up; a normal day in the life with meals in dining halls and classes in person would be plenty. It’s been hard to have hope this year, but I can’t help but get excited for the in-person fall. Until then — never have I ever had a normal college semester.
Anuksha S. Wickramasinghe ’24 is a Crimson Editorial editor.
Have a suggestion, question, or concern for The Crimson Editorial Board? Click here.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
A few years ago, I was sitting at a small, crowded table at the Tasty Burger in Harvard Square with a group of American students. It was pretty loud in the restaurant, so when someone across the table, talking about a classmate of ours, said, “He’s racist,” I heard, “He races.” Confused, I asked, “Races what, cars?” But they didn’t think I misheard, they actually thought I misunderstood. I remember them going silent, exchanging intense looks, and wordlessly asking each other, I imagine, How the hell are we supposed to explain racism to this girl? Finally, one of them broke the heavy silence and asked me, in all seriousness, “Do you not have racism in Canada?”
I broke out laughing. “Of course we do,” I said. I thought it was hilarious, until I realized they weren’t joking. In retrospect, the fact that that question had seriously crossed their minds is concerning.
People compliment my country all the time, throwing positive stereotypes around: Canadians are so nice. Canada is so peaceful. Canada is so open.
Many times, people say these things jokingly. But even jokes stick; they can quickly turn into assumed truths, especially when they’re all you hear about a place or a people. As Chimamanda N. Adichie says in her TED Talk on ‘The Danger of a Single Story,’ “the problem with stereotypes is not that they are untrue, but that they are incomplete. They make one story become the only story.”
These positive stereotypes are a symptom of the larger idealization of Canada both at home and on the global stage — a glorification that only contributes to the systemic denial and erasure of injustice in Canada’s past and present. Canada has long neglected its responsibility to reckon with legacies of injustice on our own soil, and getting gassed up by our American friends only pushes these long-standing issues further into the shadows.
Canada is not immune from racism, sexism, homophobia, or any other type of social injustice. We’ve just fooled ourselves and the whole world into thinking we are.
In elementary and middle school, I remember learning a few names of Indigenous tribes, but never about the cruel, violent history of residential schools (government-funded schools that separated almost 150,000 First Nations, Inuit, and Métis children from their families and forced them to “assimilate” to white Canadian culture) and the continued fight against their lasting damage. When it comes to Canada’s relationship to slavery, all I remember learning about was the Underground Railroad, not the 200 years of slavery in Canada before that. And I certainly didn’t learn about the presence of the KKK in Canada in the 20s, or its resurgence in the 60s and 70s with the rise of Canadian multiculturalism and the Black civil rights movement. I went to a rural school in Alberta, one of Canada’s most conservative provinces, and I later attended a boarding high school in the U.S. But many of my Canadian friends, who completed high school in various provinces, had similar experiences with Canadian history education, and I wouldn’t be surprised if many, many others did, too.
Canadians’ unwillingness to confront our own history has only made it that much easier to ignore the ways in which that history continues to afflict Canadian society today. For instance, in 2020, when statistics from the U.S. revealed Black Americans to be at greater risk of Covid-19 infection and death, we realized we couldn’t say the same in Canada. Not because it wasn’t also true here, but because we hadn’t been keeping track. We hadn’t been collecting any disaggregated, race-based health care data all this time, because people like Ontario’s chief medical officer of health and other — mostly white — health officials saw no need for it. This long-standing “colorblind” policy only left most provinces blind to real health care disparities. The gross negligence sparked outrage among health care professionals and activists across the country, which forced Ontario (and several other provinces, in turn) to finally start collecting this necessary data.
There are people who truly believe that racism doesn’t exist in Canada and that therefore, we don’t need to collect information about how race and ethnicity affect things like health care, education, or criminal justice. But how are people supposed to account for systemic racism in the first place when we’re not collecting the data to show it exists?
We’re so used to the single, idealized story of Canada that it’s difficult to believe anything contrary to the values assumed to run in Canadian blood — values like friendliness, peacefulness, openness.
It may be hard to believe that Canada has also seen a spike in anti-Asian hate crimes recently. It may be hard to believe that a single Black mother in Toronto lost all three of her children, one after the other in three separate incidents, to gun violence. It may be hard to believe that Black residents of Toronto are 20 times more likely to be shot by the police than white residents.
It might be hard to believe that in the past five years, Canada has turned away at least 4,400 asylum seekers from entering its borders. And it might be hard to believe that Canada has, for decades, exploited the cheap, disposable labor of racialized migrants from the Global South. Today, over 1.6 million people in Canada are temporary or undocumented migrants with extremely limited access to permanent residency and the basic rights and freedoms that legal status guarantees, including “universal” healthcare — it turns out there was some fine print to Justin Trudeau’s famous declaration, “A Canadian is a Canadian is a Canadian.”
These kinds of unjust realities seem almost un-Canadian. But if you pay close enough attention, you might find they are all too Canadian. The problem is that most people aren’t paying enough attention.
Instead, Canadians have had our attention focused on our southern neighbours. This past year, especially, many sat comfortably on their high horses, watching with arrogance as Trump made a mess of a nation, as Black Lives Matter protests rose across the U.S., and as American democracy nearly fell apart in the 2020 election. The United States has never looked so disunited. And in turn, Canada has never looked so good.
I’m consistently told by my American friends how lucky I am to live in Canada. And when I try to tell them Canada’s not such a perfect place, their response is always “it’s not as bad” or “at least it’s better than here.”
Honestly, the bar has been set so low that being morally or culturally “better” — which I take to mean more harmonious, more peaceful, more just — than the U.S. is not much of an accomplishment. But why are we even comparing?
Like positive stereotypes, this futile act of comparison is just another dangerous conduit for Canadian complacency. Canada is seen as a beacon of multiculturalism, internationally lauded for its commitment to diversity and human rights. But Canadian hypocrisy runs rampant in plain sight, and instead of handing us excuses on a silver platter, the world needs to call us out on it for once. And we need to hold ourselves more accountable as well.
This is not to say that Canada doesn't have a lot to be proud of. It does, and I still am proud to call myself Canadian. And yes, maybe some things are “better” in Canada than in the U.S. But it’s not enough to be better than another country. We should hold ourselves to higher standards and continuously strive to be better than we, ourselves, have been.
As Martin Luther King Jr. said, “Injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere.” It’s not about having less injustice than our neighbors, it’s about achieving justice. Everywhere.
If we are going to make any kind of comparison, we should look for an example to aspire to, not a counter-example. And if we look and we can’t find a good example of a nation that has lived up to the promises of equality, freedom, and justice, that should tell us something startling about the work we all still have to do.
Sections
William M. Tsutsui ’85 saw his first Godzilla movie when he was seven or eight years old. He remembers it very clearly: it was a Saturday afternoon, and he was lying on the blue shag carpet in his parents’ bedroom watching the “big old TV set” when the Creature Double Feature came on. There he was — Godzilla walking through Tokyo. “I just fell in love,” Tsutsui says. “I wanted to be the monster, I wanted to be big and huge and mean and gigantic, and knock down buildings and drag my feet through Tokyo.”
Growing up in a small town in central Texas, Tsutsui did not meet many other Japanese American families. Before the film came out, the only thing his friends really knew about Japan was Pearl Harbor, for which Tsutsui was extensively taunted. However, he and his friends all agreed that Godzilla was “pretty cool.” Godzilla became something about Japan Tsutsui felt he could be proud of, a foundation of his identity as a Japanese American.
Teaching a course on Japanese monsters has been a lifetime ambition of Tsutsui’s. Previously, he channeled his passion for Godzilla into his 2004 book, “Godzilla On My Mind: Fifty Years of the King of Monsters,” written in honor of the 50th anniversary of the series. It traces the history of the 30-plus Godzilla movies made over the course of more than half a century. Tsutsui surveyed Godzilla fans across the country about why they loved the movies so much. The overwhelming response was: Godzilla is heroic. He is admired for the universal values that he represents, and is seen by many as a strong character who stands up for what he believes in, and usually wins. “It’s crazy sometimes to think that this is the star of one of the oldest and longest-running film franchises in world history — a radioactive lizard from Japan portrayed for many decades by a man in a rubber suit,” Tsutsui says. “It is phenomenal that people have come to identify with this creature so deeply.”
The idea for his course “Japanese Monsters” began with his interest in Godzilla, Tsutsui notes, but Japan has a rich folkloric tradition of monsters. Today, Japanese monsters “are everywhere,” he says. The course covers monsters of Japanese legendary and literary sources, like The Tale of Genji, as well as international icons like Hello Kitty, “which is pretty monstrous to me.” All in all, Tsutsui says, there is “a lot of opportunity to explore Japanese history and culture from unexpected angles.”
Given two picks for his favorite Godzilla movie, Tsutsui would go with “Gojira” as the first. The original film, released in 1954, had a somber political message. A warning to humanity about the dangers of nuclear warfare, it channeled anxiety in the wake of the bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki, and addressed traumatic memories of World War II. Godzilla was a prehistoric creature that had survived on the bottom of the ocean until provoked by an atomic bomb to terrorize unsuspecting civilians. The harmful effects of nuclear weapons were visually evoked through the appearance of Godzilla. Tsutsui says the monster’s rough skin has been said to resemble the scars from radiation that survivors of Hiroshima and Nagasaki had. “Audiences who went to that movie often came out in tears,” Tsutsui adds.
When “Gojira” came to the U.S. as “Godzilla, King of the Monsters!” in 1956, it was the first Japanese movie to have success at the American box office. Before then, Japanese films that had been subtitled and released were shown in art house cinemas and, while some were critically acclaimed, they were never popular. Godzilla got the masses interested in Japanese culture. Hollywood distributors found that they could source quality materials from Japan very inexpensively and make a good profit, as they later did with Astro Boy, the first anime series to play in the U.S. “All the rest of the Japanese pop culture that we have absorbed since then really flowed in this slipstream, beginning in the 1950s,” Tsutsui says.
Some have described the process through which Godzilla was brought to America as “censorship” or “whitewashing,” terms that Tsutsui does not deem entirely inappropriate. The distributors edited it substantially for American release, cutting out “all of the political commentary.” They chose not to use subtitles because “kids don’t like reading their movies,” and dubbing would be cheesy. Instead, they decided to insert new footage shot in Hollywood featuring movie star Raymond Burr as an American reporter in Tokyo narrating the attack of Godzilla.
“What they did was extraordinarily clever and very sophisticated,” Tsutsui says. Even the endings of the two versions of the movie are pointedly different. “Gojira” ends in a threatening manner, because although the monster is defeated, the movie hints that more Godzillas could come back again if nuclear testing continues. “King of the Monsters,” on the other hand, contains a “sunny, Hollywood happy ending,” Tsutsui says, in which the monster is destroyed so that everyone can be safe and happy forever after. “The critical edge of the Japanese film was lost in the transition,” Tsutsui adds, “and since that original film wasn’t released in America until 2004, it took people a long time to discover just how good that original Godzilla film was.”
Tsutsui’s second favorite film is “Godzilla vs. Hedora.” Ripe with psychedelic wackiness, it is truly a gem of the early 1970s. At the same time, it is a foreboding reflection on pollution and the threat to the environment posed by industrial forces. Even as stunts like Godzilla flying on his tail make the movie “a little bit crazier” than previous films, it is very much a wake-up call.
Godzilla has continued to morph over subsequent decades. In Tsutsui’s opinion, the changes in the Japan-made Godzilla movies reflect changes to Japanese society that have occurred since World War II. Back in the 1950s, when the first film was made, Japan was vulnerable and trying to recover from World War II. “There’s sort of a darkness that hangs over the movie, a kind of uncertainty, and fear, really,” Tsutsui says. By the 1960s, however, as the Godzilla series was “pick[ing] up steam,” the economy was growing rapidly and there was a new sense of confidence in Japan. 1964 brought Japan’s re-entrance into the world community through the Tokyo Olympics. At that point, the Japanese people did not want to see monsters tearing a hole through their capital city. Thus, Godzilla was remade as a hero, a defender of Japan's prosperity and something more humorous than terrifying. In recent decades, Godzilla has been remade yet again. Tsutsui suspects that Godzilla has even performed the role of a “conscience” for Japan, knocking down the symbols of regained prosperity to keep the Japanese people humble.
The beauty of Godzilla, Tsutsui attests, is that he is so flexible. Over the decades, the character has been continuously reborn. In the 2014 film “Godzilla,” he defends the U.S. against a threatening species of creatures from outer space. In the most recent film from Japan, “Shin Godzilla,” Godzilla’s lingering presence is an ominous sign of government inaction. The movie is a “very powerful critique of Japan’s unresponsive political class,” says Tsutsui, and speaks to the desire for younger, more engaged leadership.
To Tsutsui, the Godzilla series is about resilience — the resilience of a monster that keeps coming back, but more importantly, the resilience of Japan. “Japan is a society that has proven itself to be remarkably sustainable and agile,” Tsutsui says, even when faced with tremendous challenges, including the atomic bombings of 1945 and the natural disasters of 2011. “The Japanese have found a way to roll with the punches successfully,” he says, “and Godzilla symbolizes that powerfully.”
— Staff writer Dannie C. Bell can be reached at dannie.bell@thecrimson.com
Sections
A team of researchers at Harvard Medical School, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, and various other Boston hospitals has developed personalized vaccines for cancer patients. According to a 2017 publication of theirs in Nature, after receiving the personalized vaccine, patients’ immune cells effectively responded to neoantigens, a specific kind of proteins found on tumor cells.
This January, the team revealed astounding follow-up results. As they hoped, the patients’ immune cells had long-term memory: they continued to recognize epitopes, which are neoantigen attachment sites, included in the original vaccine. Once the immune system recognizes these neoantigens, it can attach to and attack tumors. The researchers also observed that the immune system responded to completely new epitopes that were found in patients’ cancerous tumors, despite those epitopes not being in the vaccine — a process termed “epitope spreading.” The team’s promising results may have far-reaching implications for the future of quick-acting, long-lasting, and personalized cancer treatment.
Donna E. Leet, a first-year resident in internal medicine at the University of California, San Francisco and a 2020 M.D. graduate on the Health Sciences and Technology track at HMS, was one of the first authors on this paper.
In Professor Shiv Pillai’s first-year immunology course at HMS, Leet says she “really fell in love with immunology.” Catherine J. Wu, an associate professor at Dana Farber, was one of the guest lecturers who caught Leet’s eye when she gave a talk on personalized neoantigen cancer vaccines.
“I really was inspired by the fact that she was a female principal investigator, who had taken a similar path to me,” Leet says, noting that Wu also has an M.D., but not a Ph.D. When she heard older students describe Wu as an incredible mentor and realized how the lab’s work had clear applications from “bench to bedside,” Leet knew she had to get involved.
In her second year at HMS, Leet began working on the neoantigen cancer vaccine project with the Wu lab and HMS professor Patrick A. Ott, as well as his team of researchers.
“What’s always been elusive was the antigen that we are vaccinating against for cancer vaccines,” Ott says. The unknown variable of the antigen differentiates the formulation of cancer vaccines from that of other vaccines. Ott explains that infectious disease vaccines aim to prevent foreign organisms, such as viruses or bacteria, from infecting patients, but cancer vaccines need to target the patients’ own tumor cells.
Since many antigens present on tumor cells are also found in regular cells, the body’s immune response has trouble differentiating cancerous cells from healthy ones. However, neoantigens are entirely coded by mutations, which means they are only found in cancerous tumors. Neoantigens are therefore better candidates for vaccines because they can trigger a highly specific immune response.
With the advent of fast and relatively cheap sequencing technologies — the commercialization of which has caused biotech giants to race to lower prices — it became possible to identify specific mutations found in individual patients’ cancerous cells, Ott explains. From 2014 to 2015, the team recruited 10 patients with advanced stage melanomas for a phase one study. The patients’ melanomas were surgically removed and sequenced so researchers could predict which mutations were most likely to produce an immune response.
Ott says the process of predicting the most important mutations for the vaccine is a bit of a “black box,” but various validation processes ensure the mutated sequences they select for the neoantigen are truly expressed in the tumor. In other words, sequencing returns every potential mutation site from the melanoma sample. Researchers must then double check which mutations are actually expressed in the tumor and then use those specific mutations to create personalized neoantigens for the vaccine.
The team then gave six patients the vaccine in seven installments over the course of five months. As researchers monitored the patients’ progress at periodic checkpoints, they saw that their immune systems responded to both the vaccine and to tumors within the body.
In the following years, the team conducted follow-up studies to understand how immune cells exposed to the vaccine develop long-term memory and observed the astounding “epitope spreading” in patient follow-ups. These years of work culminated in their most recent paper.
Excited about the future of cancer immunotherapy, Leet immersed herself in the benchwork required to ensure the patients’ immune responses persisted.
“I think it’s easy in basic research and bench-based research to sometimes forget about the broader applications [of your work] and the fact that you’re working with real people’s cells and studying their real immune responses,” she says.
She believes spending half her day in the lab and the other half taking classes at HMS gave her a unique perspective different from many full-time Ph.D. researchers. She knew the work she did would affect real patients, which helped her “stay grounded” and feel a “connection to real people and medicine.”
Though the pandemic changed the lab’s workflow, Ott says the oncology world continued treating patients and quickly resumed urgent research. Since the team had already collected a vast majority of its data before the onset of the pandemic, they spent time revising a manuscript and creating figures over Zoom during a three-month hiatus when Harvard’s labs were shut down in late spring and summer of 2020.
As a newly minted M.D., Leet recently moved across the country for her residency at UCSF, which began in June. She says the rest of the team in Boston was incredibly flexible and selfless as they worked together and stepped in to help with socially distant lab work and revisions until the paper crossed the finish line.
Though the publication is complete, the work to make neoantigen vaccines a reality continues. Currently, the personalized shot comes with a hefty price tag, often upwards of $100,000 per patient, according to Ott. He explains that the “lion’s share” of the cost comes from making the neoantigen protein sequence, as opposed to biopsying or sequencing the patients’ tumors. In addition to creating cheaper and faster production techniques, there is more work left to do at the bench and in the clinic. The vaccine’s ingredients can still be adjusted, and it needs to be tested alongside other therapies and in different stages and types of cancer.
Leet agrees that there are imminent questions about accessibility and notes the publication is a small study focused on a small number of patients. Still, she explains that “someone has to be doing the work when it’s still really, really expensive and inaccessible, so that one day it will not be.”
— Staff writer Akila V. Muthukumar can be reached at akila.muthukumar@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @akila29m.
Sections
Eighteen of these are real questions that current Harvard students say they were asked during their admissions interviews for several elite colleges. Can you guess which ones?
1. What is the difference between the splat marks if I take a launcher and shoot an apple and an orange at a wooden fence? (UPENN)
2. How do you deal with the cold? (Cornell)
3. Who are you and why are you in my office? (Harvard)
4. If I were to read your 500 page autobiography, what would be on page 420? (UPENN)
5. So who would you have voted for in ’08? (Yale)
6. Are the replicants from Blade Runner people if they don't have souls? (Harvard)
7. So like if we admit you, you’ll attend right? (Cornell)
8. What type of products do you put in your hair? (UChicago)
9. Are you familiar with the idea of polygamy? (Brown)
10. Has anyone ever told you that you look like Trevor Noah? (Harvard)
11. Oh really, what club did your father belong to? (Harvard)
12. So, you’ve never heard of eating clubs? (Princeton)
13. How do you interpret the following proverb: a rolling stone gathers no moss? (Harvard)
14. Do you want a coffee from the Panera Bread next door? (Harvard)
15. So what brings you to the Big Apple? (Columbia)
16. What is your worst memory? (UPENN)
17. Do you also think this is a bit awkward, or is that just me? (Brown)
18. Do you personally change the oil in your car? (Georgetown)
19. Can you explain global warming to me? (Harvard)
20. What is your rap name? (UNC Chapel Hill)
21. Were you popular in high school? (Brown)
22. Follow up: Why do you think that was? (Brown)
23. Are people at your school mean? (Harvard)
24. What’s your favorite conspiracy? (Brown)
25. Do you have any nicknames? I.e. Speedy Sue, Handsome Harry. (Stanford)
26. Where do you stand on the whole Dershowitz thing? (Harvard)
27. What do you drive? (Princeton)
28. Present the story of your life in spoken movie-trailer format in five minutes or less. (Harvard)
29. Please perform a spoken word poem right now. (Harvard)
30. Where do you summer? (Princeton)
31. If you were only allowed to say three words in your whole life, what would they be? (UPENN)
32. If you are stuck on a deserted island what five survival tools would you use to escape? (Dartmouth)
33. Do you think OJ did it? (Vanderbilt)
34. If an axe fell on your head right now and you died, what do you think you'd be remembered for? (Yale)
35. Who is your favorite New Yorker staff writer? (Columbia)
36. Have you ever heard of the six degrees of Kevin Bacon? (Michigan)
Names of contributors: Christine Mui, Kiana Ziadkhanpour, Maliya V. Ellis, Talia M. Blatt, Millie Mae Healy, Eleanor V. Wikstrom, Simon J. Levien, Carrie Hsu, Jane Z. Li, Harrison R.T. Ward, Scott P. Mahon
— Staff writer Scott P. Mahon can be reached at scott.mahon@thecrimson.com and on Twitter at @scott_mahon.
— Staff writer Harrison R. T. Ward can be reached at harrison.ward@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter at @Hurrison_.
Answer key: Real questions are 1, 3, 4, 6, 7, 10, 13, 14, 16, 19, 21, 22, 23, 25, 28, 29, 31, 34, 36
Sections
I find myself on the couch, in the crook of my mother’s arm — head on her shoulder, arm over her chest, leg over her leg. I am warm, safe, loved.
I find myself here often. When I live at home, we might fall asleep like this two or three times a week, too comfortable and too tired not to take a long nap. There’s a sense of security in every snuggle, some assurance that everything will be okay.
I’ve cuddled with my mom and dad for as long as I can remember. It’s just that, well, I’m 19 now. When does it become weird? People don’t really talk about cuddling — it’s personal, and too strongly tied to either young children and their parents or to significant others in romantic relationships. As my brother put it, it’s kind of cringey that I’m even writing about “cuddling.” I don’t disagree.
But the fact remains that I regularly ask my parents for a snuggle. That physical warmth and closeness is something I almost need, at least every now and then. Lost for it on campus — my parents and boyfriend are back home in Philly — I often still crave a good cuddle.
Why am I like this? Do other people still snuggle with their parents? Is that normal? I decide to talk to some people, maybe find some answers (preferably answers that affirm my weird need for snuggles).
I start by talking with the experts: professional cuddlers.
***
When he turned 50, Adam S. Lippin sold his successful Atomic Wings restaurant chain and pursued a mission closer to home — fostering human connection.
Lippin has known he was gay since he was very young, and when he was closeted, his anxiety about hiding his sexuality made his world small, he says.
“I became more and more closed off, and the more closed off you are, the harder it is to meet people, the harder it is to be out there,” Lippin says. “I knew I needed connection, yet I was unable to get it.”
In 2015, Lippin co-founded Cuddlist, a company that provides professional cuddle therapy to anyone who needs it. Cuddlist trains professional cuddlers, also known as cuddlists or touch practitioners, who can then be listed on its website. Clients can hire a cuddlist for about $80 to $120 per hour to spoon, snuggle, or even play board games with until they feel more comfortable. Within the boundaries of both the client and practitioner, a cuddling session lets clients ask for platonic physical touch.
“Cuddlist offers the ability to be seen, heard, and validated,” Lippin says. “It’s okay to get touched, it’s okay to feel good, and it’s okay to work through issues relating to touch and intimacy and human connection. And we give people a very safe space to do that.”
When he first founded Cuddlist, Lippin says people looked at him like he was insane. They told him it was softcore prostitution, that people would get hurt. Since then, he says, the idea of professional cuddling has become more normalized, with the collective isolation of pandemic life even “helping to destigmatize mental health.”
“It became very apparent that we’re all at the whim of larger forces; all of us need some more support,” Lippin says. “We’re a society that values strength, and there’s somehow this perceived weakness — if you need to pay someone to cuddle you, to touch you, that’s crazy, right? But like Dr. Brené Brown says, ‘Vulnerability’s our superpower.’”
The number of cuddle-providing companies has grown since then, and there are actually quite a few across the country. Cuddle Party, for instance, founded in 2004, creates spaces for groups of people to platonically cuddle with each other under the guidance of a trained facilitator. In non-Covid times, cuddle parties organized through their platform are available across the U.S. and across the globe, including Australia, Indonesia, and Hungary. The website Cuddle Comfort acts as a kind of Tinder for platonic cuddlers — make an account and find a cuddle buddy near you, 100 percent platonic with zero sexual connotations. Snuggle Salon, The Snuggery, Cuddle Up To Me, Cuddle Sanctuary — all companies offering professional cuddling services. (The Snuggery wins best name!)
Of these, Cuddlist is perhaps the most well known and well branded. The term “cuddlist” is trademarked — designated only for cuddling professionals who have gone through the company’s online training program.
Who would pay for this? Lippin says Cuddlist’s clients “run the gamut.” Some have had serious trauma and are trying to overcome negative associations with touch. Some are touch-deprived — they’ve been single for a long time, maybe, or have a disability that’s left them physically isolated. They are neurodiverse, gender diverse, and often differently abled.
Cuddlist Sundria C. Sam, a minister from California, was drawn to the profession of “healthy touch therapy” after realizing that the physical abuse she’d suffered as a young child was making her uncomfortable with physical touch. Then in 2014, over the course of a single year, Sam’s husband, mother, stepfather, and brother-in-law all passed away. She found herself isolated with everyone she had received “healthy touch” from gone at the same time. When she saw one Cuddlist’s ad on Facebook, she knew it was the right avenue for her.
“I became what I needed in the world, which was someone to give healthy touch,” she says. “I knew that there were other people out there like me who needed that and did not have it within their immediate community or circle of support. And so I became a Cuddlist.”
She recalls one client who suffered from health issues that physically isolated him. Worried about him, his family signed him up for an overnight cuddling session. Once he realized he “wasn’t being punked” and that Sam “wasn’t there to have sex with him,” she says, the client completely relaxed.
“We had a wonderful evening,” Sam says. “We danced, and he just broke down and cried. He has so much pain and isolation because of all of his medical treatments, and he just laid on my lap. I was running my fingers through his hair, and he fell asleep.”
He’d been dealing with sleep issues, his family said. When Sam told his sister that he was snoring, she started crying.
Another client of Sam’s booked cuddling sessions to break down the discomfort she felt around touch. They started by talking and holding hands. Eventually, the client began bringing the board game Sequence to play while they talked. Finally one day, she walked in, said she was ready, and asked for a hug.
“Our whole session was different stages of embrace, and it was beautiful,” Sam says. “That was our last session. She had worked her way up to a point in her life where she could accept touch from someone else and set strong boundaries around that touch.”
Even for those who aren’t touch-deprived, platonic cuddling can be a very moving experience. At her first cuddle party, Cuddlist co-founder and professional cuddler Madelon L. Guinazzo felt a rush of oxytocin that “flabbergasted” her.
“I was happily married and I had two young children at the time, so I was not what I would consider touch-deprived at all,” Guinazzo says. “And yet, when I left this workshop, after just a couple of hours of cuddling with people I’d never met previously, I felt physically more relaxed than if I’d had a 90-minute deep tissue massage.”
To hear these cuddlists talk about touch makes my snuggling habits seem positively mild. Lippin likens touch to air; he calls it a human right.
“There is not one individual who is not in need of healthy touch,” Sam says.
***
My boyfriend Jarod might argue otherwise. He can’t imagine needing to cuddle with someone platonically, let alone paying for it. He can’t remember the last time he cuddled with his parents, though he thinks he did when he was younger. He must have a very different relationship with physical touch, he says, than the people who go to these cuddle parties.
“Physical touch is just not something I need to sustain me,” he says. “It’s not something that I really base any level of my happiness or emotional state on.”
As far as Jarod can remember, he’s only really ever cuddled with me. For him, cuddling is “almost intrinsically and solely intertwined with romantic love.”
“Even thinking about the possibility of, ‘Would I cuddle with my dad or with my mom?’ — the Oedipal overtones of cuddling with your parents, it’s another thing that adds to the discomfort of it,” he says. “I see it honestly in a similar way to kissing your mom on the lips. It’s very unusual, especially as a college-age kid.”
He compares cuddling to a scene in the beginning of “Pulp Fiction,” in which main characters Vega and Winnfield — played by John Travolta and Samuel L. Jackson — argue over the significance of a man giving a foot massage to their boss Marcellus’s wife. Is that in the same ballpark as sex? Is it okay or not?
“Marcellus throws him through a window,” Jarod says.
***
Guinazzo believes the common perception of cuddling as a sexual activity stems from our culture’s “conflation between any kind of physical pleasure and sexuality.”
“When they hear ‘Cuddle Party,’ they think it must be an orgy,” she says. “It’s like, really? We say very explicitly what it is.”
That’s true — the strictly platonic, nonsexual nature of cuddle parties and professional cuddling is clearly stated on every website. Cuddlist clients are prescreened to make sure they understand this expectation.
In fact, the Cuddlist and Cuddle Party approach is all about expectations and boundaries and communication. A cuddle session is also a form of education that helps clients better express their needs and wants, as well as become more comfortable with navigating consent.
As co-founder and Director of Training, Guinazzo has trained over 1,600 Cuddlists and a few hundred Cuddle Party facilitators. There are three pillars to the Cuddlist approach, she explains. One: the Code of Conduct, which helps set boundaries for the client and practitioner. Two: a verbal commitment at the start of every session that both client and practitioner will stay present and aware of their own boundaries, as well as clearly communicate them to the other person. Three: every session is client-led.
“This is [the client’s] experience that they’re creating for themselves. They learn to ask for what they want, they learn to ask how to get a yes and a no,” Lippin says. “And what I’ve heard over and over again is that people feel more human after a session.”
***
Research shows that affectionate touch really does have concrete health benefits. It releases oxytocin — commonly known as “the cuddle hormone” — and lowers our cortisol levels.
Michael L. M. Murphy, a health and social psychology professor at Texas Tech University, has researched the benefits of hugs. For context, he explains that social isolation and loneliness are harmful to our wellbeing: Those with fewer social connections are at higher risk for heart disease, poor HIV outcomes, depression, substance abuse, suicide, and premature death.
Hugging is a powerful protective factor, Murphy says, though the exact mechanisms of physical touch’s benefits require further research.
“The human nervous system seems to have the ability to detect social touch and to differentiate social touch from other types of touch, like when you pick up something to move it,” he says.
Touch is coded by peripheral nerve receptors and fed back to the emotional and reward areas of the brain, allowing hugs to affect the release of hormones or neurotransmitters. What may be more important than a hug’s direct sensory effects, Murphy says, is what it signifies socially.
“We think a lot of the benefit is from what a hug or affectionate touch represents to the receiver, which is a very salient reminder that we belong, that there are people who care for us,” Murphy says. “Having that in our minds, that belief that we are loved, that also has effects on our physiology.”
“It can help dampen the sympathetic branch of our nervous system, which is responsible for fight-or-flight responses, it can promote a more balanced immune response, and it can release hormones that make us feel better through a variety of different mechanisms that are independent of the actual touch,” he adds.
At the end of our interview, Murphy takes care to emphasize that everyone’s needs are different. In a 2018 study, he found that hugs could improve individuals’ moods on days they faced interpersonal conflict. After its publication, he received emails from people all over the world who were upset — they hated hugs.
“It’s important to keep the emphasis on why hugs are beneficial, and that really comes [from] the reminder that we’re cared for,” Murphy says. “There are other ways of conveying that message that don’t necessarily involve touch. And so people who don’t like hugs should still be able to get these benefits if they are being provided effective support in other ways.”
***
Almost all of my friends chuckle in discomfort as they tell me about their cuddling habits. Some still cuddle with their parents; some can’t imagine it. My friend Lisa says she stopped cuddling with her parents when she was three.
A number of my other friends still do, though. They tell me about their families squishing into bed together, about their 28-year-old sister who comes home and still snuggles with their mom. For anyone still wondering, I’ve pretty much conclusively confirmed (with a massive sample of 5 to 6 friends) that it is indeed okay for a 19-going-on-20-year old like myself to snuggle up to her dad while watching March Madness highlights. Nice. Done.
There is, of course, a gendered aspect to various perceptions of cuddling. Sisters cuddle; brothers don’t. My brother Max doesn’t find my snuggling habits odd, but he also says the relationship between daughters and their parents is different. He would never.
One male friend of mine didn’t want his name mentioned in this story. He’s like me — physical with his affection — and he still cuddles with his mom, but telling people would just be too embarrassing. If everyone knew he cuddled with his mom, maybe they’d think of him as less of a man.
My dad surprised me, then, by being so open about it. He doesn’t think it’s weird that I still cuddle with him and Mom, actually finding it more odd that my brother was so resistant to hugs as a teenager.
He even analyzes why I might be such a frequent cuddler, pointing to how I like close company as a people person. He points to the tougher times in my life and how cuddling might have helped empower me — no lie, my conservative, 6-foot-tall, basketball-loving dad used the word empowered like, six times.
“You are a social person, maybe a little dependent on social activity or people’s relationships,” he says. “Feeling sometimes helpless, cuddling maybe empowers you, gives you more comfort, more confidence. Makes you feel like people are with you to fight against disease, fight against some kind of [depression], fight against pain.”
I think back to my months-long stay at the hospital when I was 12 and got very sick; my mom thinks my urge to cuddle really ramped up then. When I couldn’t go home, I found some sense of it in her warmth. Then and now, when I am down or exhausted or upset or insecure, a good snuggle with my parents is there for me.
And hey, if my middle-aged, man’s man of a dad can find cuddling empowering, why not the rest of us? Because you know what? It really is.
—Magazine writer Claire H. Guo can be reached at claire.guo@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @clairehguo.
Sections
Day 33 of 50: Mario E. “Super Mario” León, the Building Manager of Pforzheimer “Pfoho” House for the past 14 years, poses for a photo with his “pfamily” of stuffed polar bears. In preparation for Housing Day 2021, León has committed himself to “50 Days of Pfoho Super Mario,” a challenge in which he posts photos of House community members and himself decked out in his collection of Pfoho gear on his Instagram account @supermario_pfoho, which is beloved by both current and past Pfoho residents.
León was born in a small town in El Salvador before moving to America in 1991. He attended the local Cambridge Rindge and Latin School and has lived here for decades since. He began working at Harvard in April 2004 for one of the University’s subcontracted custodial service providers. Around this time, six building managers of the upperclassmen Houses worked directly for Harvard, while the other six managers were subcontracted from the company León worked for.
When Lowell House’s Building Manager had to take a temporary leave due to medical concerns, León was named Lowell’s Interim Building Manager for a year. When his term ended, León returned to his previous role within custodial services. Soon after, he set his sights on a newly vacant Building Manager position that had opened up at Pfoho.
In 2006, León moved to the Quad. “It was very quiet at first, peaceful in a way,” he says. “It felt like a smaller community.”
Recounting his first days at Pfoho, León angles his computer camera toward a welcoming gift from the Class of 2006: a Super Mario poster, a punny tribute to his first name and his position as the building’s “Super.”
“From day one, they started calling me Super Mario,” he says. “I was flattered.” Over the years, León’s office has been gradually overtaken by more Super Mario merch, along with Pfoho shirts, sweaters, hats, and stuffed polar bears.
León’s responsibilities as Pfoho’s Building Manager include overseeing facility and maintenance-related concerns, but he has always gone beyond the job description in his efforts to connect with students.
“When I was much younger, I loved sports,” León says. “I play a lot of intramurals here: soccer, volleyball, flag football, kickball, baseball.” Through intramurals, León has been able to connect with students outside of their building concerns, as both a teammate and a friend.
In his 14 years on the job, León has never faced a challenge like the pandemic: “The job description has changed. In normal times, there are so many events and open houses, which not only include facility work, but also just includes you as a part of the community,” he says. “You can attend and get to know someone really well and build up a relationship.” Now, however, these opportunities have been put on hold. In response, León made a creative proposal to Pfoho’s House Committee this February.
“Early this year, I started talking to the staff in HoCo because I was thinking about my wardrobe and the different Pfoho things I have collected through the years. Housing Day was coming up and I thought: ‘How can we reach out and keep the enthusiasm up during this pandemic?’” León recalls.
Thus began the “50 Days of Pfoho Super Mario” Instagram challenge. Beginning on March 1, 2021, León set out to show off his 14-years worth of Pfoho merchandise. He also set out to showcase the people of Pfoho, from its Resident Dean to the many workers behind the scenes responsible for the House’s upkeep.
The account is not just Housing Day propaganda for the Class of 2024. León also wanted to recognize the sophomores of Pfoho, many of whom have yet to step foot in the building.
“I started showing some of the places in Pfoho with short videos on the House spaces,” León says. “I wanted to connect with them and let them know: ‘This is your house, we can’t wait to have you, and this is what we have to offer.’”
The account, which welcomes photo requests of any locations of interest from Pfoho students and alumni, has amassed over 400 followers.
Saying goodbye to graduating classes over the years has been bittersweet for León. “I’ve seen them grow over three years,” he says. “Having seen how they have changed from day one when they got here and graduation day is really satisfying.” However, the account has allowed León to get back in touch with Pfoho alumni from across the world.
Among his most common photo requests are alumni asking to see the spaces they know and love, the renovations and changes that have occurred in the House since their time there, and their previous House staff members who continue to live and work in Pfoho today. León, who never had an Instagram account before this challenge, says he’s found an incredibly positive response.
“It’s been really fun every day trying to come up with something that everyone will enjoy,” León says.
From intramural sports to in-person House events to the small hallway interactions that make a big difference in fostering a strong community, León is hopeful to return to a full House in Fall 2021.
“I’m really looking forward to this place being alive again,” León says.
— Staff writer Gabrielle J. Pesantez can be reached at gabrielle.pesantez@thecrimson.com.
Sections
When Christina M. Tedesco received word about the pay cut last fall, her first reaction was, “Oh my God, I have to call my coworker Mark.”
Many of her colleagues at the Harvard Art Museums, where Tedesco works as an attendant, do not have computers or cannot access their work emails from home. She had to call them to break the news: Harvard had decided to cut their wages — already the lowest of any union at the University — by 30 percent, and she wasn’t sure for how long museum employees would continue to be paid at all.
Soon afterward, panic set in. “It’s very unsettling to not know if you really have a job or not, if the museum is going to lay you off in a few months,” Tedesco says. “It creates a constant environment of anxiety.”
In November 2020, Harvard modified its emergency excused absence policy, reducing pay for directly hired workers involuntarily idled by the pandemic to 70 percent and cutting pay entirely for idled workers hired through outside contractors.
In light of this announcement, we wanted to examine how this pay cut would affect Harvard’s workers — not just on a surface level, but how it might fundamentally shift lives. We followed one museum attendant, one custodian, and two dining workers over the course of three months, conducting interviews on a weekly basis. They detailed the challenges they’ve faced making rent, caring for family, and combating the virus itself while receiving frustratingly little communication from the University.
But they also described how they’ve been meeting their personal goals and starting their own ventures. They have been painting, playing soccer, practicing their faith, and baking. These four workers shared their lives with us, and although financial precarity and the pandemic have touched each of them, the pay cut is far from the only reason why these stories need telling.
by Sophia S. Liang
Christina M. Tedesco paints in bright swaths of primary color — red seesaws, golden sandboxes, blue skies with wispy clouds. But the human figures on her playgrounds are white, faceless silhouettes. They waver on the hopscotch tiles and tilt too far backwards on the swing. They play alone.
As a child at the playground herself, Tedesco was confronted with her body’s limitations. Her cerebral palsy made it difficult for her to use the equipment, and the other kids never stayed to play with her for long. When they looked at her, they saw only her disability; when she thought of herself, she sensed only what she lacked.
“I really believe that’s where the lessons about social class begin,” Tedesco, now 42, says. “You have the kids who can scoot across the monkey bars, no problem, and then you have the kid who’s hanging out on the side, not doing too much.”
Tedesco began her first playground sketches over two years ago. She trained herself to draw them in two-point perspective, a technique her dyslexia made challenging. During the pandemic, she devoted hundreds of hours to working with Sharpie and gouache in her Somerville studio the size of a walk-in closet. At the end of March, “The Playground Project” debuted at Gallery 263 in Cambridge, her first-ever solo exhibition.
“It’s showed me that all the hard work of changing the way I paint has paid off,” she says. “All the applying to shows and not getting them has paid off.”
The triumph, however, is bittersweet. Tedesco has been idled from her job as an attendant at the Harvard Art Museums for the past year, and the time she now has free to spend in her studio comes at a great cost.
***
The Harvard University Security, Parking, and Museum Guards Union, to which Tedesco belongs, represents the lowest-paid workforce at Harvard. Prior to the pandemic, Tedesco worked 37.5 hours a week and took home just $475.60. She tried to work two to eight hours of overtime each week to make ends meet, and she and her coworkers would collectively agree to allocate overtime shifts based on who had the most pressing financial needs.
“Lots of times we [would] talk to one another and be like, ‘Okay, I really need to pick up this shift, but you need to pick up that shift because you have a kid,’ and we’d coordinate,” Tedesco recalls.
Harvard’s 30 percent pay cut for idled workers that went into effect in January, she says, disproportionately harms those who were making so little already. Tedesco has accrued enough vacation time in six years of working at the museum to temporarily compensate for the reduced pay, and she still has benefits. But she has begun anxiously reconsidering how many groceries she can afford to buy and turning down the thermostat in her apartment to lower her heating bill. Her 60-year-old coworker had to move in with roommates.
Tedesco has lived in the same apartment for 18 years. Her home has easy access to a grocery store and public transportation, and her close-knit community of neighbors is willing to help her change the batteries in her smoke detector, assemble furniture, and drive her to the hospital in case of emergency. She would lose this support network if, unable to pay rent, she was forced to move.
Last December, she attended a virtual forum hosted by the mayor of Somerville to discuss how the city’s artists were faring during the pandemic. When she was asked to speak about her financial situation, she ended up in tears.
“It’s really embarrassing to admit that I’m poor, because I don’t think of myself as poor,” Tedesco says. “But financially, I am.”
When she shares her story, people are shocked to hear who her employer is. A city official who attended graduate school at Harvard was “absolutely horrified” when she found out not only that Tedesco’s pay was being cut, but how low it was to begin with.
“She kept pressing me, wanting to know how I’m living off of that,” Tedesco says. Tedesco didn’t know what to tell her — how do you explain how you subsist on barely minimum wage at the wealthiest university in the world?
For Tedesco, the pay cut feeds into a more general frustration with feeling degraded at work. She has overheard visitors muttering, “She’s so disabled” as they walk away. One woman, upon seeing her cane, told her, “It’s so great that you have this job; you can practice how to walk.”
Amongst other museum employees, Tedesco senses that they see her as “just a security guard.” According to her, the museum attendants are forbidden from talking about the art to visitors, no matter how knowledgeable they may be. When attendants apply for other jobs within the museum, it seems to her that they are never called for an interview. And they are made to stand all day, “which makes it feel like people in power think we’re not worthy enough to sit or have accommodations,” Tedesco says. University spokesperson Jason A. Newton and Art Museums spokesperson Jennifer A. Aubin both declined to comment on these concerns.
“How disheartening and sad is that?” Tedesco continues. “I work at Harvard, this prestigious university, somewhere with a lot of emails going on about ‘equality’ and all that. But the truth is, there is no equality.”
***
When Tedesco entered Landmark College in Vermont, she wanted to become a journalist, either a news anchor or a war correspondent. But all the spots in the American literature course she’d planned to take had already been filled, so she was forced to take Photography 101 instead, which she was “not at all happy about.” By the second class, her professor had inspired her to change her trajectory.
“He was so passionate to teach students about his passion, and I thought it was really cool that he could do something he loved and hang out in the darkroom all day, listening to music,” she says. “By the time my photo had developed, I’d changed my major in my head and decided I would get an MFA.”
Tedesco went on to earn a BFA from the Art Institute of Boston and an MFA from the School of the Museum of Fine Arts at Tufts University, branching out to drawing and painting along the way. Her work draws on her experiences with cerebral palsy, centering on themes of balance, control, and movement through time and space.
A few weeks ago, a Gallery 263 employee interviewed Tedesco to commemorate the opening of her show. When the interviewer asked whether she sees her art as a form of activism, she hesitated.
“My parents, who were both teachers, would say I had to educate people about my cerebral palsy, and in that respect, I feel like my whole life is about advocacy,” she later tells me, recounting the interview. “It’s so ingrained in who I am, I just don’t even think about it.”
Once a year, as part of a Harvard Medical School course, Tedesco volunteers to help first- and second-year medical students learn how to give neurological exams. As the students practice on her, she lets them in on the tricks she uses to pass the exams.
“I’ve taken this test a million times,” she says, chuckling. “I know it inside and out. And they come in with their worksheets and their medical equipment, and it’s clear that they don’t know what they’re doing.”
Tedesco is also a guest speaker at Brookline Public Schools, where she talks to students about living with a disability and her career as an artist.
“Kids are great because they have no filter,” she says — they don’t tiptoe around their questions or assume the answers, sometimes outright asking, “Why do you talk so funny?”
Additionally, Tedesco is one of the founding members of Divergents, a magazine that “sets out to change the dynamic of how society views individuals with learning disabilities,” she says. Her former college English professor pitched the idea to her in December 2019, and she accepted on Christmas Day. As Art Editor, she solicits submissions, pairs art with articles, and interviews neurodivergent artists from all over the world. The magazine has published three issues so far during the pandemic.
Growing up, Tedesco says, there were few public conversations about cerebral palsy. Although her parents were extremely supportive, she did not have anyone who could educate her about her disability.
“My parents and I had to learn together,” she says. “The attitude was, ‘Yes, Christina has CP. So what? We’re going to get her the help she needs, but we’re not going to treat her any differently.’”
Tedesco remembers being constantly shuttled by her parents from occupational therapy to physical therapy to school, even in the summer. She was in a self-contained classroom in elementary school, learning in a more intimate setting alongside other students with special needs or difficulties. By seventh grade, she entered into a fully mainstream learning environment. She was the first person in her school district to make the transition and had to leave behind her close friends in the process.
“It was heartbreaking,” she says. “I wanted so much to be like all the other kids, to do what they did. But at the same time, I was leaving behind two people that I’d gone through nursery school to sixth grade with.”
She tears up as she recalls all this, then smiles sadly. “I’m sorry I’m crying; this happened thirty-odd years ago,” she says. “But at the time, I didn’t understand why [they] couldn’t be in my classes.”
Tedesco continues to grapple with how her cerebral palsy and dyslexia intersect with her identity, and she questions how “mainstream” she actually is. She is “not disabled enough” to qualify for disability benefits, yet she does not fully fit into many parts of the world, from her childhood playground to her current workplace.
In January, Tedesco applied for rental assistance through the state’s Residential Assistance for Families in Transition program, and her application was approved after two months spent navigating heaps of paperwork and red tape. The full cost of her rent will be covered until September, momentarily easing her largest financial burden. Still, she hesitates to accept the help.
“There’s a part of me that feels guilty about taking that,” she says, “because I’m so damn determined to be just like everyone else.”
***
It has been over a year since Tedesco stepped foot in the Harvard Art Museums.
She misses her regular visitors dearly, especially Girard, a 94-year-old man who came for lunch every Wednesday and shared his knowledge about art; Eunice, a museum donor who would tell her about her trips to Paris; and Corey, the once-toddler who must have grown into a little boy attending kindergarten by now.
Nonetheless, Tedesco is relieved to have gotten some distance from the museum.
“Even though the past year has been traumatic for me and a lot of [others], it has also given me time to decide what I really want in life and revisit my values,” she says.
Quarantine reinvigorated Tedesco’s love for writing through her interviews and articles for Divergents. It gave her more time to pursue her horticulture hobby; she owns over 40 plants, including ferns, spider plants, and a palm tree she’s had since the age of seven. It brought about the exhibition of “The Playground Project,” which she hopes to eventually translate into sculptures on a real playground.
Above all else, Tedesco says, the pandemic showed her what a life of not being “just a museum attendant” looks like. It opened up the possibility of growing the magazine into a full-time career instead of relying on Harvard to pay the bills, and it revealed to her how much she is capable of accomplishing on her own.
“I value myself more,” she says.
As a child at the playground, Tedesco saw only her body’s limitations. These days, she intentionally slows her pace as she walks to the bus stop, pausing to observe the shadows on the pavement and the wisps of clouds in the sky. She soaks up all the complexities of the spaces she inhabits, and she paints brushstrokes in her mind.
by Meimei Xu
The night shift at Harvard Business School is peaceful. You start at 11 p.m. You see no one on the job, besides your supervisor. You won’t come back to a place you’ve just cleaned to find it messy again after an hour. You leave your work at 7 a.m., just as students and professors start filing into their classrooms and offices. You’ll need to become nocturnal, but for the most part, no one asks you any intrusive questions at work because there’s no one around to bother you.
This was the life of Harvard Business School custodian Paula G. Martinez for three years — until Jan. 21, 2021, her last day working on campus before she was involuntarily idled because of the pandemic.
She now receives 70 percent of her usual paycheck. Martinez is not directly employed by HBS, but by an outside contractor named C&W Janitorial Services.
“Don’t get me wrong, I’m still getting a paycheck, and it’s awesome,” Martinez says. “But it’s not what I want. I want to work, and I want to get my full 40 hours.”
Harvard’s emergency excused absence policy had supported full pay and benefits for all directly-employed and some contracted workers at the University if they were sent home by the pandemic, but on Nov. 12, 2020, Harvard announced a change. From Jan. 15 onward, idled directly-employed staff would experience a 30 percent pay cut, and idled contracted workers, like Martinez, would receive no pay at all.
HBS was one of the first schools, starting on Jan. 24, to match the direct-hire policy for contracted workers as well, before staff, unions, and activists rallied for other schools to pay their contracted workers. Seventeen out of the approximately 45 overnight custodians at HBS were idled involuntarily because of the pandemic, according to Martinez.
Luckily, Martinez says, she found a part-time position as a custodian at Boston College, working from 4 p.m. to 9 p.m., five days a week. Her contract with Boston College lasts until May. “I’ve been thankful that I have my part time, because definitely [my Harvard pay] was not going to be enough to cover my rent and my bills,” Martinez says.
Not only does she provide for her own needs, but she supports two parents who no longer work. “I feel the difference in my economic weekly income, but I think there’s some people out there, they have it worse than I do,” Martinez says. She says she saved enough to pay rent two months in advance. “But I can tell you that I’m struggling right now to help my parents.”
She’s been filling out applications for other positions, such as work at Harvard Medical School and MIT, but she says she sometimes doesn’t apply — she either lacks the experience necessary, or the salary is not worth the distance she would need to travel to get to work. Martinez says she doesn’t know whether she will still have a position at HBS after June, when the 70 percent idled pay policy ends.
“I don’t know if we’re going to keep being hired for [HBS],” Martinez says. “If not, I’m going to look for a full time, because I cannot be hopeful for that job. I mean I love it, I like it, and it’s good pay, but I cannot be hopeful for the rest of the year to see if I can get back there.”
***
When Martinez was 14 years old, she wanted to go to school. She was born in El Salvador to a family of nine, and at the time, all the money her brother and sister in the U.S. were sending over was going toward her mother’s heart problem, and the family couldn’t pay for Martinez’s education anymore.
That same year, two more of her sisters decided to move from El Salvador to America.
“My parents were raised on the belief that if you were a girl, you weren’t allowed to go out as much as the boys were, and I wanted to feel the freedom, and I wanted to go to school,” Martinez says. Her parents were against it, but she followed her sisters nonetheless.
She and her sisters walked for about two weeks to get to the United States and arrived as she turned 15. Martinez went to high school in Rhode Island and lived with her sister and her brother-in-law there, all the while working at a Mexican restaurant six days a week and sending money to her parents in El Salvador, whose economic situation improved. After graduating with honors in 2009, she was unable to go to college because she didn’t have verification of U.S. citizenship or residency. “Everything stopped from there,” she says.
She was in a relationship at the time and moved to Boston with her boyfriend, but they soon split up. She began working in a restaurant kitchen in Boston, which improved her English rapidly: “I had to speak it or else I was going to get fired.” There, she learned to make salads and desserts and eventually became a sous chef. She ultimately left for C&W, but she often makes cakes for her friends to make some money on the side, including a blue Pokéball cake she showed me on her phone.
This was the version of her story she told me at the beginning of February, when we first started our calls.
But over the course of the next month, she revealed a fuller picture of that story.
She and her high-school boyfriend had planned to get married. Because the couple lacked Salvadoran papers, his dad bought them a house in El Salvador under his name, for which Martinez paid him back. The house and a car the couple later bought cost Martinez around $25,000 of her savings.
Two years later, Martinez found out that her boyfriend was having an affair. After they split, she asked about the house and the car. “He said, ‘You’re the one to choose to leave. So you have nothing,’” she recalls. “And I said okay, because at that point my pride was bigger than my will to fight.”
She ended up borrowing money from her sisters to rent a room. On Aug. 15, 2012, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services opened applications for the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program, under President Barack Obama. Because she had arrived in the U.S. before her 16th birthday and had since lived in the country continuously, completed high school, and accumulated no felony charges, she qualified for the DACA program. In order to apply for DACA, however, applicants needed to pay $465 in total fees, which meant Martinez had to borrow more money.
Though she often had to send money to her parents, she was eventually able to pay off her debts to her sister. Martinez says she believes she should take responsibility for what happened with her boyfriend. “I cannot say that I can blame anybody else because it was my choice to give that money, because I trusted somebody that really I shouldn’t trust to begin with,” she says.
In another call, Martinez explained the details of her immigration status. As a DACA recipient, Martinez needs to re-apply for the program every 18 months. The program offers protection for two years at a time, but Martinez needs to apply six months in advance because she needs employment authorization. She says many people believe that DACA recipients receive free work authorization and benefits, but that isn’t the case. “A lot of us, we just work and pay our taxes, and we pay for a work permit,” Martinez says. “Those things are not for free. And we have to prove that we are good citizens, too.”
She told me she believes it is important that people understand how precarious the process is: many recipients, she explains, worry their requests for DACA renewal will be rejected and they will lose their jobs. Additionally, the program itself has been in a precarious position over the past four years, caught between Trump administration orders to end it and court rulings to reinstate it.
“I think it’s important that we can get a word out that we are not here to steal anybody’s job,” she says. “We’re not here to be criminals. We’re not here just because we wanted to just colonize or take over. We’re just here because we want to do better, and we struggle, too.”
***
Despite her various struggles, Martinez often talks about her luck in life. When she and her sisters were crossing the border into the U.S., she says she saw and heard that others had lost family members, lacked food and water, and faced dire situations. “We also heard stories that some people lost their legs because they were trying to get into a train,” Martinez says. “There’s girls that got violated every day with the guys that were bringing them. Some people that had at least four days without eating or drinking or anything.”

She and her sisters also walked for more than a day without water, but she says she luckily encountered people in Mexico who were willing to help them. For the economic benefits of being in the U.S., she says the decision to come “was worth it.” But for the people whose stories she heard along the way?
“I don’t know. I don’t know if it’s worth it at the end for those people,” she says.
***
At the beginning of February, Martinez was just adjusting from working overnight at HBS to working in the afternoons at Boston College. “My sleeping is crazy,” she told me at the time. “I can’t sleep because I was used to sleeping during the day, and now I get headaches in the day.” Though it’s not as quiet and peaceful as her previous overnight shift, she says she likes working at Boston College. Sometimes people say hello, ask her if she’s new, say thank you, but “that’s pretty much it.” As a part-timer, she’s always on the move, cleaning different public areas. “It’s not like I’m staying in one place and I get asked a lot of questions,” she says.
It was different seven years ago. Back then, when she worked as a sous chef at a restaurant, she stayed in one place. “I used to see the same people,” Martinez says, “and sometimes it gets pretty awkward, because they like to ask you personal questions.” She felt the questions people asked her at the restaurant job were sometimes racist and discriminatory — questions like: Are you legal? Is your family legal? Are you a citizen?
Then, after explaining that she is neither a resident nor a citizen: Well, what are you?
That mostly stopped when she came to Harvard — her nighttime shifts were peaceful, her supervisor being the only other person around — but she recalls one similar instance while working overtime as a porter for executives arriving from overseas for a program at HBS.
“I was helping this very old gentleman once, and he asked me, ’Are you American?’ and I said ’Yes, I am an American.’ And he answered, ’You don’t seem like it,’ and I said, ’What do you mean I don’t seem like it?’”
The man asked if he could get an American to help him. “I said, ‘I’m sorry sir, but this is the most American help that you’re going to get here,’ because from my group, I was the one that speaks English the most,” she says.
Martinez told the man his “question was flawed.”
“I was like, ‘Well you asked me if I was from America, America is the whole continent,’” she recalls saying. “‘This is the United States of America, it’s a country, and America is the whole continent.’” After the man went to her boss and demanded someone else help him, her boss defended her, saying that most of his workers at HBS spoke Spanish.
***
In March, Martinez and her siblings began preparing for their parents to visit the United States. They decided to buy a trailer in California so their parents can live in the U.S. Because Martinez’s mother likes bright colors, they decided to paint it orange. Her parents are U.S. residents, but can only live in El Salvador for a few months at a time; sometimes, they visit Martinez’s brother in California, but this time they’re visiting her sisters in Rhode Island. Her parents intend to obtain citizenship in the future.
Her parents landed in New York on March 26. The background was full of joyful noise that day when I called her at her sister’s house in Rhode Island. She was baking a cake for her nephew’s baptism that Sunday and, lowering her voice, she told me she and her sisters were planning to surprise her mom with a birthday lunch.
In terms of future plans, Martinez says she hasn’t thought that far along yet. She asked for Monday off, but after that would need to drive back down to Boston to go back to work.
But the top priority at that moment, she said, was the Sunday birthday lunch: “Hopefully it turns out good.”
After a few weeks, she sent me pictures of her mother at the head of the table, with the family, all huddled around her, laughing.
by Meimei Xu
On March 17, 2021, as she was preparing to leave for her job as a dining employee at the Medical School, Blanca A. Iturralde saw a text from her brother sent at 12:31 a.m.: he had just tested positive for Covid-19. A day earlier, Iturralde saw him when she picked up her 13-year-old son, Nicco, from her parents’ house, where her brother lives on the first floor.
Iturralde says her son, upon hearing the news, began to cry. “He was just afraid,” she recalls. “He was like, ‘Mom, what if I am sick, or what if I get you sick?’” Their fears around Covid-19 had not come from nowhere — Nicco was afraid of contracting the virus, Iturralde says, because he remembered how bad his mother’s symptoms were when she contracted the virus one year earlier: after two months of illness, her doctor finally cleared her to resume normal activities in May 2020.
On the same day her brother told her the news, Iturralde kept Nicco at home and called his school to let them know her son had potentially been in contact with someone who tested positive for the virus; per school policy, Nicco would have to stay home for at least 10 days. Iturralde had taken a test on Tuesday, the day she saw her brother last; they had very little contact, she says, the test came back negative on Wednesday. She also did not show any symptoms. Nonetheless, she took the precaution of calling her manager at Harvard Medical School, where she works as a contracted dining employee employed by Restaurant Associates. After she explained to her manager the brief contact she had with her brother, the manager told her to monitor her symptoms and return to work.
Since coming back to campus last August, Iturralde has worked from 10 a.m. to 6:30 p.m., five days a week. She has 15 sick days per year and vacation time, but given that her shift lasts throughout the day, she has to use her sick days for regular doctor’s appointments. She worries that, if she or Nicco got sick, she would have to take two weeks of leave and use summer vacation time to supplement her pay.
“I do worry now, with the way the schedule is using my sick days and then having to — if we were to get sick or he were to get sick — having to use those days in the summer,” she says. “I can’t miss no days of work, because I have no days.”
Per school policy, Nicco only attends school in person on Mondays and Tuesdays; for the rest of the week, he stays with his grandparents or home alone for short periods. Because Iturralde’s brother lives in an apartment on the first floor of the house, her brother was able to avoid potentially exposing his parents to the virus. The week her brother tested positive for Covid-19, Iturralde told Nicco to keep his distance from his grandparents, as well.
The train ride home from HMS takes one hour; Iturralde says she had to hurry to get home to Nicco — especially since she wasn’t sure if he had contracted the virus or not. “I’m always rushing, just because obviously I don't feel comfortable leaving him for long periods of time,” she says.
Within the next few days her son said he felt sick, and Iturralde knew there could be a multiple-day delay between contracting the SARS-CoV-2 virus and testing positive for it. She and her son got tested again on March 21. Iturralde wanted to get him tested one more time on the following Saturday, March 27, to be certain. Negative again. Nicco went back to school on March 29.
Iturralde’s brother took two weeks off work; he’s mostly recovered, though his taste has not returned. No one else in the family has tested positive. Iturralde and her son are now more or less back in their normal schedules.
***
Iturralde would like to go to church every weekend. Sometimes, she says, she gets “caught up in the everyday,” but she prays every night. Born in Mexico and raised mostly in Boston as the oldest of four siblings, Iturralde says her parents are Catholic, but not extremely devout.
When she got infected with Covid-19 in March 2020, her perspective on faith shifted. “I remember the moments when I was really, really sick and I was like, ‘Oh my God, this could possibly be it,’” she says. To this day, she still suffers from some stomach pain when she eats, and her sense of taste has changed. “I can’t drink orange juice because it tastes like soap,” she says. “I love french fries, [but] when I have french fries, I feel like I’m not tasting the fried stuff — I just taste the oil.”
Prior to contracting the virus, she recalls praying for a house and other material help; after getting sick with Covid, she began to see that health affected every other aspect of her life. She says she began to see her experience as God’s way of teaching a lesson to her. “I sometimes tell people, I think one of the best things that happened to me was getting sick because I was able to explore more my faith,” she says.
***
Before coming to HMS, Iturralde worked at Harvard Law School, mostly in catering, for about four years. In 2018, after being guaranteed a full 40 hours at HMS, she transferred to the Medical School, first as a caterer, then as a cashier at Courtyard Café. Now, she works at Aliquots Café in the New Research Building.
Iturralde hasn’t always worked in dining services. After getting pregnant and marrying while in community college, she dropped out and began taking early childhood education courses to become certified as a teacher. Afterward, she worked in a daycare for around four years, and later worked at a Montessori school.
She ended up separating from her husband, and though she enjoyed working at the Montessori school, the pay ultimately fell short a few dollars an hour of what Harvard would pay her. “The only reason why I left is just because, obviously, money,” she says. “Money is tight. By then, obviously I had separated from my husband at the time, and it was harder to just make ends meet.”
Iturralde says she enjoyed the hands-on activities at the Montessori school. “I would sometimes tell people like it's so funny, what my hands can do,” she says. Normally she wouldn’t be able to draw on command, but when she got in the zone, she says, “I was able to make things that were incredible.” Still, Iturralde says she’s “comfortable” with her work at the café.
“Sometimes I tell people it's like similar jobs, just different age groups,” she says. “Like before, I would take care of babies, now I take care of grownups.”
Iturralde says she is inspired by the social movements started by the people around her, such as the No Layoffs campaign, which planned a call-in and write-in in January 2021 to demand that HMS administrators guarantee no layoffs for its workers during the pandemic. The Medical School announced on the 21st of that month that it would not lay off dining services workers at this time; nevertheless, the No Layoffs campaign still hosted the call-in to demand guaranteed pay for workers if they were involuntarily idled in the future.
HMS spokesperson Laura DeCoste wrote in an emailed statement that “our dining services management team has been committed to the direct and transparent training of and communication with our contract dining workers” throughout the pandemic.
According to Iturralde, Gabriel H. Bayard ’15, an organizer for UNITE HERE Local 26 representing dining services employees at Harvard, asked her to help with spreading the word when it was unclear whether HMS workers would be laid off or idled. “I like getting my co-workers involved and talking to them and telling them, ‘We have to fight for this,’ or, ‘We have to fight for that,’” she says.
In the future, Iturralde says she wants to continue helping people — she’d like to go back to school, but remains uncertain about what she wants to study and where she would obtain the resources needed. “‘What would I study? Where would I get the money?’” she says. “Sometimes I feel like maybe I sabotaged my own happiness just because I always think of like, ‘Where am I going to do this? From where?’ So, I don’t know.”
***
Work at Aliquots has been slow, Iturralde says. The employees there recently started making a special item at the café every week; one week, they made eight containers of apple fritters, but ended up only selling four.
Since she came back to work, there hasn’t been any overtime, which would usually help her save up to pay electricity and water bills. During a normal school year, Nicco has football practice in the afternoons on Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday, so Iturralde would work overtime either Monday or Friday. During the summer, he had practice Monday through Thursday, and she worked overtime on Friday. It wasn’t a lot, but she says the extra money in her paycheck mattered. “Now, I do see the difference,” she says. “I received my W-2, and this year I made $5,000 less than I did last year.”
In addition, she and her son are home more often, which means they’re using more utilities at home. “Whatever you are able to save, now you’re gonna have to pick at it,” she says. “I have to find my way to get a little extra money because when things do get better, it can take a while for me to go back to that stability.”
She says she tries to only use her three-week summer vacation time to travel with her son to different places, such as Six Flags, Maine, New Hampshire, and Atlanta to visit family. Three years ago, they spent a week-and-a-half at Disney World for his 10th birthday.
Being able to spend time with family is important to her, Iturralde says. In addition to her newfound appreciation for everyday life after her experience with Covid-19, Iturralde says she has felt more grateful for her family as she gets older.
“They are so valuable,” she says. “I have to see them every day, even if it’s through the phone or whatever, they are everything to me, my family. It’s just like I always say, somebody else maybe doesn’t have a family and I do, so therefore I'm lucky.”
During the summer, Iturralde dropped her son off with her parents in the early morning before her 6:30 a.m. shift. If she wasn’t working overtime, when she got home at 3 p.m. she would be able to take Nicco to the park or to get ice cream. This summer, given her 10 a.m. to 6:30 p.m. shift, Iturralde anticipates that she’ll have less time to spend with her son.
“I feel like this might be a tough summer, because if I leave him at nine or eight something, and I won't be home till seven o’clock, what really can we do?” she says. “The day’s over.”
by Cara J. Chang
Juan S. Cardenas-Duque always knew he wanted to study at Harvard.
Even when he enrolled as an undergraduate at the University of Massachusetts Boston in 2015, he was determined to get a degree from Harvard Extension School. But if he wanted to achieve that goal, Cardenas-Duque, 24, knew he needed either money or a “hook up.” He got the latter, a job with Harvard University Dining Services as a dishwasher, in the fall of 2016.
“I got in with just 16 hours [a week] working in the dishroom washing pots, working very difficult jobs,” he recalls. “At that point it was just about getting my foot in the door.”
As a HUDS employee, if he worked enough hours, Cardenas-Duque could potentially qualify for financial support for undergraduate and graduate courses at the Extension School. Four months later, Cardenas-Duque got a new dishwashing job for HUDS with more hours and started taking Harvard courses on top of his biology courseload at UMass Boston.
Now, five years later, Cardenas-Duque is in his penultimate semester of a Master’s program in business management at the Extension School.
***
Cardenas-Duque’s last day of work at Harvard was March 17, 2020. At the time, he was a waiter at the Heights, the bar and restaurant on the 10th floor of the Smith Campus Center.
While his Harvard job has been on hold, Cardenas-Duque is far from idle: He is the founder and owner of Boston Temporary Tattoos, a start-up he launched in 2016 armed only with an idea, a website, and a $100 loan from his girlfriend.
“The idea was I wanted tattoos, but not forever,” Cardenas-Duque says. Today, customers can choose from over 100,000 tattoo designs or customize their own online, and Cardenas-Duque ships them their orders nationwide.
Because of concerns over job prospects, social stigma, and family culture, he hesitated to get permanent ink. The first temporary tattoo Cardenas-Duque wore was a design of a clock his mother ordered him as a surprise gift.
The name for the tattoo’s design, “Tick Tock,” feels fitting to Cardenas-Duque, who says that the app TikTok boosted his business this past year. Last summer, he released a promotional video on TikTok “just for fun.”
“And boom!” he says. “Sales boomed up to $2,000 in one day, and I was like, ‘Oh my god, what did I just do? Did I just access something? Am I on the way to something?’”
Cardenas-Duque’s next video garnered another million views. Ever since, he has actively used social media to grow Boston Temporary Tattoos. Over the past year, business has reached almost $15,000 in monthly sales.
“That’s something I never would’ve thought possible,” Cardenas-Duque confesses.
On top of Boston Temporary Tattoos, Cardenas-Duque is a co-founder of Boston Street Soccer, a group that organizes casual pick-up games and tournaments. He is focusing on expanding the group’s social media presence and networking.
Unlike Boston Temporary Tattoos, Boston Street Soccer came to a screeching halt when the pandemic first hit. The group stopped all games for a few months. Cardenas-Duque also stopped going to the gym for eight months, terrified of catching the virus. But he’s since adapted to the “new normal,” as he calls it, and is back in the gym and on the field.
“You gotta take care of yourself, stay distanced from others, and make sure you’re not touching your face with dirty hands,” he says. “I work out every single day. It’s part of my lifestyle now.”
Over the past year, Cardenas-Duque has settled into a routine: He starts his day around 7 a.m. with a black coffee and alternates between online classes, working out, spending time with family, and running Boston Temporary Tattoos and Boston Street Soccer.
“Every day varies depending on what life brings, but most of it I try to center around fitness, health, and wealth,” he says.
As for his work at Harvard, Cardenas-Duque remains in limbo. In November 2020, Harvard modified its emergency excused absence pay policy, cutting Cardenas-Duque’s pay to 70 percent. Then, in December, HUDS announced it would close four facilities, including the Heights. Cardenas-Duque learned he’d get a chance to “bump” into a new role: HUDS would offer workers laid off by the December announcement the chance to shift into another job based on seniority. There are two pathways for doing this. Affected workers could either claim vacant positions or “bump” more junior members out of their positions. Cardenas-Duque would have to wait until more senior colleagues successfully bumped into new positions.
Cardenas-Duque sees the bumping process as an opportunity. By next fall, he will have a business degree from the Harvard Extension School, in addition to a bachelor’s degree in biology from UMass Boston and a smoothly running business. He hopes to move out of entry-level positions at HUDS and into either a research technician or management role.
“When they do reach out, I’m going to reach for the stars,” Cardenas-Duque told me when he was waiting for the bumping process to begin. “I’m not really going to try to stick to the same plan that I’ve been doing for the last five years.”
***
Cardenas-Duque was born in Colombia. His grandparents were the first in his family to arrive in the United States in the late 1990s after winning a lottery, eventually bringing over Cardenas-Duque’s mother. His mother then brought him to Massachusetts when he was a toddler. His father, however, elected to stay in Colombia with two of Cardenas-Duque’s younger siblings. Cardenas-Duque now lives with his mother, her husband, and one of his younger sisters in Revere, Mass.
When he was a teenager, his grandparents and his mother started opening up about why they left Colombia: His uncle was murdered months after he was born and, when he was a baby, Cardenas-Duque himself was kidnapped for ransom.
“As a young guy, you don’t really know the benefits of migrating to a place like this,” Cardenas-Duque reflects. “Then, as you grow up, you start seeing the reality of why things were like this ... and just being really grateful for the fact that we’re here.”
When he was in sixth grade, Cardenas-Duque’s mother switched him from a public school to the Pioneer Charter School of Science in Everett. He went from classrooms with more than 30 students to ones half that size. At Pioneer, his teachers could better tailor his learning to him — although at the time, he didn’t understand the benefits, given the added workload and stricter rules.
“When I was in the system, I really thought that this was a terrible idea, that my life sucked,” Cardenas-Duque admits. But since, “I realized, ‘You know what? I’m pretty damn lucky I went to the school, because I entered a college system where [other] people were really struggling with the science.’”
On one hand, Pioneer sparked Cardenas-Duque’s love of biology. On the other, he is not sure where his drive to entrepreneurship comes from.
“When I was younger, I would find different ways to make some side money, just to go out with friends or get some ice cream, go to the movies, or go bowling and not have to worry about asking my mom for $20 all the time,” he remembers. “I didn’t really understand that this was a strength of mine until my sophomore year of college.”
While at UMass Boston, Cardenas-Duque realized he wanted to study business, and perhaps even open one of his own, but he wanted to finish his biology degree first.
In 2019, Cardenas-Duque enrolled as a business masters student at the Harvard Extension School. His days were packed from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m.: He’d take the train to Harvard, work at the Heights from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m., work out at the Malkin Athletic Center, then go back to the Smith Campus Center to study and attend classes online before going home at 7 p.m. Cardenas-Duque then turned his attention to Boston Temporary Tattoos.
“Looking back, I don’t really know how I did it,” he says. “It’s a lot of things to balance as an individual, as a student, that many people do not see.”
***
In early February, I mentioned to Cardenas-Duque that he sounded hoarse, and all he said was that he was “sick.” But later in our conversation, he added, “I feel like I’m a caged bird… I can’t go out. I can’t go out to a restaurant. I can’t go out into the street. I can’t buy my own groceries.”
It took another week for Cardenas-Duque to confide in me that, several days before he described feeling like “a caged bird,” he had woken up with a “massive pain” in his back. He lost part of his senses of taste and smell. He was short of breath, coughing, feverish, chilly, and aching. Quarantining in his room, Cardenas-Duque felt suffocated.
Cardenas-Duque still went to class, but he could not staff Boston Temporary Tattoos on his own. He asked his sister to help him with tattoo orders and he put off marketing and networking. As Cardenas-Duque recovered, he wondered how his sickness would impact his income and future employment prospects. His paycheck from Harvard had been reduced just a few weeks prior. He even started tapping into savings he had set aside for his first home.
Financial insecurity, uncertainty about his health, and fear of Covid-based discrimination — initially he wasn’t sure if he wanted to share his illness publicly — compounded as his body fought the virus. Cardenas-Duque felt helpless.
After isolating for 10 days, he tested negative for Covid-19. The result, he says, was “liberating.”
“I feel great. I feel alive,” he beams, grateful to have made a full recovery.
A few weeks after his negative test, Cardenas-Duque changed his mind about sharing his bout with Covid-19, once his best friend told him, “‘If you had it and it’s okay, you shouldn’t be embarrassed about it. If you ever wanted to share that, then go for it.’”
Cardenas-Duque was reassured. “Just having an extra talk with my friends and family just made me realize, ‘Yeah, I’m actually okay with talking about that or sharing it with the public,” he says.
In late March, Cardenas-Duque and his girlfriend both received their first doses of the Pfizer vaccine. “Mentally I feel strong,” he said two days later. With one more dose, Covid-19 will be behind him: he’ll be able to travel and go back to work at Harvard without being vulnerable to infection.
***
In the last week of March, it was finally Cardenas-Duque’s turn to move into a new position. He selected a vacant lead pantry steward position, which has a higher classification than his current job as a waiter in general service. The full-time lead position pays more and fits with Cardenas-Duque’s schedule.
However, the bumping process asks employees to select positions with their current job classification or lower. Cardenas-Duque knows the lead position requires a higher classification, but believes he has a strong case for it.
“Having almost seven years in hospitality, five years at Harvard, and three years of being a union steward and, on top of that, as a graduate student in a management degree program, I am strongly qualified to work this position,” Cardenas-Duque says. He also knows colleagues who went from waitstaff to lead positions in previous bumping processes.
When HUDS management told him it would “not make any exceptions” to job classifications, Cardenas-Duque laughed in disbelief.
“And then I just felt really bad,” he remembers. “I felt like I was being shut down and I feel like I’ve been continuously shut down and shut down and shut down again.”
Cardenas-Duque filed a grievance over job discrimination. The dining workers’ contract states that, during a bumping process, “the University and the Union may consider alternatives such as voluntary layoff or open vacancies.” Under that clause, Cardenas-Duque and his union, UNITE HERE Local 26, argue that HUDS can offer him the lead position — and should, given his resume.
“I’m trying to move up the ladder,” Cardenas-Duque says. “I’m proving that I can do it. I’m setting the bar high, but then once you get to that level, boom! ‘No.’ Why?”
Cardenas-Duque stresses his gratitude to Harvard for his education, but says he will not settle on this case. “If I don’t advance at Harvard, unfortunately I would have to just leave, because I’m not washing dishes and plates for the rest of my life, or for any longer,” he says.
Harvard spokesperson Jason A. Newton said it is the University’s policy not to comment on individual cases.
As Cardenas-Duque waits for the grievance to be resolved, he’s eyeing broader goals: He will earn his Master’s degree this year. He’s on schedule to open a Boston Temporary Tattoos pop-up shop in Boston by summer 2022. He’s researching plans to open an indoor sports facility for Boston Street Soccer. He’s working on producing his own music.
“Thankfully I’m in a position where I don’t have to really be concerned about the income from Harvard, whereas I used to be,” Cardenas-Duque says. “I want to travel some more. I want to experience life some more, and I don’t want to be in a position where I’m stuck.”
— Crimson staff writer Cara J. Chang can be reached at cara.chang@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @CaraChang20.
— Associate Magazine Editor Sophia S. Liang can be reached at sophia.liang@thecrimson.com. Follower her on Twitter @totalPHIAsco.
— Magazine staff writer Meimei Xu can be reached at meimei.xu@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @meimeixu7.
Sections
The day before a Cambridge City Council meeting in February, John Chute was preparing his notes.
Chute, who is now 40 years old, has lived in Cambridge his whole life. Until June 2020, he was unhoused for about seven years. As he prepared his notes for the meeting, he thought of the many people he knew who didn’t have a warm place to stay in the harrowing week ahead. Temperatures had dipped in the single digits days prior, as the Boston area experienced its coldest temperatures yet of the winter season. As he himself had survived the New England winters, he planned to speak to the City Council about getting by in such brutal weather without a home, when a bench in an underground T station can save a life.
“This is what homeless people deal with year after year after year, so” — Chute pauses, and lets out a breath — “they know how to get through it. Unfortunately, they have to.”
The docket for the Feb. 1 meeting included Policy Order 13, which called for the city to financially support a non-congregate shelter at the New England School of English after state funding ends in the spring, and to look for “other locations in or near Cambridge to house appropriate members of our unhoused community.” Policy Order 23, which looks into public spaces and whether they restrict unhoused people from resting, was also on the agenda.
Non-congregate shelter spaces are usually defined as hotel rooms, dorm rooms, or other individualized living arrangements, in which people have their own bedrooms and bathrooms. Given the transmission risks of Covid-19, separate living space has taken on a new importance.
Just as Chute was preparing his remarks, Project Right To Housing, a housing advocacy group being piloted in Cambridge, held a “lit drop” — a door-to-door distribution of campaign literature — calling residents to support Policy Order 13 and urge the city to establish new non-congregate shelters. The flyer, decorated with roses, a symbol associated with socialism, provided three easy steps on how to participate in the Monday meeting.
Present at the lit drop were Project Right To Housing members Piper W. Winkler ’21, and Benjamin B. Roberts ’23.
Winkler wore a Bernie Sanders shirt; she was a founding member of Harvard Students for Bernie, which has since become an official chapter of Youth Democratic Socialists of America. Roberts is also an active member of Harvard YDSA. Coming from San Francisco, Roberts was “disheartened” to see in Cambridge the same issue that persists in his hometown: an “enormously rich city” failing to “provide much in the way of housing or affordable housing for its most vulnerable residents.”
Winkler and Roberts made their way from one house to another in West Cambridge, inserting flyers in door jambs where they would not be easily blown by the winter winds. Although Roberts wore gloves, his hands were still freezing.
“It’s not just this is the right thing to do [but] it’s something that we should be doing. It’s a way to protect our neighbors,” Roberts says, warming his hands inside his car.
But the next day, just a few hours before the virtual meeting was supposed to take place, the City Council announced that it would be postponed to Feb. 3, due to a Nor’easter. On Monday night, like always, as many as hundreds of unhoused people slept outside, completely exposed to the elements.
Project Right To Housing reached out to the people they had contacted, making sure they were aware of the time change, and urging them to speak at the Wednesday meeting.
“We would need them to show up on Wednesday with this added urgency where the city had acknowledged the danger of the snow,” Winkler says, “to push the council if they were going to protect themselves and protect people going to that meeting, to also protect the unhoused community members who do not have a secure place to sleep.”
The episode captured how in Cambridge, a city that prides itself on progressive politics, the pandemic has sharpened and made visible the contours of ongoing housing inequality, and revealed the growing political might of a youth-driven, democratic socialist movement.
During a snowstorm that took place the week before the canceled meeting, Massachusetts State Police destroyed an encampment of unhoused people on the Cambridge side of the Boston University Bridge, in what unhoused people and housing advocates refer to as a “sweep.”
Calla M. Walsh, a high schooler who is a member of Project Right to Housing as well as a DSA affiliate, witnessed the sweep firsthand. She found it horrifying. “The state police were tearing [the housing encampment] apart,” she says. “This was in the middle of a snowstorm, and they were throwing out people’s belongings, throwing out people’s tents.” She posted pictures of the sweep online, inspiring public uproar.
“Among service providers, among nonprofits and churches, I would say the very top thing on our list would be to stop the homeless sweeps,” says Rev. Kate Layzer, Minister of Street Outreach at the First Church in Cambridge. According to Layzer, “when a business owner complains,” the Department of Public Works comes and “throws everything into a dumpster, including your paperwork and the tent that a donor purchased that you received and your sleeping bag and your clothing and your personal possessions.”
Layzer’s insight reveals the fraught relationship between businesses and the unhoused community, which boils down to a common belief that having people on the streets is bad for business. Yet many activists say sweeps don’t actually get unhoused people off the streets in a meaningful way, which would require alternative shelter or housing. Rather, sweeps just force unhoused people to different streets, often stripping them of or destroying the very forms of documentation they need to acquire housing.
Cambridge Public Works Commissioner Owen O’Riordan clarified in an email how the department manages sweeps, noting that DPW provides 48 hours notice and any confiscated property is stored at a DPW facility. “This long-standing practice is well-known within the local homeless and provider community, and individuals usually come to collect their belongings within a couple days,” he writes. Regulation 02-01 prohibits storing property in public spaces, he explains.
Jeremy Warnick, a spokesperson for the Cambridge Police Department, declined to comment on the use of sweeps, but emphasized that the department’s “Homeless Outreach Officers” and affiliated social workers are working to connect unhoused residents to necessary city services. He highlighted a recent initiative intended to secure housing vouchers for residents with criminal records, who he notes are “among the longest unhoused in the City.”
Sweeps speak to a deeper need for affordable and accessible housing in Cambridge. For many unhoused people, even before the pandemic, finding housing was an arduous process.
“As someone who was chronically homeless in Cambridge, I can honestly say that the benches in Central Square and Harvard Square T Stations saved me from freezing to death on many occasions,” Chute told the City Council when it eventually convened to discuss Policy Orders 13 and 23 on February 3.
As Chute tries to tell more of his personal experience on behalf of unhoused people, Mayor Sumbul Siddiqui cuts him off. He has reached his maximum two minutes of allotted time to speak.
“Thank you for your testimony,” Siddiqui interrupts. “Feel free to get in touch via email with the remainder.”
Chute was not able to email the Council, but he came back to the next meeting on Feb. 8 to remind them that they need to hear and include unhoused voices.
It took seven years for Chute to get permanent housing through the city. For people like him who have experienced homelessness, he says, being in a temporary shelter does not necessarily offer safety or certainty.
Chute was born in Boston and grew up in Cambridge, graduating from Cambridge Rindge and Latin School. His father immigrated from Ireland; Chute calls himself “a first-generation American.”
After high school, Chute began working as a carpenter, and still does so to this day. Back in 2012, while working on a skyscraper in downtown Boston, he experienced an accident that injured his back and required spinal surgery. His doctor prescribed pain medications for the treatment.
“I ended up becoming a full-fledged heroin addict,” Chute says, describing his struggle with substance use after his accident. “And, you know, I just lost everything, I wasn’t able to hold my job, and I ended up going to prison for bank robbery.”
After being incarcerated, Chute had neither a family to lean on nor a place to live.
“The last time I got out of prison, that very night, I went to the homeless shelter in Cambridge,” Chute says. “I had no place to go.”
Chute stayed in various shelters while looking for permanent housing through the city.
“I don’t think the public, when they hear ‘homeless shelter’ — they don’t know what really goes on in there,” Chute says. “It’s a traumatic experience.”
One of the shelters that Chute stayed in was the Cambridge and Somerville Programs for Addiction Recovery (CASPAR) Emergency Services Center. Located at 240 Albany St., CASPAR is one of two shelters in the state that lets in unhoused people dealing with substance use issues. It is operated by Bay Cove Human Services, the same organization that is running Cambridge’s temporary emergency shelter at the Spaulding Hospital.
In Chute’s experience, “there’s chaos 24/7” in 240 Albany St. — to the extent that “you’ll never get a good night’s sleep there.” Before the pandemic, people were packed in together, either sleeping on their own bed or on a mat on the floor, creating an environment where “a fight could break out at any time” and “you’re always on the threat of being robbed.” In one instance, he lost his entire week’s pay when someone stole his wallet in the shelter.
“I didn’t have a bank account at that time, because my backpack that I was carrying all my ID documents in was stolen, so I couldn’t open an account,” Chute says. “I was able to have a friend cash the paycheck for me, but then I was carrying all this cash with me in the shelter. Someone must have [seen] me with it and when I fell asleep, they unzipped my pocket and took it.”
Chute says the shelter reeks of body odor, a stench only worsened by the malfunctioning toilets and urinals that leak urine, feces, and vomit. Before the pandemic, the shelter at 240 Albany St. housed 103 people; its occupancy has since fallen to 50. Last year, several occupants were transferred to the city’s temporary emergency shelter, stationed now in Spaulding, as a way to prevent Covid-19 infections.
Most shelters in Cambridge have a lottery process for allocating beds and sleeping mat spaces. The unhoused people who manage to get a spot at 240 Albany St. are subjected to a thorough search by Bay Cove staff, including a metal detector and bag inspections. The staff are looking for drugs, weapons, and food. The penalty for bringing food inside the shelter, such as a meal from a soup kitchen, is expulsion.
“They have so many rules, so you could be kicked out for almost anything,” Chute says.
Nancy Mahan, Bay Cove’s senior vice president of services, acknowledges the difficulties of shelter life. Responding to criticisms about the experience of living in Bay Cove-operated shelters, she says, “It’s hard for [unhoused] people to be in a tight space when they’re having probably one of the hardest times in their life.”
“Do I think there’s been times when [Bay Cove staff] have misused their authority around having people leave too generously? Yes, I do,” Mahan admits.
Mahan knows that the environment in shelters can be overwhelming for both guests and staff. She emphasizes that staff training involves learning how to de-escalate conflicts, but doesn’t think that shelters are perfect.
Going from shelter to permanent housing is a “very difficult and a long process,” Chute says.
“Without professional guidance and help from somebody that really knows the system, I don’t think I would ever be…” Chute trails off. “I think I’d still be on the street.” He only obtained housing with the help of a staff member from HomeStart, a nonprofit organization that helps unhoused people in the Boston area secure housing vouchers.
Any mistake — a missed deadline or appointment, a small error in paperwork — can bump someone to “the bottom of the list” again.
Assistant City Manager for Human Services, Ellen Semonoff, did not respond to multiple requests for comment on the alleged stringency of the process.
In April of last year, Chute authored a petition asking for the city “to provide hotel rooms and/or vacant apartments for individuals who need them immediately.” Under the leadership of City Manager Louis A. DePasquale, the city had created a temporary congregate shelter at the War Memorial Recreation Center — a response Chute condemned as cruel and inadequate. His petition garnered 121 signatures from unhoused people.
“The current strategy to use the War Memorial as a temporary shelter is, in our opinion, a disaster in the making,” the petition reads. “Please explain how a concrete parking structure or a gymnasium could ever be described as an ‘ideal’ place for a human being to live.”
Advocacy groups like Project Right To Housing, along with Cambridge City Councilors Quinton Y. Zondervan and Jivan Sobrinho-Wheeler, supported Chute and the unhoused community in crafting the petition, which was made all the more urgent by the pandemic. Although all but one of the City Councilors voted to keep the petition on file, and the City Manager met with members of the unhoused community who signed the petition, the city did not ultimately create any non-congregate shelter spaces.
Policy Order 13, the request for non-congregate shelter space did pass on Feb. 3, 2021, but has been left in the hands of DePasquale to implement — and he hasn’t yet, nor has he given any indication that he will.
The public face of Cambridge local government is its City Council, comprising nine elected City Councilors who represent the entire Cambridge population. But for all policies the City Council adopts, funding and implementation depend on one person: DePasquale. When the City Council votes on a policy order, DePasquale must determine the feasibility of the plan. According to the City Charter, he can report back to the Council at his leisure, or even not at all.
DePasquale’s unilateral ability to determine what does and does not get city funding has become a flashpoint at times when his priorities have not aligned with the Council’s, and by proxy, the city’s population. Housing advocates worry that housing-related policy orders will make it through the City Council, only to remain perpetually in limbo on his desk.
City Councilors like Zondervan and Sobrinho-Wheeler oppose the powers of the unelected City Manager. “The executive authority under our current charter is all under the City Manager,” Sobrinho-Wheeler says. “Only the City Manager can propose to the Council an appropriation or an expenditure,” Zondervan explains.
Zondervan and Sobrinho-Wheeler, both affiliated with the DSA, are serving their second and first terms on the council, respectively. They are forming a new guard, pushing policies on housing, the environment, and racial and economic justice aligned with democratic socialism.
“If we want justice, we need a city manager who will prioritize those goals. And for years, we’ve had a fiscally conservative regime in place in Cambridge, where we prioritize not spending taxpayer money on these issues, keeping property taxes low for homeowners, and a lot of these injustices are not being addressed,” Zondervan says.
Lower property taxes benefit homeowners, while reducing the amount of funding available for public services and amenities. Activists argue that DePasquale’s focus on satisfying homeowners reflects and reinforces a dynamic where certain voices are prioritized over others.
“This pushes young people and low income people and renters out of the conversation, because there’s an assumption that you have to have a master’s from Harvard in public policy to give your opinion,” Walsh says.” The focus on homeowners is also disproportionate, when more than 60 percent of people living in Cambridge are renters.
Last fall, DePasquale’s contract was extended until July 2022, after which he plans to retire. That contract extension vote was chaotic: It came at 1:08 a.m. after a meeting that lasted longer than eight hours and featured a contract document riddled with typos and messy handwritten modifications. Part of the debate hinged on the manager’s requested salary hike. He already earned more annually than the Mayor of Boston; with the approved increase, he now earns even more.
Only the “new guard” — Zondervan and Sobrinho-Wheeler — voted against the contract extension. “The next City Council has an opportunity to hire a more forward-looking city manager,” Zondervan says. “They better choose carefully,” he adds, chuckling.
DePasquale did not respond to multiple requests for comment in response to criticisms regarding his refusal to take action on non-congregate shelters, and his alleged prioritization of homeowners.
What Chute was looking forward to discussing with the city council that day was “hostile architecture,” an urban design tactic housing advocates say discourages unhoused community members from resting in public spaces. For instance, in September of 2020, the MBTA added metal bars to their station benches, in effect preventing unhoused people from lying on them.
“What I don’t understand is why of all times to alter the benches to put these things in, why are you doing it in the middle of a pandemic where the choices homeless people have to go chill out and stay warm or maybe lie down and take a rest are so limited?” Chute says.
At its Feb. 8 meeting, the City Council voted on Policy Order 23, which requests the City Manager “to work with the appropriate departments and staff to not use and to remove hostile architecture whenever public spaces are designed or redesigned.” All City Councilors voted in favor of the policy, except for councilors E. Denise Simmons and Timothy J. Toomey, Jr., who voted present.
“The city has had conversations with [the MBTA] about removing that architecture. They say it has nothing to do with not wanting unhoused people to use the benches. The fact is, it does prevent people from lying down,” Councilor Marc C. McGovern says. McGovern clarifies that since Cambridge does not have legal jurisdiction over the MBTA, it cannot directly order the removal of the architecture.
But McGovern also argues that, in the hostile architecture debate, Councilors must balance the interests of the unhoused community with the interests of seniors. “You have some seniors who wouldn’t be using those benches to sleep on, who like the extra support. Those folks shouldn’t be demonized for that.”
Similarly, McGovern also points out that some hostile architecture is beneficial to the disabled community. In fact, MBTA has stated that they added bars to their station benches to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act. MBTA deputy press secretary Lisa Battiston said in an email that the bars, which she refers to as “armrests,” offer “structural support for customers with mobility challenges.”
This talking point — that some hostile architecture is beneficial to or even necessary for seniors and disabled community members — infuriates many advocates for the unhoused. Zondervan, who has led the City Council’s efforts to remove hostile architecture, points out that many designs – such as backless benches – offer no such added support; they only function to exclude unhoused people. In March, Zondervan tweeted a photograph of a bench he found which contained a single metal bar across its middle. He captioned it: “Putting a bar across the middle of the bench but not either edge is the architectural equivalent of saying the quiet part out loud.”
Zondervan believes these arguments present a false binary. “I’ve spoken at length with the disabilities commission,” he says. “[There is] no true conflict between the disabled and the unhoused. Many unhoused people are seniors struggling with disabilities and mobility challenges.”
Chute attests that “the real purpose of these bars is [to] keep unhoused people from sleeping and resting on these benches.” At a City Council meeting, he demanded that Cambridge identify and remove every instance of hostile architecture. Although Policy Order 23 has passed, it has yet to be implemented; the Council is waiting on a report from DePasquale’s office.
Ultimately, hostile architecture is a symptom of the broader homelessness stigma: Its existence keeps unhoused people away from public areas, out of sight and out of mind.
Even before the pandemic, unhoused individuals like Chute felt unsafe when staying at congregate shelter spaces like 240 Albany St.
“It’s a terrible, terrible way to live. There [is] no privacy, and you know, you’re constantly surrounded by people.,” Chute recounts. “That’s why I’m so glad that there is this effort to change the idea of what a shelter looks like. It should be non-congregate, you know. I don’t know why this big warehouse model got accepted.”
But shelter policy debates have been jammed by semantics: What does and does not constitute a non-congregate shelter is an area of ongoing controversy. For instance, the city funds a temporary emergency homeless shelter which it considers a non-congregate shelter. “You have one to two people per room. It’s not … everyone in the field house,” McGovern explains.
But according to Project Right to Housing and Councilors Zondervan and Sobrinho-Wheeler, it does not qualify as non-congregate.
“I don’t agree that we have any non-congregate shelters,” Zondervan says. “Spaulding is maybe the closest we have, but even there we have some shared rooms. Even there, people are not getting the dignity and respect they deserve.” He gives an anecdote of a pregnant woman and her partner being denied privacy. “The rooms have no doors — they have curtains, and this family had their curtain removed. The staff was using it basically as a way to punish them. It’s awful.”
Mahan and Bay Cove Human Services did not immediately respond to a request for comment on the alleged lack of privacy and mistreatment of guests at Spaulding.
McGovern puts his characterization of Spaulding as a non-congregate shelter in the context of the relative success of Cambridge in limiting Covid-19 transmission in the unhoused community, compared to other cities.
“The fact is that Cambridge has actually done a very good job,” McGovern says. “It’s a pandemic, it’s terrible, there’s no good news about it. But we also have to take note that there are things we are doing here that are working.”
For Ann Fogler, one of the leaders of Project Right to Housing, that context is irrelevant. To say that the city shelter at Spaulding Hospital is non-congregate constitutes “a misinformation campaign,” Fogler argues. “McGovern has been the City Councilor that has been saying it.”
Part of the debate over building non-congregate shelters in Cambridge comes down to a contested reimbursement option provided to the city by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). In an Executive Order released on Jan. 21, 2021, the Biden administration offered aid for a number of public facilities, including schools, child-care centers, healthcare sites, and non-congregate shelters, available at “a 100 percent Federal cost share.”
McGovern explains that the city interprets the order to mean that FEMA will only reimburse non-congregate shelter space for people who test positive for Covid-19; it won’t reimburse non-congregate shelters for the entire unhoused community.
Yet to many advocates, the city’s interpretation is not grounded in the text of the executive order. FEMA’s eligibility guidelines make no explicit Covid-positivity caveat. FEMA representatives did not respond to requests for clarification, and DePasquale declined to elaborate on the city’s interpretation.
“The answer we've gotten so far from the City Manager is: ‘We believe that money is only for people who tested positive.’ I do not understand where they are coming up with that,” Zondervan says.
McGovern makes clear that money is not the obstacle to opening non-congregate shelters for the greater unhoused community. “The city has been willing to pay for things: Just Covid-related alone, we’ve invested $10 million, new money — not budgeted money, new money — to pay for public toilets and hand sanitizer stations and the meals program and renovating Spaulding Hospital and the War Memorial,” he says. “The manager, in my conversations with him, has never said, ‘It’s too expensive; I don’t want to do it.’”
Instead, McGovern argues that there are serious logistical concerns — for one, determining who has the self-sufficiency to live alone, given high addiction and mental illness rates in the unhoused community. “It’s not as simple as walking up to the Marriott with a city of Cambridge credit card,” he jokes.
McGovern says he “supports this kind of thing,” but hedges on its necessity: “We haven’t had the outbreaks we’ve seen in other places,” he repeats. If the goal is not about outbreak management, he adds, “then that’s a different conversation.”
To some housing advocates, this “different conversation” extends beyond the specifics of the Covid-19 crisis and should have been brought to the forefront long ago. “Oh, we have a public bathroom. Oh, we have a warming center, where people can come warm up. They will do anything but give people actual homes,” says Walsh, a Project Right to Housing member. “But it’s not surprising. Cambridge politics is very much about looking good on the surface level when addressing these systemic issues. You see that with policing, with climate, with every issue, especially housing.”
"The democratic socialists see resistance to non-congregate shelters as a desire to avoid setting a precedent for permanent public housing. “They are scared if they show it’s totally possible and affordable to house people in non-congregate shelters in the pandemic, they can do this not during the pandemic, and for all unhoused people,” Walsh says.
McGovern emphasizes that there are different long term approaches to homelessness beyond non-congregate shelters, such as transitional housing. “The City Council has always been supportive of trying to address homelessness,” he argues. But he believes that, despite the Council’s efforts, there are “always going to be people who are unhoused.”
For advocates, non-congregate shelters, the removal of hostile architecture, and an end to police sweeps are all pieces of a broader attempt to redefine housing as a human right, not a privilege.
To Project Right to Housing, and democratic socialists more broadly, this transformation would entail an end to reliance on the market. “Our ultimate goal is the decommodification of housing,” Walsh says. She believes that limiting corporate influence in politics is crucial. “So much in Cambridge politics is determined by developers, who make their living on the commodification of housing,” she explains.
Shelters, no matter how humane, will always be a reactive response to the problem of homelessness. People who need shelters have already been failed by housing policy; there’s only so much that homelessness policy can do, she argues. According to Project Right to Housing, that’s where initiatives like rent control, tenant protections, mixed-income public housing, and zoning reform come in.
But beyond policies and politics, housing justice is a battle for dignity. It’s a demand for community members to stop walking by and treating unhoused people in Harvard Square as if they are invisible.
“Once you become conscious of these issues, it’s just so visible when you’re walking around your neighborhood,” Walsh says. “I live right outside of Central Square. I get off at Central Square station, and see anti-homeless architecture at the T station, walk past the library where unhoused people sleep every night in the freezing cold, and then I walk by luxury condos that are being built in place of affordable housing.”
As an end to the pandemic looms on the horizon, housing advocates are pushing against a return to pre-Covid policy.
Zondervan points out that an end to the pandemic could come with a surge in homelessness, as the eviction moratorium expires. “There’s going to be a wave of evictions, of people who couldn’t afford to pay their rent. It’s a horrible disaster waiting to happen,” he says. “[It will] disproportionately impact Black and Brown community members.”
“We can’t go back to normal,” he adds. “We have to [do] better, because normal was unjust.”
—Staff writer Talia Blatt can be reached at talia.blatt@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @talia_m_blatt.
—Staff writer Jeromel Dela Rosa Lara can be reached at jeromel.lara@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @jeromellara.
Sections
When the pandemic hit, Amanda L. Kool knew she was in an optimal position to help small business owners make sense of the types of federal aid coming down the pike. From 2012 to 2017, she worked at Harvard Law School helping small-time entrepreneurs in the Boston area overcome diverse sets of challenges, building skills which she later applied to her work promoting the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act. Kool’s work was well-received: She says her self-published explainer on how to navigate pandemic-related relief funds has received over 80,000 reads.
Kool is a former fellow at Harvard Law School’s Transactional Law Clinics, a co-founder of the Alliance for Lawyers and Rural America, and a pre-pandemic city-fleer. Since March, Kool has helped oversee the distribution of government aid to Kona Ice’s 1,300 independently operated ice cream trucks and lobbied congressional staffers for changes within the Small Business Administration. She  did this all from a piece of family land near her hometown in Bracken County, Kentucky, where she moved in 2017.
“This Money is For You. Please Take It,” reads Kool’s Medium post from last spring, which includes a list of banks willing to accept Paycheck Protection Program applicants without a prior banking history, the allowable uses of an Economic Injury Disaster Loan, and the details of expanded sick leave requirements for small businesses.
The Medium post was Kool’s attempt to scale up the work she’s done throughout her career, connecting underserved communities with government resources and decoding the law for those predisposed to distrusting government aid.
Kool’s legal aid journey began in Jamaica Plain, Mass., at HLS’s Community Enterprise Project, where she and her students were tasked with solving legal challenges for business owners with complicating circumstances — some of Kool’s clients were undocumented, some were veterans, and some relied on Supplemental Security Income to stay afloat. Interactions with the government can be difficult in any of those situations. To ensure they don’t run afoul of byzantine regulations, legal aid is often necessary to the pursuit of economic empowerment for these business owners.
In 2013, when food trucks were permitted for the first time in Cambridge, Kool’s team at CEP helped locals get those businesses up and running. Creating communication channels between food truck owners in Cambridge, the mayor’s office, and the local food truck union, says Kool, was the most powerful part of the project.
She, her husband, and children made the move back to Bracken County after leaving her work at HLS due to a confluence of commonplace reasons, from housing costs in Boston to the universal draw of home. But also at the center of Kool’s return to Kentucky was a rediscovered interest in rural access to justice.
“A few years into my time at HLS, I got interested in access to justice through a rural lens,” says Kool. “It happened pretty organically, and by that, I mean that Kentuckians have this thing where they love to get together with other Kentuckians and talk about Kentucky.”
Students from Kentucky (and from neighboring states and other rural communities) started approaching Kool to discuss the ways that rural experiences were treated, and ignored, in law school. After the 2016 election, in particular, there was some momentum around an effort to infuse rural perspectives into the law school curriculum, from creating more rural career opportunities to studying rural-specific legal needs in class.
Attempts at a comprehensive rural program at HLS failed, but Kool herself eventually co-authored a paper calling for more data collection about rural legal deserts, or places where a diminished stock of attorneys makes it difficult to find representation. After her return to Bracken County, she went on to lead a reading group at Harvard Law during the 2020-21 academic year called “Legal Practice and Access to Justice in Rural America.”
Despite the difficulties many rural places have in attracting young attorneys, Kool rejects the narrative that her move home was a “personal sacrifice.”
A law career in a rural place should not automatically be considered a career in legal aid or small town general practice, she believes, adding, “I think a lot of people gravitate toward being less anonymous, and a place that presents tremendous opportunity for all sorts of practice.”
“There are a lot of people who left cities where they were going to school or they were working, and they were forced to work remotely and they realized pretty quickly that they would rather be somewhere else than in that city,” Kool says.
Kool sees herself as more similar to the knowledge worker sent seeking greener pastures by the pandemic than an altruistic hometown hero.
“Had we still been living in Boston, we would have left,” she says. “We would have come home to Kentucky when everybody else left the city, and I often think ‘When would we have ever gone back?’”
Kool didn’t need to open a legal aid clinic to help her neighbors navigate last year’s many pandemic assistance programs: “I’ve been able to help them through the process, but also in the community in Bracken County, sit down with folks and fill out the paper applications by hand and help folks get comfortable to apply for this money.”
Despite the fact that Kool’s return home was based on convenience and personal desire, rather than an attempt to perform legal saviorism for rural America, her expertise is still an asset to her community.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
UPDATED: April 15, 2021 at 3:15 p.m.
A new affordable housing proposal has ignited debate over the role of single-family homes in Cambridge.
Titled the “Missing Middle Housing Petition,” the proposal is sponsored by the affordable housing nonprofit A Better Cambridge and the Boston Sunrise Movement, and calls for zoning changes to allow for the construction of more multi-family “middle housing,” or four-plexes, triple-deckers, and townhouses. Over the last week, the petition has been met with mixed responses from City Councilors and residents.
At an April 8 Ordinance Committee meeting, the City Council voted to keep the petition in committee pending further review and feedback from the Community Development Department, the city’s planning agency.
The proposal will expire if it is not brought to a vote before the end of June. According to Allan E. Sadun, a co-chair of A Better Cambridge’s board, however, the petition process remains on track despite the approaching deadline.
“We need to pass by the end of June, but that’s plenty of time to work out amendments,” he said. “So that’s what we hope to be spending the month of April doing, knowing that the Council has our back.”
Sadun said the petition originated from “a desire to do something” about the housing shortage in Cambridge.
“We have exclusionary zones in the residential districts of Cambridge that are there for historically racist and classist reasons that are preventing Cambridge from building needed sustainable and affordable housing,” he said.
The petition seeks to implement parts of Envision Cambridge — a long-term planning vision for city development released by the Community Development Department in 2019 — though the plan lacks specific zoning and affordable housing recommendations, according to Sadun.
“It’s up to the Council and to the public and advocates to translate Envision into zoning statements,” Sadun said.
Under current zoning law in Cambridge, the construction of new apartments is illegal on approximately one-third of all land in the city. If passed, the petition will allow multi-family housing of up to three stories to be built on any Cambridge street and remove off-street parking requirements.
Sadun said the petition addresses the intersection of the climate and housing crises in Cambridge, arguing that tackling the housing shortage will take cars off the road and reduce overall carbon emissions in the city.
“Multi-family housing, in inner core cities like Boston and Cambridge, is the single most effective thing we can do to cut down on carbon emissions in the state,” he said.
Some Councilors, however, had their doubts about the petition. Councilor Patricia M. “Patty” Nolan ’80, who previously co-sponsored a policy order instructing the city to look into removing single and two-family zoning, said in an interview that the petition was “very well-intentioned,” but that she had some “serious concerns” about it and believes it provides “no guarantee” of more affordable housing or environmental benefits.
“That petition started in a way that put all this stuff on the table without doing the hard work before to establish what are the goals,” she said.
Nolan also said she finds the name of the petition “odd,” since Cambridge does not seem to be missing middle housing — single-family homes account for less than seven percent of Cambridge housing units.
Christopher Schmidt, a member of A Better Cambridge who helped write the petition, argued it would lead to more new housing options for middle-income earners, including teachers and firefighters.
“I think it is totally reasonable to point out that this type of housing isn’t really missing in Cambridge at the moment,” he said. “What it’s missing from is in new construction.”
According to Schmidt, middle-sized housing units are being replaced by single-family dwellings.
“No one is saying you shouldn’t be allowed to build something, but you should not be incentivized to create only expensive housing that is bad for the environment,” he said.
While some City Councilors want to amend the petition, others — including Nolan — think the city should engage in a “comprehensive plan” to examine the zoning code overall.
Nolan said she was frustrated the city has not taken the time to do so, and instead has relied on “pop-up proposals,” such as the Missing Middle Housing Petition.
Nolan added she wants a zoning overhaul to come from a “broad swath” of Cambridge residents, not just from a few local groups, as in the case of the petition.
“If this was allowed, does it affect our community-scape in a way that would mean that Cambridge is not as open and welcoming and the kind of city that we want to continue to live in?” she asked.
CORRECTION: April 15, 2021
A previous version of this article quoted Councilor Patricia M. “Patty” Nolan ’80 stating that the petitioners had not consulted the Community Development Department in advance of filing. In fact, they have consulted with the CDD several times throughout the drafting and filing process. 
—Staff writer Ryan S. Kim can be reached at ryan.kim@thecrimson.com.
—Staff writer David R. Shaw can be reached at david.shaw@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @davidrwshaw.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Cambridge Mayor Sumbul Siddiqui endorsed Boston City Councilor Andrea J. Campbell in her bid to become mayor of Boston on April 5, citing Campbell’s dedication to advancing equity.
Siddiqui is the latest Cambridge official to endorse in the competitive mayoral race, after two Cambridge City Councilors pledged support for Michelle Wu ’07, another current Boston City Councilor, in December. U.S. Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.) also endorsed Wu in January.
Siddiqui said in a press release that Campbell’s vision will help make Boston “truly equitable for all,” benefiting the entire region, including Cambridge.
“Andrea cares deeply, leads authentically, and works collaboratively to address the inequities she experienced growing up in Boston that too many families in our communities still face,” Siddiqui said.
A new poll by WBUR shows Campbell in fourth place, 15 points behind frontrunner Wu. While half of respondents were still undecided, Campbell faces low name recognition: 42 percent of the registered voters polled reported having “never heard of” her.
Nonetheless, Campbell has been the race’s most prolific fundraiser, bringing in over $625,000 since January — more than any other candidate.
Campbell said in the release that, if elected, she hopes to forge a strong partnership with Siddiqui, whose leadership she admires.
“From our higher education institutions, public transit, and local economy, collaborative leadership between the City of Boston and City of Cambridge is essential to creating an inclusive, equitable, thriving community for our residents, students, and workforce,” Campbell said.
Like Siddiqui, the first Muslim mayor elected in Massachusetts, Campbell hopes to make history by becoming the first Black woman elected mayor of Boston.
Acting Mayor Kim M. Janey — currently polling one point behind Wu, per WBUR — became the first Black person and woman to serve as Boston’s mayor when she was sworn in on March 24.
Janey declared her candidacy on April 6.
While initially expected to be non-competitive, the election became an open race following former Mayor Marty Walsh’s appointment as President Joe Biden’s Labor Secretary.
In addition to Campbell, Wu, and Janey, other candidates vying for the post include Boston City Councilor Annissa Essaibi George, former Boston Chief of Economic Development John Barros, and State Rep. Jon Santiago.
Campbell began her public career as deputy legal counsel to then-Gov. Deval L. Patrick ’78, before her election to the Boston City Council in 2015.
She has received mayoral endorsements from several other public figures, including former Massachusetts First Lady Diane Patrick.
Campbell was also endorsed on April 1 by Our Black Party, a national organization focused on improving the quality of life of Black Americans.
Candace Hollingsworth, the organization’s national co-chair, said in a press release that Campbell is one such candidate.
“In cities across the country, we need bold leaders like Andrea Campbell who will lead with equity and justice as the centerpiece of their work, not an add-on,” Hollingsworth said. “Andrea’s record on the Boston City Council shows great promise for how she will make sure that the city’s Black residents will be able to share in its prosperity.”
The preliminary election is scheduled to take place on Sept. 21. The top two finishers will face off in the general election on Nov. 2.
— Staff writer Brandon L. Kingdollar can be reached at brandon.kingdollar@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter at @newskingdollar.
—Staff writer David R. Shaw can be reached at david.shaw@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @davidrwshaw.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
As positive coronavirus cases trend upwards across the University, Harvard Business School has moved into the state’s “red zone” with 18 new Covid-19 cases reported last week, all among students.
The new cases represent the school’s third highest weekly total since infections spiked at the start of September, according to a weekly update email sent to HBS affiliates on Monday.
Since March 30, HBS has reported 26 cases, meeting the state’s criteria for red-zone designation of more than 25 cases in a community under 10,000 residents within the last two weeks. Twenty-one students were in isolation and 21 in quarantine as of Monday.
The Business School is one of Harvard’s only schools conducting limited in-person instruction this semester.
Executive Dean for Administration Angela Q. Crispi and Dean of the Faculty Srikant M. Datar expressed concerns in the update email about the increase in cases as the end of the semester nears.
“We need to highlight, with dismay, the current positivity rate among MBA students,” they wrote. “We’re starting with the testing data—stark numbers that indicate we’ve moved into the red zone.”
“Please be extra vigilant and diligent—for yourself, for your classmates, and for the many faculty and staff who want to see you finish the year on a high note,” they added.
HBS spokesperson Brian C. Kenny wrote in an emailed statement that HBS does not have information on the cause of the increase in cases, but none were the result of classroom activities.
Likewise, the University’s Covid-19 testing dashboard indicates that no cases within the last seven days involved “transmission within the workplace or educational settings.”
The increase at HBS aligns with an uptick in total cases at Harvard. In the last seven days, the dashboard reported 51 new positive cases across the University, up from 25 cases the week of March 28 and 39 cases the week of April 4. Additionally, 61 affiliates are currently in isolation housing.
Harvard spokesperson Jason A. Newton wrote in an emailed statement that the increase in cases at Harvard follows a pattern across the country, pointing to vaccination rates and the rise in coronavirus variants in Massachusetts as possible factors.
“Most infections in Massachusetts are occurring among persons who have not been fully vaccinated, pointing to the continued risk in the region,” Newton wrote. “Massachusetts is also experiencing increased presence of virus variants, which have higher infectivity.”
New case numbers are typically included in weekly coronavirus updates on the Harvard Business School’s website. The week of April 6 to 12 is the first week since HBS launched its internal testing dashboard in February that testing data has not been included.
Kenny wrote this omission was due to HBS’s recognition that those unaffiliated with HBS or Harvard can find University-wide testing data on Harvard’s Covid-19 dashboard.
“We do not always include the case numbers, knowing that people outside of the HBS/Harvard community can access the University’s COVID-19 dashboard for a comprehensive view of the numbers, which we link to in many of the messages,” Kenny wrote.
Kenny wrote the Dean’s Office has sent emails with case and testing information intended for an internal audience on a weekly basis as needed. HBS administrators have continued to disclose the new case numbers in their weekly internal emails.
“With regard to the messages to the community, our intention since the outset of the pandemic has been to communicate regularly with all the members of our community, including students, faculty and staff,” Kenny wrote.
—Staff writer Claire H. Guo can be reached at claire.guo@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @clairehguo.
—Staff writer Christine Mui can be reached at christine.mui@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @MuiChristine.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard faculty and public policy experts discussed health care policy in an era of extreme partisan polarization at an event hosted by the Harvard School of Public Health, Politico, and The Commonwealth Fund on Wednesday.
Joanne Kenen ’79, health care editor-at-large for Politico, moderated the discussion, which featured Robert J. Blendon, a professor at the School of Public Health; Guy-Uriel E. Charles, a law professor at Duke University; Sabrina Corlette ’94, a research professor at Georgetown University; and David C. King, a senior lecturer at the Harvard Kennedy School.
The event opened with a discussion of President Joe Biden’s campaign promise to unite the country after a tumultuous election season conducted in the midst of a pandemic and a national movement for racial justice. The panelists debated whether this promise has materialized in Congress, where representatives often vote based on party lines rather than their constituents’ opinions.
“When I grew up, you believed that public opinion is what the Congress voted on — and in the last 15 years, this has declined dramatically,” Blendon said.
As an example, he cited former President Barack Obama’s Affordable Care Act, which passed in 2010 with the support of the majority of Congressional Democrats, despite its unpopularity in national public opinion polls at the time.
Blendon and Corlette discussed a variety of health care reforms in the ACA, and emphasized that the legislation has endured a plethora of partisan battles in the decade since it was enacted.
King said partisanship will likely limit what legislation Biden is able to pass.
“It’ll be limited to what he can get through with Democrats only, plus executive orders, plus signing statements. You know, we keep hearing about gridlock, but I think we should begin talking about living off the grid,” King said.
The panelists turned to a discussion of broader political divisions among elected officials on issues like infrastructure and the role of government.
Blendon posited that the structure of primary elections helps fuel polarization amongst representatives. He argued that the demographics of primary voters skew towards the extremes of their party.
“Twenty percent of adults show up in a primary on either side,” he said. “All the polling shows [primary voters] do not represent America, they do not represent the party.”
Blendon commissioned public opinion polls following the 2020 election that laid bare several of the country’s partisan divisions.
For example, 64 percent of Democrats responded that the federal government should be mainly responsible for Covid-19, while 68 percent of Republicans felt that the issue is largely the responsibility of state and local governments.
King said political divisions also manifest within the parties, which are often gripped by conflicts between more extreme and more moderate factions — though they rarely materialize in votes.
“Those are certainly there, but you’re not going to see them in how the votes are cast,” he said. “Because neither party can lose enough of their members, so you have the most moderate members that are going to be controlling the outcome within each party.”
King — who serves as Faculty Chair of Harvard’s bipartisan program for newly-elected members of Congress — said recently-elected representatives “certainly” have more belief in bipartisanship than seasoned members.
“They want to get to know each other as people, they want to know about each other’s families. And before they go to D.C., their openness and ability are really right there,” he said. “There’s just too brief of a window when they can see each other as new members without a strong party label on their foreheads.”
After the event, King said in an interview that the current uptick in polarization is not without precedent, citing the lead-up to the Civil War and the 1920s as past periods of division.
“We’re probably in the third great wave of polarization in American history,” he said.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Executive board elections for the Harvard Extension Student Association — the official student government of the Extension School — are mired in controversy for the second year in a row as eligibility requirements were changed just weeks before voting was set to begin, restricting at least one potential candidate from running for president.
The changes — posted on HESA’s website — initially stated that the role of president was open only to ALM degree candidates at the Extension School, and that all students seeking election were required to have completed at least two full terms as an admitted degree candidate in their degree program. Previously, any admitted degree candidate in good academic and disciplinary standing was eligible to run.
The restriction limiting the position to only ALM candidates has since been removed, but the minimum two-term requirement remains. Voting for HESA president and vice president opened Monday and closes Friday.
On HESA’s website, the Elections Committee is listed as having instated these new rules for the 2021 elections, but no explanation for the changes is provided. It is unclear who is on the Elections Committee, including whether it comprises any HES administrators, though the elections website lists the contact for the committee as Mark A. Addison, a Student Affairs Case Manager in HES’s Dean of Students Office.
Division of Continuing Education spokesperson Harry J. Pierre denied that the DSO was responsible for initiating the changes.
“HESA student elections are managed and conducted by students for students,” he wrote. “This student-managed process is set up so that elections can be conducted in a transparent, fair and open manner.”
Asked about their involvement in enacting these changes, HESA Acting President Dina Kayali, Director of Student Affairs Natela V. Gluzinskaia, and Director of Events Sylvia A. Black did not respond to multiple requests for comment.
Kody Christiansen, an ALB degree candidate at the Extension School who wrote in an email that he may have run for HESA president if not for the two-term degree program requirement, called the changes “insulting” and “condescending.”
“Many previous HESA executive board members ran and won in their first ‘official’ semester as degree candidates and went on to have exceptional achievements with their board,” Christiansen wrote. “The new rule also ignores the fact that some of the students who wanted to run this year came into the program with full-time jobs, children, or with years of professional or student leadership experience (like me).”
Christiansen and a group of 20 HES students and alumni penned a letter to HES administrators — including Dean of Continuing Education Nancy Coleman, HES Dean of Students Robert Neugeboren, and HES Associate Dean of Students Shirley R. Greene — arguing that the new eligibility requirements directly contradict the HESA Constitution and Bylaws.
The HESA Constitution does not list any eligibility requirements for executive board positions, and the Elections Committee is vested with the power to call for nominations and limit “modes and methods” of campaigning, not change eligibility, according to the letter.
“These new Election Rules were unilaterally implemented by an overreaching Elections Committee, outside the scope of their authority, overstepping the proper amendment processes defined by the Constitution and Bylaws,” the letter reads, also noting that the changes were made quietly with no public announcement and little time before the election.
Christiansen — a student activist and the founder of the Extension Studies Removal Initiative, an organization dedicated to the removal of “in Extension Studies” from HES degree names — said he believes these changes were meant to prevent him from campaigning for the presidency.
“I believe this was a targeted attack against me and a number of other students,” Christiansen wrote, noting he believes the DSO is behind the changes with the agreement of the current board of HESA. “More importantly, this act was a blatant abuse of power.”
Two of the three presidential candidates who did ultimately run, Daniel Wypler and Antjuan Finch, are ALB degree candidates. If the rule barring ALB students from running for president had not been retracted, Wypler and Finch would not have been eligible for the position.
Wypler said it is important to have participation from both ALM and ALB candidates in HESA, and that he feels there has been a lack of communication and transparency around the changes.
“To be honest, I have no idea who changed that or proposed it,” Wypler said.
Similarly, Finch said he felt that the new changes were “somewhat vague” and noted that the DSO did not respond to his questions about the changes.
“My initial reaction was that it seemed unreasonable, but I wanted to give them the opportunity to explain themselves, and even after they changed one of those requirements, they still didn’t do that,” Finch said. “There actually might be good reasons for this — I think possibly the biggest issue here is lack of communication for these reasons.”
The eligibility changes came just weeks after the resignation of former HESA President Jacob J. Khan. Last year, Khan’s election was mired in controversy when he faced allegations of assault from a fellow HES student, and the student who brought forth the allegations was accused of doing so in an deliberate attempt to affect the election results.
Khan told The Crimson last month that his resignation had nothing to do with the 2020 election controversy, and that he no longer could commit the time to his HESA responsibilities.
“I stepped down primarily because HESA took way too much of my time,” he said in a March 26 interview. “I’m graduating this year and I’m focusing on getting a job right now.”
Extension School students have until Friday at 12:00 p.m. EST to cast their votes for HESA president and vice president, and the winner will be announced Monday.
—Staff writer Ashley R. Masci can be reached at ashley.masci@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard varsity sports teams will not participate in any organized competition — including local non-conference competition — before the fall semester, Harvard Athletics Director Erin McDermott said in an interview Wednesday.
This update comes nearly two months after the Ivy League Council of Presidents announced that some spring sports teams would be allowed to compete against local non-conference competition, provided Covid-19 circumstances improve “substantially.”
“The campus would really need to be in a green reopening level,” McDermott said. “We’re probably staying pretty consistent with where we are. The guidance we’ve been given means that just doesn’t look very likely to develop in these next couple of weeks.”
In December, the University unveiled a color-coded protocol to represent different phases of the campus reopening plan. The strictest guidelines occur under “Level 0: Purple” and progress up to “Level 5: Green,” in which all campus spaces are permitted to open with limited capacity.
When campus shifted to “Level 4: Lime” on March 14, students were permitted to gather outdoors in groups of up to 10. However, McDermott explained that the department worked with the University’s Environmental Health and Safety Department to permit groups of up to 25 athletes to practice in close proximity outdoors.
“We were able to allow some drill work that has what is considered to be incidental contact — so just kind of brushing by people, not being in close contact for obviously an extended period of time — but just to give the training a little more mobility and ability to really enact actual, more situational contact that happens in competition,” McDermott said.
“It’s not at all a true practice or full squad scrimmages or anything like that, but just some drill work that creates sometimes that incidental contact,” McDermott added. “We were able to move in that direction given the low rates of positivity on campus and the protocols that are still in place.”
Given the current state of Covid-19 in Massachusetts, McDermott also said she does not anticipate a shift to “Level 5: Green” before the end of the semester.
“My sense is just because we have classes end at the end of the month, we just got a couple of weeks left, I think we’re going to stay where we are,” McDermott said. “We’re really more focused on moving toward the fall and wanting just to keep everyone safe and in good condition, so we’re I think staying in status quo for the rest of the spring.”
McDermott also outlined the logistics of on-campus training during the summer.
“Students who are in residence because they’re taking classes, doing things that they would be on campus for, they’ll be able to train as we’ve kind of been doing this year,” McDermott said. “At this point, we don’t expect for the off-campus living students to be able to come into campus and train.”
— Staff writer Benjamin L. Fu can be reached at benjamin.fu@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @BenFu_2.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
A pair of Harvard researchers discovered that falling raindrops on other planets remain similar in size and behavior despite widely different atmospheric conditions, according to a study published in the Journal of Geophysical Research: Planets last month.
Kaitlyn “Kait” Loftus, a fourth-year Ph.D. candidate in Earth and Planetary Sciences, and environmental science professor Robin D. Wordsworth used computer models to study raindrop shape, falling speed, and evaporation speed, ultimately determining that raindrop size is relatively constant across disparate planetary environments.
Loftus — the study’s lead author — said she began thinking about this research project in fall 2019 as a “starting point” to model how the water cycle works on other planets.
“It kind of started off like a little pet project,” Loftus said. “And then I went down a rabbit hole and managed to convince my advisor that this is also an interesting problem.”
Wordsworth, who supervised the project, said the paper was unique due to its approach of starting with the “knowledge of physics” and then extrapolating its applications.
“How can we understand this process as completely as possible, and how can we generalize that to lots of different possible conditions?” he said of the study’s guiding principles.
Loftus said she and Wordsworth studied raindrops as opposed to other aspects of the water cycle like clouds and snow due to their “close to spherical” shape and ease to model in simulations.
“There’s something elegant about them,” Loftus said. “They are very simple in a way because of the fact that they are liquid, so every raindrop behaves very similarly, in contrast to snow or snowflakes [which] are very complicated.”
Wordsworth said one big challenge was “deciding on how many processes to include.”
“Cloud microphysics is a very complicated problem, and lots of different things that go into it and trying to do everything at once for totally generalized conditions — you would probably need to write a paper that was 100 pages long or longer,” he said.
Loftus said she found the results of her 28-page paper — the discovery that raindrops remain consistent across planets — to be “surprising.”
“There’s all kinds of sensitivities to like how strong gravity is, how thick the air is, what the air is made out of,” Loftus said, referring to the atmospheric conditions of exoplanets. “A lot of these dependencies end up cancelling out, and the basic behaviors of how raindrops work is actually quite similar across broad planetary conditions.”
Loftus added, however, that her paper is a “laying-the-groundwork study,” and that more components of how rainfall precipitates can be included in future computer models.
She explained that she and Wordsworth did not model the “birth of a raindrop,” which she described as “fundamental.” In addition, she said the pair did not study snow or other solid particles.
Loftus said understanding raindrop patterns across planets using computer models can help scientists piece together large-scale climate models.
To assemble a computerized climate model that spans the globe, “we have to basically abstract what’s happening on the level of clouds, which includes kind of precipitation and rain,” Loftus said. “It’s more like an art than necessarily a science of how you abstract these very small-scale processes to put them into big models.”
Wordsworth said he admires the way Loftus approached building her model to address a difficult topic.
“The real challenge is to build a model that’s just complicated enough to include the key things you care about, but otherwise, as simple as it can be, and I think that’s what [Kaitlyn] has achieved here,” he said.
—Staff writer Natalie L. Kahn can be reached at natalie.kahn@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @natalielkahn.
—Staff writer Simon J. Levien can be reached at simon.levien@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @simonjlevien.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Another Wellness Day is here (believe it or not, our last ever for this semester), and we have been brainstorming ways to make every one of those 1,440 minutes count. Although Thursday looks rainy for those of us around Boston, it is still possible to be well (probably)! Maximize that cozy rainy day, pause and listen to the lovely raindrops, and get ready for the last few weeks of the semester.
Movie Day
After weeks of Zoom, plus never-ending psets and papers, your brain deserves a break. Get cozy with your favorite pjs, a fuzzy blanket, a cup of something warm, and snuggle in for a lovely movie day. Rewatch all eight Harry Potters! Throw on something vaguely Harvard-related (maybe a Legally Blonde moment). Watch three seasons of the Great British Baking Show and get inspired to try to bake something! Turn on some cozy lights and turn off your work — that pset can wait for Elle Woods to go to Harvard Law.
Build a Fort
Although you may not be quite as stress-free as your childhood self at this moment, one can dream. What better way to channel that energy than to build a fort?! Throw together some pillows, blankets, maybe rope in your engineering friend for some structural stability, and build the fort of your dreams. Toss in a few sheets and pillows and maybe add lights for some dreamy ambiance and enjoy! This is the perfect place to nap, lounge, and hide from all of the things you have to do tomorrow. Today’s worry is keeping the pillows from collapsing!
Play in the Rain
Just because it is raining (I mean maybe, not sure what Boston weather will actually do to us) does not mean you have to stay inside! If a movie day in a homemade fort sounds a little too dry, go explore Cambridge in the rain. Grab a nice umbrella and throw on some rain boots and get out there! Splash in puddles and dance in the rain, run around listening to Taylor Swift, or jump in the Charles (I mean, hey, you’re already wet). Honestly, nothing sounds more cathartic than singing “Forever and Always (Taylor’s Version)” (piano edition perhaps?) in a downpour, but chase whatever sounds the most well to you!
Buy a Plant
What says wellness more than a new plant? We’re not sure, and honestly at this point anything is worth a try! Check out our guide on becoming a plant person, brave the rain, and head out to pick up your new desk buddy! The two (or more!) of you can sit outside together and soak up the rain together<3
Fearless (Taylor’s Version)
We have done the math. 1,440 minutes of wellness means listening to Fearless (Taylor’s Version) 13.58 times (13). We don’t make the rules. What better way to be well than sitting down for a good cry, practicing your vocals, and getting your neighbors to beg you to stop belting the album at all hours of the day. We can’t guarantee you’ll be (Mr.) Perfectly Fine after this, but you will get to relive every emotion you’ve ever had, and that is a ride in itself.
Sleep
This one is pretty self explanatory. Pretty please get some sleep and take care of yourself (the best you can today)! Today is a day that calls for pjs and naps, many of them. Rest, relax, and catch up on those many, many hours of lost sleep. Eat your favorite food, sleep, and repeat.
In all honesty, Wellness Days are, well… you know. Do whatever makes you happy and hang in there — with less than three weeks of class left, we’re almost there! Sunny, “weller” days are coming soon!
Sections
The world is, metaphorically, all over the place. And because of this, Harvard students are, quite literally, also all over the place. To bridge the gap between those living on and off campus (or halfway across the world), we decided to try something crazy: enjoy our week of Freaky Friday, time zone edition.
Starting Thoughts
Fadzai: No one told me I would be starting my Harvard career in my bedroom 13,000 kilometers (8,000 miles) away from campus. Not to mention that I live six hours in the future. Taking advantage of this unique opportunity, Alex and I thought it would be fun to switch time zones, with her living according to South African time and me living according to Boston time. My day was going to run from roughly 8 a.m. to 12 a.m. EST, which is 2 p.m. to 6 a.m. South African time. Easy, right?
Alex: While most Harvard students are dotted across the world, those of us in Cambridge are oblivious to the harsh reality of time zones. So, Fadzai and I decided to switch timezones for a week. I adjusted to South Africa time — six hours ahead of the East Coast — meaning I woke up at 2 a.m. and went to bed at 6 p.m. EST (or tried to).
Days 1-2
Fadzai: Day 1 was the day Alex and I came up with the idea to switch time zones. At that point, it was already 10 p.m. so my time and I had eight beautiful, quiet hours to kill. I went to my entryway’s study break, hopped into office hours for a class, and grinded away on a pset for the rest of the night until I went to bed at 6 a.m. Now, I really tried to wake up at 2 p.m., but my body just would not let me and I ended up getting up at 12 p.m.. Who needs a full eight hours of sleep anyway?
After I got up, I was faced with a dilemma: what do I eat now? Technically it was time for breakfast in Boston, but a bowl of cereal wasn’t going to get me through the day — so I skipped breakfast and had lunch at 2 p.m. (brunch?). I then had supper (lunch?) at 7 p.m. (1 p.m. EST). I was pretty much living on two meals a day. Technically I could have stored a bowl of cold pasta in my room for “dinner” at 1 a.m., but I fortunately didn’t get hungry during the night.
Alex: I really was planning on starting today. Really. It was 6 p.m. and I was psyched to get into bed. I even texted Fadzai enthusiastically, “This was such a good idea for our collaborative article!” But, then I realized that it was Monday of midterm week. Given that my chemistry midterm exam was coming up the next day I reconsidered how smart a move it would be to start the time-zone swap today. Instead of completely messing with my sleep schedule while trying to figure out the mole fraction of different gases, I probably should have read through “Sleeping Tips for Optimal Exam Performance.” Ah well, we live and we learn.
Days 3-4
Fadzai: Staying up on Day 3 was a bit tough. I tapped out some time after 4 a.m. and woke up at 10 a.m. (I had already given up trying to wake up at 2 p.m. at this point). Day 4 was the day when my South African world collided with my American world. A couple of my friends made plans to go out for breakfast in the morning at 8:30 a.m. So I was basically about to go out for breakfast at 2:30 a.m. EST. Americans do that, right?
Despite this new development, I still wanted to at least maintain my regular bed time, but decided to go to bed two hours earlier so that I could get more than two seconds of sleep. As a matter of fact, I actually got a whole three hours of sleep! I didn’t spontaneously pass out and faceplant in my smoked salmon breakfast, so all was well.
Alex: When 6 p.m. rolled around after a long day of classes, I couldn’t wait to jump under the covers. How cool was it that sleeping more was part of my Crimson comp? I rolled down the blinds, set my alarm for 2 a.m. and closed my eyes — and I successfully napped for about 45 minutes. I did try to urge myself to enter a deeper slumber, but I failed — and realized that not only did I have a pset due at midnight, but that if I got up then I could make it to the Dhall for dinner. So, that was that. It was a great nap though!
Days 5-7
Fadzai: It felt strange doing my work during the middle of the night instead of during the day. It made me feel unproductive. I felt bad waking up so late in the morning, but I had to constantly remind myself that my day had technically just started and 12 p.m. is 6 a.m. so I was actually grinding early in the day! On Day 5, I had a midterm in the afternoon and I wanted to spend some time beforehand going through my work. I still went to bed at 5 a.m. (#dedication), but I woke up earlier to study. On Day 6, I had plans to meet up with a friend for lunch at 12 p.m. my time (or a very early breakfast since it was 6 a.m. EST?). Again, I went to bed at 5 a.m. and woke up at 10:30 a.m. to go out.
Alex: Despite my limited success earlier in the week, I was dedicated to my Flyby cause. So, at 6 p.m., I went to bed. I managed to stay asleep this time, and woke up in the ‘morning’ at about 12 a.m. My suitemates, who had not gone to bed yet, were very confused when they saw me eating my Cheerios and making coffee. I was feeling good — our time zone swap was working! I started working on my Expos essay feeling extremely accomplished. Halfway through my 4th paragraph though, a power nap was unavoidable. The nap sadly lasted until my 9 a.m. lecture the next morning.
Final Thoughts
Fadzai: When I found out I would be studying at home for the semester, I considered becoming nocturnal and living according to Boston time to make life easier for myself. Thank goodness I didn’t follow through with that. This week left me running on minus two hours of sleep and two meals a day. Something tells me living this way would not pass a doctor’s vibe check. I think I’ll stick to living according to South African time. Shout out to all my fellow internationals who are doing their best to navigate this crazy time and even crazier time zones.
Alex: All I can say is thank goodness I’m carrying out this semester in Cambridge. While I may not have achieved full success at the 2 a.m. to 6 p.m. adventure, I did catch up on sleep that I really needed (unlike Fadzai who got even less sleep, rip). I also caught a taste of the time-zone hardships faced by international students who are not on campus. For any internationals reading this, you are true champions<3
