Over the 15 years Philip W. Kreycik ’06 spent at Harvard, former First-Year Outdoors Program director Brent J. Bell remembers him as being unfailingly strong and kind with a “vigorous curiosity.”
“People I know talk about how comforting it was to have Phil’s hand reach out to you and help you,” Bell said. “He did a lot of things that he would consider small things … small moments that had big influences on people.”
Kreycik, an environmentalist and avid adventurer, disappeared on a trail run outside Pleasanton, Calif. on July 10. His body was found on August 3 just off of the trail. Although his initial autopsy has ruled out foul play, the cause of death remains unknown.
After Kreycik was reported missing, hundreds rallied for a search and rescue effort that the Alameda County Sheriff's Office called one of the largest ever on the West Coast. Twelve thousand people joined a Facebook group for the search and a fundraiser for Kreycik’s family has raised more than $150,000.
Kreycik, who graduated from the College in 2006, revitalized the Harvard Outing Club and worked on the University’s environmental initiatives with the Resource Efficiency Program and Harvard Office for Sustainability. Throughout his undergraduate years and the decade he spent as Faculty Dean Aide – or Elf – in Adams House, Kreycik was known for his humor, generosity, and humility.
He was also always outdoors — an ultramarathoner, biker, and “renowned adventurer,” said Thomas S. “Tom” Wooten ’08, who met Kreycik through the Outing Club.
“The size of this search in part is testament to how devoted the people in his life were to him,” Wooten said. “Everybody who knew him knows that he would be doing exactly the same thing for us if the tables were turned.”
Born in Minnesota and raised in Richmond, Va., Kreycik resided in Adams House and concentrated in Earth and Planetary Sciences while at Harvard, eventually earning a Hoopes Prize for his senior thesis. As a lover of the outdoors, he was a leader in the First-Year Outdoors Program, Harvard Outing Club, and Mountaineering Club.
Patrick F. Baur ’07, who helped Kreycik revive the Outing Club, recalled his friend’s “inclusive and open and loving” strength that came to define the club’s culture.
“Phil just had this infectious energy and infectious joie de vivre, spreading that excitement, that adventurous spirit, just the will to live, to the people around him,” Baur said. “Phil enjoyed life most when he could help other people enjoy life.”
Bell recalled Kreycik’s “unassuming” folding bicycle, which he used for commuting and outdoor adventures.
“Phil kind of was like that bike,” he said. “People might not know that this guy just ran 36 miles in the mountains, or he just bicycled to Mount Washington, climbed Mount Washington, and biked back to Harvard in one day.”
Scot M. Miller ’07, a fellow Outing Club member and Earth and Planetary Sciences concentrator, recalled that Kreycik once asked him to go on a bike ride from Harvard to Canada, a trip Kreycik later completed with his wife on a tandem bicycle.
“One of the nicest and most generous and also one of the most adventurous people that I’ve ever met,” Miller said. “And Phil also had a side of him that I think was incredibly quirky and mischievous, which I loved about him and really appreciated.”
Karen “Lexi” Tuddenham ’05, a former FOP leader alongside Kreycik, described him as “up for anything.”
“He often brought people along for his adventures, but he also was totally fine just going off and doing something wacky on his own, too,” Tuddenham said. “Time was no object, not having just the right gear was no object, he would just go and do it.”
James “Jay” Miller ’09, for whom Kreycik was leader for FOP and Outing Club President, said Kreycik had a “quiet strength.”
“He wasn’t at all sort of in your face about the fact that he was such an incredible athlete and so accomplished in the outdoors,” Miller said. “He was happy to be outside with anybody.”
“He was someone who had hiked across Kyrgyzstan and had done geology fieldwork in the Brooks Range in Alaska and had really been all over the world and the outdoors and had all these amazing adventures,” he added.
After graduating from Harvard in 2006, Kreycik remained at Harvard as Resource Efficiency Program Coordinator, later earning graduate degrees from MIT in Urban Planning and Transportation.
Kreycik, who as an undergraduate worked in the Harvard Office for Sustainability shortly after its founding, was deeply passionate about environmentalism.
Former REP representative Summer A. Montacute ’06 said Kreycik’s dedication to sustainability was a “big inspiration” to her as an undergraduate.
“He was so committed to environmental and sustainability issues at a time when it wasn’t very popular at Harvard,” Montacute said. “He has just really stuck to the issues that he thinks are important, and that he really cares about trying to make the world a better place.”
Leith J. Sharp, who founded the Office for Sustainability and worked with Kreycik when he was an undergraduate, said he was “really beloved by everyone that worked with him.”
“He had this slight quirky combination of being like this superhuman athlete, like caring, soft, kind heart, and unrelenting passion and commitment to contribute to the world,” Sharp said.
Robert M. Gogan Jr., former director of Harvard’s recycling program, recalled Kreycik’s “respect and kindness” when Kreycik worked as REP Coordinator after graduation.
“It’s that combination of courtesy, kindness, care, intelligence, leadership, too,” Gogan said. “He just took such delight in mentoring his REPs along, and his outdoors programs’ kids, showing them that they could come skiing and introducing them to the outdoors.”
While working with REP, Kreycik also planned events for undergraduates in Adams as a Faculty Dean Aide for 11 years.
Samantha L. Houston ’11, who served as an Adams Elf with Kreycik for six years, said he had “a tremendous amount of warmth” and “a quiet intensity.”
“He was so smart and so hard working and everything he did, whether it was his job – his day job – his Elf job, his athletic pursuits,” Houston said.
Judith S. Palfrey ’67 and John G. “Sean” Palfrey ’67, former Adams House Faculty Deans, described Kreycik as a “member of the family.”
“He was one of the centerpieces of the community in Adam’s House for 14 years, 15 years, being in the middle in Apthorp [House] and everything,” Sean Palfrey said. “Everybody knew him and loved him.”
Sean Palfrey officiated Kreycik’s wedding, which was held in the Adams House courtyard.
After moving to Berkeley, Calif., Kreycik continued his work on transportation sustainability and clean energy as an analyst at Pacific Gas & Electric.
“He was kind of self-taught and went on to get multiple graduate degrees and become an expert in all things energy and transportation, and always with an eye towards sustainability, reducing global climate change, promoting renewable energy and clean energy,” said Nathan Gauthier, who met Kreycik through the Office for Sustainability in 2007. “The world is better because of it.”
Judy Palfrey said Kreycik would be proud of the legacy he is leaving behind.
“He took the idea of being an environmental activist and turned it into total reality,” she said. “He was living the life that he set out.”
Hundreds of volunteers joined the search for Kreycik, which friends said is illustrative of the impact he made.
“​​As heartbreaking as the events of the past month have been, it has also been incredibly heartwarming to see how many people came together in support of Phil and to try to find him,” Scot Miller said.
Lee T. Murray ’06, Kreycik’s classmate at Harvard, built numerous detailed heat maps on the running app Strava capturing the volunteer and professional searchers’ routes during the month Kreycik was missing, which proved invaluable to eventually finding Kreycik’s body.
“What I wanted to get out of aggregating the volunteer searches and posting the heat maps was mostly to help the online search community, to let them know just how greatly appreciative myself and everyone was of all of the heroic efforts that they were doing,” Murray said. “It was something that I felt like I could help contribute, while being remote, to help efforts.”
When helping with the digital volunteer effort, Montacute said she was “blown away” by the coordination of the search over the period Kreycik was missing.
“There were different shifts that we were on — one shift ended, and people would just pass off to the next person, around the clock, and we would just do whatever needed to be done at that point,” Montacute said. “I don’t think there could have been a better volunteer group.”
Jay Miller, who flew to California to participate in the volunteer search effort after Kreycik was reported missing, described the professional search-and-rescue in combination with the volunteer effort as “impressive and comprehensive.”
“There were people from the surrounding community who either came out to hike and to help search or came out and brought meals and drinks and set up tents and helped to check people in and out,” Miller said. “It was really, really touching to see that outpouring of support from the local community and from other folks in the Bay Area, both those who knew Philip and those who didn’t.”
In addition to helping to create the Facebook group that grew to have 12,000 members, Wooten launched a GoFundMe fundraising page for the search effort.
“The rationale for making a GoFundMe at first was the thought that it seemed possible that the search was going to be going on for a long time and that there might start to be expenses related to the search that the family would have to bear,” Wooten said. “When it became clear that he wasn’t coming home, thoughts basically turned to his wife and children.”
Kreycik is survived by his parents Keith and Marcia, sister Claire, as well as his wife Jennifer Yao and two children.
At a news conference two days after Kreycik’s body was found in Pleasanton, Calif., Yao thanked the community for their support.
“Life is truly fragile and delicate, and the past three – almost four weeks – showed me that crystal clear,” Yao said. “Treat it with joy and kindness, and take on the hardships and the heartaches with courage and bravery.”
—Staff writer Vivi E. Lu can be reached at vivi.lu@thecrimson.com.
Later this month, Nirupama R. Magar ’24 will move into Adams House for the next three years, but she has never seen it — outside of a YouTube video.
Magar, who is an international student from Nepal, did not come to Harvard’s campus last year due to Covid-19 restrictions. Magar described feeling “disconnected from the community,” and Housing Day — the annual Harvard College tradition when freshmen learn of their assignment to one of the upperclassmen Houses — meant little to her because she was so far away.
For more than a decade, the tradition of “Housing Day videos” expanded the festivities from Harvard Yard to YouTube, where several videos have received tens of thousands of views. The videos — three-to-four-minute parodies featuring House members and lyrics about each House — build excitement among freshmen and upperclassmen alike. This year, the videos also gave many freshmen a first glimpse at their Houses.
“I definitely came in with a bit of a preconception about which Houses were better,” said Charlie J. Yang ’24, an international student from Australia. “But obviously the music videos did sway me a bit.”
Though she was unable to see her House in person, Magar said the Adams video taught her about the House’s fun quirks and traditions.
“It kind of gives me the impression that the campus is not fully centered on the academic aspect — it does have has other informal aspects of community,” Magar said. “It makes me feel welcome.”
Though the creative process varies a great deal from House to House, most of the Housing Day videos in recent years have followed a similar pattern: take a famous song, rewrite the lyrics to focus on Harvard and the House, and film a music video.
House Committees are charged with coordinating their respective House’s undergraduate social activities, which includes Housing Day festivities like the Housing Day videos. Each House, however, comes up with the concept for their Housing Day videos differently.
In Leverett House, “the co-chairs canvas their fellow students for ideas and songs and put together a script,” according to Leverett House Faculty Dean Brian D. Farrell.
In other houses, House Committees entrust an individual or a group of volunteers with the responsibility for writing and recording a script, as was the case with the Adams House’s 2019 video and Eliot House’s 2021 video.
Filming and production takes anywhere from a few days to multiple weeks. According to Manuel T. Chavez ’21, who has directed and edited multiple videos, editing can take around 30 hours. In the days leading up to Housing Day, the videos are published on YouTube to be enjoyed by freshmen, upperclassmen, and the general public.
BJ C. Watson ’21, who served as the creative director of the 2019 Adams Housing Day video, said he was inspired by the production value of Mather House’s 2018 video. Watson made it his goal the next year to create a diverse, involved, and quality music video that represented the spirit of Adams House. The final product went viral, clocking in at more than 63,000 views on YouTube as of this month.
“I feel like everybody’s taking them a lot more serious,” Watson said. “A lot of people are putting a lot more energy and effort into their Housing Day videos in general.”
Several students noted that the Adams 2019 video was a turning point. Tarik K. Graham ’22, who worked on the 2020 and 2021 Cabot House housing day videos, said the 2019 Adams House video “inspired” later videos.
“People in general weren’t taking them that seriously — it was kind of something that gets thrown together every year,” Graham said. “But [Adams] just brought a new sound, a new wave to it. And that inspired us to want to do it.”
Eric A. Tarlin ’22 said Adams House “popped off” and put together an “incredible video” in 2019.
“I don’t think people have tried as hard to make something that is legitimately impressive as a music video until the last couple of years,” he added.
Previous Housing Day videos such as Lowell House’s 2013 rap “Get Lowell” and Dunster House’s 2017 musical “Another Day of Dunster” have received more than 80,000 and 48,000 views on YouTube, respectively. This year, Eliot House and Cabot House’s 2021 Housing Day videos have received the most views, each with more than 9,000 views.
For Housing Day in 2021, upperclassmen were forced to adapt the video production process to fit the constraints of the pandemic.
Dylan Zhou ’22, a House Committee Chair for Dunster House, said there “wasn’t as much enthusiasm” for Housing Day, which made it more difficult to find volunteers for their video.
“We couldn’t get as many people involved,” Zhou said. “There’s usually a lot of physical events for Housing Day. There’s the dorm storm and then there’s events in the house, and usually people are pretty excited about it. But since there just weren’t that many people around, I think there was less excitement overall.”
Malia M. Marks ’21, a former House Committee Chair for Pforzheimer House, said her house also struggled with volunteer recruitment.
“Before Covid, it was almost like too many people wanted to be involved — we had to really work to make sure everyone felt involved. This year, it’s just like no one,” Marks said. “It was a lot harder to find people that were interested this year.”
Health regulations also prohibited students from gathering in large groups, limiting the number of students who could be filmed at once. Despite such challenges, all 12 Houses uploaded videos in time for Housing Day.
For freshmen — many of whom had never seen their assigned Houses due to the pandemic — the videos were especially important for learning more about their House.
“There are so many people like me who are getting their first look into the House through the video,” said Nikita Nair ’24, who was assigned to Kirkland House and spent her entire first year remote in California.
Nair said the videos also provided a glimpse into each House’s culture, rather than being in competition with each other. To Nair, the videos capture “what the House stands for.”
Fez S. Zafar ’24, who was assigned to Dunster House, said the videos can give “a really good idea” as to what life is like in each House.
“For people, especially people in our grade who haven’t had the chance to really go into these Houses and interact with people in them, that’s the only window of opportunity we have to learn more about them, aside from going on their websites,” Zafar said.
Magar, the new Adams House resident from Nepal, said her House’s video helped her learn more about Adams, such as the ongoing renovations and the existence of tunnels.
Ultimately, the annual Housing Day videos serve to bring each House’s community closer together and create a sense of unity among Housemates.
Mubeen A. Momodu ’23 said he worked on Eliot House’s 2021 video because he wanted the video to instill a “sense of pride” in Harvard students.
“When I was going to Harvard, I saw that Adams Day video, I was like, ‘Oh, this place is actually not what I thought it was going to be — it’s actually a lot more fun, a lot more upbeat,’” Momodu said.
Tarlin, who wrote the lyrics and sang for Lowell House’s 2019 video, said he saw the video as a chance to generate House spirit.
“It’s an opportunity to create excitement, but also to show people tangible reasons why this is a good place to live,” he said. “The activity of creating the video is good for House spirit among the people who are already living there.”
Watson said the viral 2019 Adams House video played a “huge role” in fostering House pride among upperclassmen, though the videos can also dictate freshmen’s perceptions of each House.
“After the video, so many people, even a freshman, was coming to me like, ‘Oh, I hope I get Adams, I hope I get Adams,’” Watson said. “But literally the year before, nobody wanted Adams.”
In addition to bolstering House pride, the videos also showcase artists, musicians, and creators’ skills. Aaron L. Hai ’22, an upperclassman in Adams House, pointed to how the videos can showcase the creative abilities of House members.
“[The videos are] definitely a way for the artistic members of the House community to really highlight their skills,” he said.
Hai said that it can be “shocking” to see the artistic abilities of House members who he did not realize possessed such skills.
“I would have never known if they didn’t take part in the music video,” he added.
Elijah J. Suh ’22, a House Committee chair for Kirkland House, similarly said the videos highlight House talent.
“People’s talents are able to come out and truly shine in this medium, which maybe aren’t as celebrated on the day-to-day,” Suh said. “I think that this is such a special thing.”
Suh added that he hopes freshmen can “draw some comfort” from the fact that there are so many talented upperclassmen in the Houses “genuinely excited” to meet them.
As for future plans, freshmen have already expressed interest in spearheading next year’s Housing Day videos. Zafar said some of his blockmates have talked about getting involved with next year’s video for Dunster House.
“That’s something we definitely want to try to work on next year, or the year after that, so we’re looking forward to it,” he said.
Likewise, students are eager to see next year’s videos when they return to campus.
“I see that as an opportunity to do something new or different,” Suh said. “It’s hopefully going to be something big because I think we’re all kind of pent up from not being there.”
—Staff writer Sarah Girma can be reached at sarah.girma@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @SarahGirma_.
—Staff writer Vivian Zhao can be reached at vivian.zhao@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @vivianzhaox.
