News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
What some Harvard students might not know is how Harvard’s investment in private prisons is an active divestment from the prospects of some of its current and future first-generation and low-income students.
At the age of five, many students begin to practice their writing skills by using guided exercises in a workbook. They follow the dashed lines that form the lip of a “P”; steady the lines at the top and bottom for an “I”; or lift before closing the circle to make a “C.” Meanwhile, when I was that young, I was writing full-page letters at my kitchen table for what seemed like hours.
The only way for me to communicate with my father from the ages of five to 11 was through old-fashioned pencil-and-paper letter-writing. He was incarcerated and living at the Marion County Jail, a private prison in Indianapolis, Ind. As a result, I learned how to write at a very rapid rate in an attempt to keep the relationship between us strong.
Private prisons across the United States of America disproportionately impact low-income families. The prison-industrial complex, a system that allows corporations to profit from prisons, sits at the intersection of poverty and mass incarceration, with nearly two-thirds of individuals detained in jails reporting an annual income less than $12,000. The prison system is insuperable. Not only does this relationship between poverty and punishment for crime make it near impossible for most individuals to post bail, but the legal and social ramifications of criminal charges can make it even more difficult to gain employment post-incarceration.
There is disagreement between the University and students surrounding the amount it invests in private prisons. The University claims to invest roughly $18,000 in the prison industry, while the Harvard Divest Prison Campaign claims the University invests nearly $3 million in the prison industry, including indirect investments, such as stocks in companies that fund the PIC. Nonetheless, it is clear that there is still at least some level of investment in private prisons. And any amount is unacceptable.
Harvard’s investment in private prisons is a willing denigration of its own core values, of supporting the flourishing of all members of the campus community, regardless of background, as well as addressing past inequities to create a strong foundation of inclusion. As an elite institution that espouses equity and inclusion in education, Harvard must have a misunderstanding of how its investments not only impact the safety and well-being of inmates, but also the message it sends to its own students with related lived experiences. There is a lack of consideration, and perhaps implicit assumption, that its community members would not be personally impacted by incarceration.
Money cannot be separated from meanings. Whether or not they admit to it, investments in private prisons make the statement that the University believes imprisonment is a viable solution to economic and social problems. And, even worse, that profit-based incarceration is a Harvard-stamped model. Investing in such a system is incredibly demoralizing to students whose families have been impacted by private prisons firsthand. The impact of incarceration on a family is manifold: It causes feelings of shame, results in loss of financial support, manifests in poor school performance, increases delinquency, and weakens ties between child and parent. Having experienced it first-hand, I know this to be true.
In high school, I watched as my peers followed the school-to-prison pipeline. During childhood, I grew up without a father truly present. Now a young adult, I admonish my father while simultaneously scolding the prison system that never worked to actually help him become free, but rather saw his imprisonment as a solution.
Of course, the University is not the sole contributor to the PIC; however, its financial support of the PIC is yet another way that it alienates its low-income students. More than just the University, Harvard’s student body must also understand the larger traumas with which low-income students enter Harvard. While it is not to say that prison cannot impact someone from a higher class, it would be extraordinary to see a man from a higher socioeconomic class be relegated to a similar sentence as a man from a lower socioeconomic background.
It is unlikely that a Harvard peer would not be able to post bail or have the financial ability to obtain a decent lawyer (or have some sort of influence or reputation that precedes them), while such privileges would be unimaginable back home. Having an awareness of how different the repercussions are for students at Harvard and someone like my father is a large imbalance some students at Harvard have not been forced to consider.
Altogether, my father spent 24 years and one month of his life in prison. His actions may have been questionable, but his actions did not warrant his sentence. I still loved him, as much as any individual would who has a loved one in prison.
I saved the letters my father wrote back to me. And I read them from time to time. And while I no longer have to write letters to him, I can now write for him. I can speak for him now and share our experiences at a place like Harvard, where individuals will listen to a perspective that would otherwise be left unwritten.
Jordan R. Robbins, a Crimson Editorial editor, lives in Leverett House. His column “What Some Harvard Students Don't Know …” appears on alternate Thursdays.

Have a suggestion, question, or concern for The Crimson Editorial Board? Click here.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
As I stood in the dining room of the People’s House, there it lay. A delicious entree, sitting below Joanna Gaines-esque lighting, flaunting its glowing brown and yellow flakes, its textured contours. In the center, there was a beef patty. Of that I was sure. As visible from where I stood, this patty was fairly thin, moist, and a rich, dark brown, probably cooked well-done. Its shape was not that of a well-crafted circle, as though someone bought a box full of frozen patties from Sam’s Club and dethawed them. No, this was a work of art. It was beautiful: a sculptural take on the centuries-old geometric oval. Oozing over the oval was an orange-yellow film of greasy goodness, sliding down its sides like volcanic lava.
Embracing the well-done, oily goodness were two pieces of enormous, buttery, glutenous white Texas toast, stuck together by the lava-cheese. They hugged the meat — in the awkward, overly-excited-family-reunion-aunt kind of way — as though saying a final goodbye.
These were no ordinary buns, surrounding no ordinary slice of cheese, holding no ordinary meat patty in their core. This, in fact, was no ordinary cheeseburger.
Above the tin tray which cradled its presence was a sign — plain and simple — that read: “BBQ Texas Grilled Cheeseburger”
I marveled. A classic Harvard University Dining Services entree named extravagantly. It. Was. Perfect. As is all HUDS food.
This is a hot take, I know. Most would disagree with such an absolute claim.
Granted, there’s no food like grandma’s or mom and dad’s. Perhaps you know how to fry a meaner piece of fish than Red’s Best Catch. It’s true: Even if it’s a simple meal, there’s something magical about an entree prepared by a loved one, with scents you are familiar with, seasonings curated by your family’s tried-and-tested experimentation, and its own backstory.
So when you approach HUDS food, your experience feels sub-par. I mean, this is Harvard, after all. Annenberg looks like a freaking mess hall from Harry Potter. “But this food?” you think. “This is not it.”
Can I submit something to you?
The problem is not the food: It’s our perception of it. In fact, we live in a foody Matrix of sorts, clouded by norms we inherited at birth and fortified ever since. Free your mind and I will show you the wonders of the HUDS way.
First and foremost, it’s important we recognize — even at Harvard — that HUDS is no restaurant. Oftentimes, when many people “eat out,” they are expecting something fancy, well-seasoned, and hopefully reasonably priced. HUDS is not a restaurant — it’s part of your new Harvard home. Would you feel at home if, every day in the dining hall, you were ordering filet mignon and bacon-wrapped pork tenderloin, perhaps with some truffle fries?
Compared to the average home-cooked meal, in terms of quantity and quality, HUDS food excels. Think about it this way: At any Harvard dining hall, you are granted at least three alternative options for breakfast, lunch, and dinner, one of which is always entirely vegan. And these options are not refrigerator lunch leftovers, like mom’s meatloaf from last night turned into an extemporaneous lunch sandwich. No, these meals include grains (like what in the world is bulgur?), legumes (chickpeas are my new favorite addition to any meal, by the way), and vegetables (do you regularly eat okra and beets in your home?). You are also granted a variety of drinks, including literally all of the milks with their corresponding percentages, fruit juices galore, and even an array of flavored seltzer water.
HUDS food doesn’t deserve its critics, but I’m not even mad about it. On the contrary, I’m convinced that the reason it is so widely critiqued is not that it’s bad, but because it accomplishes exactly what it’s supposed to in making Harvard a bit more like home.
HUDS food is the great equalizer for the majority of us on campus — it picks no favorites. Regardless of if your parents are in the top one percent of income earners globally or if you come from a home with food insecurity, you are blessed with vegan creamy pasta with Beyond sausage for dinner and a blondie brownie for dessert.
Most importantly, HUDS food and its corresponding dining halls are sites of rest.
I don’t know where you are in your journey of self-actualization right now, but Harvard is a difficult place to be, which, for better or worse, changes who you are. Many come through here, feeling lost and alienated; ambitious, yet incessantly insufficient; and then graduate to meet a cold world.
So perhaps, at the end of the day, the rage around HUDS is not about HUDS at all. Maybe it’s more about an institution and all the forces around us, shaping and pressuring us to become the world’s next “citizen-leaders.”
So, if our stress around these expectations comes out in the dining hall, that’s quite alright. I know that deep down, you like those dan-dan noodles. When you feel comfortable enough somewhere to complain and critique its features, perhaps what was once a distant, lofty house — an aspiration — has become a home.
Sterling M. Bland ’23, a Crimson Editorial editor, is a Sociology and African and African American Studies concentrator in Quincy House.
Have a suggestion, question, or concern for The Crimson Editorial Board? Click here
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
There’s something for us to cheers to in Harvard’s dining halls. After months of deliberation, Harvard and UNITE HERE Local 26, the labor union for employees of Harvard University Dining Services, ratified a five-year contract guaranteeing wage increases, greater job security, and the preservation of the current health care coverage granted to union members. 99.45 percent — virtually all voting union members — voted to approve it.
This agreement comes after years of small battles and broad strokes of action which, together, helped make this larger victory possible — including a campus-wide strike in 2016 that paralyzed food service in the dining halls and inspired new labor movements across other Boston area campuses.
We are thrilled by the ratification of this new contract, which could not have happened without the unflagging efforts of UNITE HERE Local 26. We are especially pleased that Harvard has offered jobs to contracted workers who were laid off in last year’s Covid-19-related budget cuts, workers we implored Harvard to protect, even at the expense of its bottom line.
While we frequently applaud the work of our undergraduate activists — as we did earlier this month following the Harvard Management Corporation’s divestment from fossil fuels — the successes of workers on campus are just as worthy of recognition. UNITE HERE Local 26 follows a coalition-based philosophy of labor organization, representing workers across sectors of the hospitality industry such as hotel, gaming, food service, laundry, and textile throughout Massachusetts and Rhode Island. This comprehensive model has proven powerful, and makes sense: The struggles of workers anywhere are likely to mirror the struggles of workers everywhere. Campuses forming new unions, as MIT did late last month, should look to UNITE’s model for inspiration.
This agreement also takes place amidst a flashbulb moment for labor on campus. 4 labor unions are currently negotiating new contracts with the university. Harvard Graduate Students Union-United Automobile Workers’ has just overwhelmingly authorized a strike, as the union did prior to actually striking in fall 2019. Just as we supported HGSU-UAW’s strike then and HUDS’s strike in 2016, we support HGSU-UAW using the leverage it can to fight for improved worker protections.
UNITE HERE Local 26’s and the University’s negotiation of a contract that works for workers exemplifies the key role unions play (and have for two centuries) in securing a fairer America. Data from the Bureau of Labor Statistics show that unionized workers are better compensated and have more employee benefits than their non-unionized counterparts. Unfortunately, American unions have been on the decline for decades.
Many of the benefits and protections outlined in this new contract, which will shape Harvard workers’ lives for at least the next five years, were won after the 2016 HUDS strike. The 22-day affair blew up campus. The dining hall system, which many administrators peg as the heart of campus life, collapsed as only 14 of 750 workers passed the picket line (houses passed out frozen food). But it also prevented a new insurance plan which would have priced many workers out of their healthcare from taking hold — a seemingly enduring victory.
As we celebrate the successes of this union negotiation process, and eye a potential HGSU-UAW strike on the horizon, we should remind ourselves of the power unions (and yes, strikes) have to improve people’s lives.
This staff editorial solely represents the majority view of The Crimson Editorial Board. It is the product of discussions at regular Editorial Board meetings. In order to ensure the impartiality of our journalism, Crimson editors who choose to opine and vote at these meetings are not involved in the reporting of articles on similar topics.
Have a suggestion, question, or concern for The Crimson Editorial Board? Click here.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
In spring 2011, as Theodore R. Johnson and his classmates walked through Harvard Yard to celebrate their graduation from the Harvard Extension School, an onlooker regarded their HES banner with visible confusion.
“What in the world is the Extension School?” the spectator asked.
“It’s the back door into Harvard,” Johnson’s classmate replied.
The comment stung, but it wasn’t surprising. The “back door” had been a running joke among his peers at HES since day one, Johnson recalls.
For his part, Johnson acknowledged that his college GPA and extracurriculars would likely not have gotten him into the Kennedy School or the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, and he was “under no illusion” from the outset that a degree from HES would carry the same prestige as those from Harvard’s other schools. Nor did he need it to — by the time he enrolled in the HES master’s program as an International Relations concentrator, Johnson was a decade out of undergrad and an established officer in the U.S. Navy. He just needed another degree to be competitive for a promotion, and any school would do — HES happened to be the only one nearby that would allow him to take in-person classes while continuing to work full-time.
Even if the name “Harvard” wouldn’t make a difference to the military, Johnson saw it as a personal challenge, a way to prove himself at one of the most prestigious universities in the world.
“It meant something to me,” he says. “To test myself. To see if I had what it took.”
Indeed, the Extension School’s official website practically dares its reader to take up this same challenge. The page is filled with photos of a diverse set of smiling students learning wherever is most convenient — on campus, at home, in a corporate office. “If you have the intellect and determination, you can pursue a Harvard education,” it promises.
With its open-enrollment policy, low tuition costs, catalog of more than 1,000 live and on-demand classes, and, of course, the Veritas crest displayed prominently in its advertising, the Extension School attracts thousands of students from around the world each year. It bills itself as “a Harvard education designed for you,” welcoming learners of all backgrounds into a sphere containing world-class resources, famous academics, and a venerated brand.
Yet a Google search for “harvard extension school” displays — directly below the school’s official website — a telling series of related search suggestions:
“Is Harvard Extension School respected?”
“Is Harvard Extension still Harvard?”
“harvard extension school a joke”
These questions indicate that, to the average person, an “accessible Harvard” sounds oxymoronic. The Extension School’s flashy marketing runs directly counter to the aura of exclusivity that lends the University much of its allure in the first place. If anybody can be a Harvard student, then isn’t nobody a Harvard student?
“It seemed too good to be true, that all I had to do was register for classes and now I’m a Harvard student; I get an ID and I get to go to Widener Library,” Johnson recalls.
And his doubts weren’t unfounded. In interviews and on online forums, many HES students express that, soon after arriving on campus, they begin to feel as though they don’t fully belong; that even as Harvard opens certain doors to its Extension School students, it keeps others firmly closed. The Extension School is carefully delineated as separate from the rest of the University in ways both large and small, ranging from hostile comments online to a diploma that students have called “dehumanizing” and belittling toward the work they’ve put in.
The complex relationship between the Extension School and the rest of the University — between the “back door” and the “real Harvard” it opens up to — highlights a glaring paradox: How can a school that’s famous for the number of students it rejects so boldly advertise a “Harvard education designed for you”? What exactly does a “Harvard education” consist of, and is it even possible to scale? And when the accessibility of an education is at odds with its associated prestige, just how far is Harvard willing to extend itself?
The Harvard Extension School was born out of a progressive spirit to make education more accessible for adults who could not leave the workforce to continue formal schooling. In 1835, businessman John Lowell Jr. laid out in his will his wishes for half of his wealth to be used for “the maintenance and support of Public Lectures […] for the promotion of the moral and intellectual and physical instruction or education of the citizens.” He proposed that half of the courses be offered free of charge and the other half be “not exceeding the value of two bushels of wheat” each semester, the equivalent of less than $300 today.
The Lowell Institute of Boston, founded from this trust in 1839, soared in popularity over the subsequent decades. Crowds would form across multiple streets to obtain tickets to lectures, and as many as 10,000 people applied for a single course.
The lectures attracted a diverse and engaged sector of the Boston public. “At the stroke of eight every lecture evening notebooks were spread and until nine o’clock not a glance wandered to the clock nor was there any sign of wavering interest,” one student wrote of his philosophy course in 1910. “Young and old, black and white, artisans and teachers, men and women — who had questioned the meaning of life, and the universe, were eager to compare their thoughts with the questioners of all time.”
When A. Lawrence Lowell, the third trustee of the Lowell Institute, became president of Harvard in 1909, he set to work transforming the original lecture series into a systematic program for adult education. And thus, in 1910, the Harvard Board of Overseers approved the formation of the Department of University Extension. In 1985, University Extension became the Division of Continuing Education within the Faculty of Arts and Sciences, comprising the Extension School, the Summer School, and the Institute for Learning in Retirement.
Today, there are 15,000 students enrolled at the Extension School, 4,000 of whom are admitted degree candidates. HES is open-enrollment — anyone can enroll in any course. However, those hoping to pursue a bachelor’s or master’s degree are first required to earn a B or higher in three HES classes, including a writing course. In 2016, 32 percent of applicants to the undergraduate degree program met the requirements. (By comparison, the College had a 5.2 percent acceptance rate that year.) The Extension School serves a diverse population of nontraditional students, who range in age from high schoolers to retirees and the majority of whom (62 percent) are employed full-time.
Nowadays, HES programs cost more than two bushels of wheat, but they remain much less expensive than their counterparts at other Harvard schools. A single undergraduate course at the Extension School costs $1,920, so the undergraduate degree program, which requires 16-32 classes, costs between $30,720 and $61,440 in total. In contrast, tuition for the 2021-2022 school year at Harvard College is $51,143, averaging over $6,000 per course. Graduate degree programs at the Extension School are similarly much more affordable than those at the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences.
The Extension School’s relatively low cost and straightforward, ostensibly meritocratic admissions process puts higher education within the reach of many.
Six years ago, Kody Christiansen was living in homeless shelters in New York City and struggling with addiction. As he recovered, the dreams that had long been suppressed by his cravings for drugs and alcohol returned.
Christiansen applied to NYU, his “original dream school,” and was admitted into its associate’s degree program. He started acting for TV shows and movies like “Law and Order: Special Victims Unit,” “The Blacklist,” and “A Lover Scorned,” and wrote an award-winning memoir detailing his experiences with substance abuse. Despite realizing his acting and writing dreams, though, there was still one goal that he hadn’t quite achieved.
“I was a straight-A student at NYU, and my dream was Harvard,” Christiansen says. “So I got my associate’s degree at NYU. I applied for Harvard College, and unfortunately, I didn’t get in, but I knew that Harvard was still part of my next phase of life.”
To achieve that long-held dream, Christiansen decided to take classes at the Extension School, starting last summer in the middle of the Covid-19 pandemic. Christiansen had good friends at HES, and they all encouraged him to attend.
To partially cover the cost of his undergraduate degree program, the Extension School is giving Christiansen financial aid. Several options exist to help students pay for HES tuition, including merit-based scholarships, need-based aid, government grants, and private loans. For University staff, faculty, part-time employees, and retirees, the Harvard University Tuition Assistance Program reduces Extension School costs to only $40 per course.
Taking classes at Harvard Extension School helped Christiansen endure the challenges of the pandemic and provided a supportive community. “I started learning more about the amazing students, the diverse types of students that we have at the Extension School,” he says. “It just made me fall in love with it even more.”
Students’ reasons for enrolling at the Extension School vary: some are auditing courses out of personal interest, some are looking for a particular degree or skill set to advance their careers, and others, like Antjuan R. Finch, are looking for the credibility associated with the Harvard name.
Before being admitted to the Extension School, Finch had attempted to start his own social media company, but after meeting with potential investors, he learned firsthand of the prestige and influence that the Harvard name could carry.
“Verbatim, what I was told was, ‘It’d be a lot easier to trust you and your ideas if you had gone someplace like Harvard or Stanford,’” Finch recalls. He began looking into admissions pathways to these types of schools, and he eventually made his way to HES.
Instructors are also drawn to the Extension School for a variety of reasons.
Comparative Literature professor Martin Puchner was himself a Harvard Summer School student as a high schooler in the ’80s and taught HES courses as a Harvard graduate student. When he returned to the University as a professor, he launched two HES courses taught via recorded videos with additional discussion sections.
“For me, it’s a mission of outreach,” Puchner says. “I mean, I love Harvard, and I love that exclusive atmosphere in many ways, but it also feels somehow morally wrong to focus so many resources on so few people.”
Plenty of instructors come from outside of academia, too, ranging from filmmakers to art theft investigators to pharmaceutical executives. Among the instructors who taught Extension School courses during the 2020-21 school year, only about a third held concurrent teaching positions at other Harvard schools. Of these, 40 percent were professors, while 60 percent were non-tenure-track lecturers or preceptors.
Regardless of their background, instructors report feeling deeply fulfilled by their work at the Extension School. Across the board, those interviewed for this piece found that the remarkable diversity of students in their classrooms translated to clear benefits: a more collaborative atmosphere, broader perspectives on course content, greater intrinsic motivation for learning. Those who teach at Harvard’s other schools also maintain that the quality of education offered at the Extension School is virtually identical (sometimes literally — John T. Hamilton, a professor of German and Comparative Literature, livestreams his College lectures and supplements them with Zoom office hours for Extension School students).
Or, as Puchner puts it, “Some of the best Harvard College students are as good as my Extension students.”
During the two-and-a-half years he attended HES, Johnson, the Navy officer, found the coursework rigorous and his instructors deeply invested in his success. Alongside school, he was balancing a full-time job in the armed forces and raising a family. He’d have to be at work by 7:30 a.m., drive from his station in Newport, R.I. to Cambridge to attend HES in the evenings, then rush back home after class ended. But the “magic” of being on Harvard’s campus never faded, whether he was studying in Widener or getting drinks with friends at Grendel’s. The (sometimes dauntingly) high expectations for original scholarship set by his professors gave him opportunities to challenge established beliefs that he never received in college or the military.
“Classes like that helped me see I didn’t need permission to question scholars,” Johnson says, reflecting on a course which required him to write a 40-page final paper. “I didn’t need permission to read the works of people who are well-respected in the field and say I disagree. I can’t underscore [enough] how important that’s been to my professional trajectory.”
Despite students’ and instructors’ unanimous attestations to the rigor of the Extension School, the legitimacy of an HES education remains a subject of doubt — and evokes plenty of debate on the internet, where anonymous posts reveal more questions and insecurities than are usually expressed aloud.
“Can I tell my friends I go to Harvard if it’s HES?” one Reddit user asks r/Harvard.
“Sometimes I feel like if I’d known my inevitable uneasiness about whether or not I’m actually a student of the university I’m attending, I may have chosen somewhere else,” another divulges.
The commenters on these posts are overwhelmingly supportive, reassuring the OP that imposter syndrome is common at all of Harvard’s schools and that the vast majority of other Harvard students are respectful, or at the very least neutral, towards HES students.
Still, it’s hard to turn a blind eye to posts such as “Can’t wait to see all the Summer Extension School students decked out in Harvard swag! Brace yourselves, academic pretenders are coming,” on the same subreddit.
Or this post on Harvard Confessions, a Facebook page primarily used as a forum for Harvard College students, from a few months ago: “People [at HES] getting degrees or claiming they go to Harvard is 1. Fraud 2. Devaluing our Harvard educations 3. Diluting the name brand and I could go on. It takes 0 skills to get into Harvard [E]xtension.”
As Johnson points out, “from a social reputation standpoint […] it’s the admission into Harvard that is the thing that matters, more than graduating from Harvard.” This is why, in the public imagination, Mark Zuckerberg is perpetually intertwined with the University despite dropping out halfway through his education there, while Jared Kushner ’03, whose father pledged $2.5 million to the school leading up to his admission, is not. And it’s why most of the controversy surrounding Harvard centers around the perceived legitimacy of its admissions process: legacies, student athletes, affirmative action.
For many other schools, it’s the reverse. Johnson says that at historically Black colleges and universities like his undergraduate alma mater, Hampton University, where acceptance rates are usually higher and graduation rates lower, the social capital lies in getting the diploma at the end.
But “the Extension School kind of sits in that middle ground,” Johnson says. “You don’t get the benefit of the prestige attached to the admission process at Harvard, nor the prestige attached to finishing the degree.”
Harvard College students, perhaps feeling threatened by the possible “dilution” of the brand on their own degrees, perpetuate a large portion of the HES stigma. In 2005, following actress Hilary Duff’s announcement that she was taking classes at HES, The Crimson Editorial Board published an editorial titled “Duff at Harvard (extension).”
“Hilary Duff is a loser and a chicken,” the piece began. “For all her supposed ‘fame,’ our new (extension) freshman princess refuses to join thefacebook(forextensionschools).com and compete with all the other (extension) students out there for the most (extension) friends. Man-up (extension) Duff. It’s one thing to say you go to Harvard (extension), but it’s another to live la vida Harvard (extension).”
The board caught flak for its comments shortly thereafter, but a few years later, a levity in this very magazine still stuck Extension School students at the top of its list of people to avoid around campus: “Taking classes at the Extension School does not make you a Harvard student. These faux-students linger in the Barker Center or the Garage Starbucks, pensively writing (not typing) away in their notebooks in hopes of fitting in with the rest of the undergrad population.”
Though hyperbolic and satirical, these articles nonetheless reflect an underlying prejudice towards the Extension School that has not fully dissipated in the years since their publication — a prejudice, some HES students argue, that is solidified and bolstered on the very diplomas that the University awards.
When Christiansen first learned what would be printed on the diploma he was already working toward, he felt tricked and discouraged, thinking, “I didn’t want to put that on my wall, ‘Bachelor of Liberal Arts in Extension Studies,’ because I didn’t study ‘extensions.’”
All HES graduates leave with either a Bachelor or Master of Liberal Arts (ALB or ALM) in Extension Studies. Their diplomas make no reference to their specific fields of study; they are identical regardless of whether the student completed degree requirements in English or biology or software engineering.
Andrea A. Stull, who is studying for her master’s in psychology, is tired of having to continually explain her degree name to people who don’t understand what it means.
“We fought so hard to overcome adversity and obstacles, and now for the remainder of us having this diploma, we have to over-explain it to prove ourselves, over and over and over,” she says. “We already proved ourselves at the school.”
Furthermore, Stull has been told that she would need to redo some of her HES classes at a different institution in order to qualify for the Navy psychology Ph.D. program she is hoping to enter after earning her master’s. Although it may be the course content that misaligns with the Navy program’s requirements, Stull feels that her degree’s contrived name works against her.
“My diploma doesn’t necessarily reflect their expectations of what a psych student should have,” Stull says. “The Harvard name helps me seem like I’m capable and prestigious enough to be a good asset to that particular school, but my accreditation, when it comes to the courses I’ve already taken, is questioned — the integrity of it is questioned.”
The students’ case for the degree name change has garnered sympathy from faculty, former HES deans, and experts in higher education. Barmak Nassirian, former associate executive director of the Association of Collegiate Registrars and Admissions Officers, says that although degree names are not officially regulated, there are norms associated with them that, if violated, raise red flags.
“When you name things in unconventional ways, you really have an obligation to justify why,” Nassirian says. “The field of study should be identifiable from the name of the degree. It’s perfectly fine if a different division of the university [is] the granting authority, but you don’t put the name of the division in lieu of what the person studied.”
To advocate for changing HES degree titles to represent students’ fields of study, Christiansen founded the Extension Studies Removal Initiative in 2020. Meanwhile, another HES student campaign, VERITAS, is also questioning the “liberal arts” part of the HES degree name. The Extension School is the only Harvard school that confers liberal arts degrees. Harvard College students receive a Bachelor of Arts or Bachelor of Science degree; GSAS students can earn a Master of Arts, Master of Science, or Master of Engineering. Yet the term “liberal arts” is applied to all HES students, regardless of their concentration.
“Not all studies in Extension School, where one receives a degree, qualify for the liberal arts,” says Ryan G. Kramer, the founder of VERITAS. “Biology is not the liberal arts. Information technology, IMS, what I’m studying, is by no means liberal arts. So why is it an ALM?”
Nassirian shakes his head emphatically when he hears about the Extension School’s Master of Liberal Arts offering for Bioengineering and Nanotechnology.
“No, no. You can’t get a Master of Liberal Arts in Engineering, as far as I’m concerned,” he says. “I mean, that just doesn’t make any sense.”
Kramer also suggested new names for the Extension School itself, such as the Harvard School of Liberal Arts and Executive Studies or the Harvard School of Liberal Arts and Professional Studies — a proposal which garnered overwhelming support from HES students in a survey he administered in 2020.
HES’s current name “needlessly separates it from the other schools,” says Finch, who enrolled at HES seeking the credibility associated with the Harvard name. “They’re all extensions of Harvard and yet only one of us is called Harvard Extension.”
Christiansen’s and Kramer’s initiatives are not the first of their kind. HES students have been campaigning to change their degree names for over a decade without success. In an emailed statement, Dean of the Division of Continuing Education Nancy Coleman wrote that she and other administrators have engaged in conversations with students and alumni about the issue. She denied the characterization of this topic as a “controversy,” maintaining that the DCE is not “necessarily in disagreement” about the proposed degree name change.
“We understand that the naming of degrees awarded through Harvard Extension School may appear unconventional to some,” Coleman wrote. “However, these are major decisions, and there is a structured governance process, both at Harvard and across academia, to address them. We are exploring the question of degree naming in appropriate governance venues at Harvard.”
Across academia, however, none of Harvard’s peer schools have continuing education programs embroiled in a degree name dispute. The University of Pennsylvania, University of Chicago, Johns Hopkins University, and Columbia University all have online and/or part-time degree programs that award program-specific degrees such as “Master of Chemical Sciences” or “Master of Arts in Government.” UPenn, UChicago, and Johns Hopkins, as well as Stanford, do offer Master of Liberal Arts degrees, but, unlike HES, their curriculums only encompass traditionally liberal arts subjects such as history, philosophy, and literature.
Why, then, doesn’t Harvard follow suit?
“The only reason I can think of,” Nassirian says, “is to protect the very brand that is the hook to the whole thing” — that is, to distinguish the HES degrees from those offered by the College and GSAS.
Viewing Harvard as akin to a corporation protecting its brand would cast the Extension School’s accessibility in a very different light: as a way for the University to expand its market share while not tarnishing its product’s exclusive aura — to have its cake and eat it, too.
There’s a clear financial incentive for trying to walk this line. While many schools and programs at Harvard draw heavily from the endowment, the Division of Continuing Education, which encompasses the Extension School, pays for itself via tuition revenue and typically brings in a budget surplus for FAS.
Initiatives to expand access to education that are not profitable don’t stick around for long. In 2012, Harvard and MIT launched edX, a platform to deliver free online courses to the general public. The platform lost millions of dollars annually until, earlier this year, the universities sold it to a for-profit online course manager for $800 million.
But for better or for worse, as Nassirian points out, bureaucracies “tend to believe in doing well while doing good.” In other words, the types of actions that expand access to education (doing good) go hand-in-hand with those that would scale an educational business (doing well). The Extension School’s low tuition helps remove financial barriers for many people seeking a degree, but it also opens up a bigger market of potential tuition-payers. Virtual course offerings allow students to learn wherever and whenever suits them best, but it also allows a classroom to grow exponentially with much less additional instructional labor.
The Division of Continuing Education did not comment on these criticisms.
Of course, it’s impossible to disentangle the true intentions behind these actions, which is in large part why there remains so much debate about whether Harvard Extension is “still Harvard.”
To many other Harvard students, the answer is a decided “no.” The College’s Undergraduate Council went so far as to analyze the entire Extension School course catalog and concluded that the classes were extremely similar, in content and quality, to those offered at the College. Yet still, they maintained that this is not the crux of what makes Harvard, Harvard. Online education, they wrote in an op-ed last summer, “deprives us of one of the biggest attractions of a Harvard education: the life-changing relationships we form with our classmates and professors.” And even as Christiansen “fell in love” with the wide array of friends he met through his HES classes on Zoom, a surge of Harvard College students decided to not attend school at all during the pandemic, choosing to defer their admission or take gap years instead.
Extension School students, meanwhile, answer differently. “This whole time, they’re selling a full Harvard experience, which is what I had — I had Harvard professors, I had the classes on campus, I had access to the clubs and resources,” says Stephanie N. Martins, an HES alumna who was actively involved in a previous student-led campaign to change the degree name. “But then at the end of the experience, you receive a diploma that pretty much doesn’t reflect everything that you actually worked for.”
And the University itself is aware of the tension between prestige and access playing out in the Extension School’s mission. The faculty handbook for HES instructors calls the school’s easy accessibility “a wrinkle,” reading: “Open enrollment and reasonable tuitions have long been cornerstones, but they mean that we ask you to provide a Harvard education without the initial screening provided by a Harvard admissions office. Quality control is in your hands.”
After graduating from HES, Johnson has gone on to occupy a number of distinguished positions: Commander in the Navy, White House Fellow in the first Obama administration, speechwriter to the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, doctoral candidate in public policy at Northeastern University, and now Senior Fellow at the Brennan Center for Justice at the New York University School of Law.
He credits the Extension School with giving him the confidence to apply to the White House fellowship; the “Harvard stamp,” as he calls it, made him believe he could be competitive in a cohort dominated by Ivy League degrees.
“[The Extension School] suggested that I was only bound in my accomplishments by what I was willing to go for and what I was willing to work toward,” Johnson says. “I didn’t have the superficial barriers — that those kinds of jobs are for people who can get into places like Harvard, and not for folks like me […] those barriers are socially constructed, and my time at Harvard helped me see that and begin to put myself out there.”
Going into the Extension School, Johnson was unaware that he would walk out with a “Master of Liberal Arts in Extension Studies” degree. Though the strange name has raised a few questions from employers thus far, it hasn’t posed a major barrier, he said. Still, Johnson acknowledges that his established career in the military put him in a unique position, and he could easily imagine a situation where the name would matter much more.
“I took no courses ‘in extension studies,’” he says. “It’s very odd to have a degree in something you never took a course in. I don’t know who in the IT world, who in the medical world, who in the nonprofit sector is going to look at that without a raised eyebrow, to say, ‘Exactly what does this mean?’”
So, what in the world is the Harvard Extension School? How does one determine the extent to which quality of education, prestige, and accessibility constitute — or should constitute — a “Harvard education”? And who gets to make this determination?
Johnson himself is unsure; he’s still ambivalent about whether he entered through Harvard’s “back door.” But, he says, “I left Harvard out of the front door, and that I think is the thing that means more to me now.”
— Associate Magazine Editor Sophia S. Liang can be reached at sophia.liang@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @totalPHIAsco
—Staff writer Ashley R. Masci can be reached at ashley.masci@thecrimson.com.
Sections
Throughout the week, I collect wilting leaves from plants, scraps of colored paper, and tea bags with names like “Honey Chestnut Bonfire” and “Marigold Hibiscus Wonderland” — all the detritus of a world in a constant cycle of use-discard-grow-outgrow-buy-sell.
On Saturdays or Sundays or even the rare Tuesday afternoon, I sit down and write, first in my chicken scratch handwriting and then transcribed onto my laptop in whatever point font means I’ll only have to pay for one page of printing: “Hi.” “I miss you.” “It’s so nice to hear from you!” “How are the roommates?” “As always, I am running out of time.”
The recipients of these words and trinkets are, in no particular order: a girl in France who is the only person I’ve ever trusted without thinking. A boy from Somerville who shares a name with my favorite actor and goes to my school; I haven’t seen his face so anyone I pass by on campus could be him, but I’ll never know. The most lesbian lesbian I’ve ever met. My best friend from pre-k whom I lost and then found again, just a couple miles from home.
We swap poems and custom playlists and bad drawings of fruits and handfuls of stickers. They cannot parse my handwriting. They understand what it’s like to feel like you’re constantly running out of time. They wish things were different but can’t pinpoint exactly why. I love them all, and I try to tell them in the best way I know how: by sending letters into the sprawling system of the United States Postal Service and hoping they reach my penpals.
As much as I cherish my penpals, the average lifespan of this kind of relationship is only three to five letters. Life simply moves on faster than the postal system — it’s why we call it snail mail. By the time I read a letter, it’s already outdated, an anachronism like the very medium it was sent through. I moved three times last year in the time it took Somerville Boy to send me his first letter. I sent a letter to French Girl when she was my girlfriend, and when she received it she was already my ex-girlfriend.
I could text these people. I have their numbers. I do text some of them, sending my miscellaneous thoughts on the limits of sleep deprivation and pictures I can’t be bothered to print in color. There’s nothing in the letters themselves that I can’t replicate in text: e-gift cards to local cafes instead of bags of tea, pictures of my baby plants instead of their dead snippings, actual photos instead of crude drawings.
In fact, there are more things I can send by text than mail: GIFs and emojis and clickable links to funny tweets, to name a few. Not to mention the obvious speed of texting compared to mailing letters — they call it “instant messaging” for a reason, too. Why wait weeks on end for an outdated letter that might never come? Why put faith into the United States Postal Service when cell towers and satellites are so much more dependable? We don’t even mail important documents anymore; we email or e-sign them.
Still, I keep sending mail. The physicality of letters is valuable to me. In our digital world, texts and DMs and phone calls get buried and eventually deleted when phone storage reaches its limit. Conversations move faster than we can process, and there’s no way to save it all. The world spins, and data is lost.
Meanwhile, the letters I’ve received sit in carefully-crafted piles on my desk, organized by send date and author. They are few and far between enough for me to know them all by heart.
The letters are tangible manifestations of effort and intent. They say, “I sat down and put pen to paper for you. I sat down and thought about what I wanted to tell you and narrowed it down to these two or three pages. I wanted to tell you exactly this and I did.” Talk is cheap — especially under T-Mobile’s unlimited data plan. Limited by pen and paper, letters force us to distill every line into the most concentrated version of what we want to convey. They make us more honest, less standoffish. There are things you can only write when you know the response will take weeks to contemplate and pen.
Letters sent by mail are outdated, yes. But they are snapshots of time, the culmination of a friend’s life between the day they mailed their last letter and the moment they sat down to write this new one. This temporal distance allows each letter to be embedded with the weight of several weeks, or even months. Time flows from the broad past into a sharpened point marked by the send date. The future remains an amorphous unknown to be filled in by the next letter.
As I write every one of my letters, painstakingly condensing thoughts into the crux of the issue and folding origami paper swans, I think about what my penpalling friend might be doing at the same time. Even with the texts we’ve exchanged regarding newly-started TV shows and anecdotes about neighborhood animals, we don’t really know how the other is doing at the moment. I will send out my letter, the culmination of me at this moment, without knowing who they really are in this same moment. And I will wait weeks on end for the letter sent in return, to know them back.
— Staff writer Christina M. Xiao can be reached at christina.xiao@thecrimson.com.
Sections
In October 1949, Harvard alumni had a unique chance to own a piece of Harvard’s history: a bench from Sever Hall.
Today’s undergraduates might scratch their heads at that announcement: What Sever benches? But before the renovation of Sever Hall in 1949, undergraduates sat at long workbenches, rather than modern desks, to listen to professors expound on foreign languages, classics, and math.
During that renovation, the University decided to replace the benches with “blond, polished desks in the Lamont tradition.” In turn, this prompted the Harvard Alumni Association to sell off 150 benches for $15 each — equivalent to almost $175 today. The funds would go towards transforming Wadsworth House into an alumni center.
“They are the ancient writing desks of thousands of Harvard men,” the HAA wrote in its announcement to alumni about the benches on Oct. 22, 1949. “Their tops are carved beyond belief with names, dates, scores of games, drawings, doodles, and plain destructive incisions.”
“Like the varsity football team, however, they don’t cave in so easily,” the Alumni Bulletin’s message concluded.
Responses from nostalgic alumni poured in. The day of the announcement, Brookline physician Harold Bowditch, Class of 1905, wrote to the HAA to request a specific bench with the 1901 Harvard-Yale game’s score inscribed. “I cut it in myself and do not blush to say so,” Bowditch confessed. That year, the Crimson had pummeled the Bulldogs 22–0 in front of a record-setting crowd of 36,000 at Soldiers Field.
Alice John Vandermeulen, an economics professor and Radcliffe alumna, reported that the images of the benches “made [her] feel very sentimental.” “I am taking a year’s leave of absence to write a book,” she continued. “What better place for inspiration than a desk from Harvard Yard?”
Other letter-writers sought to gift benches to Harvard-affiliated relatives. Ruth Nash Chalmers of Scarsdale, N.Y., wished to give the bench to her son-in-law, Collis M. Hardenbergh ’33, for Christmas. “If I’m not going to get it […] I’ll have to invest in something else, as one can’t neglect one’s sons-in-law at Christmas,” she wrote.
Nancy Nichols bought a bench to inspire her young son George Nichols III. Nichols — a mother with high expectations” — hoped that George would enter Harvard “despite his present poor grades in ‘Sandbox Play.’” (Nichols did eventually receive a Master of Arts in Religion from the Divinity School, although he did not attend Harvard as an undergraduate.)
Still others thought the benches could mark momentous occasions in their own lives. William B. Kehl ’40, then a mathematics instructor at MIT, wished to acquire a bench to celebrate his five year anniversary — their “wooden” anniversary — with his wife, which fell on Oct. 24. “Hope you get a lot of gifts, but not too many early ones,” he wrote.
W. M. Tugman, Class of 1914 and an editor at the Eugene Register-Guard, wanted to commemorate the construction of a new Student Union at the University of Oregon. “I intend to give it to the University of Oregon as a ‘good will from Havana’ item,” he wrote, “and as an example of what NOT to do to furniture.”
But for most people, the scarring and graffiti only added to the nostalgic appeal. W. B. Gresham Jr. ’37, an entomologist, wrote on Oct. 30 that “the more notches, carvings, cuttings, and defacings, the more I will value this bench.”
“We were very glad to receive the bench, but much to our dismay there is not a single scratch on it,” Horace Hart ’33 complained upon receiving his bench in December 1949. “Can these be from Sever?” The Alumni Association promptly sent a new bench to Hart, this one with substantially more scratches on it.
By Nov. 5, just two weeks after the initial announcement, the Alumni Bulletin released an update on the benches: It had sold 126 out of 150, raising more than $2,000 for the Wadsworth House renovations. The requests continued to pour in, some prompted by the new announcement in the Alumni Bulletin.
In its Dec. 3 issue, the Alumni Association announced that it sold all 150 benches, raising $2,364.50 in total. Beyond the original 150 on offer, the HAA also announced that it had discovered another 100 benches. That discovery allowedit to “open the lists again” to the many people who had expressed interest in purchasing a bench but had missed their first opportunity.
Requests for the benches started petering out around February 1950, when the Wadsworth House renovations had essentially concluded.
However, some interest lingered: Bertram J. Smith inquired plaintively to HAA secretary F. W. Willett on Feb. 21, 1952. Willett replied that no benches remained. “The little article in the Alumni Bulletin created much more interest than was anticipated and apparently we could have sold ten times the number, had they been available,” Willett wrote. Smith eventually received his bench more than a year later, when the HAA discovered several additional benches in August 1953.
By August 1955, the HAA had finalized the accounting for the Wadsworth House project. According to the final ledger, the HAA had raised $4,572.01 — almost $50,000 today — from a total of 282 benches, an average donation of $16.21 per bench.
More than 50 years after the original article put the benches up for sale, Sever has neither “ancient writing desks” nor “blond, polished desks.” Instead, it has humdrum chairs with attached desks and few scratches or markings, now the norm in university classrooms from Pittsburgh to Paris.
Even though they have less physical evidence of undergraduate presence, those chairs will probably produce nostalgia for us in 50 years from now — and if the HAAsells them off to raise money, they will likely cost more than $15.
—Staff writer Kendrick N. Foster can be reached at kendrick.foster@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @kenning_f
Sections
In Spring 2008, Neil Rhein found himself becoming more and more disillusioned with the trash littering the streets of his town, Mansfield, Mass. He would complain to his wife daily until one day, she hit him with the old adage: “Instead of just complaining about it, why don’t you do something about it?”
So Rhein organized a group of volunteers to partake in the first of many large-scale clean-up events. It led to the creation of Keep Mansfield Beautiful, which Rhein eventually expanded to involve several other newly founded chapters across Massachusetts to form Keep Massachusetts Beautiful, a chapter of the national organization Keep America Beautiful.
At the Great Boston Clean-Up on Oct. 1, Keep Massachusetts Beautiful once again engaged corporate and individual volunteers across the city in cleaning up the streets. Residents of the Boston area came together for the common purpose of restoring beauty to their neighborhoods. No contribution was too small, and each piece of trash retrieved was a movement toward the greater good.
“Beauty matters” is the motto of Keep Massachusetts Beautiful. The organization believes that by improving the physical appearance of a place, it improves the likelihood that residents will take better care of it in the future. It achieves this end not only through clean-up events, but also through waste reduction and recycling, beautification and community greening, and environmental education programs. These efforts aim at not only physical and visual improvement of the landscape, but also prevention of the factors that lead to the accumulation of litter.
While some of Keep Massachusetts Beautiful’s programs are geared toward individual volunteers, Friday’s clean-up was more tailored toward a “corporate audience,” Rhein says — Boston businesses signed up employees in groups to spend the afternoon cleaning up their local communities. Rhein noted he thought it was important to reach out to businesses active in the city, since his organization’s mission is all about getting people to take ownership of the communities they live and work in.
While some of the groups participating were environmental activist groups, such as the Berklee College Sustainability Coalition, some belonged to businesses that themselves engage in production of single-use plastic — perpetuating the issue they were spending the afternoon trying to solve.
Keep America Beautiful was founded in 1953 by the Coca-Cola Company and PepsiCo, two companies engaged in and dependent upon the mass production of single-use plastics. The underlying ownership of Keep America Beautiful has raised questions for some and a growing faction is highly critical of Keep America Beautiful’s work, accusing it of scapegoating an issue caused by corporations and impossible for individuals to solve.
Jay Westerveld, an environmental activist and researcher, is credited with coining a term for this: “greenwashing,” which describes “the corporate practice of making diverting sustainability claims to cover a questionable environmental record.” The term refers to a widespread phenomenon of companies producing advertising that either implies or directly claims that their impact is in some way helpful to the environment.
These claims are often unsubstantiated and sometimes significantly contradicted by the company’s actual environmental record. Perhaps the most notable historical examples of greenwashing are the ads run by Chevron claiming that they protected animals while they were simultaneously violating the Clean Air and Water Acts and spilling oil into wildlife refuges.
Judith A. Enck, a former EPA regional administrator for the Obama administration and president of Beyond Plastics, an organization based out of Bennington College that seeks to advocate for and enact policy aimed at ending plastic pollution, is highly critical of Keep America Beautiful.
“We cannot recycle our way out of the plastic pollution problem,” Enck says, arguing that Keep America Beautiful is one of the main groups perpetuating the “myth of personal responsibility” in environmental clean-up.
Enck believes the solution lies in policy change, not individual clean-up events, referencing a report that Keep America Beautiful released in April urging every American to pick up 152 pieces of litter to contribute to environmental clean-up. “I think it’s more important for Americans to make 152 phone calls to Congress and state legislators,” she says, calling the campaign “farcical.”
Rhein recognizes the existence of greenwashing, and admits the organization’s founding ties to beverage companies producing single-use plastic. Yet he says it is not realistic to ask big beverage companies to fold up their tents and cease selling their products altogether. Rhein reiterates the power of volunteer clean-up, saying: “There are 700 affiliates around the nation, millions of volunteers cleaning up tons of trash year after year after year. If that’s greenwashing, then I guess I support greenwashing.”
In some ways, Rhein and Enck have the same goals. Rhein says the Massachusetts chapter is committed to advocating for policy change and references support for extended producer responsibility laws currently moving their way through the state legislature. Enck also highlights such bills, saying she would hope to see support from Keep America Beautiful on raising the bottle tax from a nickel to a dime and amending the bill to include more types of single-use plastic bottles.
Even some volunteers at the Oct. 1 event are interested in policy change. Michael R. Sokolowski notes that he believes part of the solution is striving to solve the conditions creating the litter problem, saying: “Let’s invest in new materials.” If we can hold these companies accountable to do better in terms of producing biodegradable materials, he adds, then we might be able to minimize the environmental impact caused by litter.
“I think everyone who was recruited to do the litter cleanup should contact their state legislators and Massachusetts to support that bill, because then we’ll have a whole lot less litter to have to clean up next time,” Enck says.
And to employers signing up to volunteer, Rhein adds: “We welcome anyone who wants to help.”
Sections
I created this comic for a visual arts class, where the prompt asked us to draw one of our dreams. As someone who rarely remembers my own dreams, I created this piece based on fragments of memory about how I dream as opposed to what I actually dream about. I had a fun time playing with textures in an effort to capture the amorphous nature of the concept.
—Magazine staff writer Aiyana G. White can be reached at aiyana.white@thecrimson.com
Sections
On the third floor of Lamont Library is a nondescript wooden door that encloses a century’s worth of unique history: the Woodberry Poetry Room. At first glance, the room may appear to be nothing unusual: a quiet place for study with large windows offering a view of Memorial Church’s steeple. But this unassuming room houses over 8,000 poetry books, 7,500 audio-visual recordings, and 100 literary magazines. Celebrating its 90th year, the collection reopened to the public on Oct. 4.
The Poetry Room, named in honor of poet and Harvard graduate George Edward Woodberry, Class of 1877, was established in 1931 on the third floor not of Lamont but of Widener Library. The room was originally created to provide “a center where students might gather to become more intimately acquainted with the poetry of their own time,” according to a 1941 report on the room by Arnold Kenseth, who was then Head Curator. It contained books, literary magazines, and manuscripts.
By 1933, the room became home to Harvard professor Frederick C. Packard Jr.’s Vocarium, or “library of voices,” a collection of original audio recordings of spoken poetry. The collection provided a new way for students to become intimately acquainted with poetry through the voices of the poets themselves. Kenseth’s report on the room declares that “from the point of view of its size, its equipment, and its availability to listeners, the collection is without rival.”
As the spoken poetry collection brought the Woodberry Room further into the spotlight, the library’s presence expanded both in the University and beyond. In 1939, the Woodberry Room began to host events to foster community such as lectures, poetry readings, and student writing presentations. The Poetry Room’s newfound popularity soon demanded a larger space. In 1949, the new Woodberry Poetry Room, designed by renowned Finnish architect Alvar Aalto, opened in Lamont Library.
Over 70 years later, the room appears as though frozen in time. The walls are lined with collections of twentieth and twenty-first poetry. Comfortable blue velvet chairs are clustered around odd, bulbously shaped tables. In the center of each table is an octagonal glass display case containing a turntable — once used for listening, but now mostly a relic.
Despite its vintage appearance, the room is trying to adapt to a modern audience through an ongoing effort to digitize its collection of audio recordings. This effort mirrors a broader practice of responding to contemporary tastes while also making poetry more accessible. During the Covid-19 pandemic, the room organized virtual poetry readings and talks over Zoom. To mark its 90th year, the room has made available to the public some of the earliest recordings of T.S. Eliot reading his own work.
The room combines both classic and contemporary voices, with recorded readings by poets Ocean Vuong, Cathy Park Hong, and Amanda S. C. Gorman ’20 featured alongside more established poets such as Adrienne Rich and William Carlos Williams. This year’s virtual programming explores the theme of pioneering Boston women poets such as Harlem Renaissance poet Helene Johnson and confessional poet Anne Sexon.
Entrance to the Woodberry Poetry Room is now free for visitors outside the Harvard community with a photo ID and proof of vaccination. Despite its small size, it is, as E.E. Cummings remarked, an “enormous room.”
Sections
“It’s equal parts energizing and tiring,” says Meiling L. Thompson ’22, co-director of Response Peer Counseling, a group of trained undergraduate counselors who specialize in relationship issues, intimate violence, psychological and physical harassment, and sexual assault.
RESPONSE, ECHO, Room 13, Indigo, and Contact make up the five peer counseling organizations on campus. Each group focuses on different aspects of mental health: relationship issues, eating problems, general mental health, identity intersections, and BGLTQ issues, respectively.
The staffers occupy a complicated space — on one hand, they need to manage their own lives and mental health, and on the other, they’ve volunteered to support fellow students through their struggles.
Most peer counselors pursue this work to aid their peers, not as a pre-professional opportunity. They don’t typically plan on pursuing psychology-related career paths. “The vast majority of people are just here because they want to help people on campus,” Thompson says. “And they think that peer counseling is a really valuable resource.”
Though the position is demanding, there is no lack of interest among undergraduates. ECHO, for instance, gets more qualified applicants for their counselor position every semester than they can accommodate, according to ECHO’s co-director Jenny X. Hong ’23.
Potential counselors have to complete a “robust training,” according to Hong,, and both ECHO and RESPONSE counselors are guided by licensed clinicians in weekly debriefing sessions.
According to Hong, the ideal undergraduate staffer is empathetic, and especially for ECHO they’re also mindful of the way they put things into words, skilled at tone matching, and knowledgeable about eating disorders.
RESPONSE also prioritizes empathy, or as Thompson puts it, “the general philosophy is that anybody can become a really good counselor, as long as their hearts are in it, and the intention is there.” She adds, “I think the first few drop-ins you just constantly feel overwhelmed and you don’t quite know what to do, but that quickly fades.”
Even the most seasoned counselors can struggle with the work. “When people are expressing pain to you, you feel that deeply within yourself. It can really take a toll,” Hong says. But both Hong and Thompson stress how much they care about what they do, and how they want people to utilize the resource.
“Obviously I’m not licensed, I’m not a therapist. But just being another human and sharing space with someone can be so incredibly powerful,” Hong says. “And I feel really honored to be able to have that experience and share those very vulnerable moments with the people I do serve.”
”At the end of the day, every time I take a shift I’m always glad. You learn how to manage your emotions better over time,” says Thompson.
In order to do this, staffers eventually develop what Thompson calls “counselor mode,” during which their focus lies on the advisee and not their own emotions.
Hong admits that at the end of the day she is human, and she recognizes how important it is after difficult shifts to engage in self-care — ECHO allows staffers to take time off whenever they need and works to create a strong community of counselors that actively check in with one another. Hong says she sleeps with her ringer on, so that she can talk with any staffer who may need to check-in after an especially difficult conversation.
Similarly, Thompson highlights how RESPONSE counselors are a support network for each other. They’re all hyper-aware of the emotional demands of the job. “A lot of us will check in with each other. We’ll text each other after our shifts to make sure that everyone’s okay,” she says. Talking to her fellow staffers gives her energy, and often after a drop-in counselors will talk through their own emotions together and “counsel each other.” Of course, they speak minimally about actual conversations they’ve had during drop-ins for privacy purposes.
But even with the emotional toughness of the job, the resounding message Thompson wants people to hear is that they should drop in. “I want people to come in and I don’t want them to think that they’re being a burden on the peer counselor,” she says. “They’re the reason why [peer counseling] exists.”
Although Thompson and Hong are very aware of the significance and impact of their work, they also feel somewhat limited about how they can help. As peer counselors are unlicensed, they have to use ‘non-directive,’ non-prescriptive tactics during counseling, meaning they can’t give actionable next steps beyond additional resources. “That’s a really difficult aspect, especially with the focus that we have with sexual assault,” Thomson says. “There are definitely moments where you don't want to be non-directive but at the same time I also think that we’re not trained to do that.”
Hong agrees, and feels a bit held back by the non-directive, non-judgmental role of being a peer counselor, saying, “Asking reflective questions to stimulate the caller’s own thinking is definitely helpful but still extremely limited. We can’t give advice. We can’t prescribe. We can’t fix the problem.” Hong sometimes sees the role of peer counselors as band-aids that treat the crisis at the surface. “I think that’s something that we all feel as peer counselors: the desire to go deeper.”
Although Thompson and Hong are sometimes frustrated with non-directive counseling, they both agree that it’s often the most appropriate response. “There’s a lot that you can help a drop-in with without needing to give them direct advice. But honestly, I understand why that sort of non-directive barrier needs to exist,” Thompson says. “I’m learning that it is very difficult, but at the same time, it gives you an entirely new way of thinking about how to help people with problems and how to support them.”
Regarding their groups’ biggest obstacle, both Thompson and Hong highlighted the issue of location and publicity. Thompson and Hong just want more people to know about their groups, so that people know where to go should they need support.
This semester, ECHO is located in Eliot basement T-24 and RESPONSE is held in Lowell EL-15. Additionally Contact and Room 13 are located in Thayer Basement B-04 and Thayer Basement B-09, respectively. As of publication, Indigo has not announced a location.
“We have a lava lamp,” Hong says. “Stop by!”
​​— Staff writer Jennifer Luong can be reached at jennifer.luong@thecrimson.com.
Sections
The sound of “Chong Ai” by TFBOYS fills up a Beijing mall plaza. Two Harvard Beijing Academy students – one on guitar and one on erhu, a traditional Chinese string instrument – are performing their own impromptu rendition. Other students gather around, cheering them on, trying to convince onlookers that they are American celebrities.
Or so Amia K. Ross ’22-’23 remembers fondly of her time in the study-abroad program in 2019.
From singing Chinese pop songs to playing Mahjong to visiting the Great Wall, students in the Harvard Beijing Academy summer study abroad program have ample opportunity to explore Beijing while improving their Chinese. While these immersive experiences will continue, the program will move from Beijing Language and Culture University in Beijing, China to National Taiwan University in Taipei, Taiwan starting the summer of 2022.
According to Program Director Jennifer L. Liu, the program decided to move to Taipei due to a perceived lack of friendliness from the host institution, Beijing Language and Culture University. In recent years, the program began to have difficulties accessing the classrooms and dorms they needed. For instance, Liu noted that the BLCU did not provide a single dorm for all the students, instead requiring the program split the students into two different dorms of different quality, or to find a hotel that could keep their students together. “Given the condition they provided, we really couldn’t run the program with the quality that we are hoping to deliver to our students,” Liu said.
Liu suspects that the unwelcoming environment may be a product of a subtle shift in the Chinese government’s attitudes towards U.S. institutions, one precipitated by Xi Jinping’s rise to power. In past years, the program would typically host a small party to celebrate the Fourth of July, during which students and faculty would eat pizza and sing the national anthem.
However, in 2019, BLCU notified the program that it could no longer hold this holiday party. “We were told that our students we’re not allowed to sing, to celebrate,” Liu said.
BLCU did not respond to a request for comment.
While Liu can name one other previously Beijing-based institution that has since moved to Taiwan — a branch of the National Security Education Program’s Language Flagship Program — William C. Kirby, a professor of China Studies and Chair of the Harvard Center Shanghai, maintains that most Harvard-affiliated organizations are not moving away from China. Kirby argues that the Harvard Beijing Academy moved to Taiwan for purely logistical reasons, as Harvard broadly has been forming closer connections to China. He points to ongoing collaborations with Chinese academics in the Fairbank Center, the Harvard Kennedy School Asia Fellows Program, and the Harvard Center Shanghai, which has been running workshops and seminars, many of which were in person during the pandemic while other Harvard facilities were shut down.
“This is not a time in which this university is retreating from its engagement with China — it’s actually seeking every way possible to deepen it,” Kirby says.
With the move to Taiwan, the structure of the Harvard Taipei Academy has shifted slightly. Before, the program spanned nine weeks, with a week in the middle dividing two four-week terms for students to travel to other places in China for a research project. During her time, Ross travelled to Inner Mongolia and wrote a literary piece about commercialization in the area. Now, the program has been shortened by a week, so students will instead complete their research projects while covering course content.
Despite these changes, Ross believes the program will still be successful in Taiwan. Ross recommends the program, mentioning that the teachers she had and the immersion experience were “fantastic,” both of which will still be present with the new location. “It will be different, but I think people will like it a lot,” she said.
Liu is excited for students to explore Taipei, which she says has an interesting combination of modernity and tradition, and is still a great location to practice Chinese. Liu says, “No matter where the program is located, we are very confident that they will get the most out of it.”
Sections
Saying “vaccine” and “chip” in the same sentence might elicit skepticism from a portion of the American population, but combining those two technologies is exactly what Wyss Institute senior research scientist Girija Goyal aims to accomplish.
Goyal co-leads a new research team at Harvard’s Wyss Institute, which works on bioengineering projects. With a one-year grant from the federal government’s Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority, the Institute has become one of three participants in the ImmuneChip+ Program. This federal program aims to build upon existing ImmuneChip technology, a chip that contains human cells and replicates the function of certain parts of the immune system. Goyal’s team hopes to automate how the chip functions, so monitoring its data output becomes more convenient.
Her interest in organ chip technology stems from ever-present weaknesses in the drug development process she observed while completing her Ph.D. in immunology. A plastic petri dish containing human cell cultures could only give so much information about the treatments she was studying. ​​
“The problem with in vitro research,” she says, “is that when you take cells out of the body they lose their functional context — they lose their neighbors.” Those struggles brought her to developing organ chip technology, which can replicate an entire organ’s pathways, including the biomarkers they produce in response to drugs and vaccines.
Adapting to the current pandemic times, the lab has also been brainstorming ways in which the chips can be used to monitor the body’s responses to new vaccines. Under the leadership of Wyss senior staff scientist Pawan Jolly, the Sensors and Diagnostics Team has expanded the functionalities of the organ chip to include increased levels of automation.
Researchers typically bring the data collected by the chip back into their labs and workspaces for analysis, but they are aiming for the chip to eventually monitor the biomarkers it makes itself. They hope this system will streamline an often time-consuming and cumbersome analytical process.
The project is distinctly interdisciplinary, bringing together a wide range of specialists, from biologists to clinicians to microfluidic engineers. “It’s a project that is uniquely one you would see done at the Wyss Institute,” says its founding director, Medical School professor Donald E. Ingber. “That’s what we’re proud of at the Institute, the transdisciplinary part of it.”
Perhaps the most widely anticipated result of this new chip is its ability to present a viable avenue towards reducing animal testing. Despite the long reliance upon mice and non-human primates for drug and vaccine testing, the transition from testing in animal models to human clinical trials still results in significant failure and complications, which the Wyss tissue chip might serve to alleviate.
“I’ve never had so much public support for anything I’ve ever done,” Ingber notes. “People love animals.”
The introduction of technology like this chip into vaccine testing could help as an added layer of safety against the hyperinflammatory responses that often appear in human trials despite previous success in animal models.
“If we could monitor that kind of abnormal response in these chips, that could be a real safety valve that would protect things from going to humans that, even though they worked in animals, could be dangerous,” Ingber explains.
Although drug trials can test for general efficacy, they cannot predict individual reactions to a specific treatment. Wyss senior staff engineer Adama M. Sesay, another leader of the program, speculates that organ chips can bring a more “personalized” approach to drug treatment. Organ chips, created with a specific person’s cells, can fill in this medical need and provide individualized information that allows patients to make informed choices for their treatment.
Sesay also predicts that researchers will eventually refine their ability to connect multiple chips together to mimic an entire organ system. While a version of these networks has already been created in the lab, she anticipates that improved automated analysis will expand the variety of tests researchers can run on these systems.
Even in the wake of the wave of distrust and misinformation that has swept the public alongside the introduction of the Covid-19 vaccine, the Wyss Institute is nonetheless hopeful that its research will be able to increase public confidence in vaccines by allowing researchers to collect more data about their efficacy.
“There’s always pushback, no matter which technology it is,” Jolly says with a laugh. “In the end it just has to be proven through data. It’s the same thing with the vaccine.”
Despite the initial skepticism, he adds that many people have begun to realize how important vaccinations are after personal encounters with Covid-19.
While organ chips’ departure from the traditional way of vaccine testing may build on the skepticism already surrounding vaccines, Sesay insists this technology is not as “sci-fi” as it seems. “I think the word [organ chips] is more complex than what it really is,” she says.
“We’ve been studying cells for a long time and using cells for drug discovery,” she explains. “It’s just one more step from where we have been before.”
— Magazine writer Tess C. Kelley can be reached at tess.kelley@thecrimson.com.
Sections
Last Sunday, I skipped my usual breakfast in the dining hall. Instead, I grabbed my coffee to go and ate from Mother Nature’s dining hall: I sampled quickweed and yew berries, kousa dogwood and narrow-leaf plantain, wild onion and garlic mustard, amaranth and elderberry.
Full disclosure: my untrained eye did not spot these plants on its own. I had help from David L. Craft, an assistant professor at Harvard Medical School and Massachusetts General Hospital who leads monthly urban foraging tours. Craft’s research focuses on machine learning’s application to cancer treatment, but his interest in foraging comes from his “student mentality,” as he put it: “Up to the age of 30, I started to realize that I didn’t know a lot [of plants around me in the city], and I bet a lot of them are edible.”
Our 19-strong tour group met at Fjällräven Cambridge, where assistant manager Ivy K. J. Rose introduced Craft and explained that the outdoor apparel company sponsored the event to further its mission to get people out in nature. We then headed west along Brattle Street, where Craft spotted our first edible plant: purslane.
But he cautioned us against immediately eating this particular specimen: “Purslane always attracts human hair,” he said, so he advised us to wash it, and wash it well, before partaking. No one likes a side of human hair with their first course.
Story Street proved more fecund. A quickweed plant grew next to a black nightshade plant, scrunched up right next to the curb. Quickweed, a garden-variety weed, has minute white-and-yellow flowers. Although it closely resembles a black nightshade, the plants are entirely different. The quickweed’s flavor and texture reminded me of parsley; the small black berries on the nightshade tasted like miniscule cherry tomatoes.
Close to the intersection between Story Street and Mount Auburn Street, Craft spotted yew berries. Craft explained that yew trees are normally poisonous, but ironically, they played a role in developing early cancer drugs precisely due to that property. “You asked me earlier about the intersections between foraging and my research, and here’s one!” Craft joked. However, yew berries are edible, and for a moment, the group resembled a 20th century dugout chewing tobacco and sunflower seeds as we sucked the yew berries’ flesh and spit the seeds out, almost in unison.
Philecia F. Harris, an experienced forager and librarian from Roxbury, Mass., said that before she attended the tour, she never had the confidence to eat yew berries. “But now that he did it, I did it as well,” she said.
This blind trust permeated the entire tour. What Craft ate, we ate.
As we moseyed toward the river, Craft guided us along University Road. At a red-brick apartment building’s courtyard, he pointed out a “classic amateur foraging mistake.” If a forager picked up this orange-gilled jack-o’-lantern mushroom and brought it home to cook, “they would have a real bad night.”
Spotting another plant at the courtyard’s opposite end, Craft dashed over to a variegated kousa dogwood, evincing a boylike excitement. “I’ve never seen fruit on a tree like this,” Craft said, calling the tree a “botanical curiosity” and comparing the red stone fruits to soccer balls. The fruit’s flesh was sweet — it reminded me of a Maraschino cherry — but the rind balled up in my mouth and left a bitter aftertaste for several minutes.
We finally arrived at the Charles River, where Craft made a beeline for a tangled mass of foliage along the river. “It’s a mess back here, but I love it!” Craft exclaimed. In the mass, he pointed out curly dock, which he suggested putting in soups, and burdock, which has edible roots that can form the basis of a substantial meal.
“Narrow-leaf plantain makes you feel like an animal,” Craft continued, pointing to bountiful supplies of the low-growing, somewhat bitter plant above the river. He also showed us the spindly, almost fragile wild onion, recommending that we combine the two to make a “field pesto” of sorts. The bitter and piquant hints melded to create a remarkable pesto substitute.
Craft spotted an oak tree on the other side of the river, so we ambled towards Weeks Bridge. Along the way, Craft noticed an apple tree along our path, so he clambered down to the riverbank to shake the lonely apple present out of the tree. The apple fell into the river — almost the forbidden fruit — but that didn’t stop Craft, who fished the apple out and parceled it out among the tour group.
Finally, we arrived at the vaunted oak tree, but discovered no edible mushrooms there. The oak was not a total bust: Craft found a black nightshade plant with enough berries for everyone to enjoy. We headed back to Fjällräven along the Charles, sharing the fruit and passing along curious specimens we found: an amaranth plant with its distinctive notched leaf and red root and an elderberry vine.
“Foraging is very addictive to me,” Craft said at the start of the tour, “because it feels like a primitive, tribal connection to the earth. It’s nice to sort of reinvoke that.” Indeed, it felt good to reconnect with nature, even within the Harvard bubble.
Some of the tour attendees would agree with that. After sampling the cornucopia that the Charles had to offer, Aviv Ovadya, a fellow at the Belfer Center, joked that he “should have brought a produce bag” to bring nature’s bounty back to the dinner table — just like Harris, Craft, and others have done many times before.
—Staff writer Kendrick N. Foster can be reached at kendrick.foster@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @kenning_f.
Sections
“You're kind of both of them, but then at the same time, you're kind of not either of them. So it's hard to mesh with any specific one,” Anthony Rincon ’24-’25 says. Rincon, who opted to take a leave of absence during his spring semester of freshman year, calls himself a “half-freshman” — not quite a freshman, not quite a sophomore.
For Rincon, who competes on Harvard’s swim team, the choice to take time off was easy since the swim team cancelled its spring season. In order to maximize his eight semesters of NCAA eligibility, he decided to live off-campus with some of his teammates and train for the Olympic Trials.
And Rincon is no rare case: there are 50 half-freshmen currently on campus. After last fall’s virtual classes, lackluster social opportunities, cancelled sports seasons, and no guarantee of campus housing for the spring, some freshmen opted for an unconventional choice for their second semester at Harvard — they postponed it.
Anna V. Volpp ’24-’25 says that though she enjoyed living on campus last fall, the experience was “quite different than a normal school year would be.” Ultimately, she decided to take the spring off, obtained her Emergency Medical Technician certification, and worked at a healthcare clinic in Philadelphia. In her free time, she trained for and competed in a triathlon.
Hixon C. Foster ’24-’25, a student in the Harvard-Berklee dual degree program, says Harvard “didn't feel that real at all” during his freshman fall, since he chose to live off-campus to be closer to Berklee practice rooms. Eventually, Berklee also closed its campus to students, citing COVID-19 safety.
“In the intangibility, there were all these assignments and dates that were flying around my head, but I just got so overwhelmed by how none of it felt real yet,” says Foster, who chose to take a semester off to reorient himself before the fall, working on writing music and “​​getting through life.”
​​Sawyer B. Cooper ’24-’25 originally anticipated taking a gap year before matriculating — he wrote one of his Harvard admissions essays about his goal to take a gap year and conduct research on sustainable fishery. He later decided to enroll in the fall while searching for internships, but he eventually fulfilled his goal by taking off the spring semester to work as a research assistant at Stockholm University, studying Baltic herring.
This year, as the half-freshmen return to a newly-revived campus or step foot on it for the first time, many report a disconnect from both their upperclassmen and freshman peers, a feeling exacerbated by logistical issues that remind the students of their in-betweenness.
Annenberg, the freshman dining hall, is the hub of casual socialization for Harvard’s first year class. But the half-freshmen do not have swipe access, preventing them from meeting other first-years over meals and working on problem sets together under the hall’s arches.
Moreover, Carl Ma ’24-’25, an international student from China who arrived on campus for the first time this fall, says he was simultaneously invited via email to the convocations for both the classes of 2024 and 2025; the Dean of Students Office sent a follow-up email, instructing Ma to — in his words — “just go to the one you identify with.”
Even as they live, eat, and socialize in upperclassmen houses, Cooper, Foster, and Volpp are nonetheless anchored to the freshman class through their Expository Writing courses, required for all first-years.
Foster, who also took a gap year before matriculating, says it’s “strange” to be taking the course. “Sitting there about to be able to head out to a bar, and then seeing the 18-year-olds in my Expos class — it's very funny,” Foster says.
Yet, the half-freshmen also aren’t fully sophomores: their friends have progressed further along in their academic journeys and have locked in their concentrations, while the half-freshmen have until next March to declare their path of study at Harvard.
“You have the advantages of both [grades], but you also have the disadvantage of not being fully in each one,” Volpp says. “With my sophomore friends taking classes that are pretty deep, I still have to take a lot of pre-reqs or intro classes.”
Nonetheless, many of the students credit the irregularity caused by COVID as a factor that has ameliorated the oddity of being off-cycle.
“I feel like I've really remained in the class that I started in,” Cooper says. “Even though I took time off and everyone I knew basically didn't, we were all sort of in the same boat because no one was having the full normal college experience.”
Volpp, as well as many others, says that she doesn’t regret trading off another virtual semester for her off-campus escapades. “You only have this experience for eight semesters, so just try to savor it as much as you can,” Volpp says.
— Staff writer Andy Z. Wang can be reached at andy.wang@thecrimson.com.
Sections
New Hampshire-based attorney Robert M. Fojo has filed 12 lawsuits challenging school mask mandates in the past five months. His targets have included a Catholic school in Florida, school districts in his home state, and most recently, the Cambridge school district. Fojo filed the Cambridge lawsuit on behalf of the advocacy group Children’s Health Rights of Massachusetts.
Fojo, a Harvard Law graduate, filed the lawsuit on Sept. 19, in addition to four others. The suits challenge mandates instituted by the Massachusetts state education department, the city of Cambridge, the city’s school district, and other school districts — at a time when debates over mask mandates in schools have engulfed the nation, ranging from parent petitions to physical protests and arrests at school board meetings.
Run by a team of anonymous parent volunteers, CHRM was founded in August 2021. “Our first objective is to fight illegal and cruel school mask mandates,” reads the organization’s mission statement. CHRM claims its membership includes teachers, frontline healthcare workers, police officers, business owners, and veterans,” according to its website.
The CHRM lawsuit contends that the Massachusetts Department of Elementary and Secondary Education and Cambridge schools lack the authority to enact mask mandates. In several recent, similar cases, federal and state courts in Arizona, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, and elsewhere have ruled in favor of school mask mandates.
A large part of Fojo’s case centers on a contentious argument that masks are both ineffective for stopping the spread of Covid-19 and potentially harmful to children. Citing a study from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention conducted in Georgia, the lawsuit argues that “measures like social distancing, classroom barriers, HEPA filters, and forcing students to wear masks did not result in a statistically significant benefit.” Although the CDC report documented that the correlation between in-school mask mandates and lower coronavirus case levels was not “statistically significant” among younger students, the report noted a “21% lower incidence [of Covid] in schools that required mask use among students” than in schools that didn’t.
The lawsuit also cites journalist David Zweig’s New York Magazine article “The Science of Masking Kids at School Remains Uncertain,” using it to make the controversial claim that mask mandates have been consistently debunked. Zweig’s article argues that there is no “evidence of more outbreaks” in countries that allowed students to unmask, including some of America’s peer nations.
However, many health organizations and scientists continue to recommend masks for children. Mayo Clinic, for example, reports on their website that studies have “unequivocally shown” that masks cause “no negative health effects” for children. While the World Health Organization and UNICEF do not advise for children five and under to wear masks, they do advise for children between six and eleven years old to wear masks in environments with high transmission rates, and for those over 12 to wear masks at the same rate as adults. And the American Academy of Pediatrics has issued a “universal school masking recommendation” for children 2 years and older.
The lawsuit challenges State Education Commissioner Jeff Riley’s mask mandate for school buildings instituted on Aug. 25, which Riley recently extended through Nov. 1. The update stipulates that schools with a vaccination rate among staff and students of 80 percent or higher will be able to unmask as early as Oct. 15. Since children under 12 are not authorized to be vaccinated, only middle and high schools could qualify for unmasking.
When asked for contact information of CHRM parent organizers, Fojo responds that “the organization asked me to speak in their stead, so I don’t think that anyone will be commenting from there.”
According to Fojo, CHRM parents decided to sue as a “last resort” after they found school committees unreceptive to their complaints. The parents “don’t believe [a mask mandate] is necessary, and they believe it’s harming their children,” he says.
When asked to estimate the levels of support for anti-masking efforts in general, Fojo replies that although he could not supply any numbers, he’s observed that “the energy is very palpable,” adding that “there are many more parents that support this position than people believe.”
An August 2021 poll by the MassINC Polling Group of registered Massachusetts voters found that 81 percent supported requiring masks for anyone entering a school building, while just 12 percent opposed the proposal.
Fojo’s legal strategy is multi-pronged. To him, one key limitation for mask mandates is statutory authority: “There’s nothing in the statute governing school districts and school committees that enables them to pass these broad health measures,” he asserts.
He also argues that the “broad scheme” of authority granted to the Massachusetts Department of Health in the area of infectious diseases “preempts any action by other local institutions” in that field, including the state education department. According to Fojo, since the DPH has not initiated a school mask mandate, no subordinate institution has the right to do so.
Cambridge Public Schools Interim Superintendent Victoria Greer, Chief Strategy Officer Lyndsay Pinkus Brown, and city spokesperson Lee Gianetti declined to comment.
Fojo is also making a constitutional argument that mask mandates “infringe on parents’ fundamental rights concerning their children.” He adds that masks “cause [students] anxiety and stress” and “inhibit social development and social interaction,” among other “psychological, mental and emotional impacts.” Fojo cites negative physical impacts of mask-wearing, too, such as “increas[ing] the amount of carbon dioxide that one intakes” and higher levels of acne.
Those claims have been disputed by several studies. A study conducted by the University of Wisconsin-Madison on children between the ages of seven and 13 in which participants were asked to identify facial expressions from photographs found that “masks are unlikely to dramatically impair children's social interactions in their everyday lives.” Post-doctoral fellow Ashley Ruba, one of the Wisconsin-Madison study’s authors, strongly believes that social isolation among children should be a much bigger mental health worry than mask-wearing.
The CDC notes that CO2 molecules are small enough to “easily pass through mask material,” while Covid-19 respiratory droplets are not. A report published in the International Journal of Environmental Research and Public Health similarly found that “wearing a medical-grade mask does not appear to impact blood oxygen or carbon dioxide concentrations.” The report concluded that “in healthy populations, wearing a mask does not appear to cause any harmful physiological alterations.”
It did, however, acknowledge potential psychological impacts of mask-wearing, noting that these “may contribute to the controversy associated with wearing masks during the COVID-19 pandemic in the United States.”
Another suit seeking to end mask mandates filed in Hampden County by The Family Freedom Endeavor, by contrast to the CHRM lawsuit, was more narrowly focused. The Hampden lawsuit only uses jurisdictional reasoning to substantiate their claim.
In a Change.org petition entitled “No Mask Mandate for Easton Public Schools — Parental Choice!”, CHRM wrote, “as parents, we have to look no further than ourselves to find who has the very best interest of our children in mind.” The group added that there are “countless qualified medical professionals on BOTH sides of the argument. And… their opinions often change!”
In a Sept. 14 update to the petition entitled “Big Update — Lawsuit Pending,” CHRM explained it had been working “behind the scenes” on legal challenges to mask mandates and requested donations for the Easton School District portion of the lawsuit fund.
In the same MassINC poll reporting broad support for mask mandates in Massachusetts schools, 85 percent of Democrats supported requiring masks to enter schools compared to 69 percent of Republicans; a nationwide poll by AP News found the partisan divide may be as high as 80 to 30.
“The masking debate in the United States is uniquely political and tribal in a way that it is not elsewhere,” Zweig says in an interview. “That doesn’t mean that there isn’t dissent or some degree of argument about this in other places, only that it has not taken on the binary left-right dynamic with such vehemence as it has in the United States.”
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Former U.S. Secretary of Defense Ashton B. Carter criticized the withdrawal of U.S. troops from Afghanistan at an event hosted by the Harvard Kennedy School’s Institute of Politics Wednesday.
The event — which was moderated by HKS Dean Douglas W. Elmendorf — took place just over a month after President Joe Biden called back remaining U.S. troops in Afghanistan, bringing America’s longest war to an end. Amid the withdrawal, the Taliban overwhelmed Afghan security forces to return to power.
Carter said Wednesday that Biden withdrew American troops too early, recalling his position on the U.S.’s presence in Afghanistan during his tenure as Secretary of Defense in the Obama administration.
“When I left office, I knew as Secretary of Defense how unpopular this war was,” Carter said. “I was in a minority in my own country in believing that the right course was to stay there, and, as I said, to keep the lid on and maintain a semi-permanent presence in Afghanistan. I was the only one that believed that.”
The U.S. military presence in Afghanistan, Carter argued, both prevented terrorist attacks and provided a strategic outpost in the Middle East. For example, Carter said that the U.S. would not have been able to kill Osama Bin Laden at Abbottabad, Pakistan without having a strong presence in Jalalabad, Afghanistan.
Carter — who currently heads HKS’s Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs — also explained how the U.S. presence in Afghanistan evolved over two decades. When America first invaded Afghanistan, the war was deadly, he explained.
“This isn’t some Washington game sitting around the situation room table making decisions.” Carter said. “That is part of it, but it’s a deadly serious business.”
By 2015, though, American forces had transitioned to a largely supportive role and were not participating in hazardous combat missions.
“In the last few years, there were not Americans routinely dying weekly in Afghanistan,” Carter said.
During the question-and-answer portion of the event, an audience member asked Carter what America could do to help the Afghan people under the Taliban’s rule.
“It’s a very good question, and I’m sorry, there isn’t a lot,” Carter said. “It’s all going to depend upon the forbearance of the Taliban and what they’re going to permit.”
Due to distrust of the Taliban, countries likely will be reluctant to provide humanitarian aid to Afghanis, he said.
“The willingness of the world to look beyond the government of the Taliban to a stricken people and continue to give aid — that’s not going to happen,” he said.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
UPDATED: October 7, 2021 at 12:15 p.m.
Harvard researchers outlined lifestyle changes that would need to occur on a societal level to optimize the health and well-being of the general population and the planet in a declaration in The Lancet on Tuesday.
The São Paulo Declaration on Planetary Health — which was signed by more than 250 organizations from 47 countries — was led by the Planetary Health Alliance, a global consortium housed by the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health aimed at advancing the new field of planetary health.
The Planetary Health Alliance was established after a 2015 report revealed the devastating impact of human activities on the planet’s natural systems and human health, according to founder and director Samuel S. Myers. He said he launched the Alliance in 2016 with the support of the Rockefeller Foundation to “raise the alarm” about the imminent global challenge.
Jeremy Pivor — a senior program coordinator at the Planetary Health Alliance and a co-author of the declaration — said planetary health focuses on analyzing “how disruptions in our natural systems are affecting human health.”
The declaration’s foremost goal is to clarify the problem and establish a clear distinction between planetary health and climate change, according to Myers.
“People don’t really understand the statement of the problem fully, so most people conflate planetary health with climate change,” he said. “I think if we get that diagnosis wrong, then we also get the treatment wrong.”
The real problem is that humanity’s ecological footprint surpasses the planet’s capacity to sustainably produce and absorb the resources people need, Myers explained.
To address this issue, the declaration calls upon humanity to enact a deep structural change — which they call the Great Transition — across most dimensions of human activity, including food and energy consumption, goods manufacturing, urban planning, and governance.
“It's going to take everybody in every sector of human society to affect this Great Transition,” he said.
Though the declaration was first conceived in 2019 prior to the pandemic, Pivor said Covid-19 and planetary emergencies in the past two years have nonetheless influenced the ways in which the Alliance approached planetary health and the declaration.
“Covid-19 has showed us the urgency of the matter, but also showed us our capability to actually address it,” Pivor said. “The response to Covid-19 has shown our capability to come together as a global community to make the necessary changes we need to safeguard the health of all people and the planet.”
Myers added that the declaration also highlights the social justice dimension to planetary health.
“When you think about who bears the burden of degraded natural systems, who experiences the health effects, that burden is borne disproportionately by the poor, by people of color, by indigenous communities, and by future generations,” Myers said.
“That’s fundamentally just deeply unfair because those are not the communities that have contributed the most to driving this transformation of nature,” he added.
The Planetary Health Alliance held a virtual launch event Wednesday for the declaration’s publication. The event featured short remarks from Myers, Pivor, and other members of the Alliance, as well as Antonio M. Saraiva, a professor at the University of São Paulo who organized the 2021 planetary health annual meeting that created the São Paulo Declaration.
The event concluded in a series of short videos, which featured signatory representatives sharing their reasons for supporting the São Paulo Declaration, which ranged from recognizing that the climate crisis is one of the most critical issues of this generation to acknowledging that in an “interconnected planet, no one is safe until everyone is safe.”
The HSPH Center for Climate, Health, and the Global Environment was one of many signatories of the declaration.
Skye S. Flanigan, a program manager at C-CHANGE, wrote in an emailed statement that the declaration recognizes that prioritizing planetary health will allow for new economic opportunities, less pollution, and create safer and more resilient communities, among numerous other benefits.
During the event, Saraiva highlighted the imminence of the problem and the consequent need for humanity to shift lifestyles.
“We cannot thrive while nature’s life support systems are crumbling under the weight of our own activities,” he said. “If we get it right, our grandchildren could inherit a truly beautiful future.”
CORRECTION: October 7, 2021
A previous version of this article misrepresented Jeremy Pivor's quote on how Covid-19 influenced the ways in which the Alliance approached planetary health and the declaration.
—Staff writer Ariel H. Kim can be reached at ariel.kim@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
President Joe Biden nominated Harvard University Native American Program Executive Director Shelly C. Lowe to serve as the 12th chair of the National Endowment for the Humanities on Tuesday.
Lowe, a citizen of the Navajo Nation, has served since 2016 as one of 26 members of the National Council on the Humanities, an advisory board appointed by the president that reports to the agency’s chair. If confirmed by the Senate, she will be the first Native American to helm the federal agency that provides more than $100 million in grants to cultural and educational institutions each year.
Lowe is also the second woman in the agency’s history to receive the nomination. In a press release on Tuesday, Lowe said she hopes to continue contributing to the advancement of the humanities in her capacity as chair.
“My time serving on the National Council on the Humanities has been immensely rewarding, and I look forward to continuing to serve and advance the humanities in this new role,” Lowe said. “Ensuring the American people have access to humanities institutions, resources, and programs is absolutely critical to addressing the challenges of the 21st century.”
Established in 1965, the National Endowment for the Humanities awards grants to cultural institutions including universities, libraries, radio stations, and museums in line with its dual missions of advancing excellence in the humanities and imparting history to Americans, per the agency’s website.
Former NEH Acting Chair Margaret Plympton, whose tenure from 2017 to 2018 overlapped with Lowe’s time on the Council, said Lowe is well positioned to account for both the academic and public realms of the humanities.
“She’s very plugged into the scholarly aspects of the humanities, but also the important public engagement aspects of the humanities, and the ways that humanities can inform work throughout our societies,” Plympton said.
William R. Ferris — a professor at the University of North Carolina-Chapel Hill who served as the NEH chair from 1997 to 2001 under President Bill Clinton — said Lowe’s extensive experience makes her a “superb” appointment.
“She’s been serving on the Council of the National Endowment for the Humanities, which approves all of the grants, so she is intimately aware of how the process at the agency works,” he said. “She will bring a fresh, long-overdue voice of a vision for America that the agency will embrace in a deep and powerful way.”
Lowe — who declined to comment — has directed HUNAP since 2009. Before Harvard, she served as an assistant dean at Yale and worked as an administrator at the University of Arizona.
Jon P. Peede, who chaired the NEH under President Donald Trump, also endorsed Lowe’s nomination in a tweet Tuesday.
“Shelly Lowe will be an excellent @NEHgov chair,” Peede wrote. “I commend President Biden’s nomination of her. She will be a great colleague to the agency staff, too.”
Under Trump, some University affiliates worried that federal research funding from agencies including the NEH and National Endowment for the Arts could be curtailed. Former University President Drew G. Faust penned a New York Times op-ed in 2017 making a case to save the NEH as it faced elimination.
Ferris lauded the Biden administration for nominating individuals like Lowe to advance the humanities.
“I have faith in the Biden administration — the vision and the quality of people they’ve selected for the various appointments always seems to be well done, with a lot of care,” he said. “And this [nomination] reflects that.”
—Staff writer Isabella B. Cho can be reached at isabella.cho@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @izbcho.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard Square will soon welcome Wusong Road, a newly established Chinese American restaurant and tiki bar headed by chef Jason Doo and Thomas Brush, the owner of Felipe’s Taqueria.
Wusong Road is aiming for a “late fall” opening on 112 Mt. Auburn St., the historic building where French restaurant Les Sablons used to be, Doo said in an interview. The new restaurant is located near Flour Bakery and the Harvard Square Hotel.
Doo said the restaurant has been in the works for a long time. He added that though he and his business partners formulated the business idea before the pandemic, the spike in anti-Asian sentiments during Covid-19 motivated them to delay the opening.
Doo said the team envisions Wusong’s first floor operating as a “rice plate” restaurant — with specialities including Chinese-style roast meats such as pork, duck, and chicken at an affordable price.
“We’re actually importing an imperial-style Peking duck oven,” he said. “We’re going to try to keep everything in that $10 price point so everyone can eat there.”
Doo also said he hopes the second floor — targeted to customers 21 and older — will be a place for local residents to relax after work.
Denise A. Jillson, the president of the Harvard Square Business Association, said businesses and patrons of the Square “look forward to welcoming” Wusong Road.
“To have that building light up again is really important for that particular area in Harvard Square that tends to be fairly quiet,” Jillson said.
Doo — who noted that the cuisine offered at Wusong will not be “necessarily traditional Chinese food,” but rather a nod to the Chinese American cuisine of his upbringing in Malden, Mass. — said he hopes to serve the type of food he enjoys eating.
“I don’t feel like I need to prove myself by doing a ten-course tasting menu anymore,” added Doo, who formerly worked as a chef at upscale French eatery Menton in Boston. “It’s, ‘Hey, I really love this food. I’m going to put my life story on a plate.’”
Several Harvard students said they are dissatisfied with current Chinese offerings in the Square, a void that may be filled by Wusong.
Nicholas Y. Gu ’24, who has dined at Hong Kong Restaurant in the past, said many college students, including himself, frequent the establishment “out of need” because it is one of the few Chinese eateries near campus.
Gu said he would like to see more authentic Chinese cuisine offerings in the Square, citing another restaurant — Dumpling House — as tasty but inconvenient because of its relatively distant location.
“I would like to actually see Chinese food. The nearest restaurant that’s kind of good is Dumpling House, and even that’s a 15 minute walk and it’s tucked away in a corner,” he said. “So just having an option would be really great.”
Gu, who was not aware of Wusong Road’s entry into the Square, called it a “stunning revelation.”
“I’m very excited,” Gu said.
Doo said that he hopes Wusong Road can open swiftly, so Cambridge residents and Square patrons have another food option come colder weather.
“We’d really like to get open and offer that escapism to a tropical style bar during the cold of New England winters,” he said.
—Staff writer Isabella B. Cho can be reached at isabella.cho@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @izbcho.
—Staff writer Vivian Zhao can be reached at vivian.zhao@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Psychedelics reform advocates discussed decriminalizing drugs, reducing stigma, and centering Indigenous voices in a Harvard Law School webinar on Wednesday.
The webinar marked the launch of the Law School’s Petrie-Flom Center for Health Policy’s Project on Psychedelics Law and Regulation — a three-year initiative to study the economic, legal, and social implications of psychedelics.
In his opening remarks, U.S. Representative Earl F. Blumenauer (D-Ore.), a longtime cannabis reform advocate, said he hopes to extend Oregon’s historic progress on psychedelic decriminalization to the federal level. In November 2020, the state decriminalized possession of all controlled substances.
“I promise you I will do my part — not only assisting in the evolution of the Oregon program, but I plan on bringing this movement to Capitol Hill this year in the same way we developed the foundation for the support of our cannabis work,” Blumenauer said.
The American public broadly favors drug reform, Blumenauer said. He urged federal lawmakers to update policy to align with the public’s views.
“I would like your center to be able to help raise awareness on Capitol Hill at this critical time in drug reform,” Blumenauer said. “Our advantage is that the American public is ahead of the legislature and other policymakers.”
California State Senator Scott Wiener, one of the panelists, introduced a drug reform bill in his state inspired by Oregon’s. His bill would decriminalize the possession of seven psychedelic substances in California, including psilocybin and “MDMA.”
“You can have whatever opinion, anything you want, about whether people should use psychedelics,” Weiner said. “But the question for you is, ‘should we be arresting and incarcerating people for possessing and using these drugs?’”
Beatriz C. Labate, executive director of the Chacruna Institute for Psychedelic Plant Medicines, said the conversation on psychedelic reform should prioritize Indigenous voices.
“There is a branch of our movement that is completely disrespectful to Indigenous people,” Labate said. “Activists that have disregarded, disrespected, trashed, vandalized, and vulgarized the authentic leadership of the Native American Church in this country.”
Wiener said Indigenous perspectives were taken into consideration when revising the California decriminalization bill — specifically regarding peyote, a psychedelic substance central to the spiritual practices of the Native American Church.
“There were people, including the Native American Church, who believed that it should not be included in the bill because it would lead to peyote tourism, and there are already federal protections for Indigenous practitioners,” Wiener said. “We ultimately did not include peyote in the bill.”
Discussing the stigma surrounding psychedelics, Labate shared the story of an employee who was forced out of her apartment after her landlord discovered she works for a psychedelic research institute.
“We’re still faced in the moral graves that we put ourselves in stigmatizing and not understanding psychedelics,” Labate said. “It’s 500 years of colonization, it’s still happening. We’ve still got work to do.”
David Shurtleff, a neuroscience researcher at the National Institutes of Health, said psychedelic research is key to reducing stigma.
“Rigorous, objective research that’s unbiased — I think that’s really going to get us out of this conundrum,” Shurtleff said. “The brain doesn’t know from legal or illegal.”
Dustin Marlan, one of the panel moderators, wrote in an email that he hopes the event can “alleviate some of the stigma” around psychedelics.
“I hope that increasing numbers of people will come to see psychedelic law reform as a pressing matter of social justice,” he added.
—Staff writer Emmy M. Cho can be reached at emmy.cho@thecrimson.com.
—Staff writer Brandon L. Kingdollar can be reached at brandon.kingdollar@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter at @newskingdollar.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard held on to defeat Boston University by a score of 2-1 in a cross-Beantown matchup at Jordan Field on Tuesday night, with all three goals coming in the first 25 minutes of the game.
Harvard's win over the Terriers, which brings the team's record to 4-3-2 (0-0-1 Ivy League), comes in its second-to-last non-conference matchup of the season. With the exception of its away trip to Holy Cross in two weeks, all of the Crimson’s remaining games will be against Ivy League opposition.
“We managed to stay composed once BU picked up the pace of the game and came at us with more intensity. We did well to try and play out as often as possible and control the tempo of the game,” junior goalkeeper Gianluca Trofa said. “Playing at home is great when fans come out to support the team, and it gives us an incentive to push through tough games that come down to the wire like this one.”
First-year forward Alessandro Arlotti continued his string of clutch performances for Harvard on the night, grabbing his team-best fourth goal of the season, three of which have been game-winners. His performances have grabbed the attention of the Ivy League as he was awarded Ivy League Rookie of the Week for his efforts last Monday.
Arlotti was assisted on the goal by sophomore midfielder Willem Ebbinge, who grabbed his third assist of the season on the play. Ebbinge picked up the ball in the 23rd minute after the Terriers lost possession just outside their own box and worked hard to get to the ball before it crossed the endline. His first-time cross took the BU keeper out of the equation, and Arlotti got in front of his man to poke into the empty net for a 2-1 lead. This third assist brings Ebbinge level with Arlotti for most assists for the Crimson so far this season.
“I thought we created plenty of chances and generally managed the game quite well, but we will need to be more clinical going forward if we really want to push on and challenge for the Ivy League,” Ebbinge said of the game.
The stat sheet spoke to Harvard’s dominance on the night, as the Crimson outshot BU 20-13, with 10 on target to the Terriers’ five. BU’s keeper was forced into eight saves, as opposed to just four for Trofa, and three Terriers picked up yellow cards on the night, compared to just one for Harvard, which was issued to first-year defender Kristjan Gunnarson in the 69th minute. The Crimson also had more corners, with six to BU’s four.
Harvard had taken an early lead in just the fourth minute, with sophomore midfielder James Fahmy netting his first assist of the season in his first start. Fahmy picked the pocket of a BU attacker in the Crimson’s box and launched the ball downfield to junior forward Martin Vician.
Vician fought to pick up the ball between two defenders and was met by the onrushing BU goalkeeper. Vician waited patiently for the keeper to dive before deftly chipping over the top to find the back of the net. The goal was Vician’s second of the season.
Harvard’s lead was short-lived, as the Terriers equalized just ten minutes later with a shot from the edge of the area. The goal was the first conceded by junior goalkeeper Gianluca Trofa this season, through 195 minutes of play. Trofa racked up 17 saves in that time, with 12 of those coming in his standout performance against Merrimack, where he also grabbed an assist.
“Saturday is going to be a great opportunity for us to put everything we have worked on this season to the test,” Trofa said. “We will definitely look to fix some mistakes we made in the game in training this week to prepare for the conference game this weekend.”
The Crimson's next match comes this Saturday, as it travels to Ithaca, N.Y., to face No. 24 Cornell in its second Ivy League matchup of the season. The Big Red opened its Ivy League play with a convincing 3-0 win at Penn on Saturday, which was enough to get Cornell into the Top 25, as it currently sits at 6-1-1.
The prospect of playing a ranked opponent won't scare Harvard though, as its game against No. 7 University of New Hampshire earlier this season was closely contested, though the contest eventually ended 3-1.
“Every game is important and a must-win,” Trofa continued. “And we believe that if we are playing at our best there isn’t a team in the conference that should be able to beat us.”
Looking ahead at the Ivy League slate, the Big Red is the only ranked Ancient Eight side, but it is still anyone’s title to take. Harvard, Cornell, and Penn are the only Ivy League teams sitting above .500 this season, with Princeton sitting at 4-4. Although overall record is a rough metric to judge relative strength, the Crimson has shown it can go all the way this year, after drawing the reigning champions away at Yale and battling to the end with a top 10 team away at New Hampshire. Saturday will be a big test for the Crimson and a chance to show that it can back up its record.
“We are well aware that Cornell has had a robust start to its season and that a result will be vital for our Ivy League aspirations,” Ebbinge said of Saturday’s matchup. “Nonetheless, the boys are chomping at the bit and feeling confident that we can return from Ithaca with a decent result.”
— Staff writer Eamon J. McLoughlin can be reached at eamon.mcloughlin@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
I’m going to be honest with you guys. Some of your coughs sound questionable. I can’t focus on my Buzzfeed quizzes in lecture because I’m thinking about which seat is the furthest away from the guy hacking out a lung in the back row. Hopefully people aren’t coming to class with Covid-19, but I’m too busy trying to figure out what type of cupcake I am to even think about the possibility of quarantine. So, for our collective peace of mind, here are some ways to let everyone know that the only thing plaguing you is your fourth pset of the week.
Wear it with pride!
There are too many button-making events at this institution to not make at least one “Covid-Negative” one. Or design a T-shirt that says “Just Allergies” and wear it all season long! When it gets colder, you can even embroider a little “N” for negative into your Canada Goose. If Hester Prynne can do it, so can you.
Send screenshots of your color.com results to the classwide groupme.
You already take the tri-weekly screenshots to send to your Covid-cautious parents. Why not expand that to the whole class? It can’t be more annoying than the same four people asking about add-drop deadlines over and over, and how else will that one girl in section know that it would be 100 percent safe to make out with you in the basement bathroom of the Science Center?
Shout it out!
This one’s pretty simple. Each time you sneeze or cough, just stand up and calmly yell, “Not Covid!” Everyone else in the Widener Reading Room will be so relieved.
Simply do not get sick.
Every time I sneeze, I just think to myself, “Does this align with my five-year plan?” And every time, the answer is no! Your pandemic-addled immune system’s got this one in the bag, so just relax and triple-mask up every time you pass a tourist caressing John Harvard’s shoe.
These tips are bound to keep everyone else from surreptitiously tightening the nose wires of their masks when you loudly sneeze into yours. And if you do test positive, at least you still have a one-of-a-kind customized Canada Goose. Stay safe out there!
