News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
What some Harvard students might not know is this is the first time some of their peers have experienced medical relief in the form of health insurance.
Thankfully, I was very healthy during my adolescence and young adulthood. I rarely fell ill, was only hospitalized once (for a possible case of rabies from an animal bite… sorry, neighborhood dog), and never broke a bone.
Although, when I was sick in my younger years, I do recall a deep sense of dread. I dreaded missing school; I dreaded lying listlessly in bed; I dreaded going to the doctor; I dreaded the final medical bill we would receive later in the mail; I dreaded the subsequent tradeoff between buying groceries or paying the bill, or paying for rent or paying the bill, or affording wifi or paying the bill. This feeling of dread was multifaceted and weighed deeply on my openness to admit sickness.
While nearly 33 percent of individuals who avoid medical care do so to avoid physicians and health care organizations, 58 percent of individuals who avoid medical treatment do so because of high costs, a lack of health insurance, and/or a lack of time. Those working part-time or in low-paying jobs are more likely to be uninsured or to have worse insurance benefits. They are more likely to be strained for time due to less flexibility in the workplace. For immigrant families, an additional challenge comes in the form of a language barrier. All of these factors play against low-income individuals’ ability to receive the care they need, undermining their potential for wellbeing.
My dread also stemmed from a lack of awareness: I was unaware of what hospitals, doctors, and health insurance actually entailed. All I knew was that they were expensive and thus to be avoided. I was accustomed to riding a cold out and only in the most severe cases going to see a doctor. Now I won’t crumble due to a simple cough or stuffy nose. But this also taught me that attending classes in high school with a 101 degrees fever was O.K. It taught me to devalue help and my wellbeing, when both were probably in dire need of appreciation.
Since coming to college, my health problems have been persistent. In the spring, I was hospitalized for pericarditis. The following summer, I was hospitalized for appendicitis. More recently, I endured the college sickness making its way around campus.
I came out with a total of nearly $24,313 in medical bills, all of which were covered by Harvard Student Health Insurance, for which I am extremely grateful.
Being able to receive healthcare without fear of cost or accessibility has been a transformative part of my education. For the first time in my life, I no longer fear going to Harvard University Health Services or to the hospital in the event of poor health. However, we live in a faux environment.
In the summer of 2021, between my two hospitalizations, I fell off of a skateboard going down a steep incline. Skin hit pavement and, next thing I knew, I had severe road rash all the way up and down my body. After doing at-home triage with alcohol wipes and bandage wraps, I was feeling comfortable. I eventually went to a CVS minute-clinic to simply confirm that there was no infection developing. After spending less than 10 minutes inside, I received the half-hearted advice that they similarly thought it wasn’t infected. Even with my mother’s insurance, I left CVS with a staggering $220 bill and $30 medication. Granted, at the time, I did not think that my Harvard coverage could extend to out-of-state expenses. Had I known that it did possibly cover part of those expenses, I would have used it.
The ultimate insight is that Harvard has created an artificial landscape for its first-generation, low-income students. I am thankful that Harvard’s insurance covers so much, but when I graduate or return home or watch my family fall ill, it is disheartening to return to at-home remedies for more severe health conditions.
I should not feel shame in wanting to verify the state of my health. For a while, I grappled with whether or not it was actually worth it — the cost of the bill and the resulting clarity from determining if I was well. But I now realize that these are considerations many of my classmates have never given a second thought. For many, consistent access to health care has always been taken for granted.
My health deserves to be a priority, not a privilege. When the medical bill is the same price as an airline ticket back to college, something is clearly off. No one should be priced out of their healthcare nor should they be forced to choose between necessities.
For low-income students on campus, a medical bill of even $100 can throw a family for a loop. It displaces the minimal resources low-income families have. Harvard’s insurance has ultimately assuaged my dread for the time being, but it has not tempered my worry about what will happen when student health insurance is no longer an option.
Jordan R. Robbins, a Crimson Editorial editor, lives in Leverett House. His column “What Some Harvard Students Don't Know …” appears on alternate Thursdays.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Out of all the classes offered at Harvard, philosophy courses aren’t exactly seen as the most popular. Spend 15 minutes in the back of a Philosophy 138: “Heidegger’s Being and Time” lecture and you’ll quickly see why. There doesn’t seem to be much appeal at first in discussing how Heidegger’s being-with can solve the seeming contradiction between logical positivism and the understanding of the Other as a subject with independent experience. This low demand among Harvard undergraduates for philosophy courses might appear, at first, to make sense.
This arises from a misunderstanding of the field of philosophy. Throughout the 20th century, philosophy became much more inward-looking than in the past, with philosophers specializing in certain fields to such an extent that one needed to learn an extensive vocabulary to even hope to be able to participate in discussion. This led to the field of philosophy closing off from the public, with only those learned enough able to contribute.
Things weren’t always this way, however. During the Renaissance, Enlightenment, and Industrial age, philosophers weren’t specialists huddled in the basement of a university building scribbling away at a thesis that only a couple dozen people could ever hope to understand. Instead, Socrates was a sculptor, Montaigne was a statesman, and Spinoza was a lens grinder. Philosophy wasn’t an arcane academic topic. Instead, it was an essential part of daily life, something that no one could avoid and everyone appreciated.
Today, however, philosophy is shifting back to its previous role as an invaluable tool for living in the world. Faced with deep-seated problems, people of society, especially Harvard students, have begun asking questions that can only be answered philosophically. Questions of “what ought to be done” are mainstream in conversations undergraduates have every day in the dining halls. The theme of the decade has been moral responsibility, which has been thrust into center stage when discussing everything from divesting from fossil fuels to cancel culture.
There’s a reason Professor Michael Sandel’s “Justice” class has become wildly popular among undergraduates. In making philosophy accessible to the general public, it has become an entry point for the philosophy-hungry students who have begun to realize the importance of asking these bigger questions.
That is why I implore you to take a philosophy class before you graduate. The reason I give in support is not that it can help you to think critically, or write properly. To do so would mean reducing philosophy to nothing more than low stakes preparation for when you have to think critically and write properly about things that actually matter. It would amount to urging you to run the Boston Marathon so that you won’t get winded walking to class every day, or studying Latin so you’ll do well on the SAT vocabulary section.
Instead, taking a philosophy class will do something much more important. It will force you to look inwardly and lead you to be critical of your own beliefs. The summer before my freshman year, I asked myself, how many of my beliefs and actions could I really defend? I was opinionated, but how many of these opinions were really based on a logical basis, rather than just preconceived biases I had as a result of my childhood? I wanted to be held accountable for my beliefs, and philosophy gives me that exact opportunity.
One of the biggest enablers of this intellectual accountability was entering Harvard itself, with its intellectually diverse group of students. Some of the most productive philosophy isn’t discussed in Emerson Hall, but in the dining halls. When such a large group of students is exposed to each other, each with their own beliefs and ideals fermenting since childhood, everyone is bound to take a critical eye to even their own deepest held principles.
What I thus ask you to do is just continue these conversations and investigations into the nature of truth that you already carry out, except now, take advantage of the institutions put in place to facilitate and nourish these discussions. “An unexamined life is not worth living,” said Socrates, and Harvard gives the opportunity to take this examination upon oneself. A course in philosophy formalizes the thought processes that already exist, giving you both the tools to more effectively deal with those questions that keep you up at night and encouraging the formulation of more of these questions.
Sometimes, the questions philosophy tackles may seem like emotion or art, too ethereal and grand to truly understand and only perverted by their formalization into a classroom. However, the formal discussion of these questions in an academic setting, far from stripping them of value, instead reveals new insights, allowing one to build upon years of human thought. To sit in a philosophy class at Harvard is no less than sitting in a dining hall discussing these same questions with hundreds of generations of humanity.
All actions you take are based on your previously held beliefs, and philosophy aims to investigate this very basis of your identity. Other classes may alter your skills; a philosophy course will alter your very self. When you graduate from Harvard, you may be thankful for having taken courses and participated in extracurriculars that help you find a job. However, these will live on your resume, while a philosophy course will live within you.
Manny A. Yepes ’24, a Crimson Editorial editor, lives in Cabot House.
Have a suggestion, question, or concern for The Crimson Editorial Board? Click here.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Fierce debate over mask mandates has ricocheted throughout the nation, so it's no surprise that related petitions, protests, and even arrests have made their way to every crevice of the country (not unlike a crumpled-up mask itself, the season’s hottest litter). Though we might not associate erudite Cambridge with PTA shouting matches over masking, our K-12 schools are no strangers to such hostilities.
Harvard Law School graduate Robert M. Fojo has filed several lawsuits on behalf of Children's Health Rights of Massachusetts: a new advocacy organization created solely “to fight illegal and cruel school mask mandates.” Run by parent volunteers (who wish to stay anonymous), CHRM is challenging individual mask mandates in school districts across the state, and taking on the statewide rule that masks be worn in school buildings. The statewide mandate allows, against Centers for Disease Control and Prevention guidance, for schools with an overall vaccination rate of 80 percent or higher to unmask indoors. But even this porous mandate has drawn the CHRM’s ire.
We appreciate room for flexibility in any set of Covid-19 guidelines; after all, public health is a moving target. But we sincerely hope that the new loophole the state has introduced to its mask mandate is not merely a response to political pushback, like that CHRM is applying. Unfortunately, the red flags abound. According to the Boston Globe “When a Massachusetts General Hospital doctor asked in an email why the state was not following CDC guidance, a top state health official was blunt: pressure.”
Public health decisions should be made in a manner that seeks, first and foremost, to protect the health of the public. And while Massachusetts’ now porous school mask mandate may be encouraging to adults eager for school kids to unmask, we must also remember that we are — at the end of the day — still stuck in a global pandemic. Buckling to political pressure then walking back protective public health measures risks repeating a mistake made multiple times through the pandemic: assuming Covid is through, only for it to come back with a vengeance.
The case being built by Fojo, CHRM’s lawyer, centers on a contentious argument that masks are both ineffective for stopping the spread of Covid-19 and potentially harmful to children. (Many, many, many health organizations disagree). He also argues that mask mandates “infringe on parents’ fundamental rights concerning their children.” Without passing legal judgment, we would like to point to the long list of other freedoms that fail to pass the schoolhouse door intact. Mask mandates may be a burden, but so are dress codes, warrantless locker searches, and general restrictions on kids' speech. Mask mandates, having comparable “costs'' and more tangible benefits, have our support.
So, still convinced of the utility of mask mandates, we hope Fojo’s suit fails. Yet, as crisis measures linger for months and, now, years, challenging the government’s authority to impose them is a natural — and even healthy — response.
Parents, including the anonymous ones behind CHRM, are likely genuinely confused and concerned for their children. There has been a tremendous amount of evolving science on the coronavirus over the past two years. Heaps of Covid misinformation isn’t helping.
Unknowns such as how the virus might mutate next, and how well people comply with mitigation measures like vaccination and masking, have made this pandemic’s course hard to predict. That uncertainty not only makes it hard to craft good policy; it makes that policy, once crafted, hard to explain and hard to understand.
If some parents want to challenge the efficacy and legitimacy of mask mandates, we welcome lawsuits as a legitimate channel for doing so — even if we don’t agree with the ends they seek to achieve. In a healthy democracy, citizens should question governmental impositions, and the deference due in times of crisis should be expected to wane at least a little when those crises drag on.
However the suit unfolds, we encourage school districts to be transparent about their decision-making processes around health and safety during the pandemic. By laying out the variables in their process, officials can at least try to convince parents that the decisions they are making are reasonable, and perhaps even correct. As CDC guidance and the public health situation evolves, officials could also link mask policies to local vaccination and Covid positivity rates in order to make those policies feel less arbitrary and to incentivize compliance. An eventual easing of restrictions based on metrics, not political pressure, would be welcome.
Lawful avenues for parents to express their discontent with masking provide an important alternative to the indefensible options of threats or harassment increasingly lobbied at school boards. Still, public health policy must be directed by doctors, scientists, and public health officials — not the mob.
This staff editorial solely represents the majority view of The Crimson Editorial Board. It is the product of discussions at regular Editorial Board meetings. In order to ensure the impartiality of our journalism, Crimson editors who choose to opine and vote at these meetings are not involved in the reporting of articles on similar topics.
Have a suggestion, question, or concern for The Crimson Editorial Board? Click here.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
On January 21, 1947, Mildred Fay Jefferson was admitted to Harvard Medical School; four years later, she became the first Black woman to graduate from the institution — an achievement that took 169 years from the school’s inception. Today, Harvard’s libraries hold a collection in her name. But among 22 boxes of documents, ranging from Christmas cards to legal filings to her death certificate, only one lone folder contains any information about her time at HMS. These boxes live in the Harvard Radcliffe Institute’s Schlesinger Library rather than in the Countway Library of Medicine on HMS campus. Though Jefferson might be key to HMS’s history, medicine is only a footnote in her legacy. Her activism quickly overshadowed her medical contributions, and she found herself at the forefront of the pro-life movement, fueling a political career that resulted in three runs for Senate.
After graduating from HMS, Jefferson became the first female general surgeon to work at Boston University’s Medical Center. Starting in the 1970s, she used her status as a doctor to argue that life begins at conception. In the March/April 1972 issue of BU’s Centerscope magazine, she wrote:
“From conception, the complex, dynamic, developing organism-child is separate and distinct from its mother. The life process, the sum total of energy-exchange reactions, is activated by the fertilization of the ovum from the female by the sperm from the male and is manifested by progressive cell division.”
In an interview with the Boston Globe in 1976, Jefferson explained that her vocation and Hippocratic oath bound her to the “preservation of life.” This interpretation of medical ethics thrust Jefferson into activist realms that would hallmark the rest of her career. Though previously she had not been open about her stance on abortion, the American Medical Association’s resolution that supported freer abortion laws drove her to publicly support an opposing petition.
Jefferson officially began organizing as a member of the Value of Life Committee’s board of governors, which she left to develop the Massachusetts Citizens for Life organization. Her efforts in mobilizing members of the pro-life movement culminated in the founding of the National Right to Life Committee, “the nation’s oldest and largest grassroots pro-life organization,” of which she served as President from 1975–1978. The New York Times reported that during the first year of her presidency, she “spent more time flying around the country making antiabortion speeches than she [had] performing surgery in Boston.” In a handwritten letter to President Ronald Reagan in 1986, Jefferson apologized for having missed their scheduled meeting due to her speech at a pro-life event in Atlanta.
As Jefferson became further entrenched in her pro-life work, her arguments against abortion became grounded in her social justice beliefs rather than in medicine. “When church groups demand government funding of abortion for poor women, they are updating an old fascist model of social planning: keeping down social costs by getting rid of those who would run up the costs,” she contended. In her paper entitled “The Nature of the Race/Class Factor in Abortion,” Jefferson added that “minority populations of African descent face a special threat” with abortion; she incorrectly believed abortion was a eugenics strategy that Margaret H. Sanger, founder of Planned Parenthood, had used to target and cleanse the Black population through her “Negro Project.”
Jefferson’s pro-life advocacy proved powerful. In fact, she is credited with changing Reagan’s stance on abortion from pro-choice to pro-life; he thanks her in a letter: “I wish I could have heard your views before our legislation was passed. You made it irrefutably clear that an abortion is the taking of human life. I’m grateful to you.”
Though she began as a single-issue advocate, Jefferson soon became vocal on a number of issues, including busing, welfare, capital punishment, and the Equal Rights Amendment. She condemned social welfare programs, claiming they would “only create another generation of crippled slaves.” And on busing, she argued that “you just can’t force people to accept one another.”
With a more developed agenda, Jefferson’s aims for public office began to take shape. Supporting the pro-life Democratic presidential candidate Ellen C. McCormack and serving on the Massachusetts Reagan presidential campaign, she garnered greater exposure in political circles. Yet all three of Jefferson’s attempts at the Massachusetts Republican nomination for United States Senate in 1982, 1990, and 1994 were unsuccessful. Apart from her active political campaigns, she continued to advocate for a constitutional amendment that would reverse the 1973 Supreme Court decision of Roe v. Wade. Her influence on anti-abortion activism has held influence beyond her death in 2010.
Jefferson’s life beyond activism has been deeply chronicled. A dissertation titled “The Politics of Abortion and the Rise of the New Right” documents the discrimination Jefferson experienced at HMS, providing insight into her distance from the institution. Jefferson’s presence in Schlesinger’s archives reflects the legacy that she chose to create instead. And in a 2003 profile in the “American Feminist” magazine, Jefferson affirms how her identities shaped the achievements she viewed as her life’s work: “I am at once a physician, a citizen and a woman, and I am not willing to stand aside and allow this concept of expendable human lives to turn this great land of ours into just another exclusive reservation where only the perfect, the privileged and the planned have the right to live.”
Sections
Outside of the Harvard Museum of Natural History, a small group of people gather under a tent, talking quietly over their laptops. Pedestrians stroll by the freshly mowed lawns framing the walkway to the building, and students and faculty alike ascend and descend its concrete steps on their way to and from classrooms and labs. The scene is quiet, pastoral, normal.
But a walk through the museum’s unassuming red door to the right of the main entrance and up two flights of stairs reveals a wildly different — virtual — world. At the end of a hallway filled with offices and seismology posters sits a room illuminated by blue LED lights, its rightmost wall lined with mannequins wearing VR headsets. Rows of chairs sit in the middle of the room before a panoramic screen, currently displaying a view of Earth from outer space; behind them, a research assistant mans a table with three monitors, controlling the displays on the larger screen.
This is the Ultra High Resolution Science Observatory, the primary facility of the Visualization Research and Teaching Laboratory, headed by computer engineer and 3D artist Rus Gant. Gant has worked as director of Harvard’s Visualization Lab since 2012, before which he worked on initiatives at MIT and Carnegie Mellon, applying over 40 years of visualization skills to computer science, science education, archaeology, and museology. Currently, Harvard’s observatory houses one of Gant’s many projects: constructing a fully virtual model of the University.
Gant first conceived the idea to construct a virtual Harvard in the summer of 2019, inspired by past undertakings like the Giza Project — a Harvard-based digital archaeology initiative to build 3D reconstructions of the Giza Pyramids and surrounding artifacts — that focused on making education more engaging. When the pandemic struck months later, he decided that it was the time to turn his idea of making a 3D model of Harvard into a (virtual) reality. Over the course of the last 14 months, Gant and a member from his team, Sean O’Reilly, have created models of 115 out of 230 of Harvard’s main buildings, from Widener Library to the Harvard Museum of Natural History to Longfellow Hall.
“Quite honestly, it turned out to be really hard,” Gant says with a chuckle. “We knew it was going to take some time, but we just didn’t realize how much time.”
To generate each model, Gant and his team take panoramic photographs from various vantage points within each building. Taken from tripods controlled by an iPad using technology from Matterport — a company that enables users to create virtual 3D models of buildings — the photographs are then compiled into a dollhouse, a 3D model of the entire scanned building showing the general layout and the specific spaces one can access. Small circles that mark each camera point act as links to additional information about the building.
The second stage of the project involves transforming the models into digital classrooms. To do this, Gant and his team use Unreal Engine, a gaming program traditionally used for large multiplayer games, which allows users to fully immerse themselves in and navigate a virtual environment.
At this point, Gant and his team can use the SmartStage, a small platform placed before a full-body green screen. Those standing on the stage, like lecturers or tour guides, can be inserted into the virtual environment as the green screen displays a scanned model. The SmartStage, created by the media company White Light, was loaned to the Virtual Harvard project by the Verizon Innovation Lab.
However, Gant says getting permission to scan Harvard’s buildings has taken almost as much effort as the scanning itself. The project was initially met with resistance from administrators and lawyers as well as almost every department in the school, primarily because of privacy concerns.
“We had to get permission from everybody, every step of the way,” Gant says. “Each laboratory wants to control their own department. The security guys were like, ‘Well, this is a roadmap for terrorists.’ Museum guys [said], ‘Well, now they know where to steal things.’ But once we showed them the result, and we said, ‘You own this, nobody else can show it unless you say it’s okay,’ they were comfortable.”
After a month of discussions, Gant’s team finally received the green light for the project in August 2020, sponsored by the Vice Provost for Advances in Learning. From there, resistance transformed into gratitude as staff members found novel ways to utilize the virtual models outside the realm of education.
Senior planner Cara Noferi, who manages the FAS models, noticed that the models could be put to good use with RoomBook, the platform that faculty and students use to reserve rooms for meetings, as well as with Centerstone, the database of floor plans for the University.
By incorporating virtual models into RoomBook, students and professors can preview classrooms, seeing how much space they have and what type of equipment comes with each room. The images also come in handy for the maintenance and facilities workers who use Centerstone to locate specific building areas for tasks like fixing pipe breaks.
“For these two groups, this is phenomenal,” Gant says. “They never had pictures before. So now we’re just going to hand it to them, like, ‘Oh, here, the future just arrived. And it’s free!’”
Moving forward, Gant and his team want to finish scanning the remaining 115 buildings of Harvard’s main campus and use Unreal Engine to transform them into immersive virtual environments. From there, students would be able to join their virtual classes on Virtual Harvard using their computers, smartphones, and AR/VR glasses. For Gant, these efforts represent a way to not only revolutionize education, but chart an entirely new path in AR/VR technology.
“We’re trying to bring Harvard into this environment several years before everybody else,” Gant says. “This will be a future of both human- and machine-mediated teaching and learning, and we see Virtual Harvard as our first portal to this world.”
CORRECTION: October 25, 2021
A previous caption on this article misidentifed the developer of the SmartStage. It was developed by the media company White Light.
A previous version of this article misidentifed the future plans for use of Virtual Harvard. Students would be able to join virtual classes on Virtual Harvard using their computers, smartphones, and AR/VR glasses, not personal SmartStages.
Sections
As students joyously celebrated Harvard’s reopening, some of their peers have become increasingly aware that many parts of campus aren’t designed for them. In fact, Case McKinley ’21-’22 says that Harvard’s physical structure and layout “really make life difficult” for people who are disabled, have chronic illness, or have a mental illness.
McKinley, who uses a wheelchair, is one of many students with disabilities who are bringing attention to what he says is Harvard’s tendency to consider students with disabilities as a second thought. This year, McKinley and several friends passionate about disability justice on campus founded the Harvard Undergraduate Disability Justice Club, aiming to combat ableism and inaccessibility around Harvard.
On one level, inaccessibility at Harvard is a logistical issue. Rachel C. Auslander ’22-’23, another co-founder of the club, says that though Harvard has put considerable effort into accessible doors and entrances, some practical issues have been overlooked. She cites the example of a ramp installed in Kirkland House’s dining hall that is too short for wheelchair users. Auslander, who has a chronic illness, says the club wants to request a longer ramp, which she says should be a simple and inexpensive fix.
McKinley also says that Harvard Yard being “really physically inaccessible” is a key example of the campus’s hostility to those with disabilities. And for McKinley and Auslander this physical inaccessibility leads to a more profound sense of exclusion from Harvard as a whole.
“Think about all the good memories, all the study sessions, all the friendly things that happened after you walked up a set of stairs,” McKinley says. “Just try to imagine what it’s like to get here and be excluded from all of that.”
At Harvard, the Accessible Education Office is responsible for helping students with disabilities receive appropriate accommodations. Faculty of Arts and Sciences spokesperson Rachael Dane points to significant accessibility improvements undertaken by the FAS in the last few years as evidence of the University's commitment, but also acknowledges that “construction, way finding, and physical access of buildings can be outside of AEO’s control.”
Auslander says that on the surface, “Harvard has infrastructure set up to ensure that disabled and chronically-ill students can get the support that they need.” Yet, reflecting on her own experience, Auslander says it took her a few months to find out that her chronic illness qualified her for academic accommodations. “There’s still a burden put upon us to make sure that it is used properly,” she says.
Milagros Costabel ’25 says that she was offered a three hour accessibility orientation by the AEO. Costabel, who is blind, says that “it wasn’t enough.”
“Three hours are not enough for any person to learn a campus, or to learn important places to go, especially because Harvard’s campus is a mess,” Costabel says. “You have a lot of tiles, you have grass, you have a bunch of things that make it really hard to navigate, especially if you’re blind.”
Costabel says that she doesn’t blame the AEO: “They are learning on the go,” especially in accommodating students with disabilities that are less common. But she also says that at the beginning of the school year, she was angered by the delay of her accommodations.
Dane wrote that the AEO has a “straightforward process” for requesting accommodations.
“Once students meet with an AEO advisor, they work with students to identify access needs and find solutions in their implementation,” Dane wrote. “AEO works hard to ensure that the students do not experience undue burden in this process.”
However, for Costabel, who hails from Uruguay — a country she says is “is not the best in terms of disability access” — Harvard’s initial inability to fully provide the accommodations she needed was “not what [she] signed up for.”
Since then, Costabel has taken initiative to help students in similar situations: she reached out to an organization that could create a Braille map of campus and connected them with the AEO. “Harvard didn’t have a map before,” she says.
Despite Costabel’s efforts, McKinley says the onus is ultimately on Harvard to be able to provide appropriate accommodations such that all students feel at home. “There are people within the Harvard structure who are really on my side,” McKinley says. But he says he wishes “they could make more change than they’re actually empowered to make.”
Bridging this gap — leveraging the collective experiences of disabled students to push for a more accessible environment — is the mission of the Disability Justice Club.
Auslander sees the Disability Justice Club as a space that allows for collective advocacy for disabled students’ experiences, rather than requiring individuals to “speak up about issues by and for themselves only.” Currently, the club is working on a map of all the accessible and inaccessible locations on campus, including bathrooms.
McKinley hopes that people without disabilities become aware of the accessibility issues on campus and see themselves as “part of the fight for change.” At the very least, he says, “whether we think of ourselves as disabled or not, we are damaged by ableism on campus in the form of late work policies when you’re sick or leave of absence policies.”
But the club’s efforts also extend beyond providing accessibility solutions. Auslander says “ableism runs rampant everywhere in society, but especially at Harvard,” a campus mired by perfectionism and grind culture. Receiving accommodations is a small victory; allowing yourself to make use of them without feeling guilty is a battle.
As Auslander puts it, “Confronting ableism on campus is the main starting point for making campus more accessible.”
— Staff writer Andy Z. Wang can be reached at andy.wang@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @_andywang_.
Sections
Many Harvard students shudder at the prospect of a 0.9-mile trek between the Radcliffe Quadrangle and Harvard Yard, while across the globe, Pulitzer Prize-winning journalist Paul Salopek, in his project called the Out of Eden Walk, winds his way along a 24,000 mile journey that mirrors the path of human migration.
The Out of Eden Walk, described on its website as “a collective pilgrimage, conducted at boot level, that gathers and braids a multitude of voices together in order to describe the human experience across the globe,” traces the route that humans took millions of years ago that populated the world as we know it. Before Salopek embarked on his journey, he made a pit stop at Harvard. Salopek received a visiting fellowship from the Nieman Foundation for Journalism, and in the spring of 2012 arrived on campus ready to build a network of experts to support him on his impending journey.
A good map is essential for a journey across the globe. Salopek turned to Harvard’s Center for Geographic Analysis, where he encountered Senior Geographic Information Specialist Jeff C. Blossom, who currently serves as the chief cartographer for the Out of Eden Walk. A friend of Salopek’s, Blossom creates thematic maps for the project and collects and archives GPS data on Salopek’s whereabouts during each day of his travels.
Salopek embarked upon this excursion in January 2013, and has spent the past seven years (he took 2020 off due to the pandemic) documenting the people and cultures he’s encountered. He began in Ethiopia, and is currently making his way through the Yunnan province in southeastern China. The excursion will end once Salopek reaches the bottom tip of South America.
The project engages a committed group of readers over a sustained period of time while also creating opportunities for young people to learn more about journalism, globalism, and cartography — the Out of Eden Walk is not an average journalistic endeavor. The Walk has garnered global attention for Salopek’s alternative approach to reporting — the coverage within the Walk is an example of the much-overlooked “slow journalism,” a form that prioritizes depth, longevity, and introspection rather than fast-paced, quick-turnaround writing.
According to Nieman Foundation for Journalism curator Ann Marie Lipinski, the workshops and classroom activities the project inspired “are so interesting, and so different from how journalism traditionally defines its role.”
Salopek has facilitated the creation of workshops and e-learning opportunities such as Out of Eden Learn — developed in tandem with the Harvard Graduate School of Education’s Project Zero — that offers children aged 3–19 the opportunity to build multicultural understandings through broadening students’ horizons beyond their own communities. So far the initiative has reached over 30,000 youth in 60 countries.
As Lipinski puts it, the Walk of Eden has sparked curiosity of readers around the world by “trying to see what would happen if you slow that pace, and really connect the dots story by story by story, and slow it down to the pace of a walk.”
Not only has the project received worldwide coverage, but people have had strong emotional reactions to it, Lipinski says. “The comments that people leave on his posts are just some of the most moving commentary I've seen posted to a journalistic work,” she adds.
To promote his journey, Salopek came to Blossom with a vision for a thematic map. Blossom recalls Salopek requesting “a map that showed the ghostly pathways of our ancestors, who moved in waves and bands over a period of some 50,000 years to get from Africa all the way to the tip of South America.”
From Salopek’s musings, Blossom created a map titled The Greatest Walk — strokes of fuchsia pink trace the path of ancient human migration atop a light grey map of the world on a white background.
Blossom has also been closely involved with the education aspect of the project. He uses the Out of Eden Walk as inspiration to teach workshops on cartography to undergraduate and middle school students alike, in the U.S. and across the globe. One of Blossom’s treasured memories from working on the project was in India, where he joined Salopek on a portion of the Walk, and taught fifth graders about map-making — “all these inquisitive, young, bright eyes right on me, just hanging on to every word,” he says.
When naming his favorite parts of working on Out of Eden, Blossom says “it’s the uniqueness, the longevity, and the people involved. Paul is a very magnanimous personality. People love to work with him, there's lots of excitement. I’ve met people here at Harvard, and all over the world, who are just so energetic, so inspired with what they’re doing.”
Sections
Walk into your local bookstore and you’re guaranteed access to a nearly endless array of candy-gloss covers, neatly arranged by genre and glinting enticingly from soaring shelves.
For most, the historical nonfiction section invokes memories of tedious textbooks or the dry analysis of academic writing — a stark contrast to the vibrant plotlines and immersiveness of the novel section. But for History professor Maya R. Jasanoff ’96, these genres need not be so distinct. An award-winning author and historian specializing in the history of the British Empire, Jasanoff makes it easy to see the intersection between novel-writing and nonfiction.
“History is obviously a form of nonfiction, but it’s a form that has incredible narrative potential,” she says. “It is telling stories about the past, and those stories can be told in a huge variety of ways.” She focuses on the “story in history,” defining the junction and encouraging the overlap between the credibility of traditional historical writing and the thrill of more inventive styles.
Popular history for the general reader “follows a sort of narrative method that would not be that surprising for a reader from the 19th century. But if we look at the way that novels have developed since the 19th century, there’s a million different ways that people tell [those] stories,” Jasanoff explains, “So why aren’t historians using some of those methods in order to get across our stories?”
This year, Jasanoff is using her narrative expertise to chair the panel of judges for the Booker Prize, a prestigious award intended to celebrate the best of each year’s newly published fiction.
“This is unlike other book prizes where each judge reads a certain number of books and they pool the results,” Jasanoff says. “With this [prize] all five of us read all the books.”
This year, that meant moving through 158 novels over just a few months — “nearly a novel a day at its height” — with deep discussions to punctuate the reading.
“I liked the serendipity of just picking up a book that I didn’t choose, that I had nothing to do with, that I knew nothing about and reading it,” she says. “We live in a world where many, many options are presented before us. You know: what to stream tonight, what to read, what to listen to, what courses to take. To have the choice element actually suspended, but still get exposed to lots of things, I found to be an interesting experience.”
Jasanoff describes poring through each book, seeking out “the originality of the story that was being told, the craft of the writer while telling it, the nature of the ideas at stake in the book, [and] the degree to which we might have felt moved by the presentation of characters or settings.”
But to her, the key was less about identifying poignant elements and more about collaboration.
“I don’t think that what we were responding to was so different from what any reader responds to in books,” she observes, “I think that the value in undertaking this process is that we all are reading very seriously and then discussing it together.” She says, “it’s sort of like belonging to the most dedicated book group ever.”
Each year 13 books make the prize’s longlist, which was announced this summer. Those are then reread and narrowed down to six to form the shortlist, which was released a few weeks ago. Now, the panel faces the final task of selecting the prize winner, which will be announced on Nov. 3.
“I really think that what’s nice about our long list, and I say this as someone who did not love everything on it, is that it represents a really wide range of ways of seeing the world, and ways of rendering it in prose,” she says, “I think it has some really exciting ideas on it. So I encourage people to [read] them.”
Sections
The event hall smells like a Black-owned beauty supply store: the distinct and complex combination of lavender, hibiscus, argan oil, shea butter, and coconut oil. Black women roam the event hall, sporting curly hair of all different textures and styles: One woman in her late 20s with kinky curls forming a tight afro, another with bright red locs that can’t be missed, another with a slicked back ponytail, and little girls running around with pigtail braids and twists with bright-colored beads. This array of hairstyles have gathered on Oct. 16, for “Soulfully Textured: A Natural Hair Experience.”
Nike Okediji, the event’s creator, deliberately chose District Hall in the Seaport District of Boston to house her event. She wanted to hold it “in a white space, so they can see us all coming together to celebrate ourselves,” rather than have it in traditionally Black areas such as Randolph or Dorchester. In doing so, Odkediji pushes the idea that natural hair isn’t political in Black spaces, but is in white spaces.
Professionalism and respectability politics tell Black people that they must behave and present themselves in accordance to standards set by white supremacy. This often manifests as code-switching or changing one’s demeanor and language in order to fit the dominant culture, ultimately serving to make white people more comfortable. For Black women in particular, these Eurocentric norms heavily affect beauty standards, especially with regards to hair. Perms and relaxers chemically damage one’s hair, stripping one’s curl pattern and straightening their hair; these practices have been normalized, however, because they bring Black women’s hair closer to a European beauty ideal. As a result, wearing natural hair is not just as an aesthetic choice, but rather an act of resistance and rebellion.
Okediji feels that when people see her with her natural hair, they assume she’s making a political statement. In reality, she simply appreciates the beauty of natural hair. “I just feel I should be able to just wear what grows out of my hair,” she says. She explains the dangers of the chemicals and toxins Black people put into their hair in order to change its natural texture, stating that wearing one’s hair naturally is “not a political choice, it’s a health choice.”
In turn, Soulfully Textured reflects an effort to create a space where Black people can come together and find the “empowerment in loving your authentic self,” exploring the power of embracing one’s naturally textured hair in a society that tells them to do the opposite.
The event boasted a wide variety of vendors, offering everything from natural hair and body products, to art and clothes. There was also space to facilitate conversation, including a screening of the movie “Back to Natural” and a workshop with the film’s director, Gillian Scott-Ward. Visitors could also discuss the CROWN Act, a bill that would prohibit both race-based hair discrimination, as well as the denial of employment and educational opportunities because of hair texture or protective hairstyles.
Okediji is wearing all-black with gold accents; her bouncy curly hair and joyful presence create an unapologetic demeanor that appears effortless. Yet, she struggled to embrace her natural hair, and struggled even more finding a community that would support her in the journey. “When you’re out in the community living your natural hair, I still feel like people aren’t used to that,” Okediji says, speaking to a room of women — one that she facilitated — where everyone has natural hair. Although Okediji experienced her own hardships, she now paves the way for younger generations, helping them avoid the arduous process of learning to love one’s natural hair. Rather, she is creating a culture where embracing your natural hair is inherent. Okediji twirls her curls as she expresses a need to “tap into the culture, but also just elevate the beauty of natural hair.”
When it comes to embracing natural hair, the choice doesn’t just fall on the individual; it is a broader question of the society they were raised in, representation they saw, and resources that they had access to. Widline Pyrame, however, is trying to diversify said representation through her doll company Fusion Dolls. The company focuses on representing natural hair, including styles ranging from afros to locs. “It’s really just embracing who you are and speaking out,” Pyrame says. “It’s okay for you to be yourself. Because all of us are unique in our own way.”
For Black people, this visibility is often difficult to find. But events like Soulfully Textured are essential to showing people, particularly those in predominantly white spaces, that Black people should be accepted as their natural selves.
The event constitutes only one step toward depoliticizing and normalizing natural hair. Natural hair has been increasingly featured in many commercials and fashion magazines, but their presentation of natural hair often feels superficial and commercialized, rather than something that can be practiced on an everyday basis. The path to progress is not through commercialization, but through changing our language and views surrounding natural hair in our daily lives.
Sections
Mrs. Ruth Abdy inherited an eclectic collection of items from her late husband, including but not limited to “Two painted chairs, / Nine warden pears,” “An old sword blade / a garden spade,” and “A greasy hat, / and my old ram cat.”
At least, that’s what Matthew Abdy’s will was purported to contain according to a satirical poem published anonymously in the Boston newspaper the Weekly Rehearsal  in 1732.
Abdy, born around 1650, served as a sweeper and bedmaker at Harvard from 1718 until his death in 1730 or 31, primarily in Stoughton Hall. It is not immediately clear why such a figure would be memorialized in this form, or by whom.
Five weeks after the will’s initial publication, another poem was printed, this time coming not from Cambridge but New Haven. Even 300 years ago, our friends at Yale couldn’t seem to pass on the opportunity for competition. The Yale Sweeper, himself an apparent widower, saw a critical point of entry. He opens his verse with an appeal to Mrs. Abdy: “To you I fly, / You only can relieve me, / To yon I turn, / For you I burn, / If you will but believe me.”
In theory, this poem could have sparked the Ivy League’s greatest romance, but that would’ve required the Yale Sweeper to be more than a literary device.
In reality, both poems were probably penned by Harvard student John Seccombe, who graduated from the College in 1728 and later became a Congregational minister. His only other surviving poetic work details the theft of several geese from the Cambridge Common.
Real or fictitious, why has the saga of the sweepers lodged itself so permanently into Harvard history? To put it in modern terms, these poems went viral.
These poems were reprinted in the states and abroad in Massachusetts Magazine, Gentleman’s Magazine, and the London Magazine, totaling at least 19 separate printings. Editors reprinting the text would often insert their own stanzas. An 1854 pamphlet dedicated to the preservation of Seccombe’s poems affirms this: “Til the present generation, portions of it have been familiar to nearly all the good housewives of New England, and we ‘old folks’ remember the interest with which we listened to our mothers’ recital of the witty rhymes.” The University Archives hold more than 16 variations of these texts, including magazine articles, a musical score, and handwritten stanzas in a diary.
Superficially these poems appear to be a light-hearted elegy of a beloved and essential community member. Upon closer inspection, the complicated dynamics of staff and students seem less wholesome. Undercurrents of judgement and ridicule in the poem reveal what Harvard students in the 17th and 18th centuries really thought of the many workers taking care of their campus.
“If the guy is sort of charismatic, maybe the students do love him to a certain extent. But they’re also a little bit looking down their noses at him,” Zachary B. Nowak says. Nowak, a lecturer at Harvard Extension School, taught “Intro to Harvard History: Beyond the Three Lies” at the College last spring.
Indeed, the poem fails to talk of Matthew Abdy’s character, instead focusing on all the objects — some soap, a pail, “A garden spade, / A hoe, a rake, a ladder” — that are key to his housekeeping duties. They poke fun at his living conditions, too, suggesting that he sleeps on a “bed of hay”.
Despite the tinge of ridicule, Matthew Abdy’s labor has been memorialized, which is more than can be said be for many of the University’s employees. Throughout Harvard’s history, the College has employed many kinds of people as cleaners, cooks, gardeners, proctors, landscapers, fire-tenders, snow-shovelers, security guards, sweepers, and bedmakers, but the space their stories occupy in the University’s archives is small relative to the impact of their labors.
Students working for Dorm Crew — a program not currently running due to Covid-19 restrictions — are one of the latest demographics working to maintain Harvard’s campus and dorms. Harvard transitioned to student-cleaners in the 1970s.  Until then, the College employed a workforce of primarily Irish-Catholic immigrant women, pejoratively called ‘Goodies.’ (Poetry was consistently an easy form of satire. An 1881 rhyme in The Crimson describes the chaos that overtook the campus when goodies went on strike.) Before that, Nowak says, many Harvard students independently hired Black men referred to as “scouts” as personal servants.
These various groups of workers have maintained the campus for almost four centuries, but have infrequently taken a spotlight in Harvard’s history. When they have, it has often been in a satirical form which centers their labor over their personhood. “It’s one thing to sing a song about a guy,” Nowak said. “It’s another thing to pay him what you owe him for shining your shoes or cleaning your room.”
History, though often cruel, still maintains a sense of humor. In caricaturing Abdy, Seccombe was foreshadowing personal drama that would occur decades later: he left his parish in 1757 without warning or explanation. The 1854 pamphlet speculates that this sudden withdrawal was a “consequence of a malicious charge of his wife of improper familiarity with a domestic.” In essence, Seccombe gained lyrical clout for taunting a domestic worker. Then, his wife cheated on him with a domestic worker — how salacious!
Sections
“Shakespeare can become this delicate thing that is put on a pedestal, and we’re just supposed to admire it from afar — we’re not supposed to get close to it, because we might break it,”  says Brett Milanowski. “We like to take it, we like to smash it to bits, find out what’s there, and put it all back together.”
Welcome to Shit-faced Shakespeare. Three times a week, five actors gather in The Rockwell Theater in Somerville  to put on a play — but one of the actors, selected at random each night, performs completely drunk. In Thursday evening’s case, Milanowski, playing Demetrius, served as the shit-faced soliloquizer in question. Meanwhile, sober Helena, Hermia, Puck, and Lysander dodged his drunken slings and arrows.
Even though Shit-faced Shakespeare has been entertaining audiences internationally since 2010, no two shows are ever alike. In the past, “We’ve had Romeo and Juliet shows where a drunk Romeo decides he’s gonna get stabbed instead … so, will Mercutio sleep with Juliet? Maybe somebody else is going to die?” says Noah Simes, who described his role, dubbed “compere,” as a combination of MC, babysitter, and “agent of chaos.” “In the moment, you have to come face to face with what’s happening and make it work.”
Simes, clad in a top hat and metallic gold leggings, greeted the audience to begin the show. Against the forest of phallic foliage backdrop and to the tune of a medieval orchestral pop rendition of Major Lazer & DJ Snake’s “Lean On,” he explained the rules: phones off and masks on.
He then handed out a cowbell and a gong to two audience volunteers. Their task was simple: whenever Demetrius was in “danger of becoming sober,” they could sound their instruments, prompting Simes to pause the show and pour him another beer. The gong sounded as Helena desperately pleaded for Demetrius’s affection; the result was a stumbling Demetrius trying to quickly drink, sputtering “this is just fucking foam!”
Plunging deeper into inebriation, Milanowski peppered Demetrius’s monologues with garbled interjections: “You’re a prick” to Lysander, “Because of blocking I’m supposed to be here,” “and the thing I would normally say” in place of a line the alcohol made him forget. Meanwhile, the other actors had to catch every remark that Milanowski flung at them — including a recurring bit of him challenging his castmates to slap him or spit in his mouth — to keep the show (at least somewhat) on track.
“The real fun, the real energy is when you are the sober actor on stage with a wildcard who [...] you don’t know what they’re gonna do,” says Milanowski. “And sometimes you have to top them, sometimes you have to coax them, sometimes you just have to go into battle with them or against them. That’s where you test your mettle.”
Each script is written, produced, and rehearsed sans alcohol. In the case of “A Midsummer Night’s Dream,” Shakespeare’s original script was shortened by cutting scenes and combining characters. For example, Puck served as a narrator in between gyrating over sleeping Lysander and dusting his castmates with glitter from fake roses pulled out of his crotch. (The next day, a sober Milanowski was still finding purple flecks in his ears).
Though the shit-facedness of the acting is quite literally the name of the game, the company takes precautions to make sure the drinker is safe: Have they had enough sleep? Enough to eat today? Are they in a good place, emotionally, to get drunk? If so, they imbibe responsibly under the watchful eye of their “wrangler,” a fellow cast member.
While the drunk actor might be what draws the audience in, Simes says, “a lot of the real work and a lot of the great comedy comes from the skill of the sober actors dealing with the problem that has been presented by the drunk actor. What I love about it is it’s showing off a lot of great performative skill despite being, ‘wink wink, it’s a drunk actor.”
Milanowski’s favorite moments are the more serious and emotional ones: when Juliet kills herself in the tomb, when Beatrice and Benedick realize they’re in love, and, at the end of  Thursday night, when Hermia begged Lysander not to leave her.
By the time Lysander awakened from Puck’s glitter-full spell and professed his love for Hermia, each pair in the audience had their arms around each other.
“It’s those moments when a really skilled actor in a space with a group of strangers just pulls an emotional thread that everyone understands,” says Milanowski. “And then there was one time where someone farted backstage, and it was so disgusting someone almost threw up. I mean, that’s the other side of it.”
— Staff writer Sarah W. Faber can be reached at sarah.faber@thecrimson.com.
Sections
In the early days of the pandemic, Harvard Square Homeless Shelter volunteers handed out homemade grilled cheeses, tuna melts, and peanut butter and jelly sandwiches to people experiencing homelessness. Nearly two years later, the sandwiches have been replaced by steady deliveries of individually packed meals from some of Harvard students’ favorite restaurants, including Felipe’s, El Jefe’s, Pinocchio’s, and Source Restaurant. This initiative is a part of a city-run meal program that has been serving the city since March 2020.
At the beginning of the pandemic, HSHS was in a tight spot — the shelter had been closed for Covid-19 safety precautions. Uncertain of whether operations would continue during the pandemic, HSHS missed the deadlines for federal grant funding. Once renovations were completed, the shelter sought out individual fundraisers and new partnerships as alternative funding options.
Eventually, the shelter leadership reached out to the city for assistance. The Street Outreach team of HSHS, co-directed at the time by Fahedur Fahed ’22 and Henry N. Lear ’24 (a staff writer for this magazine), inquired about becoming involved with the City Meal Program after its shelter kitchen was shut down due to Covid-19 protocols.
“We didn’t take no for an answer,” Fahed says.
Only a week after the Covid-19 shutdown on March 17, 2020, the city of Cambridge started a restaurant shelter meals program, partnering with local food establishments to provide meals to people experiencing homelessness throughout the public health crisis.
The program has expanded from eight sites around the city of Cambridge to 17 meal locations, one of which is HSHS. Over the last 18 months, the city has spent over $1.67 million to provide the community with over 240,000 hot and cold meals. The program has been extended several times during the pandemic. Most recently it has been extended through the end of November, and according to Matt P. Nelson, assistant to the city manager for community relations in Cambridge, another extension is possible.
Nelson also says that each week, the city manager’s office collaborates with local restaurants, developing a contract to secure that week’s meals. He says restaurants are selected by price, suggestions from guests, and the number of orders needed for the week. There is an open line of communication between the various departments and sites to ensure every guest receives a meal.
While the restaurants are paid by the city for their contributions, their love for the community largely motivates their involvement, says Nelson. “The restaurants that have been involved in this appreciate just being able to help out. It isn’t just about them getting the business from the city,” he says. “It’s also being able to help a community.”
Harvard is also a part of this community effort, as students make up a large portion of HSHS volunteers. But during the pandemic, Harvard did not sanction in-person activities, which included volunteering at the shelter. HSHS looked to students living off-campus, graduate students, and working professionals to meet the needs of the shelter’s guests. “I think a lot of people in any sort of social justice work after a sustained amount of time can get jaded,” says Fahed, chuckling. “Students bring such a fresh perspective and energy.”
Similar to HSHS volunteers, Daniel P. Roughan, owner of Source Restaurant, is eager to contribute to the initiative. “Somebody is always having a worse day, ” he says. “If you can participate in that beautiful person’s life and give them a reason to smile or a reason to breathe easy, even if it’s for 30 minutes, then you’ve done something right.”
Nelson states that the program, which benefits both small businesses and people experiencing homelessness, was one of the first of its kind. Furthermore, many cities have reached out to the City of Cambridge, asking how to create a similar program within their own communities.
To Nelson, establishing the program just made sense. “It’s interesting to hear that it’s such an innovative program, but when you take a step back, it’s pretty simple,” he says. “Restaurants make food, people need food, and this community is in need, so it was a win-win by all accounts.”
Sections
An idea that began as a joke between freshmen in Annenberg soon blossomed into a full-fledged app whose name evokes a certain 2004 project by a Harvard sophomore. Early in the endeavor to create the app FaceTag, concerns over ethics and privacy have begun to eclipse what originally seemed a straightforward way to connect students.
The transition to college presents freshman students with a number of challenges: living on their own for the first time, rebuilding a routine, and being bombarded with endless unfamiliar names and faces. The app Yuen Ler Chow ’25 created seeks to help with that last problem, using facial recognition technology to ease these new social interactions. His brainchild, FaceTag, enables its users to scan fellow Harvard students’ faces and acquire their name and contact information, responding to the problem of face-name dissociation on campus.
Chow recalls when on the second day of school, he was talking with two acquaintances in Annenberg and suddenly realized that he “didn’t even know their names.” Jokingly, he proposed his next venture: “Wouldn’t it be super nice if I could scan you and get your name?”
Over the next few days, he coded his idea into existence, inspired by the idea that his joke could in fact be used to help streamline contact exchanges. Without FaceTag, Chow says, it “will take at least a minute of just typing in your phone and then typing it wrong and then restarting — all that trouble. I was thinking: What if a scan of the face could fix that?”
Chow took about a week to code the project from the moment he had the idea. While he did take input from his roommate on programming, he says FaceTag is “99 percent” his work.
“The goal is for this to be the standard way of meeting someone,” Chow says.
Chow says the app currently has about 100 users, but he hopes to see it grow in the next few weeks as he ramps up marketing and promotional efforts. Promotional materials for the app currently assure users that it is “exclusively for Harvard students,” but Chow hopes to expand FaceTag to other colleges and communities down the line.
Computer Science professor Barbara J. Grosz, a founder of Embedded EthiCS, a Harvard organization that incorporates ethics into computer science curricula, said she hopes that Chow has considered the ethical implications of creating FaceTag.
Grosz notes that “students engaging in this kind of venture is why we have Embedded EthiCS at Harvard, which we hope will make students think about not only whether they could build a certain kind of system, but whether they should build it and in what way they should design it.”
Grosz hopes app developers consider the ethics of their app and interrogate the “competing values”: “With respect to an app that connects people with each other, speed and efficiency are not the only relevant values,” she says.
Chow wrote in an email that these concerns are not relevant to FaceTag.
“Whether I should make it depends on how (and how well) I design it,” Chow wrote, noting that he has incorporated security features and “the user has essentially full control over who has access to the data.”
Chow has also encountered concerns about contact information being accessed through a person’s photograph, or someone’s face being scanned without their knowledge. With these concerns in mind, Chow developed a privacy feature in which a user has to give permission before someone else can access their profile. After implementing this feature, though, Chow has continued to hear similar anxieties, so he hopes that as people learn about the privacy features, their concerns will be addressed.
He believes that “if you don’t understand how the app works, you might think it’s creepy.”
Questions have also been raised regarding whether the data FaceTag collects could be accessed by other people. However, Chow says that the data should be secure because it is stored in Google’s Firebase. While Chow has access to all the data the app collects, he believes this is not an issue. “I technically have access to all of it, but then again, [for] every social media app in existence, the people who made the app have access to it,” he said. “So I don’t think that’s anything special.”
Rebecca O. Thompson ’22 feels FaceTag “just makes meeting people and having conversations with people much more impersonal,” adding, “I get it, but I don’t get it. I don’t know why the face thing is necessary.”
Chow believes FaceTag is valuable in increasing the efficiency of exchanging contact information. “The time spent giving them your phone could now be replaced by having a meaningful conversation,” he says.
Chow closed a promotional email earlier this year with: “FaceTag is the next Facebook. I’m Zuck, but better.” He maintains his lighthearted approach to the app that began as a joke when comparing himself to Mark Zuckerberg: “I do think it was just kind of funny that The FaceTag sounds similar to The Facebook. It has a similar Harvard startup story, so that’s why I kept it.”
And yet Chow wants to make clear that his app has “much more” privacy than Facebook in that it does not collect the “unnecessary data” that Facebook does. It is this distinction that Chow views as making his app different.
He says, “I’m trying to be more than Mark Zuckerberg.”
Sections
As an all-time record 1,965 students walked through the gates of Harvard Yard to join the class of 2025, a single thought ran simultaneously through many of their heads: How did I get here?
“People go their entire lives asking that question about why they’re deserving of certain things,” says Ethan C. Kelly ’25. Until 2015, Harvard students had largely been left in the dark as to how they beat the low odds — which defining life experiences captivated the admissions reader perusing tens of thousands of applications? This all changed in 2015 when, inspired by Stanford students who realized they could invoke their FERPA rights to view their admissions files, Harvard students began to submit file viewing requests en masse. Combined with a lawsuit against the University’s affirmative action policies that revealed the meaning behind previously mysterious numbers, the veil was finally lifted on the admissions process.
Regardless of its legal implications, exposing Harvard’s secret formula has created a tantalizing proposition for students that can take the form of a Pandora’s box, a cure to impostor syndrome, and anything in between. “I’ve heard horror stories of people requesting to view their file and then they're like, ‘This kid sucks but we’ll take him, I guess,’” says Dan J. Ennis ’25, who recently viewed his own file, with a laugh.
For some students, the file acts as a tangible reminder of why they made it through the gates of Harvard, demystifying a decision that shapes their next four years and beyond. Impostor syndrome is common for big fish who find themselves in an even bigger pond, and learning how they got here can be invaluable affirmation. While the file attempts to quantify one’s future success at Harvard through a series of numbers and evaluations, it also acts as a time capsule of the past 18 years — a retrospective review of one’s efforts, almost like a checkpoint for college students.
“There’s now a concrete reason as to why you’re here,” says Ray D. Noh ’25, recalling the experience of peering at his file. “By knowing how and why they chose you, what light they saw you in, it’s not luck anymore.”
But for many other students, seeing an entire decade of their lives distilled into a series of numbers can be a surreal or contentious experience. In an admissions process often touted as “holistic,” the quantitative side of the file presents a stark contrast, providing metrics for applicants to compare themselves to others. While most Harvard applicants have loaded their résumés with extracurriculars and stellar grades, their numerical rankings for each of the categories considered in the application — including extracurriculars, academics, and athletics, among others — may differ significantly from those of their peers. Syd D. Sanders ’24 recalls a wide variation between scores among his roommates, noting, “We know we're all smart, and we know we all did a lot in high school, and we have different numbers for different things.”
Calvin S. Osborne ’25 chose to focus on the qualitative components of his file. “The words were a lot more impactful than the numbers were,” he says, noting that complimentary comments such as “passionate” or “truly unusual” left a much greater impact than the numbers.
Naomi Bashkansky ’25 had a similar reaction to her admissions file. “I just saw a lot of support from the readers, as well as little quotes from my teachers’ recommendations that were all super supportive,” she recalls. “And that's compounded by the fact that very recently, I had a realization that a lot of my ambition stems from me wanting to make people proud to have known me and, well, there you go.”
This type of information in an admissions file can help students understand that they do indeed belong at Harvard. Brett N. Kim ’25 says that viewing his admission file “really just validated me and those areas that I want to continue growing.”
But not all students receive the confidence boost they were expecting. Sanders says he found common ground with his interviewer discussing the apparent lack of diversity in their rural Maine town. While Sanders shared his experience as a transgender teen, his interviewer relayed his experience as an  Asian American living in the predominately white town. Both agreed that their place as minorities caused neighbors to view them as their “labels instead of as human beings.” This shared impression did not carry over to Sanders’ admission file, however, he says.
Rather than highlighting Sanders’ academic or personal achievements, the interviewer zeroed in on his transgender identity. Nearly all the comments jotted down in the file centered on his physical appearance — mentioning retained “feminine characteristics” in his posture and facial features — and wondered how future roommates and classmates would see him. Sanders points to the irony of his interviewer’s hyperfocus on identity while writing that Sanders “does not define himself primarily as a trans-gender person, but sees that as just one aspect of his total person,” according to Sanders.
Faculty of Arts and Sciences spokesperson Rachael Dane wrote in an emailed statement that the admissions office will investigate inappropriate behavior by alumni interviewers if brought forward by a student.
“Harvard Admissions and Financial Aid takes seriously concerns about alumni interviewers and reviews all interviewer comments to determine appropriate action, which could include asking an interviewer to cease interviewing and offering an additional interview opportunity to an applicant,” Dane wrote on behalf of Admissions and Financial Aid.
Despite being put off by his interviewer’s transphobic attitude, Sanders finds viewing the file did not hurt his impression of the University as a whole and would recommend more students seek out their own. Similarly, Kelly emphasizes  that learning what made him deserving of a seat in Harvard’s classrooms was reassuring. “[Students] don’t view it, in many cases, that [they] are worthy of going to one of the best universities in the world,” he says. Transparency in the school’s decision to pick you out of the ever-growing stack of applicants can be a crucial step in finding that self-worth, he explains.
It might require thick skin for a student to find out their interviewer or admissions officer had doubts about their qualifications, warns Ennis. Daring to peer inside an admissions file may expose negative comments as well as positive ones.
Yet, for some, like Bashkansky, viewing an admissions file  can open the door for future growth, whatever it may contain. “Whether I’d be excited or disappointed,” she says, “I always like to seek the truth.”
​​​​—Staff writer Kelsey J. Griffin can be reached at kelsey.griffin@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @kelseyjgriffin.
Sections
We caught up with one of Harvard’s premier Section Kids (who asked to stay anonymous so as to not draw attention to themselves or their classmates) about another “show-stealing” performance today. We asked them for their review of the section, their motivations, and their advice for others who want to follow in their footsteps. Here is the raw transcript.
FM: Take us back to the moment when you asked the question you already knew the answer to. What was going through your head?
Section A. Kid ’25: Well, you know, as the main facilitator of class discussion — a title I don’t hold lightly — my job is to make sure the right questions are being posed so that my, uh, peers have a chance to contextualize and prepare better responses.
But is there such a thing as truly knowing the answer to a question? I like to think that my main contribution is to raise more questions than answers. And by doing so, I’m reminded of the multifaceted nature of little “t” truth, which is at once —
FM: Right, right. What would you say was the turning point in today’s section?
SAK: There was a brief yet agonizing moment when I paused to consider if I wanted to continue examining the intertextuality of the reading or to circle back to the poignancy of the juxtaposition of binaristic elements that so effectively suspend all judgment of the Other. It’s really a careful consideration of, are we asking the right questions? What gaze am I directing at myself? It’s not an easy task — quite paralyzing, actually — but the conversation is necessary for us to develop a critical understanding of the text’s epistemological underpinnings.
FM: That sounds so hard, almost like a job.
SAK: Oh god, I don’t consider this a job, no, no. A calling, maybe. A certain vocation, if you will. And as for difficulty, yes, I suppose, because speaking doesn’t come naturally to me. But I endeavor to do so for my classmates, so that we can all come together in the Transformative Undergraduate Learning Experience — TULE, for short — that is the Harvard Section.
FM: How would you say today’s section went? Was it one of the greatest performances?
SAK '25: “The” greatest performance? I highly doubt it was, but if you’re asking if it was one of “my” greatest—
FM: Yeah, that.
SAK: Well then, yes, I do think it will join the others in the pantheon of my greatest performances. And as for today’s section, I want to first commend the other students. The one athlete — her name is escaping me right now — spoke twice, which I found absolutely inspiring. I just love it when we all grow together, collectively.
FM: Could you elaborate on that?
SAK: Oh, yeah. Basically at the beginning of the semester everyone talked pretty equally. Now, just me. I miss the collaborative aspect of class, but I guess they really want to hear what I have to say, which is difficult, but a burden I’m happy to bear. I can tell how much they gain from my perspective — they take notes or type on their computers the whole time. I never can see what exactly they’re writing. The one time I did peek at someone’s computer it was mainly, um, doodles — gorgeous, by the way, worthy of the Kantian sublime — but I’m sure the others are taking notes.
FM: All right, last question. What would you say is the most important factor to do well in section?
SAK: Wonderful question! To listen. Only by listening can we truly learn to speak.
Sections
Late one lukewarm October night, a car careened off of Mount Auburn Street and crashed into the building of a semi-secret Sorrento Square social organization that used to occasionally publish a so-called humor magazine. Luckily, favorite nearby storefronts were left unharmed — Insomnia Cookies is still up and running, and Playa Bowls still charges $13 for an alright acai bowl with goji berries.
Bystanders at the scene could barely hear the car's alarm over the thunderous cheers and applause from the nearby Harvard students. Crimson reporters on the scene interviewed students nearby.
A member of the class of 2025, who prefers to go unnamed, talked fervently about their fears of potential future attacks on other Harvard buildings: "I live at the Inn, and I'm just terrified to go back to my dorm now. We already have it so rough there. Just yesterday, my personal sushi chef forgot that I can't handle wasabi in my salmon poke bowls."
Another student expressed theories regarding potential malicious intent: "Could this be a targeted attack? I mean, the Harvard Lampoon did release a magazine somewhat recently, in August. Maybe the driver read that and had the understandable response of wanting to end the publication for good."
Crimson reporters were also able to catch up with the driver himself. After all, what was he going to do, drive his gray Ford sedan away? When questioned as to what could have motivated him to drive right into the Lampoon building, he had a lot to say on the matter.
“Honestly, it was the easiest place for me to get into,” the driver recalled, “I was prowling around Cambridge, seeing scores of Harvard students all over the place, when I suddenly got the urge to drive into the printers on the first floor of Lamont.”
“The ones that never work?” the Crimson reporter responded, with an approving wag of their finger and a nod of their head.
“You know the ones! But that was just never going to work out, I guess. The security guards at the gates didn't let me in the yard without a Harvard ID."
The driver continued, "So then I tried to crash into that one final club across from Lowell, you know the one that always plays music so loudly at 2 p.m. or 2 a.m. The Gnat or something.”
The Crimson reporter interjecting offered, “The Fly?”
“Yeah! But the bouncer threw me out after saying I wasn’t on the list and asking me if I knew anyone. Apparently I was supposed to come back with some embossed envelope with unexpectedly good cursive on the front. Whatever."
Expressing regret at not being able to hit his two preferred targets, the driver was promptly summoned to appear in court for "Operating a Motor Vehicle with Revoked Insurance and an Uninsured Motor Vehicle," as stated eloquently by a CPD spokesperson. Looking at the bent over parking meter, the warped signpost, and utter disrespect given to the bike lane, it does make one wonder why his ability to drive was ever called into question.
As the scene finally calmed down and the crashed car was towed away, the driver did have one last thing to add: "You know there was one other building that honestly shouldn't have been so difficult to crash into. It was crazy exclusive.”
“Oh, you’re talking about the Spee aren’t you?” said the Crimson reporter.
“No! CAMHS,” said the driver. “The receptionist at the front desk stopped me. Apparently I couldn’t get in until late November."
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Researchers presented initial findings on the prevalence and treatment of psychosis in India, Nigeria, and Trinidad at a virtual event hosted by the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health on Wednesday.
The principal investigators of the International Research Programme on Psychoses In Diverse Settings — professors at universities in England, Trinidad and Tobago, and Nigeria — spoke at the event.
Psychosis is characterized by loss of contact with reality, such as hallucinations or delusions.
“Psychotic disorders can be devastating, often associated with considerable suffering for individuals and families over long periods of time,” said Craig Morgan, an epidemiology professor at King’s College London.
Mortality rates for individuals with psychosis are three to four times higher than those without, and less than 20 percent of those with psychosis are able to sustain long-term employment, per Morgan.
Psychotic disorders are also more common than often assumed, he said — approximately 3 percent of the population is affected by psychosis, with the average onset of symptoms at age 30.
Due to the belief that psychotic disorders were “genetic neurodevelopmental disorders,” practitioners long assumed that cases of psychosis were consistent across the globe, explained Morgan. Recent studies have shown, however, that rates vary among populations.
Delayed understanding of such variability may be due to disparities in where researchers tend to conduct their studies, he said.
“Over 80 percent of the world's population lives in the Global South but less than 10 percent of research on psychotic disorders has been in these settings,” Morgan explained.
With INTREPID, Morgan and his colleagues seek to rectify that imbalance. The program’s objective is to improve access to care for patients with psychosis who live in the Global South.
Gerard Hutchinson, a psychiatry professor at the University of the West Indies in St. Augustine, shared initial findings on the differential prevalence of untreated psychosis in India, Nigeria, and Trinidad.
The length of time individuals with psychosis are untreated is far greater in India than in both Trinidad and Nigeria, he explained.
“The ability to contact services and seek help — for reasons that we hope to be able to identify — takes a much longer time in India,” Hutchinson said.
Oye Gureje, a psychiatry professor at University of Ibadan in Nigeria, also noted the correlations between physical health conditions and psychosis.
“Groups that report a high frequent use of cannabis are more likely to also be found to have a higher rate of incidents of psychosis,” he said. The rates of anemia and malnutrition were also significantly higher among people with psychosis than people without.
Gureje concluded by posing a question that INTREPID has brought to light: “To what extent can we bring about, or initiate, some changes that would bring these people to care much earlier than the case at the moment?”
Byron J. Good — a medical anthropology professor at Harvard Medical School who attended the webinar — said he hopes data collected by INTREPID will lead to improvements in treatment for people in the Global South.
“It is important because it tries to correct sampling methods to identify a more representative group of people, many of whom are untreated,” he said.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Former U.S. Secretary of Agriculture Dan Glickman talked about the evolution of American agricultural and food policy, the importance of resilience, and the importance of humor among public servants in a virtual conversation Wednesday.
The event, hosted by the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health as a part of its talk series “Voices in Leadership during Crisis,” was moderated by Walter C. Willett, a professor of epidemiology and nutrition at HSPH.
The conversation started with a discussion of early influences on Glickman’s career. Glickman cited his parents’ nurturing as an element that led to his success.
“I had good parents,” he said. “I was lucky – they were unconditionally supportive. They also had this incredibly good sense of humor.”
Glickman said the sense of humor he learned had often helped him in tense circumstances in his own career, for example when facing down rotten-food-wielding protesters. Politicians today often lack that aptitude, he said.
“If you look at our national politicians of both political parties, there are not a lot of people I would call warm, fuzzy humans,” he said.
Glickman also pointed out the importance of resilience in public service.
“You may be up one day, and you may be down the next day,” he said. “But the question is if when you’re down, can you get back up again.”
Glickman’s own career has been long and varied. In 1976, he was elected to represent Kansas’s 4th congressional district in the U.S House of Representatives. Two decades later, President Bill Clinton appointed him to the position of Secretary of Agriculture, in which Glickman served until 2001.
After the Clinton presidency, Glickman served as the director of the Institute of Politics at the Harvard Kennedy School from 2002 to 2004, and as the CEO and Chairman of the Motion Picture Association of America from 2004 to 2010.
The conversation also touched on Glickman’s views of changes in Americans’ relationship with food and in food policy.
“Consumers generally are much more interested in what they eat, where it’s grown, how it’s grown and what its nutritional value is,” he said.
The medical profession is also adjusting to consumers’ concerns about eating healthier, Glickman said.
“The medical profession, which heretofore has treated patients only once they’re sick, is beginning to become much more interested in how to prevent illness,” he said.
The conversation moved on to a discussion of the connections between agricultural policy and national politics.
“Everything is covered by politics,” Glickman said when asked about the politicization of Department of Agriculture programs. “There is just no way to remove politics from policy.”
Glickman concluded with the hope that the American public could put aside differences and support science-based health policy.
“Let’s just hope that we can get our act together as a country and get down on the right path,” he said.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
More than a year after Covid-19 forced Blackbird Doughnuts to close, the artisanal donut shop has returned to the Smith Campus Center with a savory surprise in tow: Sally’s Sandwiches.
On top of its donut menu, the combined store now offers a variety of sandwiches, tacos, salads, grain bowls, and soups.
The shop is located within the remodeled arcade, in a space previously occupied by vegan cafe Whole Heart Provisions.
It is the sixth location for Blackbird Doughnuts and the second location for Sally’s Sandwiches — both of which are operated by the Gallows Group, a local restaurant group.
Elena Todisco, managing director of the Gallows Group, said it took eight weeks for the store to settle into the space.
“We really just brought in some new kitchen equipment, and we redesigned the storefront, the guest-facing aspects of the store,” she said.
Todisco said the store hopes to be “as original and as fresh” as possible.
“The difference between us and a lot of locations in Harvard Square is that we are not a big chain, especially for Sally’s,” she noted.
“We’re independently owned,” she said. “We aren’t corporate, so we have the ability to do a lot more interesting stuff.”
Matthew J. Su ’23-’24, who recently returned from a gap year, said he enjoyed going to Blackbird Doughnuts in his freshman year.
“They’re gourmet doughnuts, so obviously they’re going to be more expensive than regular doughnuts, but they tasted good,” he said.
Su added that he was also excited to sample Sally’s Sandwiches.
“I’ve actually never been to Sally’s Sandwiches, so I’m looking forward to trying it,” he added.
Alexander J. “Alex” Estevez ’24 visited the newly reopened store a few days after its opening for doughnuts.
“They’re kind of pricey. Comparatively, I think even Starbucks doughnuts are cheaper, which is saying a lot,” he said. “They seem all right, pretty middle-of-the-road doughnuts.”
Todisco said the company aims to be “as reasonable” as they can be with prices.
“Based on what’s happening globally with supply chains, we’re doing the best we can to keep everything as reasonably priced as we can for the student population, because we know that that’s obviously our main demographic here,” she said.
Grace A. Yeboah-Kodie ’22 said she liked the “convenient” location of the store and enjoyed a breakfast sandwich that she ordered there.
“I have a friend who is always talking about how there’s no places to get good sandwiches in the Square, so I’m hoping to go with her to see what they have,” she added.
—Staff writer Tracy Jiang can be reached at tracy.jiang@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @_tracyjiang_.
—Staff writer Davin W. Shi can be reached at davin.shi@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
As 19 candidates vie for Cambridge City Council this fall, the eight incumbents running for reelection are banking on their experience and accomplishments in City Hall to rally support for another term.
With the exception of Councilor Timothy J. Toomey, who will be stepping down after this term, the incumbent candidates include Mayor Sumbul Siddiqui, Vice Mayor Alanna M. Mallon, and Councilors Dennis J. Carlone, Marc C. McGovern, Patricia M. “Patty” Nolan ’80, E. Denise Simmons, Jivan Sobrinho-Wheeler, and Quinton Y. Zondervan.
Every two years, the nine seats on the council are elected at-large. Early in the term, the councilors elect a mayor and vice mayor from among themselves.
Several councilors said in interviews with The Crimson that they are planning to highlight their work on affordable housing and income equality this election cycle. Sobrinho-Wheeler noted the rising house prices in Cambridge.
“We have some of the most expensive housing in the country in Cambridge,” Sobrinho-Wheeler said. “It’s gotten really out of control in the past couple of decades especially.”
Nolan attributed the current housing situation to the large economic disparities that exist in Cambridge.
“The reason we have an affordable housing crisis — and it sounds kind of simplistic but people, I don’t think, talk about this as much — is that we have an income crisis,” she said. “If you could afford houses in Cambridge, the affordable housing crisis wouldn’t be here.”
Previously, the council put forth policies in an attempt to make housing more affordable. Siddiqui discussed the recent preservation of 504 units in the Rindge Towers — an affordable housing complex — which were at risk of being priced at market rate.
Siddiqui said the units in the Rindge Towers “are going to be affordable for the next 50 years” and she is “really proud of that accomplishment.”
Another housing effort passed in this term — and a hotly debated item during the 2019 council elections — is the Affordable Housing Overlay. The measure was adopted in October 2020 after the city elected a supermajority of AHO supporters in the previous election.
The councilors were split on the city’s response to the pandemic. McGovern said that the city “did well” handling the pandemic.
“Our positivity rates were consistently the lowest of any city in the state. We had some of the highest testing numbers as well,” he said. “We addressed the immediate needs of our unhoused population by serving thousands of meals, providing public showers and restrooms, opening congregate and non-congregate shelter space.”
Carlone said that the city should have acted more quickly to provide aid to small businesses and renters.
“The one thing we could have done differently is help small businesses and people with rent earlier than we did,” he said. “We have done that, but it could have been, frankly, in the first month.”
Simmons defended the council’s response to the pandemic, but argued that the emergency resources should continue after the pandemic subsides.
“I don’t want to go back to normal,” Simmons said. “I want us to go back to better because we have now proven to ourselves — and the community — that we can do it if we choose to.”
Zondervan cited low voter turnout in Cambridge municipal elections as a cause for concern.
“Traditionally, we see about 30 percent voter participation in municipal elections in Cambridge,” he said. “And that’s really too bad because it means that the vast majority of voters are not engaged with our municipal elections and, therefore, our municipal government.”
To increase voter participation, councilors said they plan on utilizing strategies like knocking on doors, phonebanking, sending letters, and having conversations with voters.
Zondervan added that he wants Cantabrigians to understand the influence they have on their local government.
“My hope is to make them aware that we exist and know what we do, and to let them know that they have a big role to play in how we will govern,” he said.
—Staff writer Sarah Girma can be reached at sarah.girma@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @SarahGirma_.
—Staff writer Jennifer L. Powley can be reached at jennifer.powley@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @JenniferlPowley
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard chemists developed a new data storage method using fluorescent dyes that may be much more durable and cost-efficient than traditional storage methods.
Chemistry professor George M. Whitesides ’60 and his research group showed that digital data can be stored in mixtures of fluorescent dye molecules deposited by an inkjet printer, per a paper published in American Chemical Society Central Science earlier this month.
The printed data can be read by a microscope that detects wavelengths of light emitted by each dye, distinguishing between the dyes in the mixture. The presence or absence of a dye may represent a value in binary — the backbone of modern computing.
Whitesides, the paper’s corresponding author, said the high energy consumption of traditional data storage and the need for it to be “safe from corruption” drove the development of this new method.
Amit A. Nagarkar, a postdoctoral fellow in the Whitesides Group and co-lead author of the paper, said these issues are pertinent in magnetic tape, a traditional storage method for long-term archival data.
“It still degrades — depending on the conditions it’s kept in, it degrades in about 10 to 15 years,” Nagarkar said. “You always have to keep refreshing the data, which is a lot of environmental cost, material cost, as well as cost in terms of operation of the people doing it.”
According to the paper, while traditional data storage mediums like magnetic tape have “operational lifetimes” on the order of decades, the new “molecule-based storage system” can be used to store information for thousands of years or more.
Whitesides compared this dye-based system to another molecular data medium, DNA, and said many scientists are interested in the prospect of storing information in this way.
“The tricky part of DNA is that although you can read it fairly rapidly, synthesizing the DNA molecules is still not a very fast procedure,” Whitesides said.
“The characteristic of this method is, we don’t synthesize big molecules, we just mix molecules,” he added.
Nagarkar also said that the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, which funded the project, had the goal of storing information in “mixtures of molecules” less costly to synthesize than DNA.
Looking forward, the group is focused on pushing its new data storage method into the commercial sphere.
According to Nagarkar, the group started a new company called Datacule and is now trying to develop an “end-to-end prototype” that can both print and read the dyed data. They are also working to decrease the cost of their instruments.
Whitesides said the next step is to find out if there is actual customer demand for the method.
“We’ve passed the first hurdle, which is developing a technology that works — and there’s no question it works, that it has certain advantages,” Whitesides said. “The second hurdle is, does anybody care? We still have to answer that, and the company will do that.”
—Staff writer Justin Lee can be reached at justin.lee@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
In a result that surprised researchers, 38 percent of U.S. households reported facing serious financial difficulties in the past few months despite receiving government assistance, according to a new national poll by the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health.
Published earlier this month in conjunction with the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation and National Public Radio, the poll provides insight into the continuing day-to-day challenges faced by American households as Covid-19 has surged in recent months, driven by the Delta variant. The poll noted issues such as financial problems, housing insecurity, education losses, lack of access to healthcare, and hate crimes.
More than half of surveyed households with annual incomes below $50,000 reported facing serious financial problems, despite 67 percent reporting they had received financial assistance from the government in the past few months. Nearly a fifth of households said they lost all of their savings during the Covid-19 outbreak.
HSPH professor emeritus Robert J. Blendon, who directed the survey and report, said he had expected federal financial assistance to have a more positive impact on people’s finances.
“With all the federal money spent — for people under $50,000 a year — a very large share of them have serious financial problems,” he said. “They’re not supposed to. They’re supposed to have gotten a check from the federal government.”
In addition to serious financial problems, 69 percent of households with children in school reported that their children fell behind in their learning due to pandemic-related education shifts.
The survey also found that 25 percent of Asian households, 22 percent of Native American households, and 21 percent of Black households feared someone may threaten or physically attack them because of their race or ethnicity.
Mary G. Findling — the assistant director of the Harvard Opinion Research Center, which assisted in the study — noted the center had originally planned the poll to show how far Americans had come since the beginning of the pandemic.
“We started planning this poll before the Delta variant really took hold, and we thought the findings, broad brush, were going to be how much better Americans are doing a year and a half later,” she said.
Blendon said though national leaders have begun to discuss the country’s return to normalcy, the people they interviewed “don’t see their lives being back to normal at all.”
“They have financial problems, they have health care problems, they and their families have a lot of anxiety at home,” he said. “The answers were really quite different than we expected.”
Blendon noted he was also surprised by the findings of another poll he recently published in collaboration with POLITICO, which asked about the public’s top political priorities.
“We did this expecting that the infrastructure — bridges and highways and airports we’re building — that would be number one,” he said. “What turned out is that people pick very personal things, not policy things.”
According to Blendon, immediate personal struggles, such as long-term care in nursing homes or drug prices, are taking priority in the minds of the general public rather than long-term issues like climate change.
Findling said she believes long-term solutions will be necessary to get people back on their feet.
“Even as the spread of the virus slows, millions of families are still going to be in the hole for a very long time trying to dig themselves out of this,” she said. “This is not a short term problem and it doesn't require short term solutions.”
“For many people, this is the event in their lives that will affect them for years and years to come,” Findling added.
—Staff writer Ariel H. Kim can be reached at ariel.kim@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
On foot, on scooter, on the shuttle, or the T, Harvard students cover lots of ground day-to-day. Now, students are turning in increasing numbers to BlueBikes, a bicycle sharing system that operates in the Boston metropolitan area, to get around.
There are hundreds of stations across the BlueBike network, including 14 on or near Harvard’s campuses. According to Harvard’s CommuterChoice Program, approximately 1,000 affiliates are taking advantage of the University’s discounted annual membership.
The number of BlueBikes trips taken in Cambridge reached its highest point all-time in September, with the company recording over 153,000 rides, according to company spokesperson Patrick Kelsey. The company is aiming to install a further 150 public bike racks each year.
Isabelle S. Zheng ’23 said having classes in the new Science and Engineering Complex, a 20 minute walk from her on-campus residence, served as the impetus for her to get a BlueBike subscription.
“So far it’s been really useful,” Zheng said. “I probably use a BlueBike three or four — usually more — times a week, even beyond going to the SEC.”
The Undergraduate Council is also spearheading initiatives to subsidize BlueBike memberships, offering subsidies to 100 students for a 50 percent discount to BlueBikes’ annual membership. Four hundred students applied for the subsidy, according to UC President Noah A. Harris ’22.
The UC also partnered with BlueBikes to give out 300 free one-day passes on Oct. 9, the night of the Harvard-Cornell football game.
“We did the free BlueBikes day, further promoting [the subsidy] and trying to get students aware that this is a good resource,” Harris said.
Some athletes are also starting to use BlueBikes, in addition to buying scooters or using their own bikes to commute to and from practice across the Charles River.
Kevin Z. Sze ’24, a member of the Harvard golf team, explained in an text message he chose to get an annual BlueBikes membership after doing the math.
“Buying a regular scooter is cheaper, probably around 100 dollars but slower and also some of my friends get knee problems since they’re always pushing off the same leg,” Sze wrote. “An electric scooter is faster but it’s more expensive (400 dollars).”
Sze wrote the other alternatives are not great either. Harvard’s shuttles often are not running when the golf team gets back from tournaments, he said, and walking to its indoor facility, which is just past the stadium, “takes way too long.”
Other students have been using BlueBikes to explore Boston more.
Henry Kuo ’24 chose BlueBikes over the alternative of buying his own bike for the convenience of parking in Boston.
“I thought about other options because there were some people who would just get bikes, but then eventually I settled with BlueBikes because you get to tour Boston a little bit more,” Kuo said.
“Otherwise, if you have your own bike you wouldn't be able to park anywhere in Boston. It’s more likely that your bike will get stolen or disassembled,” he added.
— Staff writer Vivian Zhao can be reached at vivian.zhao@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Just over a week after a review of Harvard’s tenure process found that the use of secretive ad hoc committees “erodes faculty trust” in the system, University President Lawrence S. Bacow defended the school’s use of the committees as a necessary aspect of deliberations.
The review, commissioned by Faculty of Arts and Sciences Dean Claudine Gay, largely upheld the FAS tenure review process, but noted there is uncertainty among junior faculty members around how decisions are made. Bacow said in an interview Wednesday that the secretive nature of Harvard’s process matches procedures at peer universities.
“I don’t know of a single university that conducts final tenure reviews with transparency,” Bacow said, adding that he has been “intimately involved” in tenure processes at three universities: MIT, Tufts University, and Harvard.
In the penultimate stage of Harvard’s tenure review process, the president often commissions a committee of academics from inside and outside the University along with high-ranking administrators to evaluate a candidate’s scholarship behind closed doors. The makeup and deliberations of the ad hoc groups are undisclosed — a factor that has long garnered criticism.
Bacow said Wednesday that Harvard’s confidential process allows for candid deliberations.
“The process is done confidentially as a way of ensuring that we have access to candid opinions expressed by all who participate,” he said. “It’s a process, for those of us who oversee it, that we take extremely seriously. There is no more important thing that we do at the University.”
The FAS tenure audit came following outcry from students and ethnic studies scholars after Harvard denied tenure to Romance Languages and Literatures associate professor Lorgia García Peña in 2019. More than 100 faculty members signed onto a call for a review of the process.
“I don’t think — and I don’t think the report said — that the system was broken in any way,” Bacow said. “It said it was, in some cases, not well understood, and it said that people had some frustration with it, in terms of its lack of transparency.”
Bacow defended Harvard’s tenure process in the face of national scrutiny again earlier this year when Cornel R. West ’74 departed after saying the University refused to consider him for tenure due to his political views. West, who was a University professor at Harvard in the early 2000s, now teaches at Union Theological Seminary in New York.
“Can it be improved? We’re always looking for ways to try and strengthen it, but I do think it’s a process that has served this institution very well over many, many years,” Bacow said.
The report recommended increasing flexibility for external letter requirements and formalizing measures for assessing a candidate’s teaching, service, and mentorship. It also suggested making the process for promotion to associate professor more rigorous in order to better prepare junior faculty for what to expect during tenure review.
Bacow declined to comment on whether recommendations relating to associate faculty promotions might be implemented, saying the decision would be up to the FAS.
“I think the system, as I said, has served us very well,” Bacow said. “Like any other process — like any other system — that doesn’t mean it can’t be improved, and we’re always looking at ways to improve.”
—Staff writer Kelsey J. Griffin can be reached at kelsey.griffin@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @kelseyjgriffin.
—Staff writer Jasper G. Goodman can be reached at jasper.goodman@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @Jasper_Goodman.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Stephan J. “Steve” Kornacki, an NBC News and MSNBC national political correspondent, discussed his career trajectory, his approach to presenting electoral data, and ongoing threats to American democracy at a JFK Forum on Thursday evening at the Institute of Politics.
Clad in his signature khaki pants and rolled-up sleeves, Kornacki took the stage and fielded questions from an audience of more than 100 attendees.
The event was moderated by IOP student leaders Nadia R. Douglas ’23 and Ajay S. Sarma ’23.
Kornacki — today one of the most well-known personalities in cable news — kicked off the event describing his start in journalism in New Jersey, where he worked for the defunct political news site PoliticsNJ.com.
“I tell people the three years I spent there were the funnest, most professionally satisfying three years of my career. It’s the graduate school degree I never got,” he said.
The discussion then shifted to Kornacki’s specialty: digesting electoral data. Even without his trademark big board, Kornacki gesticulated thoroughly as he answered questions.
Known for his quick recollections of decades-old political patterns on live television, Kornacki gave the audience a primer on U.S. electoral history, starting with the 1876 Tilden-Hayes Compromise spanning to the “butterfly ballot” in 2000.
He also offered insight into how he prepares for marathon election coverage, which sometimes goes through the night.
“Going through the simulations ahead of time just helps me get a sense of — as that picture comes into focus in every county — what the kind of benchmarks are [for victory] along the way,” he said.
Kornacki admitted that “it’s not foolproof.”
“Especially in this era, with all the variables, with early voting and mail-in voting, there’s a lot of question marks about the sequence of how those get released in every state,” he said. “I’m feeling a little bit stressed looking at Virginia,” he said, in reference to the state’s upcoming gubernatorial election, which he will cover for MSNBC on Nov. 2.
When asked about the accuracy of polling, Kornacki said the framing of a survey question can dramatically change its results. He cited support for background checks and vaccine mandates as examples.
“You can think about a very narrow issue framed in a very particular way to poll, and you can be tempted to believe that there is a strong conviction on the part of the public,” he said.
Kornacki also addressed challenges posed by reporting political data in an era of intense polarization.
“So much of political media now is partisan,” Kornacki said. “People want numbers that make them feel good.”
In an interview after the discussion, Kornacki said he was excited to participate in an in-person forum after spending months doing Zoom events.
“It was great just to be able to be in a room with people and actually see them and hear their voices in person,” Kornacki said. “I just love talking about this stuff with people.”
After passionately addressing an audience of college students about electoral maps, Kornacki said he is inspired by young people’s enthusiasm for political engagement.
“I can remember being in high school for the Clinton-Dole election in 1996, and if I brought it up to anybody, they would just make fun of me for caring about this thing that nobody cared about. So it’s kind of wild to me that — a generation later — comparatively speaking, everybody is interested in some way,” he said.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Though the Harvard Management Company reported record-breaking returns last Thursday, several financial experts said it still lags behind the performance of key financial indices and its peer institutions.
“The returns are good, right? [33.6 percent] sounds awesome.” University of Chicago Finance Professor Steven N. Kaplan ’81 said. “On a relative basis, that’s where it’s not so good. The S&P 500 went up about 40 percent during that period, so [33.6 percent] is less than the S&P 500.”
The endowment rose to $53.2 billion at the close of the fiscal year ending in June 2021, an increase of 33.6 percent. Its value is currently the largest sum in its history.
Kaplan, along with several other financial experts, also noted that Harvard’s endowment returns trailed behind that of Yale, MIT, University of Pennsylvania, among other peer institutions.
Yale’s endowment earned 40.2 percent returns, UPenn’s earned 41.1 percent returns, Dartmouth’s earned 46.5 percent returns, Cornell’s earned 41.9 percent returns, Brown’s earned 51.5 percent returns, and MIT’s earned 55.5 percent returns.
“Harvard is dead last relative to the schools I think it cares about,” Kaplan added, citing the returns of peer institutions that have reported returns for the fiscal year ending in June 2021.
Despite Harvard’s positioning, experts also took note of the driver behind the endowments’ growth: investments in private equity.
In 2021, Harvard’s endowment had 34 percent of its holdings in private equity assets compared to last year’s 23 percent, a significant shift in its investment strategy.
NYU finance professor David L. Yermack ’85, a former Crimson Managing Editor, speculated that Harvard may be allocating more of its private equity assets in more “traditional” leveraged buyouts — a process in which a company uses loans to purchase another company — than in venture capital firms but indicated that the disclosures HMC released last Thursday are “too opaque.”
“There’s one issue with the Harvard data, which is when they say private equity, they are lumping together the traditional private equity — which is really leveraged buyouts — but also venture capital, which is investing in startup firms, and many other schools and institutions will split those out its different asset categories,” Yermack said.
HMC spokesperson Patrick S. McKiernan wrote in an email that, while all asset categories include a variety of investments, the University does not provide further breakdowns of individual asset classes.
John M. Longo, a professor at Rutgers Business School and Chief Investment Officer for the Beacon Trust, said Harvard’s endowment surpassed the return rate of the standard 60-40 stock and bond portfolio benchmark.
“Harvard outperformed by about 9.7 percent, so on that simple measure over a one-year period, I think it did a very good job,” Longo said.
Longo said it is difficult to directly compare the performance of Harvard’s endowment with those of peer institutions since HMC and its counterparts do not typically provide a detailed account of their strategy behind risk-taking.
“You can’t make a strong comparison unless you know what risk the other endowments are taking,” Longo said.
Kaplan added that hedge funds and fixed-income investments tend to underperform in years with strong market performance since they are not designed to be directly correlated to the stock market.
Though the recovery from Covid-19 aided the endowments’ strong performance last fiscal year, the stock market has not continued along with this trend in the present fiscal year, per Kaplan. The stock market has increased roughly 5 percent this year, compared to 40 percent last year.
“So you would expect that endowments are going to be up about 5 percent, if nothing changes, as of today,” Kaplan said.
Thomas D. Parker ’64 — a senior associate at the Institute for Higher Education Policy — pointed out the “cautious approach” to the University’s presentation of its returns and its choice to emphasize the “fragility of the investment world.”
“They were so very careful to remind everybody that this is an exceptional year, that the markets, no matter which kind of market you're talking about, go up and down,” Parker said. “I think it detracts some of the attention from the fact that the Harvard returns still weren’t as good as many of the so-called competitors.”
Parker acknowledged that endowments tend to emphasize performance over longer periods of time, rather than single-year returns.
“It’s true, it’s not a one-year contest. It’s not, let’s see who’s the best at the end of the year, and winner takes all,” he added.
—Staff writer Virginia L. Ma can be reached at virginia.ma@thecrimson.com.
—Staff writer Kevin A. Simauchi can be reached at kevin.simauchi@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @Simauchi.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
On Friday, October 15th, Harvard men’s and women’s cross county traveled north to race in the Nuttycombe Wisconsin Invitational against 31 and 35 other highly-competitive collegiate programs. The Crimson men finished an impressive 13th and the women finished in 25th, both substantially improving from their performance in the same race in 2019.
Finally having a nearly full squad after three weeks of break since the Battle of Beantown in late September, the Crimson men ran their best race of the season in the 8k, beating their previous finish of 25th by 12 spots.
In a heat of over 230 runners, it was crucial for the top runners to get out in front and establish their positions. Leading the way for the men was senior Matthew Pereira, who finished 27th with a time of 23:51. In 2019, Pereira finished the same race in 195th, showing massive improvement after the year off from official Harvard training. Just behind Pereira was first-year standout Graham Blanks in 28th with a time of 23.52 and sophomore Acer Iverson in 33rd with a time of 23.54. This top three was a strong pack for the Crimson that stuck together, capturing important points.
“Matt, Graham and Acer all had really solid races this weekend, but it’s not very surprising given how they’ve been training,” commented Melville on some of the individual performances at Nuttycombe. “We’re just now starting to dial into those faster workouts and the guys are looking great. We’re really excited for Heps, which is our next meet two weeks from now.”
Rounding out the top five for Harvard was junior co-captain David Melville who finished in 118th with a time of 24:37 and junior Luke Laverdiere who finished in 165th with a time of 25:07. Following the race, while proud of the team effort, Melville emphasized the importance of the back half of the varsity team getting out quickly in the big races in order to reduce the spread between runners one through five.
“We really took advantage of the couple weeks off to crank out larger mileage and harder workouts. It was pretty much the last big block of consistent training before we get into the postseason, which is densely packed with important races,” Melville said. “The team’s feeling really good going into the end of the year. In 2019 we were nowhere near as consistent as we are now, and we still ended up 15th in the NCAA that year.”
The Harvard men are positioned well for the Ivy League championships in two weeks. After being unranked before the race, beating No. 13 Washington, No. 16 Butler, No. 18 North Carolina, and No. 21 Southern Utah catapulted the Crimson into the top 25. The Harvard men are now only trailing Princeton in the Ancient Eight for national rankings and are ranked first in the Northeast region. This sets up the Crimson for a competitive rematch against the Tigers at Heps and another good chance to win regionals.
The Harvard women also had a strong performance in the badger state. In the 6k event amidst a heat of over 260 runners, the Crimson women finished in 25th, seven spots better than their finish in 2019.
The Harvard women had a number of standout performances, including first-year Maia Ramsden who continued her strong breakout season, crossing the finish line in 59th with a time of 21:32. Sophomore Iz Sagar finished close behind Ramsden in 65th with a time of 21:06. This top two pack for the Crimson kept them competitive against some of the top teams in the country. Rounding out the scoring for Harvard included senior co-captain Anna Juul who finished in 144th with a time of 21:37, sophomore Eloise Freitag who finished in 178th with a time of 21:51, and fellow senior co-captain Judy Pendergast who finished in 201st with a time of 22:08.
The Crimson women were the top finishing Ivy League team, slipping only to Syracuse’s strong performance at Nuttycombe in the Northeast regional rankings to No. 4. The Harvard women will similarly be competing primarily with Princeton for the Ivy League title at Heps in two weeks, outperforming fellow competitors Yale, Columbia, and Penn so far this season.
“Judy and I are emphasizing the importance of rest,” said Juul on the focus for the team going into the second half of the season. “We are entering an intense training block, so everyone needs to take time to sleep and eat. This is good for mental and physical health, both of which are key. We were relatively pleased with our performance, but there’s still a lot of work to do.”
With two weeks off before Heps, both teams are entering one of the hardest blocks of training during the season before the tapering begins ahead of Heps and NCAAs. Both captains were pleased with the performance of the Harvard program but know that the ceiling is much higher. The Crimson will race next on October 30th at the Ivy League Championships at Princeton’s home course in N.J.
— Staff writer William Connaughton can be reached at william.connaughton@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard handed Holy Cross its first home loss of the season on Tuesday night, after senior midfielder Cornelius Bencsik scored a peach of a late winner to settle a back and forth affair at 3-2.
Harvard (5-4-3, 0-1-2 Ivy) was victorious in its last non-conference matchup of the season, outlasting Holy Cross (8-4-2, 5-1-0 Patriot) in an entertaining game in Worcester. The Crimson struck first and last in the matchup, with the Crusaders tying the game in both the first and second half before Harvard won the game with an outrageous first-time volley in the 88th minute.
“I was actually thinking a lot while the ball was in the air. It's one of those moments in soccer, where you almost have too much time, and you overthink. I was thinking about bringing the ball down, and whether to use my chest or my feet, but luckily for me, my instincts took over as I saw the goalie off his line,” Bencsik said of the game winner. “It was really wonderful to score that goal. A nice last minute goal to win the game is always an excellent feeling.”
It was a night which featured multiple standout performances for the Crimson, as Bencsik and sophomore midfielder James Fahmy both tallied a goal and an assist each, while junior forward Martin Vician scored for the fourth straight game. Sophomore midfielder Willem Ebbinge also tallied a pair of assists, his fifth and sixth assists in his last four games, which brings him to a team-best eight on the season.
Harvard settled quickly into the game, dominating the opening quarter of an hour, and it was rewarded with an early goal. Vician got on the end of a low cross from Bencsik in the eleventh minute, after the Brumunddal, Norway native found space down the right wing. The goal was Vician’s fourth in his last four games and his fifth on the season.
Holy Cross began to come to life following the Crimson’s goal, dominating possession after the first fifteen minutes of the game. Despite not creating many clear cut chances with this possession, the Crusaders tallied eight shots in the first half to Harvard’s two, and eventually found the back of the net in the 24th minute. Holy Cross converted a corner after whipping in a dangerous ball to the front post, which was headed home for 1-1.
The Crimson roared back to life after the break, settling into the game and scoring its second goal of the night in the 53rd minute. Ebbinge found some space down the line and picked out first-year forward Alessandro Arlotti in the box, who brilliantly faked a shot and ran over the ball, leaving the pass for a now-wide open Fahmy just inside the box. Fahmy made no mistake, curling the ball into the bottom corner for his first collegiate goal, which restored Harvard’s lead at 2-1.
The Crusaders hit back just a few minutes later against the run of play, following an unfortunate turnover near midfield by the Crimson, after Fahmy was hit in the back by a long pass out of Harvard’s defense. Holy Cross capitalized on the counter attacking chance, finding space on the right side of the box and firing home to tie the game at two.
As the game progressed into the final ten minutes, neither team could find a breakthrough, and it looked as if the Crimson would be playing its sixth overtime slate in twelve games. This changed in the 88th minute, when Fahmy launched a perfect ball from the middle of the Holy Cross half, which found Bencsik in space just inside the box. Bencsik volleyed the ball out of the air with his first touch, looping the ball over the goalie and into the far corner of the net to seal victory in a hard fought match.
“It was a huge relief. We have been heading to overtime a lot in recent weeks so it was great to get the job done in 90 minutes away from home,” Ebbinge said of the late goal. “We have set our sights on winning the last four games and are buzzing to play the majority of them on Jordan in front of a home crowd.”
Harvard will next host Princeton this Saturday at 4 p.m. on Jordan Field as it heads into its last four games, all of which come against Ivy League opposition.

— Staff writer Eamon McLoughlin can be reached at eamon.mcloughlin@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Harvard men’s tennis team had a tough run at the Intercollegiate Tennis Association’s All-American Championship, with only sophomore Henry Von Der Schulenberg reaching the main draw consolation bracket. The Crimson competed against colleges across the country on the campus of the University of Tulsa and Case Tennis Center at LaFortune Park in Tulsa, Okla.
Prior to the tournament, Harvard competed at the Milwaukee Tennis Classic, where the team won first in singles and second in doubles, qualifying for the ITA All-American Championship. The Crimson then played at Chowderfest, where it reached second in singles.
Starting the ITA Championship strong, Harvard captured a win in its only match of the day on Oct. 2. Senior captain Brian Shi claimed victory for the Crimson, beating a tough opponent in Nick Lagaev of Arizona in straight sets, 7-5, 6-2.
“Against Nick, it was all about trying to find my game throughout the first set,” Shi said. “I had a few good points and saved a set point to get back into the match.”
Although Shi had a strong showing, he fell short of advancing out of the pre-qualifying round of the ITA Championship after a loss to Oscar Pinto Sansano of Arkansas, 6-2, 6-2.
On the other hand, sophomore Henry von der Schulenburg competed in the main draw round of 64. Although he lost to the nationally ranked Trent Bryde of Georgia, 6-1, 2-6, 6-4, in the main bracket, he went on to the consolation bracket to defeat James Davis of Denver, 6-3, 6-1, as well as Justin Barki of Princeton, who retired due to injury halfway through the first set. Von der Schulenburg's winning streak, however, came to an end after he fell to No. 20 Matej Vocel from Ohio State, 7-6(3), 6-1. Von der Schulenburg took down many strong opponents during the ITA Championship.
The other Harvard players who participated in the ITA Championship were sophomore Ronan Jachuck and junior Harry Walker. ​​
Jachuck lost the first round in singles of the pre-qualifying 3-6, 6-3, 6-3. Jachuck and Shi won the first round of doubles in the pre-qualifying bracket but lost in the second round.
“The fall tournaments are very important not only to the guys and me to re-evaluate ourselves, but also to know our skillset and integrate that into game-time situations,” Jachuck said.
Walker won two of his three matches, defeating nationally ranked Joshua Charlton of Oregon. Walker also played with von der Schulenberg in doubles, losing the first round of the doubles pre-qualifying round.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
I don’t know about you, but I put the “pro” in procrastination — and if you’re currently reading this article, chances are you probably do too. If no number of therapy sessions or New York Times bestseller self-help and productivity books can help you curb your procrastination, this article definitely will.
Reward yourself
Work just gives us nothing but stress and bad vibes, so you might as well treat yourself so you can get through the pain. Tell yourself that once you’ve done your work for a certain amount of time, you will reward yourself with something like a snack, or 10 minutes on Instagram, or one YouTube video. At least you’ll have something to look forward to at the end! Try giving the Pomodoro method a shot as well.
Break it down
Instead of trying to tackle a whole task at once, try breaking it down into smaller pieces. Rather than thinking “I’ve got to finish this whole essay in five hours tonight or I am a failure,” instead try “I’ll do the introduction today, the body tomorrow, and the conclusion the next day.” Set yourself a schedule that is flexible and allows you to spread the work over multiple days, instead of cramming it into one night. This makes the task less daunting and scary, and you’ll feel less inclined to put it off.
Just Do It
Force yourself to work on the task you’re avoiding for at least 5-10 minutes and you’ll find yourself getting immersed in the work. If you don’t want to write an essay, just make yourself sit at your desk and type something for 10 minutes – eventually you’ll get in the groove of writing, and 10 minutes turns into more. Try this method out with a friend for some accountability. Maybe while you focus on writing, they can start on the pset they’ve been avoiding.
Minimize Distractions
Most of the time, when we procrastinate we immediately jump onto Instagram or YouTube and waste away some good pset-grinding hours. Try going cold turkey and turn off your phone while you work so that you can’t use it as an escape from working. Work in an environment that will help you stay focused and has minimal distractions, such as a library or other designated study spaces.
I know it’s so hard to find the motivation to just sit down and get things done right away – it’s way more tempting to just write your name and the date on a paper and call it a day, neglecting the other 10 pages you have to write. As much as the adrenaline rush we get from submitting assignments two minutes before the deadline makes us feel like daredevils, it’s always better to start doing your work sooner than later – your future self will thank you for it! With these tips and enough motivation you can stop procrastinating now… or maybe later.
