News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
My first weeks at Harvard have been nothing short of a whirlwind. From protracted dinners at Annenberg and frolicking uninhibited at the First-Year Fling to rapid-fire, real-time discussions liberated from a mute button, the world was finally spinning again. It was as if the clock had surged back in time, back to when things were normal and right. I was not sitting around at home, constricted and despondent, fumbling around YouTube anymore. Instead the grass outside was irresistibly green and I was doing, well, everything. I started losing count of the organizations I was in. I decimated burgers from Baby Berg running between class and club meetings. Each Friday night the streets were ablaze and so was I.
Chinese netizens describe a phenomenon akin to my behavior: revenge bedtime procrastination. As journalist Daphne K. Lee summarized in a viral tweet, the term describes the phenomenon in which “people who don’t have much control over their daytime life refuse to sleep early … to regain some sense of freedom during late-night hours.” Having relinquished our daytime (and more than often evening) hours to the incessant humdrum of life, we excavate our nights for excitement, for Netflix, for errantly effusive nights at Brain Break under the pretext of doing work. In the same way, on a larger scale, perhaps I was also taking revenge on the pandemic, in trying to steal back the time that was taken from me.
Then I fell sick.
It started off as a benign cold, but quickly spiraled into much worse. Soon I was coughing and wheezing, even as Color assiduously assured me that it wasn’t Covid-19. Reluctantly I began packing lunches from Annenberg and isolating myself in my room, where I knocked the appointments off my Google Calendar one by one just to listlessly lie in bed.
Overnight it felt like 2020 again. And why did I feel so violently guilty, guilty for doing nothing?
Psychologists seem to affirm this post-Covid pressure I am feeling, this craving for adrenaline. Richard B. Slatcher, a professor of psychology at the University of Georgia, predicts a resurgence of the excess and hedonism of the Roaring Twenties, with millennials and Gen Z Americans spending especially more on average compared to other age groups. It is perhaps the magnitude of this desire for excitement that has retroactively compounded the guilt I now feel. While inactivity might have been forced upon me during the early days of the pandemic, now the fault is uniquely mine, and the choice to stay at home squarely my own.
There is perhaps another distinctively more Harvard-related reason for this guilt. We jumped through many hoops to get here, so we relentlessly capitalize on every opportunity, wring deliverables out of each waking minute. It may be herculean and certainly unhealthy, but three hours of sleep feels like a trophy and a packed Google calendar a symptom of greatness. Even fun is routinely interpreted as raucous parties and spent nights.
The past few days I’ve been using these blank calendar spaces I’ve inevitably stumbled into to re-evaluate my existence. Why should I feel guilty if I am caring for my well-being? Why do I feel the need to overload my schedule and comp for three million things if secretly, deep down, I have no more air to myself?
These are questions that I’ll probably come back to again and again in the coming years, as I continually re-evaluate my purpose and time. But as I stumble through arduous days and swirling nights trying to make up for lost youth, I will do my best to remember one thing — I didn’t come to Harvard to suffocate.
Next week you’ll find me in the Yard again, or on Mass. Ave., or wherever the sun goes. But some evenings, some empty mornings, I’ll also be cloistered in bed with the duvet pulled close, watching Squid Game or simply staring at the ceiling. Either way, I hope I will be smiling — thriving within and beyond my blank spaces, breathing easy.
Jovan Lim ’25, a Crimson Editorial comper, lives in Wigglesworth Hall.
Have a suggestion, question, or concern for The Crimson Editorial Board? Click here.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
What some Harvard students might not know is how unconquerable the social scene at Harvard can appear to first-generation, low-income students.
From networking to forming new connections to making new friends to simply finding affinity groups and outlets for side-passions, studies show that social integration for FGLI students is difficult, which makes sense considering how interconnected finances and sociability can be. Since closeness arises somewhat out of a sense of shared experience, it is often harder for low-income students to feel like they can connect with a large portion of Harvard’s student body; a large portion of which does not necessarily share the same financial worry.
Students tend to latch onto people with similar identities and backgrounds, which is not inherently bad. However, it does have negative impacts for FGLI students. Even if FGLI students try to make friends out of their comfort zone, higher-income students have a tendency to prefer grouping with fellow higher-income students. When higher-income students flock together, it casts a social shadow that sequesters FGLI students to the periphery. Making up a minority on campus, FGLI students are then relegated to the outskirts of the social scene.
Perhaps greater than most colleges, Harvard is a big culture shock. For FGLI students, there is especially a jump in the sheer number of social events, weight of social status, and social privilege. Students like myself did not have the opportunity to attend a private school with coveted faculty and a plethora of advisory resources. For many, we are not only the first in our family to attend college, but we are also the first from our high schools to attend institutions like Harvard. Thus, Harvard truly is an uncharted landscape. Some peers from established areas have safety nets because several students from their schools attend Harvard. There is a feeling of familiarity for some whereas, more often than not, FGLI students have no net to catch them.
Despite feeling a pseudo-acceptance at Harvard, when I reflect on places where I have felt least accepted, it has been in mundane moments: quick hallway quips or dining hall banters or Cabot conversations. While I do not wish to limit the freedom of my fellow peers to discuss their pasts, I also want them to be aware of their privilege, much in the same way that I am now aware of the privilege I have in attending an institution like Harvard. With each mention of international travel or educational opportunities or retreats or support systems that some FGLI students were never made aware of in their podunk high school or community, the empowerment of our experiences is lessened.
I am proud of what I have accomplished. But at an institution like Harvard, it would undermine my capacities for observation not to acknowledge that my high school qualifications are not on par with many of my peers. And that is a tough pill to swallow. It is not a matter of what I am capable of but rather a by-product of how my circumstances have shaped my capabilities thus far.
And sadly, while making more of an effort than some institutions, Harvard has not implemented a way to defeat these foolhardy social consequences of being FGLI. In fact, a covert way that some FGLI students are left feeling further isolated is by a Harvardism — the blocking process. With little time to make friendships, and the deep desire to network that pervades Harvard, FGLI students might be considered low-prospects for being good blocking-mates due to their lack of social capital on campus. While my pandemic blocking experience was entirely different from what previous and upcoming years will experience, I feel as though I saw, along with many other students (non-FGLI, alike), how stratifying the blocking system can be without the opportunity to socialize in person.
Personally, I floated, and not of my own volition. And luckily, I was placed with some excellent roommates with identities completely different from my own. While I am content with my current housing situation, I do wonder how different my experience would be if I had found a group of friends or been given the chance to socialize truly with others, aside from last year’s virtual college landscape. Similarly, a recent Undergraduate Council survey found that most students did not find blocking to be an inclusive process.
Beyond the scope of being FGLI, there are walls in place that preclude many students from adapting to the social scene at Harvard. Whether this is from self-inflicted schisms stemming from low self-worth or from a lack of opportunities to connect deeply with others, it is becoming increasingly common for individuals to stick with familiarity rather than extend a hand to others. Despite a large campus, it seems as though there’s no longer margin of error to be different.
But, to my fellow classmates: I urge you to continue trying. College is thought to be the time to finally find your “people,” but it is not that for everyone. That does not negate your efforts in trying: to strive, to seek, to socialize, and perhaps not to find those connections … but still also never to yield. Do not permit external factors to chip at your identity. Trying at all is a stronger testament to your character and personhood than any Harvard seal of approval can confer.
Jordan R. Robbins, a Crimson Editorial editor, lives in Leverett House. His column “What Some Harvard Students Don't Know …” appears on alternate Thursdays.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
“Keep your friends close and your enemies closer” has become an impossible adage to follow this year — at least when it comes to the hotly-anticipated Harvard-Yale. Come Saturday, Nov. 20, some hallmarks of the rivalry game will surely persist (elitist, half-jokes like “in my country, no one’s even heard of Yale” t-shirts and the battle-worn “safety school” chant included). But while tradition would typically call for a rowdy barrage of Harvard College students to make their way down to Yale early for a night of fraternizing with the enemy, pandemic restrictions mean that this year’s Harvard-Yale will look a bit different, and a lot shorter, for some students.
Harvard recently announced that undergraduates will not be hosted in Yale dormitories the weekend of The Game; in years prior, free housing was offered to students from the away team, and university shuttles set sail midday Friday. Now, university-organized shuttles are leaving and returning to Cambridge Saturday. The availability of shuttle tickets, too, is significantly limited this year in light of a broader bus driver shortage. Students have, understandably, expressed frustration and have questioned why these changes exist in the first place, particularly given both schools’ relatively low number of undergraduate Covid-19 infections and sky-high vaccination rates.
Us? We’re bummed. But we get it.
Breakthrough Covid infections remain a concern — especially as we add alumni and parents not subject to Harvard and Yale’s vaccine mandates to the mix. People will be flowing in and out of New Haven from across the country in two weeks. To house Harvard affiliates, Yale would have to transform its campus into a revolving door and potentially double the density of its housing, which, from a public health standpoint, presents risk.
Especially after The Game’s cancellation last year, we’re just glad that game-day can happen at all. Exactly one year ago — when school was entirely online and widespread vaccination was a faraway dream — this gathering would have been unimaginable. We’re lucky to have high campus (and country) vaccination rates and the knowledge that the outdoors pose less risk when it comes to viral transmission. Less than a week before students will disperse across the U.S. and convene with potentially at-risk relatives for Thanksgiving, playing it safe makes sense.
Yet Harvard, along with every other decision-making body in the country, could soften the blow of decisions like this one (and its many other siblings) by offering a fuller justification in its announcement of restrictions beyond merely saying they’re “pandemic-related.” It’s silly to leave students to reverse-engineer the University’s thinking; when delivering disappointing news, why not at least try to get us on board? Better communication from the University would serve to ease the disappointment and disorientation students experience in the face of these seemingly ad hoc decisions.
This decision, while justified, will inevitably engender inequity. Many students with the means to ignore Harvard’s discouragement will make Harvard-Yale overnight anyway. Those who can afford to purchase AirBnBs, hotels, or who already have friends at Yale, and those who are willing to buy alternate transport (Harvard’s Saturday shuttle is free for a limited number of students on financial aid) will leave their less wealthy and connected peers in the dust on the Friday before The Game, splintering off on this weekend of, ideally, unity.
Harvard’s social scene, dominated by invite-only final clubs, is highly stratified and riddled with class divides. It’s sad that student experiences of Harvard-Yale — for many, the most accessible and anticipated social event of the year — will also stratify along class lines due to the joint decision to restrict festivities to one day.
To ease the blow of these disparities, Harvard needs to subsidize as much of Harvard-Yale as possible. Offering free meals, merch, and tailgates on game day would maximize a sense of unity among students and, if enticing enough, may even discourage overnighters. At the very least, it’d pack more fun into the compressed tradition.
Student organizations should also make concerted efforts to provide easy access to game-day fun for their membership. Amid these less than ideal circumstances, we should provide for one another.
After a year of putting beloved traditions on hold and forced separation, The Game’s return at all moves us. Let’s all buy in to this new, abbreviated Harvard-Yale experience (if we’re going to get our heads in The Game, we need to be all in this together). And as for Yale — missing out on our presence Friday will only be your first loss of the weekend.
This staff editorial solely represents the majority view of The Crimson Editorial Board. It is the product of discussions at regular Editorial Board meetings. In order to ensure the impartiality of our journalism, Crimson editors who choose to opine and vote at these meetings are not involved in the reporting of articles on similar topics.
Have a suggestion, question, or concern for The Crimson Editorial Board? Click here.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
At the end of September, Greta Hardina, family liaison for Cambridge Rindge and Latin School, was eagerly awaiting the arrival of what she had spent months campaigning to see in her school: a set of new laundry machines.
The machines are the centerpiece of a laundromat program that was just launched in two Cambridge public schools: CRLS and Cambridge Street Upper School. The program seeks to provide laundry access to low-income students, and life-skills support to students with disabilities. Despite a slow start in its first month of implementation, the machines are now in active use, nestled between shelves of cleaning supplies, donations, and blue mesh bags filled with clothing waiting to be washed.
Hardina was originally inspired to incorporate laundromats into the schools when she read a New York Times article detailing how a school in Newark, N.J. established a similar program as an initiative to improve attendance rates. Half of the students attending CRLS come from low-income families, Hardina notes. “One of the reasons why [these students] stay home is because they don’t have clean clothes to wear to school, or they wear clothes to school that smell and they get bullied,” she explains.
In 2019, Hardina brought her idea to the city of Cambridge’s Participatory Budget program, which allocates $1 million annually for community members to spend on one-time capital project ideas. Her proposal got the number one vote. A $50,000 budget was granted to put laundromats in CRLS and CSUS.
The pandemic delayed the project, but also reaffirmed its value. Many students at CRLS live in public housing, and during the pandemic, Hardina often delivered gift cards for food and laundry to them. She said that students and their families were always excited to receive laundry gift cards — that’s when she knew a program like this would work.
“We’ve always been providing food and hygiene products, but laundry is something really needed,” Hardina says, with a smile in her eyes. “I’m really happy with the outcome and want to keep working in that direction to get more accessible laundry services.”
In addition to assisting low-income students, the laundromat program plays the dual role of providing life-skills training to students with disabilities. The laundromat is part of the vocational and independent living curricula at CRLS, designed to provide students with various disabilities training in essential life skills — one of these being learning how to do laundry. Jenna S. Callahan, a transition specialist for students with disabilities at CRLS, highlighted that students working the laundromat are also earning money.
“All of our students with disabilities have the experience and the chance to learn different jobs and get money to get paid for the work that they’re doing,” she says.
Callahan and Sasha M. Featherspoons, a fellow transition specialist, have spent the last month setting up work shifts and schedules for students working in the laundromats. They’ve created informational tools, including written guides and videos for non-readers, designed to train students on how to use the machines. Some of the students’ main responsibilities are washing the donated clothes Hardina receives for low-income students (Hardina says they’re currently seeking donated sweatshirts and sweatpants), washing their own clothes, and learning how to manage a laundromat.
Featherspoons and Callahan both hope the laundromat will serve to spread the word about the work that they do. “People don’t know that our program exists,” Featherspoons stresses. She imagines the program could have a snowball effect, creating more visibility for the need for work experience in the Cambridge community for students with disabilities.
Looking to the future, Callahan envisions the laundromat could grow into a “mini-apartment” of sorts. The room already has a sink, and the specialists are hoping to install a stove soon. It could become a life skills classroom in which students can learn and practice a variety of skills beyond just laundry.
Hardina notes that the laundromat is “so popular now” that the city is proposing they expand it, either to the first floor of the school or at a different building, to make it more accessible to the larger community, a move Hardina celebrates.
“My hope is to destigmatize poverty, and make it normalized to have a washing machine and dryer in a school,” she says. “These services are just part of life.”
Sections
It was almost easy to miss the man “staggering” out of the Felipe’s Taqueria bathroom through the congested lines and bustle of hungry patrons, recalls Debra L. Cambridge, an employee there in charge of events. Luckily, the owner followed him outside and called 911 when, not 10 paces into the parking lot, the man collapsed to the ground from an opioid overdose.
When the responders arrived on the scene, they administered Narcan, a brand of the drug naloxone used to reverse suspected opioid overdoses. According to Cambridge, the man woke up within a couple minutes and was transported to the nearest hospital to be evaluated.
This was the summer of 2019, and Cambridge remembers how the people living on the street outside of Felipe’s would come in to use the bathroom. It typically didn’t pose an issue, but the events that transpired that particular night raised one serious concern: the “opioid epidemic” had found its way into their restaurant.
“We really didn’t have control of people just coming in and using the bathroom, and that’s where it happened,” Cambridge says. “So we decided to get more into training people, even the staff,” to administer naloxone, as well as acquiring Narcan to have on -hand.
Three weeks later, as Cambridge was leaving the restaurant for the night, she was called back in because “somebody fell.” Having worked as a nurse practitioner for over 25 years prior to working at Felipe’s, Cambridge is the go-to person for the restaurant’s health-related incidents. As she walked toward the man, people fed her the information they knew.
“It was kind of crowded in the front space, and he was on the ground, and you could tell,” Cambridge recalls. “He was a young guy, he had a backpack, he was kind of disheveled. And a young guy, unconscious—” she trails off. It was obvious, to Cambridge, that he was overdosing.
Another man was performing CPR until Cambridge ushered him away. Having undergone Narcan training along with the rest of the staff this time around, Cambridge ran and got their on-hand Narcan, came back, and administered the “very easy” autojet mechanism she likens to regular nasal sprays. As with the incident three weeks before, the man woke up within a couple minutes, in time to be whisked away by an ambulance.
Yet those recent cases at Felipe’s were not isolated incidents in Harvard Square, let alone the surrounding city. In 2020 alone, there were 2,035 confirmed fatal overdoses in Massachusetts and 93,331 nation-wide. Many believe having Narcan readily available as the bare minimum to combat rising overdose cases.
Narcan is a form of “harm reduction,” a set of practices that seek to reduce negative consequences resulting from drug use by providing a consistent, legal supply of drugs and spaces to use them. Currently, harm reduction measures are sparsely distributed through Middlesex County, and the philosophy behind harm reduction is divisive, with opponents arguing it encourages opioid consumption. Syringe exchanges are few and hard to find, supervised consumption sites are federally illegal, and nascent Narcan training and distribution efforts face severe opposition.
The city of Cambridge’s own harm reduction efforts have been interwoven with Harvard’s infrastructure, from student-run homeless shelters and University Health Services around the city to the allusory harm embedded in the Sackler Building’s namesake.
“It might not be the local jurisdiction of Harvard,” says Swathi R. Srinivasan ’21, a former leader of the Harvard College Overdose Prevention & Education Students group, but she does not think that means the University can just look away. She is among many Harvard affiliates who believe the University should use its physical presence and legislative prowess to support harm reduction efforts and meet the needs of drug users in Cambridge.
Jason B. Silverstein, a lecturer at Harvard Medical School, started researching the opioid epidemic in the late 2000s “as a way to try to make sense of the deaths of two people I cared a lot about,” he says. Two of his close friends suffered an overdose within six months of one another; one passed away in her own home and had not called any emergency services.
“I became really angry about the misconceptions around substance use,” he says. “Very angry about the inaction of governments and public health officials not doing something about this problem that has left so many people suffering.”
Silverstein explains that many people who overdose don’t seek help because of the stigma surrounding drug use. This stigma, in part, stems from the criminalization of drug possession and sales as felonies. He goes on, “It’s a medical problem that has been treated as a legal problem.”
But the opioid overdose crisis is, of course, in part a legal problem — as well as a medical, urban planning, and public health problem. That multidimensional epidemic has only been exacerbated by the Covid-19 pandemic, and responding to it will require the concentrated efforts of every segment of society: from doctors and public health organizations to community advocates and local governments to architects and restaurants.
Harvard is no exception. To Srinivisan, “It is our civic responsibility to know that this issue is so close to our front door and to know what resources that we have that could be useful to people around us.”
While it is common to speak of an “opioid crisis” that has afflicted the country since the 1990s, it’s now “a bit of a misnomer,” says Stephen P. Murray, a lieutenant for Northern Berkshire EMS who has responded to well over 100 overdoses in his career. “Technically, we’re in an overdose crisis.”
Murray asserts that this distinction is imperative for truly understanding the landscape of the crisis at present. According to him, we had an “opioid problem” until around 2011 due to the widespread, poorly-managed overprescription of opioid painkillers. Patient privacy laws and a lack of pharmaceutical communication across state lines meant that patients could amass exorbitant amounts of opioid medications for themselves and for sale to others.
“The solution to the opiate problem was to ban widespread prescribing of prescription opiates,” Murray says. Relatively successful efforts to crack down on prescription opioid exploitation in the early 2010s left a vacuum in the drug market that was inevitably filled by blackmarket illicit opioids such as heroin, which is 10 times more potent than morphine, and fentanyl, which is 80 to 100 times more potent than morphine. An opioid problem became an overdose crisis that is now an overdose epidemic.
Murray uses coffee consumption to explain how dangerous an unreliable dose of a drug could be: When you drink a cup of coffee, you can trust the FDA-regulated supply chain. There is an expected dose of caffeine and a reliable result: to feel more alert and get rid of your headache. “Now if you were to drink a cup of coffee from an unsafe supply, say that that coffee had 100 times the amount of caffeine that you were expecting,” Murray continues. “You would have palpitations, you could have a stroke, you could have a heart attack. I mean, there are so many things that can go wrong from having 2,000 milligrams of caffeine, right?”
This is what’s happening to the opioid drug supply. When people are “using,” they could buy two bags from the same dealer that have vastly different concentrations and, without knowing, take a dose of opioids that their body has not developed a tolerance to yet. Each time, they run the risk of overdosing. “It’s such a tainted supply that it’s like a crapshoot,” Murray says.
In Massachusetts, like in the rest of the nation, 2013 marked when overdose fatalities started trending upward as an unregulated supply of opioids, most notably fentanyl, became widely accessible through the blackmarkets. Fentanyl comes with a unique set of challenges because it is cheap to produce and regularly laces other drugs, including other opioids.
Sabrina Voegelin, a licensed social worker, says that when she joined the Cambridge Police Department in 2013, there “wasn’t as much of an outreach response or treatment referrals in place” for overdoses, and instead there was “more of a focus on enforcement.”
She is referring to the enforcement of laws that criminalize unregulated opioid consumption, a practice indicative of one of the most long-standing approaches to combating public health crises related to drug use: “zero tolerance” policies. Zero tolerance attitudes are undergirded by the idea that drug use is inherently risky, and even immoral. Enforcement of such policies takes the form of stopping and arresting drug users or suspected drug users and confiscating their property — which often results in racist and anti-poor policing.
The “enforcement” approach to the overdose crisis has been used both in Cambridge and throughout Massachusetts over the past decade. One notable example, from neighboring Boston, was “Operation Clean Sweep” in August 2019. Precipitated by an altercation between a police officer and a man in Roxbury, the Boston Police Department launched the sweep and forcibly removed drug users, many of them unhoused, from the streets of the South End.
“That was 48 hours of arrests and throwing away people’s belongings and moving people along,” says Rachel N. Bolton, the program and outreach coordinator at the Material Aid and Advocacy Program in Cambridge. The BPD confiscated personal property, destroyed people’s wheelchairs, and made dozens of arrests, according to the American Civil Liberties Union.
In her role, Bolton has helped support people being targeted by the police by offering “food, water, warmth, weather-related support, or anything that someone identifies they need.” During Operation Clean Sweep, her job became harder.
“Sweeps inherently displaced people from where they have set up community and safety nets for each other and are able to respond to overdoses and take care of each other’s wounds,” she says. After the sweep, she found it difficult to find people to whom she can provide sterile supplies or medication, which has led to worse health outcomes.
“It makes things pretty tedious,” Bolton says, explaining that setting up appointments with people has been increasingly difficult. “People may not be able to leave their spot because they’re afraid that police are going to come in and sweep their belongings, take belongings from them, or just otherwise harass and target people.”
Such enforcement of zero tolerance policies does not prevent opioid use or overdoses; it cannot respond to overdoses as they happen or treat people in their aftermath. Instead, enforcement approaches tend to disrupt support networks and displace communities, which only encourages isolated opioid consumption. Two years after Operation Clean Sweep, the number of opioid-related overdoses and fatalities in Boston has not decreased.
“What if you had a common community agreement that, ‘We understand drug use happens and this is a way you can do it safely?” asks Joe Wright, a physician and addiction specialist at Boston Health Care for the Homeless Program.
The “way” he is referring to involves harm reduction, an alternative approach to zero tolerance and enforcement practices.
Voegelin says that since she started at CPD in 2013, Cambridge’s response to the overdose crisis has veered away from criminalization and toward treatment and harm reduction. Specifically, she explains that this shift meant “not punishing the individual for having substance abuse or mental health problems” and instead looking for ways to “work with individuals where they’re at.”
Emergency medical services, the fire department, and the police department generally all respond to overdose incidents. In Cambridge, all three services are authorized to carry and deliver Narcan to ensure the patient stays alive.
Then, Voegelin explains, a case management team talks to the patient about recovery services at the hospital and does home or community visits, working with individuals at risk and their families to devise a treatment plan. In her experience, individuals struggling with substance abuse can require a wide range of follow-up services, from medication-assisted treatments to abstinence to rehabilitation.
Jeremy Warnick, the CPD spokesperson, says that the department only relies on enforcement when it comes to larger-scale trafficking and distribution operations, especially given the most recent September 2021 national alert for a steep increase in fake prescription pills with fentanyl.
Case management, Voegelin emphasizes, involves long-term relationships. Even if someone isn’t interested in talking to her at the hospital, Voegelin follows up after 24 to 48 hours with resources like Section 35 — a policy which allows people to place their family members in involuntary treatment for substance abuse.
Many longtime harm reduction advocates like Silverstein and Bolton still believe these municipal efforts based on 911 calls, meeting patients at hospitals, or championing Section 35 are far from sufficient. Many drug users will not call 911, visit hospitals, or follow through with involuntary treatment — which some say is, by virtue of being involuntary, not a far cry from policing.
“Ending the involuntary commitment of people who use substances, which is Section 35 in Massachusetts, is a really important thing for people’s health and wellness and ability to live,” Bolton says. “Criminalization exacerbates the number of fatal overdoses.” She believes the core tenet of harm reduction is the need to recognize “people’s autonomy and drug use as a right.”
Instead, Bolton calls for practices like syringe exchanges and expanding homeless shelters. “Harm reduction is recognizing that people use drugs for a variety of reasons,” she says. “It’s a continuum: so some people use for pleasure, some people have a physical dependency on some substance, and will have withdrawals if they stop using it.”
In 2020, there were 181 overdose-related deaths in Middlesex County, of which the majority were concentrated in Cambridge. When asked why Cambridge is an epicenter of drug use and overdose, Voegelin says, “Cambridge has a lot of resources.” She mentions services for unhoused individuals, homeless shelters, and a syringe exchange, as well as bus and T stations that increase access to the area. “I think [these services] do draw people who are struggling and might need assistance,” she says.
But this relationship is not causal; that is, providing resources does not cause overdoses but rather brings together drug users who might otherwise be using elsewhere, only with less people and resources nearby. And the resources available to people consuming opioids around Harvard Square and in Cambridge are not perfect, evidenced by the high overdose fatality numbers: the Massachusetts’ state government website lists one syringe exchange in Cambridge, supervised consumption sites are illegal, and the unhoused population far outstrips shelters’ capacities.
Interventions like Narcan availability are a “starting place,” according to Wright. It is our way of acknowledging that “people might be using anywhere, because there’s no commonly agreed place where people can use, because we’ve shaped the city in a way that just says, ‘Drug use is not acceptable,’ and that if you have to use, you have to hide.”
Robust public health interventions necessitate just as much effort from non-health sector actors. For instance, Wright explains how currently, a concern for civic order and real estate does not always align with a concern for health. “The people who are primarily focused on what it is like to walk through Harvard Square are not necessarily focused on how we reduce mortality,” he says.
In other words, visible harm reduction efforts like supervised consumption sites, syringe disposals, and Narcan dispensaries cannot become a reality unless every public actor and civic participant believes they have a stake in them. If the police were to arrest people near syringe exchanges or coming in and out of safe consumption sites, those places would not be safe or effective. If cities do not evict people from their homes as happened during Operation Clean Sweep and do not build more affordable housing, then implementing more programs for the unhoused will not solve the roots of homelessness.
As a physician, Wright’s goal is two-fold: to reduce the adverse effects of a substance on the patient’s body, as well as to prevent an overdose if they use again, since abstaining from opioids will decrease their tolerance to them and, as a result, increase their risk for overdosing when they use again. These treatments generally involve both medication and behavioral changes. Wright is careful to note that behavioral changes are “not just a matter of willpower,” but a matter of ensuring a patient’s social support network can see them through recovery.
This social support network is not only shaped by an individual’s characteristics — like their family income, education, and resilience — but also by the city spaces they can occupy and how much power they can hold in these spaces. For example, a drug user’s housing, employment, and family situation might not allow them to commit to weeks or months of medication or therapy — medical interventions are never solely about medicine. And even if they receive all these medical interventions, they may have to live with a permanent disability.
Populations hard hit by these economic and urban factors include, but are not limited to, racial minorities, construction workers, and unhoused individuals. In Massachusetts, unintentional overdose deaths among Black men increased by 69 percent in 2020, the highest of any ethnic group, and construction workers are six times more likely to die of an opioid overdose than people in other professions because they are prescribed opioids for the physical pain their work involves.
Even after months of good faith attempts at treatment, people experiencing homelessness might return to large shelters or return to the streets, where, Wright says, their trauma system can be activated and their symptoms made worse. He questions, “How long can [they] do that? How can [they] get through that pain to a more hopeful place?”
When the Covid-19 pandemic began in 2020, not all people had the same choices and options for distancing and isolating.
Bolton recalls how, before lockdown and social distancing procedures were enacted, the “community members experiencing homelessness or living in poverty” she served were initially living in group gatherings or congregate-setting shelters for safety. As the pandemic raged on, homeless shelters closed for undetermined periods of time, and many of the services initially available to unhoused individuals decreased their open hours or shuttered completely. People were forced outside, Bolton says, and left to “use” alone.
People weren’t able to access treatment for an opioid use disorder or withdrawal, or group therapy. Limited access to syringe exchange sites also meant less available Narcan, especially with emergency medical services overloaded with Covid-19 cases.
In Murray’s eyes, “there were a lot of things that were happening kind of all at once, which worsened us to the worst year that we’ve ever had” with the overdose crisis.
“We know that using alone is probably the number one risk factor for fatal overdose,” Murray says. “Non-fatal overdoses are generally non-fatal for one reason, and that’s because there was somebody else there who was able to recognize that there was an overdose and either respond themselves with Narcan, or get help from an outside group.” In other words, the difference between a fatal and non-fatal overdose boils down to connections.
Bolton recalls that a hotline called Never Use Alone has been helping facilitate these connections since 2019. “I know it had an increase in usage during the pandemic,” she says.
Murray, as the director of the New England chapter of Never Use Alone, explains that the service connects people who are using primarily opioids alone with an operator who can get EMS to them if they were to become unresponsive. The service is for the most part anonymous — asking only for the location in which the person is using, down to the room, and the substance and the quantity they believe they are using to help dispatchers locate and help the caller if necessary.
“It’s been really successful. We’ve had more than 4,500 calls. There’s been 28 overdoses on the hotline with 100 percent save rate,” Murray says.
Never Use Alone is a virtual form of supervised consumption sites, meant to keep people safe while they are using. Ideally, a physical site would resemble a health care facility with trained staff. Such sites, similar to syringe exchanges, also ensure that if someone is injecting a drug intravenously that they have a clean syringe to prevent the transmission of blood-born diseases like Hepatitis C and HIV.
At these physical locations, people can get something to eat, injection wounds are taken care of, and workers offer connections to housing services, among myriad other wrap-around services. These locations have been employed internationally for decades to combat opioid overdose deaths, yet in the United States, it remains federally illegal to open one. As a result, all the safe injection sites currently operating in America are “underground,” their whereabouts primarily spread by word of mouth within the drug-using community and by local advocates, according to Murray and Bolton.
Never Use Alone, as a virtual supervised consumption site, has skirted the legal obstacles, occupying a grey area where “nobody’s told us what we’re doing is illegal,” Murray says.
Advocates for supervised consumption sites have put together a bill that would authorize a 10-year pilot program for opening sites in Massachusetts, which is currently working its way through the state legislature.
At a virtual public hearing on Sept. 27, dozens of community members shared testimonies both in favor of and raising concerns about supervised consumption sites over the course of eight hours. Opponents of the bill tended to believe required treatment, and not harm reduction, would prevent harm. Those in the favor questioned why some drugs like opioids are criminalized while those like coffee are not.
Proponents of safe consumption sites and harm reduction more broadly believe fatalities will occur unless we make changes. A man died from overdose in Central Square’s Portland Loo, a stand-alone bathroom, in March 2019, and another died from overdose in front of Blue Bottle Cafe in July 2019. A few months later, Cambridge installed first aid kits with naloxone in 28 city buildings.
The choice is not between drug use or no drug use; it’s between supervised or unsupervised use. As Silverstein puts it, “So long as we don’t have supervised consumption sites, we will have unsupervised consumption.”
Fahedur Fahed ’22 is ready to respond to unsupervised use anytime because he carries Narcan everywhere he goes. Fahed has spent the last eight years volunteering at the Harvard Square Homeless Shelter, creating lasting relationships with people experiencing homelessness.
“There’s a porta-potty right across the street from the Amazon locker hub,” he says, describing one of his trips to an area of Central Square with a large unhoused population. “I saw someone who looked like they were experiencing an opioid overdose.” After identifying telltale signs like pinpoint pupils and respiratory arrest, Fahed administered Narcan, allowing the man to recover and go to a hospital afterwards.
Though HSHS itself does not allow shelter guests to have substances on them, volunteers on the street outreach team need to be trained to respond to overdoses when they travel through Central and Harvard Square.
“We also carry Narcan in all of our backpacks because we know opioid addiction is a really, really common concern among people experiencing homelessness,” he says.
In fact, from 2010 to 2015 the risk of death from an opioid overdose for an unhoused person was 30 times greater than for the rest of the population.
“I think that anyone can be trained to use Narcan within three minutes,” Silverstein says. “Narcan is incredibly easy to administer. Narcan should be anywhere where people congregate.”
Yet nation-wide, there is resistance to training people to administer Narcan and making it readily available in public spaces, and Harvard’s campus is no exception. Allan M. Brandt, a professor of History of Science who taught a course on the history of the opioid epidemic, believes that this resistance largely stems from the stigma associated with opioids and people who use opioids.
“What’s the difference between teaching people CPR and teaching them appropriate use of naloxone?” Brandt asks. He argues that although cardiac arrest occurs more frequently among older people, college campuses and programs do not hesitate to teach (and sometimes even mandate teaching) CPR to save a life. However, they often don’t lend the same level of concern to people who use opioids.
A group of students who took Brandt’s class in 2018 founded an organization called HCOPES. Their goal was to put what they learned in the classroom into action by going door to door in the Ssquare to offer Narcan training to businesses and writing policy to push for widespread harm reduction measures amongst other initiatives.
Within Harvard, the students advocate for Narcan to be added to AED boxes around campus. When asked whether this Narcan is for the local community or Harvard students, Srinivasan replies, “I don’t think they are mutually exclusive.” She thinks there is likely a nonzero number of overdoses among college students, but hopes their work expands beyond the boundaries of campus. Like Silverstein, she advocates for Narcan at MBTA stops, libraries, and street corners.
Srinivasan says that implementation on campus has been difficult, especially because of pushback from HUHS administration. Initially, HUHS was concerned about how Narcan training and monitoring would work, as well as how effective implementation is given that Narcan was never actually administered even when it was available at other college campuses, as reported in a 2018 NPR article, such as the University of Texas at Austin.
Srinivasan appreciates this concern about data on implementation, but argues that “just because people are not using Narcan doesn’t mean there’s not an opioid crisis.” She says that the boxes would be a source of comfort and encourage more community members to learn to use Narcan. Plus, the drug has no side effects, a relatively long shelf life of three years, and the Massachusetts Good Samaritan Law ensures that bystanders will not face repercussions for administering it. “We’re preventing preventable death,” she says.
Srinivisan says that in addition to practical concerns about Narcan distribution, members of HUHS administration also made arguments against Narcan on the basis of moral hazards — the idea that if we support people in harm reduction with clean syringes or Narcan, that will encourage them in some way to use more.
“The largest obstacle [HCOPES faced] was our stereotyping of people who use drugs, that they’re not like us,” Brandt says. “One of the things we heard quite frequently was there really isn’t an opioid problem at Harvard. But Harvard is in a dense urban area, and we have responsibilities to the wider community here. An argument that we don’t need Narcan on our campus reflects a certain kind of marginalization of people who have real needs.”
Eventually, HUHS denied the proposal, citing that Harvard University Police Department officers already carry Narcan, that maintaining up to date medication would be difficult, and that data on Narcan is not conclusive yet. In 2019, then-HUHS spokesperson Michael Perry wrote to The Crimson, “HUHS will continue to consider the possibility of Narcan in our AED boxes when we have more data.”
University spokesperson Jason A. Newton declined to comment for this story. Two years later, HCOPES is still advocating to have Narcan in AED boxes.
Srinivasan and Jim Stewart, a Harvard Divinity School graduate who runs a homeless shelter at First Church in Cambridge, would like to see Harvard provide institutional support to the community efforts focusing on tackling the overdose crisis. They argue that Harvard can equip every building it owns with Narcan, place syringe disposal containers around public spaces, help empty them, and bring it’s prestige to support legislation for supervised consumption sites. Silverstein, for one, would like the University to purchase fentanyl test strips in bulk, since it could acquire them at a wholesale rate.
“When you’re as big a property owner as the University, you have a responsibility to be part of public health responses to challenges like the overdose crisis,” Stewart says. Knowing how much goes into running a shelter, he sees lots of room for the University to provide more support to the students doing this work.
Stewart cites how the shelter had to shut down in March 2020, when students were sent home from campus, because it was so student-dependent.
Fahed explains that Harvard did not sanction in-person activities during the fall of 2020, so the HSHS street outreach team ran through the University Lutheran Church instead of Harvard. The church provided its sanctuary space for the HSHS team to store their equipment and the volunteer base expanded from undergraduates to members of the general Cambridge community. These volunteers were able to drive further into Kendall MIT, Central Square, South Station, Davis Square and other areas around Cambridge. In the absence of the University’s support, the shelter relied on the community to sustain itself.
Ultimately, the opioid overdose epidemic manifests on a “continuum that includes Harvard students along with people living on the streets in Harvard Square,” Wright says. And similarly, resolving this epidemic requires a continuum of responses: eEconomic and urban planning policies to combat homelessness, less punitive legislation regulating drug consumption, infrastructure for safer use such as supervised consumption sites, acute responses like Narcan training and accessibility, post-overdose case management, and more. All of these responses depend not only on one another, but also on that continuum of actors — from drug users to doctors to staff at Felipe’s to students to University administrators — to succeed.
Reflecting on his nearly 20 years of medical experience, Wright says, “I can think of no moment as immediately powerful and gratifying as just happening to be the person who was carrying Narcan for somebody who was dying on the sidewalk.”
​​— Staff writer Akila V. Muthukumar can be reached at akila.muthukumar@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @akila29m.
— Staff writer Kevin Lin can be reached at kevin.lin@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @kevinlin0903.
Sections
Hookup culture at Harvard is a notoriously brutal terrain. In the name of preserving their independence while having casual sex, the most daring Harvard students enter agreements known as “situationships,” which are nowhere near the commitment of a relationship — God forbid! — but are way too involved to just be a “regular hookup.” They can drag on for months, even years, and likely never include an actual conversation about the state of affairs. It is implicit that the tri-weekly hookups and emotionally intimate post-coital chats are not the beginning stages of something more serious, but the ultimate destination.
In a situationship, it is imperative for both parties to appear as “chill” as humanly possible. Even when you find yourself throwing your phone in the corner so you don’t check your messages and wondering if God really does give his toughest battles to his strongest soldiers, every emotion must be expressed in terms of “all good” and “no worries.” The politics of situationships may seem like pure anarchy, so I’ve crafted a list of dos and don’ts to help you navigate your very own.
1. Don’t eat together in the dining hall unless it is a middle-of-the-night brain break snack. Only get a middle-of-the-night brain break snack after you’ve hooked up.
2. Don’t make plans more than three hours in advance.
3. Don’t make plans during daylight hours.
4. Don’t initiate again if you initiated the most recent hook-up. Instead, weasel around to get intel on if they’re going out that night. Take your best guess and head to the party you think you’ll find them at, whether or not you are invited.
5. Do make sure everyone in your peripheral social circle knows you are hooking up with them.
6. Do make lots of small talk with their roommate when you see them around campus. That way, their roommate will tell your situationship that they saw you and they will discover that you also exist during the daytime.
7. Do give them a subtle nod when you see them around campus. Stopping to chat is not very chill.
8. Only sleep over if you’re in a quad-river situationship.
9. Do share all your trauma after you have sex with them.
10. Do offer to therapize them in return.
11. Do hook up one to three times a week, mostly on weekends.
12. Don’t text them aside from making plans to hook up.
13. Don’t worry if you don’t see them one weekend.
14. Do worry if you don’t see them for two weekends.
15. Do assume they are seeing other people — maybe another situationship, plus randos here and there. (They are probably not seeing other people.)
16. Do tell them it’s “all g” if they don’t respond to a late-night “wyd” text but message you the next morning that they fell asleep.
17. Do brainstorm who else you think they might be hooking up with.
18. Do take the path of maximal aloofness.
19. Do expect some particularly nauseating moments. You may get word that they’re also hooking up with your ex’s other ex. They might ignore your text but post on their Instagram story.
20. Do repeat the above steps for one to three semesters.
During particularly nauseating moments, when you are anxiously wondering if they still like you, ask yourself if you actually like them. If they stop hitting you up, let them. Stop hitting them up too.
But if you just can’t stop stalking their Venmo, Co-Star, and Spotify accounts, and just don’t feel like letting it go, ignore all of the above steps. Though you may fear the damnation of their group chat calling you crazy, there is arguably nothing crazier than what you’ve already been doing for the past one to three semesters. So I have a final piece of advice for you:
Do call them a billion times, message their mom on Facebook, slide a love letter under their door, and hook up with all their blockmates.
— Staff writer Josie F. Abugov can be reached at josie.abugov@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @_JosieJo.
Sections
A century ago, in the fall of 1921, six young, Black, ambitious men received their Harvard admissions letters, matriculated into the College, and arrived on campus — only to find that they were not welcome to live in the dorms with the other freshmen. Instead, they were forced to find off-campus housing for their first year or, if they lived in the area, to commute from home.
The decision to disallow Black students from living in the freshman dorms came directly from University President Abbott Lawrence Lowell, Class of 1877. Previously, the few Black students in the class were permitted to live in on-campus housing, as was compulsory for all first-years. But while Lowell accepted the status quo of integrated classrooms, he argued that Black students’ presence in the dorms would spark racial conflict.
“We owe to the colored man the same opportunities for education that we do to the white man,” Lowell wrote in a letter to the father of one of these Black freshmen, “but we do not owe to him to force him and the white into social relations that are not, or may not be, mutually congenial.”
When Lowell made the decision to revoke Black students’ ability to live in freshman dorms — at the same time he imposed a quota on Jewish student admissions — he “touched off the most publicized college discrimination controversy of the 1920s,” according to the book “Blacks at Harvard: A Documentary History of African-American Experience at Harvard And Radcliffe.”
It began when three of the six Black freshmen admitted to the Class of 1925 — Bertram C. Bland, Cecil A. Blue, and William J. Knox Jr. — applied for on-campus housing, as had been expected of all freshmen in past years. Only Knox’s request was fulfilled, and he moved into Standish Hall. Shortly into the semester, he received a telegram that his accommodation was an error, and he moved out in anticipation of a new assignment. But instead of replacement housing, he received a letter from Assistant Dean of the College Philip P. Chase, explaining that “the ruling of the President is that no Negro students shall hereafter be permitted to live in the Freshmen Dormitories.” In the face of this realization, Knox decided to take action.
Alongside recent graduate Edwin Bush Jourdain Jr., Class of 1921, Knox met directly with Chase. During the meeting, Chase communicated that while he didn’t support the segregation ruling, he was bound by the powers of the president. Dissatisfied, Jourdain summoned the courage to speak to Lowell alone.
According to Jourdain’s son, Spencer C. D. Jourdain ’61, his father came from a family of activism and knowingly risked his standing with the University to confront Lowell.
“The drama of it is one young Black man, just turned 21, confronting one of the most powerful people in the country, and therefore the world, and facing him down on something that this man cherished,” Jourdain says. “And he did it without any fear, and without any hesitation.”
According to Spencer Jourdain, Lowell defended his decision by citing the need to maintain good standing with the prominent Southern donor families who didn’t support integrated living spaces.
“He says that the Southern students have come here, there are many Southern students, and their families donate a lot to Harvard,” Jourdain says. “And so that outweighs this thing about [six] students moving for a year.”
Edwin Jourdain didn’t buy it. In his mind, a university that had produced abolitionists like Henry David Thoreau and Wendell Phillips shouldn’t “violate that tradition for a few dollars,” as his son puts it. When Lowell asked if he understood, Edwin Jourdain said, “Yes, I understand that, but I cannot abide by it.”
At stake in Lowell’s decision was more than the housing status of three Black undergraduates. The re-segregation of freshman dorms brought a larger debate about Harvard’s values to a boiling point. According to the younger Jourdain, Lowell envisioned the dorms as a foundational building block of college life, a place where students would forge “irrevocable brotherhoods for life” and go on to “form an elite power group in the United States culture.” But while more liberal members of the Harvard community saw racial integration and understanding as a key part of this communal living experience, Lowell hoped to create a “Valhalla that would be only for whites,” Spencer Jordain says, and to exclude Black students from growing bonds with their freshman class.
Quoting civil rights activist James Weldon Johnson in the Harvard Alumni Bulletin — the official publication of the Harvard Alumni Association at the time — one alumnus decried Harvard’s plan to “deprive these southern students of their last opportunity to learn the tolerance that comes of living with and understanding men of all races.” His plea captured the question at the heart of the desegregation fight: Should the College be a leader in social change, a place where students were forced to shed — or at least confront — their racial prejudice? Or should white students be shielded from this discomfort at the expense of their Black classmates?
Lowell’s decision inflamed the Harvard community and ignited a two-year battle over the policy. Praise and condemnation alike flowed in from students, staff, alumni, and faculty. In the pages of the Alumni Bulletin, graduates weighed in on Harvard’s “race problem.”
“It is not up to Harvard to try and force upon its students and their parents social equality of the colored race,” one alumnus said.
“It is undemocratic, unsocial, and immoral to make such a distinction, clearly a step backwards in the traditions of the College,” wrote another.
Outraged by their sudden exclusion from the dorms, Edwin Jourdain, Knox, and their allies launched a pressure campaign to change the University’s mind. They circulated petitions, contributed articles to University publications, and took the story to the local press. They even garnered the attention of the NAACP: in January of 1923, a letter from NAACP Secretary James Weldon Johnson condemning the segregation order landed on Lowell’s desk. It had been signed by 142 alumni. That same month, the editorial page of the Cambridge Chronicle denounced Lowell’s decision as a “most unfortunate affair” and a “concession to a prejudice to which the university should not yield.”
Ultimately, in the spring of 1923, the Harvard Board of Overseers unanimously overruled Lowell’s decision, declaring that all freshmen would live in the dorms, regardless of race — but added that “men of the white and colored races shall not be compelled to live and eat together.” In other words, while the school overturned this forced segregation, they still attempted to appease their Southern donors, emphasizing that white students could not be required to cohabitate with their Black peers.
The campaign to desegregate Harvard housing exemplifies the school’s long history of student activism and foreshadows the student movements to come, — , from the anti-war protests of the 1960s to the recent success of Fossil Fuel Divest Harvard. Jourdain and his fellow students had left a powerful example: even as a tiny minority of undergraduates, by rallying the Harvard and Cambridge community’s support, they took on one of the University’s most imposing leaders — and won.
— Magazine writer Tamar Sarig can be reached at tamar.sarig@thecrimson.com.
Sections
Houghton Library, with its shaded windows and imposing bookshelves holding centuries-old books, was mysterious and unapproachable — a vault to the public. The building’s floor-to-ceiling windows were shaded to protect the precious manuscripts housed inside, which in turn made those books inaccessible to curious passersby.
“You walked in, and there was a guard,” says Peter J. Solomon ’60, who, along with his wife Susan, helped fund the library’s latest renovation, completed earlier this year. “You felt immediately that you were not wanted, and in fact you were not wanted.”
This attitude towards Houghton persisted for years after Solomon’s graduation.
But Houghton’s latest renovation is meant to amend the misconception that valuable collections should be locked away rather than used as a recourse to the public. The renovation increases the library’s accessibility, adding ramps to the building’s entrance and an elevator inside. To those who worked on Houghton’s renovation, however, accessibility means more than simply increasing the building’s physical access. “Our goal was to open up, both physically and psychologically, to the community,” Solomon says.
That “opening” is reflected in the library’s new design. “Beautiful” windows sparked praise from the architects, according to Thomas A. Hyry, the director of the Houghton Library: “The architects came in and said, ‘Wow, you’re doing a really great job lighting your locker room.’” Moreover, the library lobby now boasts exhibition cases featuring a wide array of offerings from the collections. Hyry hopes that these objects serve as an “entree” to the contents that lie inside Houghton.
David M. Stern, a professor of Near Eastern Languages and Civilizations, teaches a freshman seminar centered around rare books in the library. “It’s night and day,” Stern says, in reference to how the renovation has impacted teaching. While Houghton was “not known for being friendly,” the cold demeanor associated with special collections has changed over the last 20 years, and “this renovation really physically shows the change.”
“They did a spectacular job,” he says.
Houghton’s renovation comes at a critical point for the humanities at Harvard. Over the past several years, humanities classes at the College have seen a decline; 10 out of the 18 humanities concentrations offered saw a significant decrease in enrollment, six remained relatively the same, and only two saw slight increases from 2015 to 2019. “It’s losing its primacy, losing its sense of relevance to a lot of people,” Stern says. “What humanists have to do is find more points of relevance. That’s the challenge.”
The renovation at Houghton takes a step toward reversing this trend by fostering engagement with the written arts. “This library has always been willing and happy to help you if you took the initiative to come in and ask questions the right way,” Hyry says. But he also notes an attitude shift: “We’ve really wanted to reach out to different populations, especially students and say, ‘If you even have an ounce of curiosity, come and talk to us.’”
Hyry hopes that all students, not solely humanities concentrators, will find Houghton’s special collections library of use. If there were no student “who graduated without coming into this library” to “enjoy an exhibit, or as part of a class, or for their own research project,” Hyry states the library would have achieved a “really wonderful goal.”
Sections
“We don’t just run from scary things. We run to them as well.” - Jeannie Banks Thomas, American folklorist

John Hicks built Hicks House in 1762 on land that his great grandfather, Zechariah Hicks, had purchased in 1652. But in 1928, Harvard physically moved Hicks House to its location in Kirkland’s C-Entryway to make room for the Indoor Athletic Center, known now as the Malkin Athletic Center, or the MAC. In the years since its construction, lore has floated around Harvard’s campus of the ghosts living in Hicks. In an attempt to see them for myself, I decided to spend a night in the Hicks House Attic, now used as the Kirkland House library.
The following is based on actual events. Not even the names, locations, or events have been changed.
Monday, October 25th, Hicks House Attic
11:46 pm
It’s cold up here. The room is imposingly undecorated, save a few framed frayed documents on the wall that are either facsimiles or super old — a portrait of John Stuart Mill, a charter from 1648, and artifacts of the like. There’s a globe on one of the shelves where Russia is labeled as the Soviet Union.
I can hear voices from the other room in the attic. A girl’s and a guy’s. Am I being heteronormative, or is someone getting their butter churned? Their tea steeped? Their breeches breached? According to the carvings on the wooden table on which I write this currently, “JTS ’07 FUCKED JYL ’07 HERE ’04” and someone “WAS BLOWN HERE 5/8/82” and someone “FORNICATED WITH THE LIBRARIAN (right here) SHE GIVES GREAT HEAD” and “CHRIS LIKES MEN.”
Tuesday, October 26th, Hicks House Attic
12:23 am
I’m not sure what to do if I have to pee. I don’t know where the bathrooms are in Hicks, and I’m sure as hell not going to adventure alone to find them at midnight. I’ve resolved to suffer until morning.
I’m tucking myself in now, to the red leather armchair up here outfitted with the pillow from my bed and the Target throw blanket my roommates and sit on while we watch The Bachelor. I brushed my teeth before I left my room — don’t worry. I feel eerie, I’d say, because of the mustiness of this room, but I’m not explicitly scared. The ghost of John Hicks — which I do believe in — probably isn’t here.
Under the framework of the Duwamish people of British Columbia and Washington state, the Hicks family ghosts would haunt the MAC rather than Hicks House, since spirits are tied to land rather than infrastructure. Coll Thrush writes: “The idea that particular locations have both identity and agency is central to Indigenous epistemologies of place, in which sites not only have meaning but volition, acting upon the lives of human (and other) peoples.” So, I should be safe.
If they do haunt the MAC, then I would venture there’s just less lore about it because: A, it’s newer; B, it closes its doors and the possibility of supernatural experience at 10 p.m.; and C, there’s some inherent spookiness in stories about an 18th-century library that stories about a 20th-century gym could not claim. Or perhaps the Hicks family ghosts do reside in Kirkland. Maybe as colonial entities their tie is not to the land because the land is not actually theirs, and so they moved with the physical building into Kirkland in 1928. I tuck myself in a little more.
1:36 am
I’m cold. I can’t sleep. I have to pee. The rain is loud. And so far, no ghosts.
While I do stand by my fan theory that the Hicks ghosts live in the MAC, I think there are other ghosts in Hicks House. There’s one that I’m developing a friendship with. It’s a pretty surface-level-September-in-Annenberg kind of friendship, but to be fair, across spiritual planes, it’s a pretty long-distance. Here’s what happened:
On the last full moon, my Folk and Myth class, FM133: “Supernatural Storytelling: Ghost-lore, Occult Legends, and the Politics of the Paranormal,” took a field trip to Hicks to experience its hauntedness for ourselves. We were split up among the house’s nine rooms. In room three, my partners Laiba, Grace and I turned out all the lights, shut the windows, and gathered around an electric candle I had brought in — legend/Tibetan Buddhism has it that on the full moon, karma is multiplied by 100. Do something good, you get 100x good karma. Do something bad… best of luck to ya.
We started by telling each other ghost stories, and noticed the pattern of the candle’s flicker on the ceiling. So, we decided to ever-so-gently utilize the movement of the light to talk to whatever was in the room with us.
“Okay,” Laiba started. “If the light on the ceiling moves back and forth, that means yes. If it moves in circles, that means no. Is there someone in the room with us now?” The light immediately and decisively moved back and forth. Through our yes/no questions we learned about our new friend: No, he was not older than us. Yes, he was a soldier. Yes, there are other ghosts around campus. No, he does not get along with them. No, he is not buried around here. No, he is not confined to this house. Yes, our incessant questions were annoying him. We took the hint and said good night.
One could certainly chock this up to a coincidence. But I don’t think coincidence is enough. And I’m not alone in this. Take this example from Azande philosophy, from E. E. Evans-Pritchard: A granary collapses on top of the people sitting under it. The Azande would chock it up to mangu, a word most closely translated as “witchcraft”.
The collapse itself is not witchcraft. Every Zande knows that the termites eat at the wood until it is no longer stable, and that granary collapse is common. They know, too, why people were sitting under the granary — it was probably hot out, and the shade provided by the granary would be a welcome relief. But why would it collapse at the particular moment that those particular people were sitting under it? Here, I’d probably chock it up to coincidence. But coincidence is a tautological answer for why these events coincided in time and space. And coincidence is not a very satisfying answer for the way the flicker of the electric candle constructed for us a cohesive narrative of the life of our soldier ghost friend.
2:04 am
Fuck this. If I were a ghost, I would not inhabit Hicks. It sucks. I guess the cold wouldn’t bother me if I were a ghost, since I don’t think I’d feel physical sensation without having a physical entity connected to my spirit, but it’s still creepy up here on this cold and rainy night. I can hear the rain pouring down as a steady stream, but it’s coming from my left, while the window is on my right. It’s definitely raining outside — I checked my little weather app — so I’m not sure why it feels like the rain sound is coming from inside the house. Whether I’m psyching myself into hearing things or not, the whoosh of the downpour is not helping my bladder.
6:47 am
I’m up. Despite how freezing I was last night and still am, I’m covered in sweat. Like, disgustingly so — there’s two sizable pit stains on either side of my sweatshirt. I’m packing up my things and getting out of here. My unmade twin-XL has never been so enticing.
Tuesday, October 26th, Kirkland C-11
8:14pm
Six of my friends are over to watch the Bachelorette. For movie-theater ambiance, the lights in the room are all off, save one string of fairy lights lining the fireplace and one lamp set to dim. I notice a cup on the mantle of the fireplace with a solid one sip of rosé in it, and ponder aloud:
“Why is there a cup with, like, one sip in it?” My friends did not know, as they do not live in the room, and would have no reason to have an advanced knowledge of its collected wine debris.
One friend jokes, “I figured it was just something you left for the ghosts.” We chuckle. Haha. Classic, silly Sarah and her silly belief in ghosts.
AND THEN. IMMEDIATELY AFTER THIS IS SAID. AT THE MENTION OF “GHOST”: The lamp flared to its brightest setting for about two seconds, then flashed back to its dim state.
“WHAT THE FUUUUUCK!” I say through a gasp. “DID YOU GUYS SEE THAT? IT’S NEVER DONE THAT BEFORE.” It really hadn’t!
They had seen it too. It was epic. And, I’m flattered that my little dorm room is more habitable to ghosts than even the great Hicks House. Soldier ghost friend, if you’re reading this, there’s a cup of Trader Joe’s boxed wine with your name on it in C-11 forevermore.
— Magazine writer Sarah W. Faber can be reached at sarah.faber@thecrimson.com.
Sections
In a 1990 photograph, Derrick Bell, the first tenured Black professor at Harvard Law School, speaks into six microphones as a crowd of students rally behind him. Some students stare down the camera with their fists thrust in the air, while others raise signs. In the front row, five students clutch a banner that reads, “Harvard Law School: On Strike for Diversity.”
The photograph was taken during Bell’s controversial announcement that he would be taking a “leave of conscience,” refusing to return until HLS hired a Black, female, tenured professor. Bell’s move attracted conflicting national media attention, including explicit and implicit criticism — the photograph appeared in a New York Times article with the racist headline “The Charms of a Devoutly Angry Man."
“I cannot continue to urge students to take risks for what they believe if I do not practice my own precepts,” Bell said in his announcement. “I hope students will be moved by my example to continue their efforts to gain, sooner rather than later, the diversity in our faculty that is now so positive a force in our student body.”
At the time of Bell’s voluntary leave of absence, a quarter of HLS students were people of color and nearly 40 percent were female. However, the faculty did not reflect the makeup of the student body. There were only five tenured female professors and three tenured Black professors. There were no Black female tenured professors.
Bell began the second stage of his career at Harvard, after working on hundreds of cases for the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People. During his time at the University, he wrote some of his most powerful scholarship, including “Race, Racism and American Law,” a text still referenced in law schools today.
Far before his leave from Harvard, Bell created waves demanding more diversity in the HLS faculty body. For instance, Bell organized a five-day protest in 1986 to challenge HLS’ denial of tenure to two professors who contributed to critical race theory.
Despite Bell’s advocacy, HLS largely neglected his cause. Associate Dean of HLS Louis Kaplow expressed no urgency to diversify HLS even as Bell threatened to leave the University.
“Even though we’re a fairly large place, our positions are often permanent positions that may last 40 years, given the nature of tenure,” Kaplow said. “As a result, when we’re going to hire someone essentially for a lifetime these decisions are made carefully, cautiously and gradually.”
Bell’s leave was planned to be two years long. But ultimately, he never returned to HLS. In the spring of 1992, Bell returned to Harvard and, seeing no progress upon his return, appealed to the HLS Board of Overseers to extend his leave of absence.
Professor Frank Michelman, who still teaches at HLS, represented Bell in his case. Michelman argued that Bell’s decision to leave was in line with the President’s “concerted effort to diversify the faculties of Harvard University,” Michelman recalls. HLS denied his appeal.
Instead of returning to Harvard, Bell chose to continue teaching as a visiting professor at NYU, where he remained for the rest of his career.
Shortly after denying his appeal, in the winter of 1992, HLS actually added four white male professors to its faculty, a move that some viewed as a flippant response to the protests.
Though Bell never returned to HLS, his protest inspired student movements to push for faculty diversity. After Bell’s leave in 1990, students from six minority student organizations and the Women’s Law Association formed the Coalition for Civil Rights, which held a strike day during which students attended teach-ins on faculty diversity instead of their classes. As tensions mounted throughout the year, the Coalition sued HLS in November, alleging that the school’s hiring practices violated state anti-discrimination laws.
Although the Coalition gained some surprising early victories, the Massachusetts Supreme Court ultimately dismissed the case, reasoning that its claim that a lack of diverse faculty impedes their education could “hardly amount to a denial of the same contractual benefits enjoyed by white male students.”
In recent years, Bell’s work has received national attention yet again for his contributions to critical race theory. Much of the attention has been negative, particularly in conservative circles. According to an August 2021 study by Media Matters, Fox News mentioned “critical race theory” 1,300 times in less than four months. Teaching critical race theory has even been banned in some secondary schools.
Still, Bell’s ideas on race and law — and the body of literature he contributed to — persevere.
Michelman attributes Bell as a contributor to a body of work which influenced his own thinking on affirmative action, which he found “puzzling” at first. “My views shifted over time, in ways that scholarship, like Derrick Bell’s, might have helped to cause,” he says.
In the decades since Bell left HLS, the faculty body has become slightly more diverse. As of 2018, 67 percent of tenure-track professors are female, though only 11 percent percent of tenured faculty are underrepresented minorities.
Years pass, and parts of the story remain the same. Just like the students 0f Bell’s time, current students continue to push HLS to appoint a more diverse faculty body.
Sections
In 1899, the satirical magazine Puck published a political cartoon entitled “School Begins.” The cartoonist depicts Uncle Sam as a teacher, instructing four Black children wearing nametags that read Cuba, Porto Rico, Hawaii, and the Philippines. “Now, children, you’ve got to learn these lessons whether you want to or not!” reads the caption.
This cartoon illustrates American policy within its territories and colonies at the turn of the 20th century, especially in Cuba, where military governor Leonard Wood — a Harvard Medical School graduate — led the U.S. occupation of Cuba in the aftermath of the Spanish-American War. His government aimed to rebuild Cuba after the war, embarking on a program to transform the Cuban education system from the ground up.
This program — which Cuban historian Louis A. Pérez called an “imperial design” — strove to teach Cuban schoolchildren lessons in civics, American history, and English, whether they wanted them or not.
As the new educational system took shape, 1,283 Cuban teachers arrived in Cambridge to take part in Harvard’s Cuban Summer School, where they would learn English, geography, history, and pedagogy to take back to their students in Cuba. By the Summer School’s end, nearly half the total number of teachers on the entire island of Cuba had participated. It marked the largest-ever cultural exchange between Cuba and the United States, before or since.
But the Cuban Summer School also played a large role in Wood’s efforts to modernize — and Americanize — Cuba through educational policy. Instead of trying to Americanize Cuban schoolchildren, though, the U.S. decided to Americanize Cuban schoolteachers, and through the Cuban Summer School, Harvard participated enthusiastically in that effort.
A Gift ‘From Teacher to Teacher’
When Alexis Frye arrived in Havana as the island’s new superintendent for schools in November 1899, he had Charles William Eliot to thank. The University president had interceded with Elihu Root, the secretary of war, to assure a Harvard man’s appointment to the critical position, and Frye had gotten the job. “I WILL NOT DISAPPOINT YOU,” he wrote Eliot in all caps.
In their conversations about Frye’s appointment, Root had told him to “win the people.” Frye attempted to do so with the Cuban Summer School, one of his first big projects in office. On February 6, 1900, Frye and Ernest Lee Conant, Class of 1884, a Havana lawyer,, wrote to Eliot to formally propose the idea.
“As alumni of old Harvard and with the firm belief that our alma mater offers the best facilities, we naturally turn to her for help,” Frye and Conant wrote. The two Harvard graduates hoped that the Cubans would see their military occupiers in a new light. “We want the ties between the two countries drawn closer, so that all feeling of antagonism may melt away, in order that our country may do a higher and better work for Cuba…”
Several days later, Eliot responded to their request with a one-word telegram: “Yes.”
Preparations for the Cubans’ arrival soon proceeded in earnest. Harvard did not directly contribute a single cent to the Cuban Summer School. Instead, it set up a subscription fund to raise a total of $70,000 for all the requisite expenses. A May 12 notice announced the fund, and Bostonians responded to the call, donating $1,100 more than Harvard requested.
Beyond asking for money, the May 12 notice also set out the Summer School’s main objectives. “The effect on the minds and hearts of the teachers is not to be produced chiefly through the actual instruction given them,” the notice expounded. “It is to be produced by the sight of our people and our homes, and through personal acquaintance with our modes of life and with the evidences of our civilization.”
According to this reasoning, more informal cultural contact in a quotidian setting would advance Americanization; Harvard would provide that setting.
On May 16, Frye sent a notice to Cuba’s public schools announcing the plan for the Summer School. “This invitation is without parallel in the history of the world,” Frye wrote grandiosely. “It is not a gift from nation to nation, but from teacher to teacher.” The notice elaborated on logistics, excursions, and the course of instruction. Importantly, it set out a procedure for teacher selection. Frye detailed a complicated scheme to make sure that “every portion of the Island” could “receive benefit from the summer studies” while also making sure that the strongest teachers were chosen.
Even while Cuba’s mayors and principals met to determine which teachers would go to Harvard, the program’s business manager C.C. Mann got to work securing accommodations for the incoming teachers. The male teachers would reside in Harvard dormitories, while the female teachers would live in private residences close to Harvard Yard.
Mann viewed hospitality from the host families as essential to the program’s mission, especially considering that few teachers understood English. “They will, therefore, need much friendly guidance and sympathy, which cannot possibly be paid for,” Mann wrote in a notice advertising the need for lodging. Mann also employed 20 women to serve as chaperones for the Cuban women, under the theory that the Cubans believed it was “not proper for them to go abroad without complete chaperonage,” as the Boston Globe reported.
“In regard to your asking for information as to what a chaperone’s duties will be,” Mann wrote, “I would say that you would simply live in a house, keep a watchful eye over the teachers, and assist them in any way which you could devise.”
As the teachers’ arrival approached, Elihu Root lent his full support to the project. Root hoped that the CSS could help Cuba “avoid the conditions which have subjected Hayti, San Domingo, and the Central American republics to continuous revolution and disorder” (never mind that the United States’s gunboat diplomacy had caused some of that “revolution and disorder”).
As Root concluded, “I believe that this body of teachers going back, after their experience here [in the U.S.], and scattering into every municipality in Cuba, will carry back more of saving grace for peaceful and prosperous Cuba than the whole power of the Government could accomplish in any other way.”
‘Harvard Is Metamorphosed’
On July 30, 1900, the first U.S. Army transport carrying Cuban teachers arrived in Cambridge.
William Coolidge Lane, Class of 1881, the College’s head librarian at the time, described their arrival in a diary entry: “They came out by electric-car loads from the wharf and Memorial [Hall] was a dignified and impressive place for them to come to first,” Lane wrote. “They were admirably patient and on the whole were a pretty good looking crowd, though the Havana men who came today [July 1] are superior.”
On July 4, the Cuban teachers paraded through Harvard Yard to Cambridge Common, where they posed in front of the elm where Washington had taken command of the Continental Army and listened to a patriotic speech by Curtis Guild, a colonel in the Massachusetts militia. “The welcome that Cuba gave then to our soldiers New England returns to Cuba’s scholars,” Guild told the assembled teachers — even though, by and large, Cuba had not welcomed U.S. soldiers.
The next day, Eliot greeted the arrivals with a speech in Sanders Theater. As the Boston Globe reported, Eliot told the teachers that “they represented the highest intelligence and most advanced life of Cuba, and he wanted them to see the same life and how it was imparted in this country.” After Eliot’s speech, the teachers split up into 40 English language classes, separated by proficiency.
Later that day, they explored soil weathering in Medford for their geography course and visited the Ginn and Company textbook printers to learn about the U.S.’s advanced industrial economy.
Beyond the geography and English curricula, the Cuban teachers also went to lectures on American history, Spanish colonial history, kindergarten pedagogy, and the Sloyd teaching method, which emphasized manual labor and physical education.
The Cuban teacher Pablo Rousseau reflected positively on the English curricula at the summer school. “Notwithstanding the short time dedicated to learning a language as difficult to learn as English, the methods used for its syllabus were very beneficial,” Rousseau wrote in a pamphlet published after his return to Cuba. He wished that more teachers could have attended the history classes from Lecturer William Gaspard de Coligny, whose “notable erudition of the events after the discovery [of the Americas] and during Spanish colonization” shone through in the lectures.
And while Rousseau devoted significant time to explaining the Sloyd method, he felt it did not emphasize the “qualities and culture of the teacher” enough.
Though the Cuban Summer School project rested upon educating Cuban teachers so that they could return to Cuba sufficiently Americanized, it also produced new interactions, briefly interrupting the typical white, male, Anglo-Saxon Protestant nature of Harvard’s campus.
“Harvard is metamorphosed,” the Boston Sunday Post wrote, “with the arrival of seven hundred smiling senoritas.” Indeed, female teachers experienced “the sanctum sanctorum of American young manhood” as students at a time when the school was “forbidden to womankind.”
Similarly, the Boston Herald commented with awe that the teachers had “all shades of complexion” among them. “Most of them would have been recognized at once as hailing from the tropics,” it added.
Cultural contact often took place at twice-weekly dances that the Catholic Societies of Boston put on in Hemenway Gymnasium, as well as at receptions alternately put on by individual professors and by Harvard itself.
These dances — and the ensuing press coverage — sexualized Cuban women. An article in the Boston Globe is representative: “As long as their money lasts the Cuban senoritas will be second to nobody in their hats and gowns and gloves,” it reported on July 14 about the previous night’s dance. “So attractive were they that quite a number of gray-bearded old men ventured to hazard their lives on the slippery floor for the sake of sharing in a Cuban danzón.”
But the same article also emphasized how, after the first few events, the Cubans and the Americans had taken the time to learn each others’ dances. “The result is that everybody has a far more social time than at the earlier receptions, and the affair is naturally much more helpful to the Cubans than when they felt themselves a people apart.”
After six weeks of instruction, Cubans left Boston on Aug. 16, 1900, a day with such a “violent” storm that “the gutters ran full to the curb, and areas of flagging in various parts of the yard [i.e., Harvard Yard] were flooded,” as the Boston Globe reported.
They did not leave the United States immediately: After departing from Boston, they visited Washington West Point, N.Y., New York and Philadelphia. These stops stemmed from Wood’s desire for the Cubans to see and absorb from observation.
In Washington, a “large crowd” gathered to send the teachers off to West Point. “The Cuban girls waved their handkerchiefs and kissed their hands laughingly,” the Boston Globe’s correspondent reported. “The señors, more excitable and demonstrative, gathered in groups on the platform and cheered and hurrahed until they were hoarse.”
After nearly two months away from their home country, the Cubans arrived in Havana on August 29.
A ‘Profound Gratitude,’ With Asterisks
After the Cubans left Cambridge, the Globe raised the question that would target the Cuban Summer School’s historical legacy: Did the Summer School actually do anything for the Cuban teachers — or the country? — given the short time period?
The Globe believed it had. Echoing language the Harvard organizers had used in their original fundraising notice, the editorial hoped that the Cuban teachers would take their experiences in the U.S. and move beyond their “antiquated schoolhouses, in which discipline is hardly known” back in Cuba towards “entirely new conceptions of human development.”
The Educational Review disagreed with the Globe. In its October 1900 issue, Roger Clapp argued that the Cubans simply did not have the capacity to learn anything while they attended the Summer School, calling the Cubans “nothing but grown-up children.” “This childishness was the most noticeable feature of the visitors’ character,” Clapp continued, “showing itself daily in a total failure to grasp the significance of what they were seeing.”
As they dispersed across the island back to their hometowns, the Cubans also began to draw conclusions about their experiences at the Summer School.
While Pablo Rousseau expressed his admiration of American pedagogical ideas, Guantánamo teacher Regino Boti confessed his skepticism about the whole project, a skepticism that grew stronger with time. Several months after the Summer School finished, he criticized his fellow teachers for falling prey to the Summer School’s Americanizing mission. His fellow teachers “disrespected Cuban tradition, Cuba’s men, and Cuba’s history, to live in a foreign tradition,” Boti charged.
Indeed, even though Harvard might have provided the setting for a deeply imperialist project, that project could not snuff out Cuban nationalism among the teachers. “We Cubans have a profound gratitude towards Americans” after the Summer School, Matanzas teacher José de Castro Palomino wrote in an autograph book, but he still remained cognizant about the ongoing military occupation. “It will be much better when our Cuba is independent,” he concluded.
Despite the teachers’ hopes, Wood had the last word on the project. In his final report after American troops’ departure from Cuba in 1902, Wood concluded that the educational reforms and the Cuban Summer School had left the school system in “most excellent running order” for the new Cuban government.
But, as Boti and Castro Palomino could have attested, it failed to do one crucial thing: It did not win the people.
—Staff writer Kendrick N. Foster can be reached at kendrick.foster@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @kenning_f.
Sections
As a first-year at Radcliffe College, Sally Faith Dorfman ’71, went to the audition in disguise. She wore her baggiest sweater and hunched to conceal her figure. She tied her long hair in a low ponytail and tucked it into her shirt. When she logged her name, she signed in as “Sal.”
In the fall of 1967, Dorfman saw an ad in The Crimson from the Harvard University Band that stated the band was in need of more flute players. Dorfman, a flautist, thought she might try out.
But there was a catch. The band, at the time, was all male. Dorfman thought she might as well try out. “It didn’t say, ‘no girls need apply,” she explains.
The band members weren’t fooled by her disguise. The faculty director took her off to the side and explained that women couldn’t join the marching band. But the wind ensemble group was open to women, he offered.
This began Dorfman’s three-year struggle to join the Harvard University Band. It wasn’t until the fall of 1970 when Dorfman was finally allowed to play with the band at football games and became the first woman to join the Harvard University Band.
In the spring of 1969, over a year after Dorfman’s audition, a male flautist from the band told her his flute was broken and asked if he could borrow hers to play in the Phi Beta Kappa processional at graduation. Dorfman saw her opportunity.
“I said, ‘if my flute is good enough, I go with it,” she recounts with a laugh. “He said, ‘I kind of thought that would be your answer.’”
Dorfman led the Phi Beta Kappa processional that year as an alternate for the male flautist, but the band wouldn’t let her formally join until the spring of 1970, when she was admitted to the concert band only. She could play with them on the stage, but they made it clear that she wouldn’t march with them on the football field.
In a 1970 Crimson article, the band’s manager said it refused to admit women because “our looseness and lewdness are just too sacred to us… we play at boxing matches and hockey games and our annual banquet has always been a stag-type affair.”
In the fall of 1970, it finally changed the policy: — Yale’s band went co-ed, and Harvard band leaders wanted to keep up. Dorfman could finally join.
However, once she was admitted, Dorfman didn’t always feel included. “There was rampant sexism,” she says. “There were some people who I’m sure bitterly resented it because they wouldn’t be comfortable being as coarse in my presence. But there also were people that I’ve been friendly with for years.”
But Dorfman joining the band made the organization become a more inclusive space. George L. Russel ’75, a trombone player, noticed the band’s increasing acceptance of female members.
“It seemed like we were normalizing things, and we were a force for equity and equality because we were so visible,” Russel says.
In 1979, Diane Feldman ’80 became the first female manager of the band. “There had to be a first female band manager at some point, and I just happened to be it,” Feldman puts it.
It wasn’t until 2003 that the band had its first full-term female drill master, the band member tasked with creating an entertaining show and announcing during games. This October, the band celebrated its 50th anniversary of co-ed membership with a panel on the organization’s history. Kelli M. Aquino ’22, the band manager, reflected on the lack of female representation in the drill master position.
“The whole trope of ‘women aren’t funny’ kind of was that last bastion that still remained within the organization,” Aquino says.
For its 50th anniversary celebration, the band also dedicated its halftime show at the Harvard v. Cornell football game to Dorfman herself to commemorate the band going co-ed.
For Dara M. Badon ’22, the band’s current drill master, listening to the stories in the panel helped her think about making the band more inclusive in the future. “This was the first time, as far as Kelli and I know, where there was a space and a celebration dedicated to something very specific, like this historical part of our history,” she says. She hopes the band has more spaces for reflection in the future.
For Dorfman, listening to the experiences of other women in the band was encouraging. She says, “I think we’ve all come a long way, in the right way.”
Sections
The fruit flies didn’t bother me at first. I remember first noticing them on the grapefruit I was grabbing for lunch but paid it no attention. I had been hitting the gym lately as well as attending therapy and was beginning to learn how to reframe things in a positive way, and so I did. I thought I could reframe the fruit flies in my food as extra protein (it is bulking season, you know), like a type of new-age pepper. Unfortunately, the reframing was weak in my mind, much to the disappointment of my therapist, and collapsed instantly the second day. I was prepared to handle the rats that Adams is notorious for, but I was not prepared for fruit flies, small pests that proliferate like bad ideas, and toxic culture.
Upon this realization, I understood that a pacifist approach would be insufficient. The flies had not yet realized that the humans around them were extremely hostile, so I formulated a new strategy in later meals — violence. If a fly lands, BAM, my hand comes down like the gavel of a sentence-happy judge. In my mind, each dead fly was one small, fly-sized step forward for mankind. Nonetheless, it started to feel like a battle for territory, a battle that I could not lose.
One day I came into the dining hall and saw a sorry soul with the unfortunate job of assessing the fruit fly situation kneeling down, with her face to the floor. She was wearing a headlamp staring at a bunch of dead flies on a paper towel — I’m sorry but how on earth is that going to fix this problem, I thought. I wondered what exactly she was looking for, perhaps in an epic staredown with the fly queen, the flies would back down.
“We will never forfeit to you,” says the dying fly queen on the paper towel. She is in pain and drowning from the amalgam of cleaning products and apple cider vinegar the staff seem to be using on her. “Soon enough this will be our land. It only took a week for us to force your little students out of our domain.” The singular fly voice becomes a cacophony of fly voices and staked to the ground is Bezelbub, the Lord of the Flies, looking menacingly back at the lady kneeling on the ground. I am gripped with an urge to yell and chant and circle around her head. If we cannot defeat the flies, we must join them.
Order up! The guy staffing the Adams grill gestures towards you with your food. You grab your burger and head over to the tables to sit down, flies darting right and left in your field of view. You pull out your chair and sit down to enjoy your meal. As you are eating, some flies begin to swarm around your head. As you lift the burger toward your mouth your jaw unhinges for the delicious patty. Before you can react, a fly lands on the meat, and you bite. You smile, feeling the fly dance inside your mouth. Looks like your burger comes with a side of flies for today.
Sections
As I walk up the last two flights of stairs of the Science Center, the hubbub and constant chatter of the rest of campus falls away. The incessant droning of machinery, of food trucks and fans, of heaters andpiping, fades. There is just one more all too familiar beep of an HUID as I scan in, and then I enter the Loomis-Michael Observatory.
The Loomis-Michael Observatory, only accessible via a stairway and a registered HUID, sits on the 10th floor of the Science Center. Named after Walter Michael, who donated the telescope itself, and Lee Loomis, who funded its installation, the observatory is now operated and maintained by Student Astronomers at Harvard-Radcliffe, a student-run organization which hopes to allow Harvard students to learn about astronomy and appreciate the night sky. The observatory is open 24/7, but only to students who have taken the required courses and passed the required test on telescope and observatory procedure and maintenance.
Throughout the space sit dozens of logbooks, dating back nearly to the observatory’s conception in 1974. Everyone who comes to the observatory is required to write their name, the date, and the time of their visit, but they are also given the choice to include whatever information they want, whether or not it’s connected to their visit.
Some entries are standard, including a description of the celestial entities seen, a warning about a machine fault of the telescope, or nothing more than a name, but many skywatchers took some creative liberty in their entries. Numerous students took the time to draw various planets and their rings, while one entry is an intricate drawing of Puff the Magic Dragon breathing fire onto the page. Three other consecutive entries consist of various Radiohead quotes —- “s***. this is baller F***”, “do what we want,” and “Little by little, by hook or by crook.”
Another entry outlines a not so family-friendly pun about Uranus, and yet another observatory-goer wrote a love letter to all future STAHR members. One particularly excited nightwatcher wrote over a full page of other entries with a giant scribble of "CHA BOI T-BIZZY IN THE HOUSE." As Kidus A. Negesse ’22, the president of STAHR, puts it, “The logbooks capture the history of the time, the feeling of the time.”
The logbooks are a record of everyone who has been a part of STAHR and touched the observatory in their own way, no matter how small or large, and nothing exemplifies this more than the third week of March 2020. As students were informed they would have to vacate campus, their access to the observatory was coming to an end. The number of visits to the observatory and the number of entries into the logbook shot up exponentially in this last week on campus.
Basil M. Baccouche ’20, former president of STAHR,, wrote entry after entry within those last few weeks. “I will always be carrying what this place (Harvard, and the Observatory) gave to me. I wish I had appreciated it more while it happened,” one of his last entries writes. Speaking to his experience within those last few weeks, Baccouche notes the observatory as an escape from everything. “That was one of the most emotional times of my life. It felt like we were in the end of times,” he remembers. “Particularly the observatory, I think I might have gone there every night. That was the place I went to when things were overwhelming, and obviously, during that week, a lot of things were overwhelming.” Another entry, from Chelsea E. Guo ’23-’24, writes: “How many times can I come here before I have to leave on Friday?”
Students filled dozens of pages with countless odes and love letters to Harvard, STAHR, and the night sky, and then: nothing, for a year and a half. With campus closed, only a few were even able to access the observatory, and they did so rarely. Where two weeks had spanned dozens of pages in the logbook, so the next year and a half spanned one. There were no dragons drawn, no poems written, no heartfelt messages to the future, only a few names here and there, separated by months at a time.
Now, with campus open again, students are able to return to the observatory. “The logbook is recovering,” Negesse notes. “I went back up there as soon as possible,” Guo says, of her return to Harvard. “I actually felt like I was back on campus for the first time.”
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
A panel of mental health professionals called on colleges and universities to enact systemic changes aimed at improving student well-being at a Harvard Graduate School of Education webinar Wednesday.
The discussion, moderated by HGSE senior lecturer Francesca B. Purcell, was part of the school’s “Education Now” series focusing on changes to the education system brought about by Covid-19. The panel featured Ernesto R. Escoto, the director of the Counseling and Wellness Center at the University of Florida, and Nicole Green, the executive director of Counseling and Psychological Services at the University of California, Los Angeles.
The panelists discussed a fall 2020 study showing that around 39 percent of college students suffer from depression and that roughly 34 percent struggle with anxiety. Purcell said the findings were some of the “many alarming statistics about the mental health needs of our students.”
Escoto said the University of Florida has created a Consultation Assessment and Referral Team consisting of 10 counselors in an effort to reduce wait times for students seeking mental health care.
“Every time [the counselors] meet with the students, the way that they triage is by identifying those immediate resources that will use the least amount of time and effort that are still appropriate for that individual,” Escoto said.
Green said UCLA has developed a similar system that seeks to target different forms of counseling towards those in need.
“We also employed a triage model with two clinicians who just triage and put our students in where it’s most appropriate — either emergently, same day with a clinician, or they make them wait,” she said.
Green added that schools should “institutionally adopt” changes to mental health care messaging in order to “reinforce that we are concerned about well-being.”
“I do think there are ways that we do need to subtly embed these messages about sleep, self-care, exercise, taking breaks, mindful minutes,” she said.
Escoto advocated for rules about email communication meant to alleviate student, faculty, and staff stress. He said staff at the University of Florida Counseling and Wellness Center avoid sending emails after 7 p.m. and on weekends.
Green highlighted the disproportionate impact the pandemic has had on Black and Latinx students “with regard to loss and grief.” She said her work at UCLA sought to “not pathologize a normal reaction to an extraordinary circumstance.”
“The racialized trauma highlighted so much of what we already knew to be true, but now it was talked about in this ethos,” she said. “The question is, where’s the help?”
—Staff writer Omar Abdel Haq can be reached at omar.abdelhaq@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Kizzmekia S. Corbett, an assistant professor of immunology and infectious diseases at the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health, has been named one of the 2021 Federal Employees of the Year by the Partnership for Public Service for her work in developing the Moderna Covid-19 vaccine as a research fellow at the National Institute of Health.
Corbett received the title at this year’s Samuel J. Heyman Service to America Medals Celebration, which took place last Friday. The “Sammies” recognize federal employees who have achieved notable accomplishments in public service. Corbett’s former NIH colleague Barney S. Graham shared this year’s award.
Graham, the former deputy director of the Vaccine Research Center at the NIH, began studying coronaviruses in 2014, around the same time Corbett joined his lab. At the NIH, Corbett studied the relationship between antibodies and various coronavirus spike proteins, as well as mechanisms for mRNA vaccine delivery.
The pair’s previous research on mRNA vaccination for coronaviruses allowed their team at the NIH to rapidly generate the model for a Covid-19 vaccine last year. Alongside team members and a group at Moderna, Corbett and Graham targeted a spike protein on the Covid-19 virus for use in a vaccine and prepared the vaccine for clinical trials.
The press release announcing the prize noted the speed with which Corbett and Graham were able to execute their research. According to the release, the two were able to design the structure of the new vaccines over the course of a weekend. Days later, Moderna began manufacturing initial doses, and 65 days later, the company began human trials with the new product.
“It was, by far, the fastest vaccine development process in history,” the press release reads.
A year and a half later, over 7.1 billion doses of various coronavirus vaccines have been distributed around the world.
In June 2021, Corbett left her position at the NIH to join the School of Public Health faculty as an assistant professor, with a joint appointment at the Radcliffe Institute and as the head of the Coronaviruses and Other Relevant Emerging Infectious Diseases Lab.
Graham attributes the success of his collaboration with Corbett to their longstanding working relationship. While many research groups are forced to learn about one another as they complete their work, Graham said in a video interview with the Partnership for Public Service that he has known Corbett since she was in high school, when she interviewed for an internship in his lab.
“She loved biology. She loved data. She loved these things that we all share about our love for science,” Graham said in the interview.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Following the conclusion of a contentious campaign for Cambridge City Council, candidates and residents said they are optimistic about the future of the city’s leadership.
Tuesday’s results saw two challenger candidates, Paul F. Toner and Burhan Azeem, secure their first terms, as well as councilor Jivan Sobrinho-Wheeler lose his seat.
Cambridge residents were also asked to vote on three new ballot measures aimed at reforming the city charter. The passage of all three will give the council more oversight into the city manager’s office — which holds executive authority in the city government under the current charter.
In an interview, Patricia M. “Patty” Nolan ’80 said she was “totally jazzed” about her re-election, as well as the ballot question results. Nolan, who had just completed her first term on the council, received the second-highest vote share this year, an increase from the 2019 election.
“I just can’t wait to see what the city does in terms of a charter review commission — to look at how it is that we govern ourselves and whether there are changes that we should consider in the future,” she said.
“I’m so thrilled as the lead on bringing those ballot questions to the voters,” Nolan added.
Loren Crowe, a Cambridge resident who served on the city manager’s public safety task force this year, said he is not surprised that all three ballot measures were passed.
“That’s a good check on the executive, and I think it’s going to make our boards and commissions more representative demographically, and also more representative of the electorate,” he said.
Sobrinho-Wheeler, who will exit the council at the end of 2021, wrote in a tweet Wednesday that he is proud of the work he has done in the last two years.
“The victories we’ve made on housing justice, safe streets + transit, & charter change aren’t going anywhere,” Sobrinho-Wheeler wrote in a tweet. “[T]he future looks bright.”
Councilor-elect Azeem — who graduated from MIT in 2019 and came close to winning in his first run for council that same year — tweeted Wednesday that he was “heartbroken” over Sobrinho-Wheeler’s defeat.
“Jivan was one of my favorite councilors and a wonderful friend,” he wrote. “The council is worse off without him.”
Housing was consistently a hot-button issue for incumbents and challengers this past election cycle. During their campaigns, each of the elected councilors proposed specific policies and initiatives to target the rising cost of living in Cambridge.
Mayor Sumbul Siddiqui said in an interview last month she plans to reevaluate homeownership programs in Cambridge in the next term. She also argued that credit is a “huge barrier” when Cambridge citizens apply for apartments, and proposed establishing alternative credit.
Crowe said candidates who prioritized accessibility in housing more often won over those who did not.
“There was a supermajority of candidates who won who ran on a more open, more accessible, more inclusive Cambridge, and they were rewarded for it,” he said. “There’s another set of candidates who ran on a more conservative platform of keeping Cambridge restricted to the people who live here now and allowing housing prices to continue to increase to the benefit of owners who own now.”
“It’s a small minority and a shrinking minority, and I think that’s a good sign for the future of Cambridge,” Crowe added.
—Staff writer Sarah Girma can be reached at sarah.girma@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @SarahGirma_.
—Staff writer Jennifer L. Powley can be reached at jennifer.powley@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @JenniferlPowley.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
School of Engineering and Applied Sciences Dean Francis J. Doyle III said in an interview last week that he believes the “launch phase” of the new Science and Engineering Complex has been “very smooth.”
The $1 billion SEAS complex welcomed students en masse for the first time this fall after years of planning and construction delays. Doyle said he has “tremendous hope” that the School’s Allston headquarters will prove a “very collaborative environment.”
But some SEAS affiliates have raised concerns about the move across the Charles River, and some students have argued commuting to the building has been challenging with slow or crowded shuttle buses.
Several SEAS faculty members who remain at the school’s Cambridge campus — primarily in Maxwell Dworkin and Pierce Hall — have also said they are concerned to see the Cambridge presence potentially being consolidated.
Doyle said the transition overall has exceeded his expectations, but acknowledged that downsizing SEAS’s Cambridge presence has been “uncomfortable” and “disconcerting.”
“The state of repairs in Pierce Hall suggests that there will have to be renovations if we’re to keep that, and that will require displacement,” Doyle added. “It’s not an easily resolved situation.”
Doyle appointed a task force this summer to determine which Cambridge building SEAS will retain. He said he has given the task force a budget to hire consultants to help inform recommendations, which he expects to receive from the task force by winter break.
Doyle added that SEAS is polling students on their experiences in the SEC, including course scheduling, transit times, and their ability to get meals, though SEAS spokesperson Paul Karoff wrote in an emailed statement Tuesday that polling this semester is “informal and ad hoc.”
In response to student complaints about the building’s distance from the main campus, Doyle acknowledged that traveling to Allston was a “slightly larger barrier,” but said that students are “largely happy” with the shuttle services.
Students have also voiced complaints about the lack of full dining service under the undergradate meal plan at the SEC — which only has a FlyBy station and a cafe that accepts BoardPlus — though Doyle said he appreciated that the SEC FlyBy was “favorably compared” to Harvard’s other FlyBy station, located in Annenberg Hall.
“I don’t see immediately changing that,” Doyle said of the lunch setup.
Doyle did say, however, that he is open to reconsidering the SEC Café’s current hours, and that SEAS has already started experimenting with evening cafe hours.
Doyle stressed that the SEC is for University-wide use and not just engineers, adding that he was “very excited” to see non-SEAS professors hosting General Education and language courses in SEC classrooms.
The dean also noted that SEAS is trying to harness its proximity to Harvard Business School through increased collaboration, with joint faculty appointments.
“We used to foretell the day when we would be across the street from the Business School, but I think that’s a misnomer — now we’re blended with the Business School in a marvelous way,” Doyle said.
Looking ahead, Doyle reflected on how SEAS will fare in its recruitment, now that many engineering programs have returned to full capacity across the country.
“A lot of programs are growing right now, so our competition will be pretty intense,” he said.
But, he argued, the SEAS complex is an “incredible beacon” that will give Harvard a “competitive advantage.”
Beyond the physical space, Doyle said he has high hopes for SEAS’s expansion, starting with its recently announced faculty hires in Computer Science.
“So I think those individuals will be part of the beacon as well,” Doyle said. “They will be the light that shines that others will be drawn to.”
—Staff writer Natalie L. Kahn can be reached at natalie.kahn@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @natalielkahn.
—Staff writer Simon J. Levien can be reached at simon.levien@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @simonjlevien.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Joan R. Najita ’85, a fellow at the Harvard Radcliffe Institute, challenged the widely-held understanding of how planets form at a virtual research presentation on Wednesday.
Najita — a researcher at the National Science Foundation’s National Optical-Infrared Research Laboratory in Tucson, Ariz. — introduced her research by contrasting it with the classic view of planet formation within the solar system. In the classical model, particles of orbiting dust collide and collect into larger bodies, such as pebbles, planetesimals, and protoplanets, until eventually reaching the size of a planet.
“So this picture of planet formation — which is called core accretion because we start with the core and then we accrete a gaseous envelope — is very popular and very enduring because it explains a lot of things about the solar system,” she said.
But Najita said this theory runs contrary to real-world observations. When comparing the characteristics of distant solar systems with the Earth’s, Najita and other astronomers found planets of unusual size and proximity, including some “much closer to their central stars than planets in our solar system” and “much more massive than Jupiter.”
This dissimilarity between planets in the observed systems and Earth has brought the accuracy of current planet formation models into question, Najita said.
“I wonder whether we really understand what we discovered here because this high fraction of stars with these kinds of planets seems to be in tension with our classic picture of how planets like Earth formed,” she said.
The core accretion theory would expect collisions between debris to eject hot dust and produce a “hot dust signature” in around 20 percent of observed systems, but far fewer than 20 percent exhibit this characteristic, Najita said.
Astronomers can study solar systems by analyzing patterns in the orbiting dust and debris. The gaps and rings formed by the debris can convey useful information, such as the location and size of planets.
Najita studies these patterns through images collected by the Atacama Large Millimeter Array in Chile. During Wednesday’s presentation, she shared a series of these images, which she said supported the theory that new planets can develop farther away from the stars they orbit than the planets in Earth’s solar system.
“In the decades leading up to this observation, if you’d asked astronomers, ‘What would a planet-forming disk look like?”, these are the kinds of pictures we would have drawn. A planet forms, and it clears out a dark gap in the vicinity of its orbit,” she said. “Amazingly, that’s exactly what we observed.”
Najita’s collaborative research employs computer simulations to study how different initial conditions in these disks of dust affect the types of solar systems they form, including Earth’s.
“We can take an image of a disk like this, evolve it in a computer, and look to see whether it ends up like the solar system,” she said.
Najita admitted that larger, glowing disks are a more visually appealing subject of study but said she saw potential in the smaller, dimmer disks.
“Although these little disks don’t appear to be particularly spectacular, they’re likely to hold important clues to our origins and are certainly worth a closer look,” she said.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The matchmaking service circulating Harvard’s campus last month that students alleged was a scam was orchestrated by an MIT undergraduate as a prank.
The service, initially called “Harvard Marriage Pact,” solicited a wealth of personal information, including respondents’ racial and sexual preferences, their views on abortion, and their sexual experience.
The service’s website and social media presence disappeared without explanation before the date it was supposed to announce matches, prompting students to believe they were scammed.
After two weeks of silence, respondents received an email containing their “match” on Sunday. The email claimed that the platform “decided to go incognito” after Stanford Marriage Pact — a matchmaking service founded by Stanford students that operates on 62 college campuses — threatened to sue “Harvard Marriage Pact” for fraud. On Sunday, it returned under a new name: ExExEx.
The ExExEx website was created by Liam Kronman, an undergraduate at MIT, and Jason Seo, per information on the website.
In an emailed statement, Kronman wrote that he created the matchmaking service as an amusing experiment to see how many Harvard students he could dupe.
“One afternoon I thought, ‘how many Harvard students could I convince to fill out a long questionnaire to find the love of their life in less than a week?’” Kronman wrote. “We had no intention to match people or use their data maliciously (we maintain the latter). Instead we wanted to send out a joke match.”
Though Kronman said he initially had no intention to match respondents with compatible partners, he changed his mind.
“We sent out real matches using an algorithm I wrote based on the stable marriage problem,” Kronman wrote, referring to an economics and computer science problem.
As the service’s new name suggests, the algorithm is based off of Kronman’s theory that people have similar dating preferences to their exes’ exes.
Seo, who also designed the platform’s website, could not be reached for comment.
Though some Harvard students said they were initially resigned to the fact that they were scammed, they were happy to eventually receive their matches.
Bethany S. Wiebold ’25 said she found it strange when she did not initially receive a match.
“The freshman class group chat was like, ‘This is a scam,’” Wiebold said. “We got scammed — they took our info and ran with it.”
Despite her initial disappointment, Wiebold said she has exchanged messages with her match and is open to filling out a survey by ExExEx again.
“The concept is very, very interesting,” Wiebold said. “I’d probably use it.”
Harold H. Klapper ’25 said he found the situation amusing.
“I thought it was a very funny email,” Klapper said.
Though he said he has not reached out to his match, Klapper said he hopes he meets the person serendipitously.
“I’m hoping that I meet them one day and it can be brought up in conversation, but I’m not going to go out of my way,” Klapper said.
—Staff writer Vivian Zhao can be reached at vivian.zhao@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
This past weekend, Harvard competed in Providence for the Brown Quad, a three-day slugfest against Columbia, Boston College, and Brown on Friday, Saturday, and Sunday, respectively. This was the Crimson’s first competition as a whole team in over a month and only one of the first few team competitions since the Covid-19-induced hiatus that began in March 2020.
“Coming back after a year and a half of not competing, our team has been working hard and has been improving with every match that we’ve played this season,” senior Rachel Lim said.
Starting off on Friday, Harvard pulled together an all-around strong performance against Columbia, especially in the doubles matches. The duo of junior Mihaela Marculescu and first-year Angel You led the way with a hard-fought 7-5 victory over the Columbia pair of Akanksha Bhan and Anna Zhang. The Crimson women were bested in the singles matches on four out of six courts, but You and Lim were still able to pick up wins, with final results 6-2, 6-3 and 6-4, 6-4, respectively.
The Saturday competitions against Boston College gave Harvard more trouble, as the Crimson women were blanked in doubles and only picked up one singles victory with Marculescu winning 6-3, 6-4 over Boston College’s Muskan Mahajan. Despite the final results from Saturday, however, Harvard put up incredibly gritty performances across the board. Sophomore Sany Gawande went the distance with Boston College’s Laura Lopez in two back-to-back 7-6(5), 7-6(4) sets, while Lim split sets with a Boston College athlete 6-2, 3-6 (10-3). Lim noted that even though the team came up short against Boston College, there were still positive things to take away from the performance.
“Every match we played no matter the result was a great opportunity to learn and improve,” Lim said. “We are definitely going to use this experience to keep building throughout the rest of our season.”
On Sunday, the Crimson put it all together in its strongest performance of the weekend against Brown. Lim, Marculescu, Gawande, and first-year Maxi Duncan all came through in their singles competitions with convincing wins across the board. On top of that, the duo of Duncan and sophomore Iveta Daujotaite secured a statement win against a pair from Brown with a 6-3 result.
While Harvard has its sights set on having a successful season of competition next winter and spring, Lim noted that these fall matches, along with the previous matches over the past few months, have been crucial for building team camaraderie and informing the team on what it needs to work on.
“We had a lot of fun in Providence and were able to get some good match experiences against the teams we played. It felt really good to be out there competing and all of us had really great energy throughout the weekend,” Lim said. “Our fall tournaments are always a great way to prepare us for our spring season, so we were excited to go out and compete against the three teams we played.”
Lim and the rest of the team will look to build off the performances this past weekend and carry the momentum throughout the rest of the fall season and into next year. The Crimson women have one last chance to defend their home court in Cambridge this fall before they take a break from home competitions until the winter.
“As we look forward to our last match of the season, we’ve been putting in the work on and off the court,” Lim said. “We have a very strong and dynamic team, and it’s been really nice to see how we’ve all progressed with every match that we’ve played. It’s been an exciting fall season, and we’re looking forward to competing at home for our last fall match.”
Harvard will look to continue its strong performances this weekend against Wisconsin, Minnesota, and Boston College — in potential redemption matches — at the Harvard Invitational.
— Staff writer David Aley can be reached at david.aley@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
At Princeton’s home course in New Jersey, the Harvard women’s cross country team dominated its way to winning the Ivy League Heptagonal Championship for the first time since 2016. Two top-five finishers and five top-twelve finishers provided the Crimson women with the scoring depth necessary to capture the title. The Harvard men finished just behind Princeton in second, led by an exceptional performance by senior Matthew Pereira, who became the first Harvard individual champion since Kieran Tuntivate ’20 in 2018.
Coming into the race, the Crimson women were unranked nationally, falling to Yale in September in the HYP meet but beating all Ivy League opponents in the Coast-to-Coast Battle in Beantown and the Nuttycombe Invitational in October.
However, during the biggest competition of the year so far, the Harvard women showed up and ran a dominant race in the 6k course, putting up 37 points. Leading the Crimson was junior Isabell Sagar, who finished in third with a time of 20:32. Her incredible performance was a massive improvement on her 2019 mark as a first-year, when Sagar crossed the line in 20th. Following right behind Sagar was freshman standout Maia Ramsden, who continued her impressive debut season for the Crimson, crossing the line in fifth with a time of 20:44.
The middle pack of the Harvard team was sophomore Eloise Freitag, who finished in eighth with a time of 20:57, and senior co-captain and 2019 Heps third-place finisher Anna Juul, who finished half a second after Freitag in 9th. Rounding out the scoring five for the Crimson in 12th was fellow first-year Isabelle Goldstein who finished with a time of 21:04. The Harvard top five placing all within the top 12 spots of the race was important to the 37-point finish and will be crucial for regionals in two weeks. Starting strong and staying together amidst a field of 80-plus runners is a winning strategy for the Crimson going forward in the championship season.
“Our strategy heading into the race was to get out and stay out. We wanted to put ourselves in the front pack of the race from the very start and hold our positions there throughout the race,” commented senior co-captain Judy Pendergast on the team strategy. “The keys to the race were definitely working together as a group throughout the race. We’ve all been training really well together throughout the whole season, so it’s much easier to also find each other during these races and work together.”
Pendergast, an original member of the 2016 Ancient Eight championship team as a freshman and a scorer for the 2019 team that went to NCAA Nationals, knows what it takes to have a successful championship team. With the women having their best races of the season up and down the roster, the Crimson is peaking at the right time in preparation for regionals next week, where the team will attempt to qualify for nationals for the second season in a row.
“Heading into regionals, we are aiming to run a similar race,” Pendergast noted. “We want to get out and stay out, even in a larger field of runners. We are a ‘November team,’ meaning we are peaking during this time of year. So we are excited to see what we can do next week.”
Following the race, Sagar and Ramsden were named to the First-Team All-Ivy League, with Freitag, Juul, and Goldstein being named to the Second-Team All-Ivy League. Having all five scoring members as All-Ivy selections is a major achievement for the program and bodes well for the Crimson as the Harvard women look to be one of the deepest teams at regionals next week.
For the Crimson men, they came into the race No. 25 in the national rankings, just behind No. 19 Princeton in the Ancient Eight. In a competitive bid for the Ivy League, the Harvard squad finished in second for the third year in a row with 43 points in the 8k race, behind the Tigers, who put up an impressive 23 points in the victory, but well ahead of Penn in third with 90 points.
The story for the Crimson was dominated by Pereira, who became the 12th Harvard runner to win the Ivy League in its 80-year history and the first since star runner, and former teammate, Kieran Tuntivate ’20 accomplished the same feat in 2018. Pereira, who was a consistent scorer for Harvard in 2019 and finished 12th at Heps two years ago, vaulted himself into Crimson history with his performance last weekend. Not only did Pereira win the meet, but he also set a course and a Harvard record with a time of 23:18 in the process, an incredible feat for the senior from Kildeer, Ill.
“I'd say there are three things that have helped,” said Pereira when asked about his improvement since 2019. “One is that I've had the benefit of training under Coach Gibby since my freshman year. He's a fantastic coach, especially for the purposes of long-term development, so the time component is a big factor. The second is consistently getting to train with such great teammates. We have a lot of really good runners on the team, which always makes workouts a fun challenge. The third thing has been in the races themselves, working together up front with Acer Iverson and Graham Blanks throughout all the races this season. Those two (along with Joe Ewing) deserve a lot of credit for the work they did leading the race and pushing the pace at Heps last weekend to break the field apart.”
Just behind Pereira with very impressive races in their own right were sophomore Acer Iverson, who finished in fourth with a time of 23:42, and freshman standout Graham Blanks, who finished just behind in fifth with a time of 23:46. Blanks, who has been a consistent high-scorer for the Crimson men this year, was also the highest-placing first-year in the Ivy League. Rounding out the scoring for Harvard was sophomore Ben Hartvigsen, who finished in 15th with a time of 24:32, and senior co-captain David Melville, who finished in 18th with a time of 24:39. Despite this strong performance from the top five, it was simply not enough to break up the Princeton pack who took second, third, sixth, eighth, and ninth, respectively. If the Crimson can win at regionals next week, the team will get another shot at this Tigers squad at nationals in late November. Following the race, Pereira, Iverson, and Blanks were all awarded First-Team All-Ivy League selections.
“Our mindset heading into regionals is similar to what it was before Heps. We want to qualify for nationals, and we want to qualify with a win,” said senior co-captain Michael Alber on the team’s mindset going into next week. “I think regionals being 10k instead of 8k will also help us since we are more of an endurance-based program. Now we need to work on getting the rest of our varsity closer to our top three, and I’m confident we can do that.”
Pereira similarly commented on tightening up the top-five pack of runners for the Crimson.
“I think our general mindset is pretty similar to how we approached Heps. The best teams in the region, Syracuse and Iona, have really solid depth, so our best shot is to get our whole pack as close to their fifth runners as possible, and then try to beat them out on the front end. If we can execute both of those, we'll give ourselves a good chance of accomplishing what we want as a team.”
Head coach Alex Gibby was also awarded Coach of the Year for the Ancient Eight following the strong performances from both squads. Following Heps, both the Harvard women and men will be racing for a chance at nationals on Nov. 12 at Harvard’s pseudo-home course at Franklin Park. In 2019, both teams won and advanced to nationals in a historic moment for the program. Led by Gibby, the program will have a shot to do that again next week.
— Staff writer William Connaughton can be reached at william.connaughton@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Sometimes you just know it’s going to be a good day. Like when you walk into your local dhall and the aroma of Red Spiced Chicken wafts up to your nostrils. Or maybe your favorite is Friday Clam Chowder. Or perhaps you’ve finally been convinced to start having breakfast by the iconic Veritaffles that have found their ways to the House d-halls, now available seven days a week. Regardless, there is exactly one group of people to thank for these tiny bits of joy in our lives: HUDS workers.
HUDS staff have been our rock as we came back to campus, and honestly, they have been giving 110% of their effort to make our return as ~flawless~ as possible. They have definitely had to adapt to some unique challenges: After a year of providing cold to-go meals and then grab-and-go dining, it has not been easy for anyone working for the university to come back to 100% full capacity, 100% in person. And we get to actually sit in the dhalls and enjoy our food with friends!
And in case you needed more convincing, here are some of my favorite things about HUDS :)
Oat Milk
And soy milk, but mostly oat milk. Whether it’s dark chocolate, vanilla, or original flavored, pouring some in my cup with literally any meal just puts a huge smile on my face. And it’s all thanks to HUDS workers continuously resupplying the fridges in our d-halls. Anyone who can allow me to continue my love affair with oat milk is a winner in my book.
Tea
Hopefully, you don’t spill it in the dhall! Not only would it make the floor sticky and give HUDS workers something else to deal with as overworked as they already are, but it’s simply delicious! Go on a tea tour of all of the House dhalls to figure out once and for all what your favorite flavors are.
The Grills
Sure, some days, the HUDS options may not be to your liking. And let’s be real, with more than 6,000 students to feed, that is definitely fair. But never fear; your local grill is here to save the day. The fries are actually good, there are enough options to keep you going for a while if you need some variety, and it has simply blown my mind as a quarantine freshman who had no idea the grills existed.
Whipped Cream
Sometimes when I feel really tired or sad, I make myself a Veritaffle in the morning and top it with a ton of whipped cream before I head out to sit down with my little breakfast club. This is my face before putting whipped cream on my waffle: 😔. This is my face after: 😀.
Always Being the Sweetest People Ever
I am usually a monster in the mornings to the point that I will put my headphones in and pretend not to hear anyone. But somehow, HUDS workers are always there to greet me with a smile as I swipe, and I immediately feel the sunshine emitting from them. Honestly, seeing them is one of the best parts of my morning. My waffles are probably the best part.
From washing all of our dishes (despite being understaffed most of the time) to planning events like enhanced dinners (Eliot House has featured salmon, pumpkin ravioli, and fresh apple pie 😉) and welcoming us home, HUDS has returned better than ever to remind us that we have a community in our Houses and Annenberg.
Just. So much love.
Sections
Housing is one of the least glamorous parts of being a college freshman. All of a sudden, you are forced to share an 80-square-foot dorm room – and chances are, a bunk bed – with someone you’ve never met before. This can be a big adjustment. This stranger, aka your new roommate, may end up being your best friend — or far from it. In any case, living in a double room with a roommate almost always means some awkward moments are inevitable (e.g. changing fails, snoring, or passive-aggressive “clean up your side of the room” interactions).
Having a roommate was a rite of passage for college students in their first year. Then Covid-19 happened, and traditional rooming arrangements got jumbled up. Large upperclassman House singles replaced tiny double rooms in the Yard. Who doesn’t love their privacy and extra storage space? A good rooming arrangement was somewhat of a consolation for all that was missed by on-campus students last year.
Fast forward to today, and everyone is finally back on campus. Not only are freshmen back to living in doubles, but so are sophomores and juniors. Even some sophomores and juniors living in the Quad are living in hallway doubles this year. Far from being frustrated with these rooming arrangements, though, I can honestly say that I enjoy living with my roommate in our double room. I (and hopefully others) appreciate having a roommate now more than I ever would because it represents something that would have been unimaginable and out-of-the-question a year ago.
Having a roommate and sharing a living space with someone outside of your immediate family means so much more than late-night conversations and always having someone to go to the dhall with (as great as these two things are). It means a return to normalcy, where blockmates are no longer socially distanced or separated by time zones. College students are finally getting to live the way they had in the past and are meant to, within a physical space and community that gives them a sense of belonging and connection to others like them. A roommate means something in the fall of 2021 that it never did in the past.
Yes, maybe my take on having a roommate is a little cheesy. After all, does hearing them snooze their alarm clock 10 times every morning get annoying? Yes. Does having to leave the room when your roommate is on a call become a little inconvenient? Definitely. Would you be as close to your roommate if you lived in a suite rather than a double? Most likely.
But there’s nothing wrong with appreciating things like having a roommate a little more this year. So, that being said, buy your roommate a cupcake or give them a hug – or at least offer to take out the trash.
Sections
Let’s set the scene: It’s almost midnight, and you just left a club meeting. God knows why they’re scheduled that late anyways, but you happen to be in the Quad and live in Leverett House. The walk — which during the day is a grand old time enjoying the nature of Cambridge Common and scientifically has been proven to reduce stress — looks very different at night.
Alternatively: It’s a Saturday night, and you’ve just left a dorm at 2:17 a.m. The Evening Van has just stopped running for the evening. The Massachusetts weather doesn’t help the situation, especially as winter kicks into gear. What is a Harvard student to do?
Come to the rescue: the Overnight Shuttle Drivers <3
For all the quadlings across campus or those of us staying out late for academic and ~non-academic~ purposes alike, the shuttle has become a staple of our Harvard experiences. We’ve learned to navigate the morning rush and walk the afternoon desert in the heat of late August. But at night is when the overnight shuttle drivers go nocturnal for our own safety and comfort.
With the overnight service running from around 12-4 a.m., they drive a loop around Harvard’s campus from the Quad to the Law School to the Yard and back again for hours on end. They carry their own snacks and coffee to keep them energized through the night. And after a certain hour, access to bathrooms drops as places like Smith close up for the night. The overnight drivers make sacrifices in their comfort and their operating hours, becoming practically nocturnal, to keep our community running at all hours.
Hopping on the shuttle one of the first weeks of class, one overnight shuttle driver checked in on how my classes were going. He’d seen me on the overnight a few times that week. We started chatting and lo-and-behold, we were born at the same hospital – granted a good 50 years apart! Our conversations range from club drama to UMiami college football to Harvard’s Outings and Innings, but it’s a friendship.
Fellow Flyby writer Kelsey J. Griffin and another overnight shuttle driver always chat about U.S. history. Last I heard, they were in the New Deal Era.
The overnight shuttle drivers, as selfless as they are, are incredibly interesting people with lives outside their Harvard shifts. Some have family across the U.S. and will tell stories about visiting their nieces and nephews. Others have pipe-dreams of being history teachers. Across the board, they’re truly wonderful people in and out of their nights spent looking out for Harvard’s night owl population.
Winter is coming. You’ll find yourself opening up Passio GO! more than you’d like. But if you’re hopping on a late night shuttle, check in on your shuttle driver. How was their day? What are they interested in? What radio station do they always play?
And when you hop off, make sure to say thank you!
We love you, Overnight Shuttle Drivers<3
