During a section discussion in the famed Harvard course “Justice” this fall, Suuba M. Demby ’22 remembers her teaching fellow — Thomas B. “Tommy” Raskin — asking, “Shouldn’t we all be doing as much as we can to help those less fortunate than us?”
What set Raskin apart, though, was that he did not just talk about creating a more just world, he lived his life in pursuit of that goal, Demby said. For that reason, when she learned a few weeks later that Raskin had donated to the anti-poverty organization Oxfam in the names of each of his students, she was not necessarily surprised, but simply “impressed and taken aback by how authentic he was as a person.”
Raskin, a second year student at Harvard Law School, died Dec. 31 at the age of 25. The cause of death was suicide after a long battle with depression, according to a family spokesperson.
Relentlessly passionate about aiding the global poor, Raskin’s friends and family said they will remember him as a visionary who displayed an intense commitment to justice and the truth, yet had an easy way of talking with people that made them feel heard and respected.
Demby’s perception of Raskin’s passion to make the world a better place was shared by his family and friends.
“College is a time when people do think about moral philosophy and morality, and that’s wonderful,” his father, U.S. Rep. Jamin Ben “Jamie” Raskin ’83 (D-Md.), said in an interview with The Crimson. “But oftentimes these reflections and deliberations stay academic — Tommy always wanted to make sure he was translating the beliefs he arrived at into practice.”
Jamie Raskin and his wife Sarah B. Raskin, both Harvard Law School graduates, penned a moving tribute to their son earlier this month, remembering a young man with “a perfect heart, a perfect soul, a riotously courageous and relentless sense of humor, and a dazzling radiant mind.”
Raskin graduated from Amherst College in 2017, where he majored in History, helped lead the Amherst Political Union, won the Kellogg Prize, and wrote “a compelling senior thesis on the intellectual history of the animal rights movement,” his parents wrote in the tribute.
In addition to serving as a teaching fellow in General Education 1171: “Justice: Ethics in an Age of Pandemic and Racial Reckoning” this fall, Raskin was a board member of Effective Altruism and a member of the Harvard Animal Law Society.
Jamie Raskin said he and his family appreciate the support that Harvard — particularly his son’s Law School friends — has shown following his son’s death.
“It’s obvious that there are lots and lots of hearts that were broken in section two at Harvard Law School — he made wonderful friends there and these people will be a part of our extended family for the rest of our lives,” he said.
Nancy A. Fairbank, a second year law student, said she first met Raskin in her 1L Section, a collection of approximately 75 students that take classes together in their first year of law school. She recalled Raskin had a special gift for putting people at ease in his presence, even amid the intensity of Law School classes.
“Law school can be intimidating and stressful and confusing, especially in the first year, and Tommy just had a way of warming up whatever room he was in,” Fairbank said.
Raskin’s sense of humor shined through when professors called on him out of the blue — a staple of law school classes.
“Tommy not only always had a great answer, but said it in a very distinctly Tommy way that always made us laugh and brought a little bit of levity — much needed levity — to the classroom,” Fairbank said. “He never proselytized or preached, he would just hold quietly firm in his own dedication to justice in a way that made everyone else want to stand by his side.”
Rachel S. Casper, a second year law student and friend of Raskin’s, recalled one particular cold call during a class on tort law, in which students were notoriously addressed with honorifics. During a back and forth with the professor, the professor suddenly referred to Raskin as “Tommy” instead of “Mr. Raskin,” which Casper said had never happened before in the course.
“The whole class burst into laughter,” Casper said. “Tommy sat up straighter with a sly little smile and made some joke about how I guess we were dropping the pleasantries.”
From then on, “Tommy was Tommy in that class,” and everybody else remained “Mr. or Mrs. or whatever it might be,” she said.
Raskin was also known for his “extreme” love for the word game Big Boggle and would often invite his classmates to play with him, Casper said.
Faculty whom Raskin worked with said his commitment to justice and the law was evident in his classroom interactions.
“Tommy embodied the joy of learning for its own sake,” Law School Professor Carol S. Steiker ’82, who taught Raskin in “Criminal Law,” wrote in an email. “Not to compete, to succeed, or to fulfill requirements, but to understand, and to make a difference.”
“I feel privileged to have known and taught this extraordinary young person,” she added.
Professor Michael J. Sandel — who teaches the “Justice” course — wrote in an email that Raskin possessed “a buoyant love of teaching and learning” and that his presence as a teaching fellow was especially vital during a semester of remote learning.
“From the time I first met him, as we contemplated the possibility of his joining the Justice teaching team, his passion for philosophy, and for justice, was unmistakable,” Sandel wrote. “I instantly saw him as someone who would connect with students, and with his teaching peers, and whose love of justice and law, argument and philosophy would be infectious.”
Michelle Kim, a third-year law student and the vice president of Effective Altruism, said she wished she could have paralleled Raskin’s unique ability to fight tirelessly for causes most people forget about — animal rights and the global poor — but without despair.
“[Tommy] wasn’t plagued with the cynicism and fatigue that I was plagued with, and had so much optimism and passion and openness to the world,” Kim said. “I wish I could resemble some of the fearless and compassionate engagement that he had with everyone he interacted with.”
Third-year law student Andrew H. Stawasz, who serves as president of Effective Altruism, said he was blown away not only by Raskin’s intelligence — “by Harvard standards, I think Tommy was just unbelievable” — but also by Raskin’s keen ability to facilitate deep conversation.
“I’m not joking when I say within five minutes of shaking hands, he had already plunged the conversation into tricky debates, and not harsh debates, but really intellectually and morally rich debates about finer points of animal ethics,” said Stawasz, who met Raskin at Animal Outlook — an animal advocacy nonprofit.
An impassioned animal rights activist, Raskin also practiced veganism and recruited dozens of people to the cause, his parents wrote in their tribute.
Raskin was a notable speaker and member of national animal rights organizations. Daina Bray, who supervised Raskin during his internship at the nonprofit Mercy for Animals this past summer, recalled that during a constitutional law presentation Raskin gave to an American Bar Association subcommittee, he “impressed seasoned animal lawyers with his professionalism and legal analysis.”
Alex Hershaft, president of Farm Animal Rights Movement, said Raskin acted consistently with his beliefs.
“We all have certain views of morality and virtue and we like to talk about it — Tommy actually did it,” Hershaft said. Raskin’s death is a “huge loss to the vegan movement and the future of animals everywhere,” he added.
Jamie Raskin said in the interview his son will continue to inspire even those who did not know him personally to fight for the causes he believed in.
“My son had a pure heart, and a sparkling goodness about him — it was a remarkable thing just to be in his presence and company,” Raskin said. “Even in his death, [Tommy] has managed to mobilize and catalyze huge amounts of attention and resources to the causes that he lived."
Kari H. McDonough, a Maryland resident who lives in Jamie Raskin’s district, started “the Acts of Goodness in Honor of Tommy Raskin Initiative” shortly after Raskin’s death, writing a public Facebook post asking others to share an act of kindness done in Raskin’s honor. While the project began locally, it has expanded to include more than 1,500 people from at least 45 states, Washington D.C., Puerto Rico, and 20 countries outside the U.S. as of Jan. 15.
“Though I never met Tommy Raskin I was moved by his life, and his commitment to doing good,” McDonough wrote in an email.
Demby, the undergraduate in Raskin’s “Justice” section, said she will remember him as a “selfless, light-hearted human being.”
Although Raskin was “incredibly well-spoken and well-versed in the topics discussed in class,” she said he went above and beyond to make the section “student-focused” and “really cared about the well-being and success” of those enrolled.
The personalized donations Raskin made to the charity Oxfam on behalf of his students were just another example of that.
“I’ve never gotten that kind of gift from anyone before, especially a teacher and someone who I’ve never met in person,” said Lucas T. Gazianis ’24, another student in Raskin’s section. “I can probably speak for a lot of us when I say that he really was a model for how to be generous. I think he really showed all of us that selflessness is an amazing virtue, and I think he embodied it wonderfully.”
Demby added that after Raskin passed away, students in his section decided to donate to Oxfam in his memory.
“By him making that action and reservation on behalf of all of us, he was showing, ‘No, you can actually practice what you preach. You can embody the values that you possess,’” Demby said. “That was really meaningful to me and the other students in my section.”
Jamie Raskin described his son’s donation as emblematic of his personality.
“Tommy was most moved by people who thought rigorously and systematically about morality and then acted upon their values and beliefs,” he said. “He had an extraordinary moral sense and he wrote dozens and dozens of essays just for himself to try to figure out moral problems. And then once he arrived at what he thought was the best solution, he would act upon it.”
When Jamie Raskin asked his son why he had donated in the names of his students, Tommy Raskin responded:
“I wanted them to see that the truth is true.”
—Staff writer Emmy M. Cho can be reached at emmy.cho@thecrimson.com.
—Staff writer Alexandra Topic can be reached at alexandra.topic@thecrimson.com.
If you or someone you know needs help at Harvard, contact Counseling and Mental Health Services at (617) 495-5711 or the Harvard University Police Department at (617) 495-1212. Room 13 Peer Counseling is offering virtual confidential peer conversations during the pandemic; visit its website here. 
You can also call the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline at 800-273-TALK (8255) or text the Crisis Text Line at 741741.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Cambridge City Manager Louis A. DePasquale launched a task force composed of Cambridge officials and residents earlier this month to examine the future of public safety in Cambridge following a national reckoning in policing.
Cambridge City Council members E. Denise Simmons and Marc C. McGovern will chair the task force, which consists of 14 members, including activists, religious leaders, and mental health experts, per a Jan. 7 press release published by the City of Cambridge. The task force will make recommendations to members of the City Council as well as the city manager to take under consideration when determining the City’s budget, DePasquale said in an interview.
The creation of the task force comes after a fraught summer between law enforcement and citizens throughout the country. In Cambridge, local police came under fire in 2020 for officers’ inappropriate social media usage and the release of an inventory report stating that the Cambridge Police Department possessed equipment including an armored vehicle, sniper rifles, 64 M4 assault rifles, and tear gas. Previously, police commissioner Branville G. Bard, Jr had said CPD received “no military equipment.”
Cambridge residents have since demanded the demilitarization and defunding of their police department. Following the murder of George Floyd, a Black man, by Minneapolis Police in June 2020, 2,000 people marched to Cambridge City Hall demanding the defunding of CPD.
After mounting pressure from constituents and city councilors, DePasquale assembled the public safety task force. The task force aims to decrease Cambridge’s reliance on police responses and give a larger role to social service providers in addressing the needs of Cambridge residents, per the press release.
Task force member Chandra Banks, a conflict mediator in the Cambridge Public Schools District and a fifth-generation Cambridge resident, said she will bring experience in restorative justice to the task force. Banks said restorative justice relies on proactive strategies such as education and conflict resolution to address the underlying cause of conflict — as an alternative to traditional responses of the criminal justice system, including police arrests and punishment.
Banks, a Harvard Graduate School of Education alumna, said she believes her role on the task force is to develop mediation practices in every aspect of Cambridge residents’ lives to prevent the need for police.
DePasquale said in the interview that the task force would “never be about defunding the police department,” but rather focused on the “reallocation of services.”
CPD has already made strides to shift its focus from punishment to rehabilitation, DePasquale said. He cited the police force’s employment of psychiatrists and social workers in addition to traditional officers.
“The Cambridge Police Department is an example of how policing should be done,” he said. “We understand that it’s not just about enforcement. I always say that in Cambridge, we’re not about arrests. We’re about finding help for people. So I think from that point of view, we have really been ahead of the game, but that doesn’t mean we can’t do more.”
However, one of the Cambridge City Councilors calling for the defunding of Cambridge’s police department, Quinton Y. Zondervan, said DePasquale’s emphasis on “reallocation” of funds as opposed to defunding is a “semantic argument.”
“I’m not sure there’s a meaningful distinction,” Zondervan said in an interview. “Defunding the police to me just means reducing the amount of money we spend on policing and allocating money towards other community safety priorities instead.”
Cambridge resident and Harvard Muslim Chaplain Imam Khalil Abdur-Rashid, one of the task force’s members, wrote in an email that he believes most police confrontations can be handled without the use of force.
“As a Harvard Chaplain, and especially as a Muslim Chaplain with African American Southern roots, I have significant concerns about police use of force, profiling, and the militarization of law enforcement in all communities, and especially communities of color,” Abdur-Rashid wrote.
Abdur-Rashid hopes the task force will promote a progressive style of policing “that specifically takes into consideration the realities of a post-George Floyd Era America, where major problems such as institutional and systemic racism, anti-Semitism, anti-Muslim bigotry, anti-immigrant sentiments, and hate crimes have unfortunately become more prominent in the last few years.”
The public safety task force will meet virtually twice a month, and is expected to convene for the first time later this month.
—Staff writer Raquel Coronell Uribe can be reached at raquel.coronelluribe@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @raquelco15.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
As the United States enters the most dire stage of the coronavirus pandemic yet, the Ivy League told student-athletes and coaches in a Thursday email that it has yet to determine whether the spring sports season will occur.
“Unfortunately, the current trends of the virus have not improved, and in fact have gotten worse,” league officials wrote in the update. “Students should understand that there must be significant changes in the state of the pandemic before competition becomes feasible and that a number of factors are outside institutional control.”
“Should competition become feasible this term it will, at best, result in an abbreviated, and likely significantly curtailed, competition schedule,” the update added.
The Ivy League canceled the winter sports season this past November due to mounting coronavirus cases throughout the country, including in Massachusetts. In that same announcement, the League delayed the start of the spring sports season to at least the end of February.
In an email to student-athletes Thursday, Director of Harvard Athletics Erin McDermott wrote that she believes the Ivy League presidents will make a decision about the fate of the spring sports season sometime in February.
If the Ivy League moves forward with spring competition, McDermott wrote that campus restrictions will curtail the season.
“Any possibility of spring competition will be less than a complete season and with partial teams, since not all of you were invited to live on campus,” she wrote. “For competition to be permissible, virus conditions would need to improve significantly and campus restrictions on travel and visitors would need to be loosened.”
The University announced in December that only student-athletes living in Harvard’s dorms during the spring semester will be allowed to partake in on-campus training or competition.
Several Harvard student-athletes said the Ivy League’s update did not catch them by surprise, but said that they are hopeful they will have the opportunity to play their sport this spring.
Kwaku O. Adubofour ’24, a member of the varsity football team, said he would be “shocked” if competition for football takes place this spring. As part of its November announcement, the Ivy League ruled that it would not reschedule fall sports, which were canceled due to the pandemic, to the spring.
Still, Adubofour said he remains “optimistic” that he will be able to practice at some point during the semester after he returns to campus and quarantines.
“In the fall, it was very cut and dry. It was getting very restricted and very unlikely that we’d be able to have any sort of at least normalcy,” Adubofour said. “But they seem to make it sound like there’s a chance that could happen this semester.”
McDermott wrote in her email that Harvard will roll out a phased approach to athletic training on campus this spring, similar to its phased approach to athletics during the fall semester.
“The spring phasing has been altered moderately to allow for more sport-related activity earlier, and is intended as a path to competition, whenever it is deemed safe to resume,” McDermott wrote. “Moving through athletic phases will rely on campus guidelines and level progression.”
Stages of athletic training on campus will resume in lockstep with the University’s color-coded levels of reopening. In-person, organized strength and conditioning training can begin when campus enters “Level 3: Yellow,” which permits outdoor gatherings of no more than 10 people. Harvard’s athletes can partake in sport-specific training when Harvard enters “Level 4: Lime,” which opens campus spaces, including athletics facilities.
Harvard fencer Annora Y. Lee ’24 said she does not believe the Ivy League update told her anything she did not know about the resumption of athletics on campus.
“Quite honestly, I don’t even know if the update was really needed. It was just kind of nothing new, nothing surprising,” she said.
Lee said she plans to live on campus this spring and hopes conditions improve to a point where she can resume training at the Malkin Athletic Center.
Harvard baseball player and Student-Athlete Advisory Committee President Matt R. Thomas ’21 said he believes his team could field enough players to compete in an abbreviated season, if the Ivy League deem it safe to hold.
“You need nine players to fill out a lineup [card], and we would definitely have that,” Thomas said. “Some guys might have to step up and play some positions that they’re not used to, but I think that might be something that adds a little bit of fun to the season.”
—Staff writer Benjamin L. Fu can be reached at benjamin.fu@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @benfu_2.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
