News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Two beautiful white women with long hair meet by chance before the onset of the 19th century. They find solace, companionship, and even love in each other’s company. By the end of the movie, they’ll go their separate ways, never to reunite. What film am I talking about? Following the releases of “Portrait of a Lady on Fire” (2019) and “Ammonite” (2020), “The World to Come” is another in a string of moderately sad queer period pieces. While “Portrait” is about women’s art, and “Ammonite” is about women’s work, ultimately, “The World to Come” highlights the particular bleakness that women face in this world.
“The World to Come” is a drama about two families in an 1856 farming community in upstate New York. The story is told through the eyes and words of Abigail (Katherine Waterson) as she records the year in a written diary to parallel the farm ledger of her husband (Casey Affleck). When newcomers Tallie and Finney begin renting the neighboring farm, Tallie and Abigail form a relationship that sustains them both through the bleakness of their difficult lives and struggling marriages.
From the first entry of Abigail’s diary, the film builds an incredible sense of weariness and dread. Daniel Blumberg’s score emphasizes this, using a limited set of notes to instill a sense of repetition and inescapability. The music blends seamlessly into both howling winter winds and quiet walks down dirt paths. It becomes almost painfully repetitive with each new hurdle the characters face. Mona Fastvold’s direction is powerful and controlled. She creates a tense atmosphere reminiscent of the supernatural despair in “The Witch” (2015). At every moment, viewers are waiting for the next hardship. The use of the diary as a plot device is extremely effective in building this feeling of waiting and wanting through the mundane, a painfully relatable feeling after nearly a year in quarantine.
The bleak atmosphere is sharpened when played in contrast to Abigail and Tallie’s budding relationship. The actors have an easy and natural chemistry, and it’s hard not to fall for Vanessa Kirby’s dry charm delivered through a smooth American accent. Katherine Waterson brings life to Abigail’s pain and her joy with equal deft. However, the queerness of the film feels somewhat forced. The progression of the story doesn’t seem to be particularly impacted or affected by the fact that either of these women are queer. This may be a reflection of the script itself being written by two straight men, based on a short story by one of them. Lesbianism seems to be used as a shortcut to tell the story of two failing straight marriages, instead of being a trait that impacts the characters in a deeper way. The queerness feels very surface level and more like an appeal to representation politics than something integral to the film.
The shallow depiction of lesbianism leaves something to be desired, but not to the point of detracting from the rest of the film. The same can’t be said, however, for the involvement of actor and producer Casey Affleck. After initially denying and dismissing allegations of sexual harassment on a set in 2010, Affleck later settled out of court and years later admitted that the behavior around then was merely “unprofessional.” His unrepentant presence in a film about the systemic barriers that women face is almost too on-the-nose. In a line bordering on self-awareness, Affleck’s character is described as feeling like “he can never truly rid himself of his burdens.” Although he faced some backlash at the beginning of the #MeToo movement, it’s frustrating to see that Affleck no longer seems to feel any burden of his past behavior as he continues to take on new projects. “The World to Come” is a decent story and a strong example of Mona Fastvold’s directorial ability, but between the grim message and the objectionable production team, it leaves a sour taste behind.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Attending Harvard Medical School’s Media & Medicine postgraduate certificate program in 2019 and 2020, I learned to pay close attention to the many untold medical stories that impact people’s lives – especially minorities’ — and this is even more critical during a pandemic.
At a recent visit to a clinic in Acton, Mass. – a well-to-do and increasingly diverse outer suburb – a very helpful and kind white nurse, going down the generic list of potential symptoms during triage, asked me if I had noticed any red rash on my skin. I looked down, stared at my arm, and saw dark skin. Mahogany. Skin that Americans would call Black. I raised my head, looked into her eyes, and gently smiled. She smiled back. Wanting to make sure the nurse did not misinterpret my silence, I replied to her that my skin was too dark to show a red rash, and joked that the only red things I could easily notice on skin like mine were blood and red paint.
It is necessary for me to point out that it was a white nurse because I suspect that it probably never crossed her mind that not all races or skin tones exhibit the same changes in color due to skin conditions. It is probably not a conversation that happens frequently, especially in a suburb. Would a Black nurse have asked me the same question? I do not know.
My curiosity was piqued. When I arrived home from my visit to the clinic, I did a quick internet search of skin rash images. To no surprise, there was not a single image of dark skin to look at for comparison on the entire first page of search results. In a world where 17.2 percent of the population is African, how is it that there were hardly any reference images of dark skin? According to the U.S. Census, more than 40 million Americans are Black. The absence of photos highlighting dermatological conditions on dark skin troubles me – it could be playing a big role in diagnostic disparities.
The reality is that our health care system was designed for lighter skin. This creates an inherent racial bias, a significant health care challenge that I refer to as the “color of medicine.” This is confirmed by the exclusion of dark skin in dermatological and diagnostic reference content, leading to diagnostic disadvantages for Black or dark-skinned patients. Some conditions are not easily diagnosed on Black people if health care workers cannot appropriately identify disease manifestations on pigmented skin, either due to inadequate training or limited exposure. This has created a gap in timely diagnoses of symptoms among people in this racial demographic.
Recently, news about the sudden Covid-19 related deaths of a relative and other people I knew drove my curiosity about emergency signs of Covid-19. I browsed through the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for information about dermatology-related symptoms of Covid-19. According to the CDC, one sign that you should seek emergency medical care is “bluish lips or face.” I have never in my life seen a Black person with bluish lips or face — this description is applicable to light, white, or Asian skin. What is sad, inexcusable, and dangerous is that the CDC provides no alternative description of how an emergency sign, that can lead to loss of life if undetected, might present on dark skin. A quick image search for “Covid-19 toes” also found no reference images for how the symptom manifests itself in dark-skinned patients.
This is a wake-up call for our health care system. We need to open our eyes: Our research and the information we share should reflect the diversity of skin color that exists in our country, and we need to recognize that people with dark skin deserve equal quality of care.
Medical education must prepare health care workers to appropriately diagnose and treat patients with dark skin — and it must be reflected in medical textbooks and educational content. If providers lack appropriate education or training Black patients and their families face devastating results including incorrect diagnoses or treatment leading to poor physical or mental health, loss of income, and even loss of life.
We must advocate for inclusivity by raising awareness of these glaring gaps. It is time for our health care system to evolve into one which cares for and protects every color.
Vivian Kobusingye Birchall is a graduate of the Harvard Medical School Media and Medicine Certificate Program.
Have a suggestion, question, or concern for The Crimson Editorial Board? Click here.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
A year ago I chose to defer an offer to a New Zealand university. I gambled on an acceptance to Harvard but seeing that this was something of a pipe dream, I expected to end up with a gap-year and the opportunity to travel. Back then I couldn’t have guessed how drastically things would change, or how New Zealand would be one of few countries operating normally. While my friends were at university, long after my country’s lockdown had finished, I was still living in my house as if in quarantine.
Everything on my screen was part of a different reality. Zoom meetings and assignments sapped all my time and energy and the thought of doing something unrelated to schoolwork, something just for my personal benefit, never even crossed my mind. It was too easy for my time to be divided between studying and sitting around feeling defeated.
The result was a lost year. Some people might be lucky enough to say they didn’t lose a year — some people will pretend they didn’t — but I think for the majority of people they feel like they have lost a year of their lives. For me, it was my 18th, and if crappy teen movies have taught me anything, it’s that this past year was meant to be a good one.
Instead, I spent much of 2020 feeling pretty low, hardly leaving the house and rarely sleeping. It took me a while to realize my advisor, my proctor, the student leaders who I had met, actually cared. But with few classes accommodating students in distant time zones, it felt as though they were the only people who did. The only other person I knew who was studying from New Zealand had to flip her whole sleep schedule to adjust for classes happening in the middle of the night, which I can’t imagine is positive for a person’s mental health.
Mental health. How can a person be mentally healthy in a time like this? What sort of steps can we take as individuals to improve our psychological and emotional wellbeing?
After conducting some research, I have discovered that strangely, lying in bed is not the answer, and neither is filling time by keeping track of your favorite indie artist’s latest garbage-dump of new music, nor looking through family trees in an effort to connect your lineage to Jason Momoa (there’s a resemblance, I swear).
What has actually been an effective strategy for me so far, to cope with these challenges, was picking up a proper hobby.
It had to be something new, because my previous hobbies all involved morning headaches, or getting better at something, and both those kinds of hobbies are terrible. It couldn’t be Netflix, because binging on TV is the same as binging on anything else: It only bottles things up and delays your feelings. This kind of hobby is not intended to be an interlude between gloomy instrumentals, but rather a switch from one playlist to another. It’s meant to divert your attention to something different, be it a goal, an optimistic thought, or something to look forward to.
For me, this involved grabbing an old, perforated tent, starting the engine of a ‘’96’ Toyota Corolla that has no business running, and spending two weeks in the South Island camping on my own, going to beaches, spotting seals and dolphins, checking out some of New Zealand’s landmarks.
It was a great experience; it taught me the value of having an activity in your life with no purpose other than to be something for yourself. I wrote a review of every place in the South Island I visited and ended up with what would form the most bogan tourist brochure New Zealand has ever seen. This is obviously a luxury not everyone has, nor would it make a good hobby for everyone, but fortunately there are heaps of these hobbies to choose from: Options include casual table tennis, cooking for fun, or joining a bridge club (whatever that is).
Because the semester has started, and because I am broke, I no longer have the ability to go on these trips. In the place of that distraction, I luckily now have this column on the topic of mental health, which I find to be cathartic for myself to write, and that will hopefully be nice to read.
Many people won’t feel they have the time to add something new to their schedule. But I promise this effort is worth it. When you find the right “hobby,” you add something to your life that isn’t about the relentless pursuit of improving yourself or achieving something, goals I think comprise a large portion of our time as Harvard students.
Although it won’t be the most productive use of your time, a new activity might help your mental health, which to me renders it infinitely valuable. What may initially appear to be a waste of time can end up being one of the best things you ever do — so consider giving this a try, and feel free to let me know how it goes.
James M. Heffernan '24's column appears on alternate Thursdays.
Have a suggestion, question, or concern for The Crimson Editorial Board? Click here.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
When Economics professor Edward L. Glaeser was growing up in the late 1970s, his hometown of New York City was in crisis. The economy was stagnant, unemployment rates were high and crime was rampant; by the end of the decade, over 1 million residents had fled the city. This evolution intrigued Glaeser.
“It was hard not to be fascinated with the city and its changing ways. Those were often tough years for New York,” Glaeser says. “But the city was always full of life and always full of some form of promise.”
In his 2011 book “Triumph of the City,” Glaeser, an urban economist, tried to highlight part of that promise: the natural power of cities to foster face-to-face interactions and, with them, innovation. Now, 10 years later, Glaeser writes about the challenges cities face in an age of isolation. His upcoming book “The Survival of the City,” co-written with applied economics professor David M. Cutler ’87, explores how the Covid-19 pandemic will change the trajectory of cities — in some ways, permanently.
As high-density nodes in a global transportation network, cities have “long been companions of pandemic,” Glaeser says.But historically, most cities have “shrugged off” the economic impacts of disease. Today, cities are much more vulnerable because urban service jobs, which require more human contact, play a larger role in their economies, he explains.
“For millions of Americans, the ability to serve a sandwich with a smile was a safe haven in a world of outsourcing and automation,” Glaeser says. “The problem is that those face-to-face service jobs — 32 million, one-fifth of the American labor force — those jobs can vanish in a heartbeat when that smile becomes a source of danger, rather than a source of pleasure.”
Long-term, Glaeser predicts that the landscape of cities will change: as more people choose to work from home, he foresees significant reductions in demand for prime office space and imagines that these commercial spaces may be converted to residential ones.
The make-up of urban businesses, too, may shift towards a younger demographic.
“It seems likely that some old established businesses that have lots of old workers will be replaced by young ones,” Glaeser says. “So you can expect to see sort of a younger, scrappier, cheaper city, maybe a little bit more like the 1970s. And that’s not all bad.”
Studies show that while the productivity of many workers — Microsoft programmers, for instance — has not changed as work has gone remote, the probability of being promoted has decreased. Since cities historically foster high rates of wage growth, Glaeser sees this data as possible evidence that workers have retained their skills, but are missing opportunities for wage growth and valuable learning experiences.
“It’s not what you’re losing as you become a worse programmer when you’re working from home, but you lose the ability to learn from the people around you,” he explains.
Glaeser sees similar ramifications for students and professors in a remote academic setting.
“You can coast on pre-existing social capital, but it’s much harder to start a new relationship and to teach new people and get them excited about things,” Glaeser says. “With people that you have a long-standing relationship with pre-Covid, it’s easy to continue to advise them. It is very hard to get a set of 19-year-olds excited by mathematical economics.”
As part of his efforts to liven up lectures, Glaeser has switched out his traditional ties for bow ties, which can fit within the Zoom camera frame: plain black ones, one with polka dots, some decorated with ice cream cones. Does he have a favorite?
“That would be like having a favorite child or a favorite city — you can’t possibly have a favorite bow tie!” Glaeser says in joking indignation. “I love them all equally.”
Although he dares not divulge the number of ties and bow ties in his possession, Glaeser admits to having “a slight problem with bow tie acquisition.”
When asked about his own transition to remote work, Glaeser redirected the conversation to the struggles students face.
“It’s a terrible thing to come of age in an era of quarantine, that your college years are spent in a way that’s separated from other people,” Glaeser says. “And everything else seems kind of small relative to that. The goal is to try and do our best to create some of the magic of a Harvard experience, even though we can’t be in the same room.”
But the in-person interactions Glaeser praised in his 2011 book are not dead, he believes. We still have a “hunger for being together with other people,” and even outside of his own research, Glaeser knows that the ability of cities to bring people together will remain irreplaceable.
“The reason why I believe that people learn from people around them is, that has been my experience my entire life,” Glaeser says. “I believe much more in the power of human capital externalities — that’s econ speak for the spillover of having smart people around you — because my entire life I have benefited enormously from being physically around people who are smart and creative, whether or not this was in the halls of the social science building theater of Chicago, or in Littauer.”

—Staff writer Claire H. Guo can be reached at claire.guo@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @clairehguo.
Sections
Last spring, the Harvard Student Mental Health Liaisons held a meeting to discuss “institutionalizing the consideration of students’ mental health” at Harvard. Months later, in the fall, Hannah R. Alton ’22 and Elizabeth T. Wang ’23 founded a chapter of Active Minds, the nation’s leading mental health organization for students and young adults, on Harvard’s campus. As the chapter enters its second semester, its co-presidents hope to continue its growth.
Alton and Wang say they are particularly excited to bring their experience with mental health advocacy to Active Minds’ network of over 550 chapters in high schools and universities across the country. They have previously served as mentors and liaisons in the mental health space at Harvard, facilitating dialogue between Counseling and Mental Health Services and the student body. As Student Mental Health Liaisons — also known as SMHLs — Alton and Wang say they hosted neighborhood office hours to bring counselors into residential houses and dormitories, inviting students to communicate mental health concerns directly to the counselors. In fact, they say, many ideas for improving the resources CAMHS offers were born out of conversations during these office hours.
However, CAMHS suspended all peer counseling programs the spring of 2020 because the groups could not receive needed supervision during the pandemic. And as part of an effort to combine several student-run peer campus health education groups into a single organization, four such groups — including the Drug and Alcohol Peer Advisors (DAPA) and Consent Advocates and Relationship Educators (CARE) — have been temporarily inactivated. They will be combined into a new, all-inclusive organization with an anticipated launch this fall. SMHL, too, will undergo changes, although HUHS has not specified what form they will take. “Even though everything was put on pause, the problem is that people are still struggling,” Alton says.
In particular, Active Minds hopes to focus on fighting the stigma around mental health treatment on campus, according to its co-presidents. “It is a persistent issue in seeking help,” Alton says. To address this stigma, Active Minds “puts out recommendations to make campuses more responsive to the needs of students,” Alton says, and they plan to do the same at Harvard. The organization plans to “provide frameworks and strategies for policy changes” related to mental health programming and literacy, according to Alton. Some of their ideas include leave of absence policy changes, printing phone numbers to mental and emotional health resources on the back of student ID cards, and consolidating the peer mental health groups’ web pages.
Active Minds is planning “Movies for Mental Health” with the Undergraduate Council, a series of events in which they will screen thought-provoking short films produced by students, then guide student discussions of topics addressed in the films. “We are hoping to draw as many people in the student body as possible to these events,” Alton says. “We’re looking forward to being able to provide a non-judgemental space to contribute to the de-stigmatization of mental health at Harvard.”
Alton and Wang note that remote learning during the pandemic has introduced a new set of mental health challenges that have compounded existing issues. “It’s harder than ever for students to know what resources are available to them,” Wang says.
A UC Student Experience Survey conducted last spring asked participants which resources required for academic success they felt they lacked; the second most frequent response was “health and wellbeing resources.” Another question asked students to describe their awareness of virtual wellbeing resources on a scale from unaware to extremely aware; the majority of students answered that they were somewhat aware or less aware. Alton and Wang took particular note of how, according to the survey, the majority of students indicated that their mental health had worsened since the pandemic started.
Alton and Wang hope that by bringing Active Minds to Harvard, the organization can help “make student mental health resources more visible and more accessible to people,” especially at a time in which student demand for such resources has increased.
CORRECTION: March 22, 2021
A previous version of this article incorrectly stated that Harvard would launch its new merged peer health education group in spring 2021. In fact, it plans to launch the group in fall 2021.
— Staff writer Dannie C. Bell can be reached at dannie.bell@thecrimson.com.
Sections
“I found it.”
“But I saw it first.”
“But I found it.”
“But I saw it first.”
“What about me? I figured out the clue.”
I didn’t actually think that was a valid claim, but it was nice to stir the pot for once, having so many times been the one shoved into the stew. My father yelled to us from the kitchen, diffusing what, in a few minutes, would’ve become a fistfight. We came back to the table to plead our cases for the coveted $10 prize for finding the Afikomen, the ceremonial piece of matzah hidden for us to find each year. My two brothers and I sat, Max and Zack fuming at each other but feigning best behavior to gain credibility as the Seder went on. Next, the tale of the Four Sons — wicked, wise, simple, and meek — which my father likes to tell.
“Our ancestors, being newly freed from slavery, are en route to the promised land, but they are so fed up with their whining kids that they decide to take a break from trekking through the Egyptian desert to record for posterity what made each of them a unique pain in the ass.”
The table erupted, and the yearly tradition ensued: a fond recollection of Max’s wicked deeds of the year, a listing of my latest academic achievements, and — being the catch-all for simple and meek — a reminder that Zack, however old he gets, will always be the baby. For reasons I would only understand later on, each of us is incredibly proud of our ancestral trait.
The meal went on. The fight resolved, as it always did, with Saba Moshe reaching into his wallet to give consolation prizes to the sore losers. For dessert, we shared chocolate matzah and passed around a plate of berries and melons. Moshe, taking a big bite of a watermelon slice, said, “You don’t know how to pick a watermelon. I will show you what a good watermelon is,” suppressing a cough as he spoke by clearing his throat. He and Nanny Rita rehashed their constant argument about his retirement, and wasn’t he too old to be driving Uber still, and did he plan to drive himself to death?
Soon, bellies were full. Young grandchildren were antsy. And old grandchildren bickered. And cousin Talia was drunk. And the rest of the adults were ready for bed. And Glenda complained. And Rita nagged. But no one got up. And Moshe was happy.
He schlepped us to the airport the next day, as he always did, and we flew home. And some weeks later, Moshe, halfway to the door on his way to work, collapsed onto the couch, where Rita found him, struggling to remain upright as he hyperventilated — in and out and in and out. Seconds went by like minutes, minutes like hours. Sirens blared in the distance.
I was in the city visiting my friend Leah that day, trying to circumvent the rising tension at home. Since the lockdown had stripped all semblance of autonomy from our lives, my family resorted to exerting it on one another. Max’s right to sing trumped my right to quiet. My parents’ right to company conceded to Zack’s right to isolation. There were conflicting claims to use the bathroom and equal entitlements to the good spot on the couch, to the last avocado, to host a friend in the backyard. It was suffocating.
I needed the escape, to pretend things were normal. I imagined it was okay to visit a friend, get a coffee, go for a walk. I imagined Leah’s smile under her mask. I imagined my family missed me. I imagined a lot of things.
After I got the call that my grandfather was in the hospital, I spent the drive home crying and worrying for him. No, I didn’t. I was too busy dictating dozens of iterations of a text to Leah to tell her I may have infected her, too worried of whom she might tell, of how I might look, of what might come of my recklessness. I blew past my exit.
At least when I finally got home, my family took the opportunity to come together to hope and pray. Except, we didn’t. We just fought about who had been most irresponsible: What were you even thinking, Sam? Do they not teach common sense at Harvard? How my father had stayed an extra week in Florida and infected us. How he had to quarantine in his room, now — like right now, Dad, get away from us! How we couldn’t leave the house for any reason. How we had to go get tests. How Max had still been out smoking weed with his friends. How Zack was a narc and to hell with you we all bring our own bongs.
We left the kitchen table in tears. We didn’t mention Moshe once.
Exhales, but not his own, even and mechanical, as if from inside a spacesuit as he hurdled alone through the vast expanse of black. Sedated. Intubated. Alone. Only the beeping intervals of his heart monitor for company. At least that’s all we could imagine from the curt, methodical updates the doctors gave my grandmother over the phone, which she relayed to us at home.
But we couldn’t imagine it, not really. We hardly wanted to. We busied ourselves with mindless work and sleepwalking through the hallways of our house, organizing closets we hadn’t used in years, getting on each other’s nerves for no other reason than it was something to do.
When Saba Moshe eventually died, it came as a relief. Yes, it did. We were out of limbo. We could finally grieve, which was something we had learned how to do, had practiced and perfected when Great Grandpa Morris died on New Year’s Day and when Poppy Billy died the summer before that.
But then we remembered we couldn’t go to the funeral. We couldn’t see Nanny Rita. And Aunt Jennifer wanted to delay the burial until she could get a flight from Israel. There were no flights from Israel; there were no flights anywhere. There was no way for us to connect with him, to really know him in the way you only can while sitting around the kitchen table at a shiva. There would be no old friends to meet, no war stories we hadn’t heard before. Well, at least there was Zoom. Meager morsels for starving hearts.
— Staff writer Sam D. Cohen can be reached at sam.cohen@thecrimson.com.
Sections
Lights, dimmed. Blinds, drawn. Masks, up.
Dust settles on sprawling tables where diners once dug into shared platters elbow to elbow, a scene most restaurants now recall only as a distant memory. After Massachusetts issued a state-wide shutdown of all bars and restaurants on March 17, 2020, restaurants felt the impact immediately: no customers meant no sales, and no sales meant dozens of furloughs, lay-offs, and closures. As the pandemic dragged on, restaurant staff scrambled to keep up with the ever-shifting indoor and outdoor dining guidelines; they would rush to rearrange spaces and bring back employees, only to clear out dining spaces just weeks later as cases climbed. As the traditional brick-and-mortar-based model collapsed, restaurants pivoted online, sparking a wave of attractive, easy-to-launch “ghost restaurants” vying for sales and survival.
Also called ‘cloud kitchens’ or virtual kitchens, ghost restaurants are open for takeout and delivery only. While the concept itself is not new, the rise of convenient delivery service further bolstered by stay-at-home orders and the demand for fast casual meals have catalyzed a recent surge in options. Boston is no exception, as restaurants branch out, market, and launch dozens of these projects through social media and delivery apps.
Take La Ventana, a concept from award-winning chef Jeremy R. Sewall, who runs American seafood staples like Row 34 and Island Creek Oyster Bar. Calling itself a “semi-authentic” taqueria whose name embodies the idea of a “takeout window,” La Ventana is the brainchild of one of Sewall’s chefs from Mexico and is a creative culinary outlet that primarily draws from its own pantry, minimizing the restaurant’s reliance on outside resources.
Chef Ronald S. Liu from Blackfin Collective, a consulting firm that has opened several ghost and brick-and-mortar spots in the past few years, also sees these projects as a unique opportunity to boost a developing Asian food scene in Boston.
“People here on the East Coast are not second- or third-generation immigrants. So there’s a bit more resistance to food that is not ‘authentic,’ and there’s a constant battle between wanting to represent the culture and surviving,” Liu says. “Our priority has always been representation. We want to keep pushing the envelope and improving on the cultural experience using food with Asian-inspired ingredients and backgrounds.” Last year, Blackfin opened Nani Chick’n Bunz, a Japanese fried karaage chicken sandwich ghost restaurant, and is launching Taico, a Taiwanese-Mexican taqueria, later this year.
During the pandemic,the main mission of these ghost restaurants has been to bring back as many employees as possible and to keep paying rent. Raffi and Nina Festekjian — named one of Boston’s cutest culinary couples in 2018 — opened a burger restaurant, Nu Burger, in Time Out Market last August. But after Time Out Market went “into hibernation” for the winter, they reopened Nu Burger as a ghost restaurant.
“You have the staff, you have the capacity to do it, and you want to continue the brand so it doesn’t die. It helps create brand awareness and keeps my employees,” Raffi Festekjian says. “I have good employees trained who you could lose six months later, so it’s important I open and stick around to make ends meet.”
While the freedom offered by ghost kitchens to create with minimum startup fees is attractive, drumming up significant hype for their potential to alter the restaurant industry, starting and sustaining a ghost restaurant is a rocky road filled with logistical and financial potholes. Encouraging people to go out of their way and try new food is a major hurdle in a crowded field, Liu says, and newcomers also tend to rush blindly into the red tape of legality and liability, particularly with the risk of employee infections.
Delivery apps are mainstays for ghost restaurants, but exorbitant fees of 15 percent or more cut into already hard-to-earn profits. While some owners like Raffi Festekjian had already integrated with the delivery ecosystem pre-pandemic, Sewall speaks for the vast majority of restaurateurs: “I don’t love them by any stretch of the imagination. The fees and the money they are charging make it really difficult to do business with them. Long-term, it’s just not possible to operate with these services.”
While the boom of ghost restaurants may bust due to the unsustainable business model, the pressures of the pandemic have already shifted the restaurant industry in a different manner: bringing restaurants and the local community closer together.
“One of my neighbors, she’s been just an angel. She takes orders from everybody, drives into our restaurant on Fridays, and delivers food to everybody’s house,” Sewall says. As the community rallies around favorite local spots, restaurants, too, are giving back with hundreds of thousands of free meals to homeless shelters and hospitals in the area.
Roz O. Freeman, Director of Entrepreneurship at the Boston-based food business support organization Commonwealth Kitchen, particularly believes in the power of cross-restaurant partnerships. During the pandemic, Commonwealth Kitchen launched CommonTable, a program that funds a network of independent restaurants owned by immigrants, and people of color to prepare meals for community organizations.
In addition to delivering meals, CommonTable connects its city-wide network of restaurants together on weekly Zoom calls to chat about business and check-in emotionally.
“These restaurant owners have now gone to see each other’s spaces, and help others think about setting up their space differently to account for Covid flow, or help out with their point-of-sales system,” Freeman says. “By continuing to meet on a regular basis, we make sure that they have this space to create and connect.”
Building off of this program’s success, Commonwealth Kitchen is now preparing to launch the Restaurant Resiliency Initiative, which will fund a cohort of eight restaurants and create a broad network of continued support. The program’s Facebook group will especially encourage members to share and carry on teamwork strategies developed during the pandemic, like group purchasing of food and raw materials, to the post-pandemic world.
As the Boston community approaches such a world, local restaurant owners are eager to dust off the tables and welcome diners back to bustling kitchens and bars. Traditional brick-and-mortar eating establishments — from the locals’ go-to diner to the avant-garde fusion sushi place — will thrive once more as ghost restaurants may fade back into culinary side projects.
“I hope this doesn’t scare off people who want to open their own little place for the first time and do something that is unique and special,” Sewall says. “The diversity of the restaurant industry has been one of its greatest strengths and something I really love about it.”
— Staff writer Felicia Y. Ho can be reached at felicia.ho@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @HoPanda007.
Sections
Like many other towns, the Weymouth, Mass. community comes together on the aluminium bleachers on Friday nights and cheers for its football team. But in Weymouth, the crowd doesn’t only cheer for the team — it also cheers for the thin blue line flag being marched out onto the field.
The flags first appeared in classrooms and sports games soon after Weymouth Police sergeant Michael Chesna was killed in the line of duty only blocks away from the high school in 2018. There’s no doubt he made the ultimate sacrifice. But even though the town seemed to come together in the months following that July day, we are now more divided than ever before. In the last few weeks, two petitions have been circulating through Weymouth: one to take down the high school’s Blue Lives Matter flags, and the other to keep them up.
***
There’s an age-old fantasy of the “classic” New England town. It paints its street lines red, white, and blue, and it celebrates Fourth of July on the beach with a band. When the leaves turn color, it celebrates with the Great Pumpkin Give-A-Wey, during which the town sets up a fundraiser with music, food, and bouncy castles for the kids. That vision is beautiful — it’s the image of a town where people know each other. I lived in that town, in that archetypal colonial house with stairs so creaky that drafts seeping in past the wooden shutters would set them off. It still holds on to old traditions — in fact, it’s one of the few towns in the country that still prohibits self-serve gas stations. Next year, we will celebrate our 400th anniversary. But now that town seems so stuck in its ways that it struggles to look around and see something bigger than itself.
The hard truth is that Weymouth, much like its neighbors in the South Shore, is fraught with tensions that have been simmering for years. The predominately white town received an influx of residents during the “white flight” period in Boston of the 1960s through the 1980s, when forced desegregation in Boston led to violent resistance that ultimately resulted in the mass movement of white families to the Boston suburbs. Majority low-income and minority families were left confined to Boston’s underfunded and aging schools and neighborhoods.
Now, the town reaps what it has sown.
Last month, Bodhi J. Kolwaite, a senior at Weymouth High School, started a petition in collaboration with other students of color to remove the school’s Blue Lives Matter flags. Kolwaite, who is of Japanese and Polish decent, describes the school’s display of the flag as a “serious issue that actually affects us,” and explains that he has felt “an undercurrent of racial discrimination throughout [his] entire life here.” His experience, he says, is one of many. In fact, students made an Instagram page last July dedicated to shedding light on the town’s discrimination, which includes dozens of student accounts about being subject to racial slurs and microagressions.
Luke E. Seto, a co-author of the petition who is of Chinese descent, says that a few weeks ago, a parent focus group was called together because they believed “Weymouth [High School] was disproportionately punishing students of color over white kids.” Kolwaite himself says he has noticed that in independent work stations, a form of punishment where students are not allowed to go to class, “every single person in there was a person of color.” In a town where over 80 percent of the population is white, he described this as “suspicious.”
For some students, the omnipresence of the pro-police flags that have become indelibly connected with the rejection of the Black Lives Matter movement have made them increasingly uncomfortable.
Seto explained that now more than ever, especially with protests against police brutality and the Capitol riots, “it is a good time to be more critical of the things people of color find to be intimidating and offensive.” This flag, he says, is one of them. “[School officials] are looking past all these situations of police brutality and they are choosing to ignore real things that are happening,” Seto continues.
When asked about these issues, Eileen Pitts, Assistant to the Superintendent, responded that they “understand the differing perspectives surrounding modern social topics and the resulting profound emotions and feelings. We will continue to have conversations around these complex issues. We are committed to provide a safe and supportive learning environment for all our students and staff in the Weymouth School District.”
Kolwaite, Seto, and many other students believe that it is the school’s duty to work to right the wrongs of history. Taking down the school’s flags is just one step in the right direction.
“In 2021, to be an educator or someone who works with students [and] to be ignorant about the sociopolitical climate of today is a choice,” Kolwaite says. “You are choosing to be ignorant. It is your responsibility as an educator to know about these things and if you don't, you are doing a great disservice to every person you are in charge of, especially people of color. This willful ignorance is rooted in racism.”
Since creating their petition, Kolwaite, Seto, and their friends have received hateful backlash from people in and outside of the town. Kolwaite described being inundated with phone calls and racial slurs. One night, Kolwaite awoke terrified at the sound of what he thought were gunshots. He then went outside and realized that someone had set off fireworks on his front lawn at 3 a.m.
Another student at the school, writing under a pseudonym, also created a petition aimed at keeping the Blue Lives Matter flag in Weymouth with the description, “Bodhi Kolwaite is the biggest clown on the south shore [sic].” The same Change.org petition was recently altered to include the real name of its author — Ryan Lindblom, a Weymouth High junior who addressed this petition to “Everyone with a brain.” The new description defends the flag as a tribute to late Sgt. Michael Chesna, and argues that its removal would dishonor his memory and is completely unrelated to politics.
But Kolwaite, Seto, and supporters of the first petition argue that that petition seems to be missing the point. They want to find a way that honors all the lives that shouldn’t have been lost, which includes both Sgt. Chesna and people who have died at the hands of those in power.
“We could find a better way to honor him, because he should be honored and everybody agrees on that. But using that specific flag ties him to a racist entity which isn’t what he was and shouldn’t be portrayed as,” Rorie M. Tobin, a Weymouth resident and 2019 Weymouth High graduate, says.
As Seto explains, the flag is about something more than Weymouth. It exists outside of its parks and parades and pumpkin celebrations. In order to realize that, he says residents must look “past the borders of Weymouth” and recognize that the fact that students feel uncomfortable and unwelcome should be enough for the school to take action.
— Staff writer Grace R. O’Sullivan can be reached at grace.osullivan@thecrimson.com. 
Sections
"I used to liken it to fish,” says Katherine K. Merseth, a lecturer at the Harvard Graduate School of Education. “Harvard College students are incredible fish; they can swim upstream and downstream and at ease and over rocks. But they don't know there's water.”
Since 2011, Merseth has worked to make her students aware of the “water” — the education systems they have excelled in and often taken for granted. Her course, General Education 1076: “Equity and Excellence in K-12 American Schools,” was designed to expand Harvard students’ “very myopic view” of the historical, political, social, and economic roles that education plays, according to Merseth. Students review case studies, develop policy proposals, and visit a Boston-area school, often unlike the secondary schools they attended.
The course has exploded in popularity since its inception. Merseth has gone from teaching 50 students in a year to 160 students each semester and is still unable to keep up with the demand of 400 to 600 students who enter the course lottery annually.
But on Jan. 14, after nearly a decade of teaching Gen Ed 1076, Merseth received an email informing her that her course could not be offered in the next academic year due to budget constraints. When she asked for more information on how this decision was made, Laura E. Hess, director of the General Education program, responded assuring her that “this was not an intellectual decision about the merit of your course or teaching.” Merseth was told that the committee considered “meeting programmatic and curricular needs,” “recency of offering,” and whether or not a course head is a member of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences to decide what was cut.
“The FAS must pay the non-FAS schools for any courses offered by non-FAS faculty,” wrote Amanda J. Claybaugh, Dean of Undergraduate Education, in an emailed statement to The Crimson. “The FAS gives the Gen Ed program funds for this every year [. . .] Unfortunately, this year, those funds were cut by one third, forcing the Gen Ed program to make some very painful choices.”
Hess told The Crimson that Gen Ed 1076 is one of six Gen Ed courses taught by faculty from Harvard’s professional schools that have had their financial support deferred to next year. College spokesperson Rachael Dane stated to The Crimson for an earlier article that all non-FAS Gen Eds will be offered every other year going forward. Hess and Dane declined to provide further comment for this article.
Merseth was devastated to learn of this restriction, and her feelings were echoed by her former students. Nina B. Elkadi ’22, a Crimson staff writer, was first a student in the course, then one of its course assistants, then head pedagogical fellow. Elkadi says she felt the news in her gut. “It’s just really upsetting,” she says, “that what has been such an impactful and important way for students to find their potential career path, or even just something that they hope to keep in their heart moving forward, is no longer going to be offered.”
The day after hearing news of the cancellation, Elkadi joined Allison P. Pao ’21, a former Crimson staff writer, and Meaghan E. Townsend ’21 – both former students and pedagogical fellows for the course – in writing a petition to eight members of Harvard’s administration to reverse their decision.
“We believe that there can be no excuse for delaying this course to the 2022-23 academic year,” they wrote. “It sends the message that education as a field of study can be deferred during a moment when it has never been more pressing.”
Nearly 1,000 students, faculty, and alumni have signed the petition, but the authors say they are still navigating slow and inconsistent responses from administrators. Their scheduled meeting with Claybaugh and College Dean Rakesh Khurana has been postponed to Feb. 11. After the Gen Ed committee refused to meet with the petition organizers, Professor David M. Cutler ’87, co-chair of the committee, addressed the situation in a comment in the Harvard Class of 1987 alumni Facebook group. His comment stated that the Gen Ed committee’s budget for non-FAS courses was cut by a third “even before the COVID crisis,” though Claybaugh had earlier stated that the cut occurred “this year.”
In an emailed statement, Cutler clarified that prior to the pandemic, the Gen Ed committee had been asked to moderate expenses for future years in response to the FAS’s already significant budget deficit and the rising costs of the new Gen Ed program launched in fall 2019. Despite the discourse on social media and the confusion surrounding the timeline and reasoning behind the policy changes, Merseth says she has not received further direct communication regarding the future of her course.
Aman A. Panjwani ’20, who signed the petition, is doubly disappointed by this decision as both a former student in the course and as a former member of the Gen Ed committee . When he sat on the committee in 2019-20, Panjwani saw firsthand the criteria used to review and approve courses.
“Undoubtedly — I can't say this in stronger terms — this course would have met the highest level of Gen Ed committee evaluation,” he says. “There are other courses that were nowhere near this threshold of quality that you could cut for funding reasons. This is not the one to go.”
To the authors of the petition, restricting Gen Ed 1076 to every other year exacerbates what they see as a stigma already surrounding educational studies at Harvard. “It just feels like the field of study I’ve chosen and the career path I’ve chosen is not valued at the College,” Pao says. “This is about a lot more than just one course.”
Paths to studying and pursuing a career in education at the College are few and far between. Founded in 2018, the Educational Studies secondary is one of only a few programs at Harvard dedicated to promoting careers in education. Over 80 percent of students in this secondary have taken Gen Ed 1076, according to Townsend.
“[The Gen Ed committee] didn't think about programmatic or curricular needs,” Merseth says, “because our course, the only course taught about K-12 education, is also a huge gateway course to both the Educational Studies secondary and the Harvard Teacher Fellows program . . . there's so few [alternatives] that it really is impactful.”
Julie A. Reuben, director of the secondary, wrote in an emailed statement, “There are a number of current courses that serve as entry points for students into the Ed Secondary and we are committed to work with faculty at FAS, HGSE and the other professional schools to continue to develop new courses that serve the needs of students interested in education.” In the series of events Cutler describes in his Facebook post, Reuben was consulted in advance and approved of cutting Gen Ed 1076 next year. Reuben responded in an emailed comment that Cutler may have “misunderstood” her involvement in the process. She clarified that when Hess told her about the decision that had already been made, she did not oppose it or try to get the Gen Ed committee to change it, explaining “I don't think it is appropriate for me as the director of the Ed Secondary to tell the Gen Ed program how it should make its decisions.” Cutler later stated that this portion of his Facebook comment had been in error.
Harvard Teacher Fellows, the other main program in education at the College, offers seniors and alumni funding and mentorship opportunities to launch their careers in teaching. The program’s Faculty Director Noah S. Heller explains, “Unfortunately, K-12 teaching is still not a high-status profession.” Surrounded by peers entering fields that offer greater pay and prestige, Heller says, students are implicitly discouraged from going into education.
Dashiell F. Young-Saver ’16, a former student in Gen Ed 1076 currently embarking on a career in teaching, puts it even more bluntly: “It’s a curse on your record to say that you work in a K-12 school, because how could you take such a Harvard degree and waste it?”
The “curse” that Young-Saver describes is supported by The Crimson’s most recent annual Senior Survey, which revealed that 63 percent of the Class of 2020 would enter the finance, consulting, or technology industries after graduation. Only 2 percent planned to work in education.
For Evelyn Wong ’21, Gen Ed 1076 was the gateway that changed her trajectory. Early in the pandemic, she founded the nonprofit CovEducation, a free mentorship service that supports nearly 4,000 K-12 students. For Wong, a neuroscience concentrator, Merseth’s course was critical to Wong’s realization that there are ways to have a meaningful impact on education beyond teaching. Merseth’s support for Wong continued after completing the course; Merseth has been a vocal supporter of CovEd since its inception last March. “CovEd would have never happened if I didn’t take [Gen Ed 1076],” Wong says.
Wong’s experience is just one of many such stories.
Panjwani now works at Schoolhouse.world, a platform founded by Sal Khan of Khan Academy to provide free tutoring to students across the globe. Young-Saver went on to teach AP Statistics and develop Skew The Script, a free and socially-relevant math curriculum. Pao is working on her Social Studies thesis focusing on civics education. Townsend will graduate this spring into the Harvard Teacher Fellows program. Wong still plans to become a scientist, but she envisions weaving teaching into her future work as a professor and into relationships with other students.
Despite their diverse set of experiences, all of these students say they found their start in Gen Ed 1076, and all look back on Merseth’s course as a turning point in their lives.
“At the heart of everything is that class, and Professor Merseth, and our community,” Young-Saver says. “And if you take the heart out, limbs will die.”
—Magazine writer Sophia S. Liang can be reached at sophia.liang@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter at @totalPHIAsco
—Magazine writer Francesca J. Barr can be reached at francesca.barr@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter at @cescabarr 
Sections
On Feb. 9, 2021, the first day of former President Donald J. Trump’s second impeachment trial, Ted Cruz (R-Texas) joined 43 other Republican senators in declaring the proceedings unconstitutional. His vote ran counter to the legal opinion of many leaders in the Federalist Society — the massively influential, behind-the-scenes conservative legal network with roots at Harvard that helped Cruz rise to power.
Steven Calabresi, one of the Society’s co-founders, even signed a bipartisan letter affirming the constitutionality of Trump’s second impeachment.
This was among the first visible fissures in an organization that reached its peak of power during the Trump administration. During his presidency, Trump appointed three judges to the Supreme Court and 54 to the federal Courts of Appeals. All but eight of them have close ties to the Federalist Society, almost double of those appointed under President George W. Bush.
Another signatory of the letter, Charles Fried — the faculty advisor to the Harvard Federalist Society — attributes this rise to a “devil’s bargain” in which the legal network traded its intellectual honesty for influence.
But other critics of the organization say this is closer to a natural alliance: that the Federalist Society has never been intellectually consistent, and that the legal theories it advocates have all along been cover for the naked pursuit of partisan policy goals.
Regardless, the Federalist Society’s rise from little more than an alternative conservative journal started by students who felt picked on at Harvard Law in the 1970s — the same journal with which Ted Cruz got his start — has been meteoric.
In the four decades since its founding, the Federalist Society’s network has radically altered the shape of the American legal system. Beyond placing judges in the nation’s highest courts and influencing presidential administrations, it has remade the very way judges write opinions, pushing once-fringe interpretive theories of originalism and textualism into the foreground of American law and offering judges the language to justify previously unthinkable decisions, which favor conservative and libertarian political aims. Harvard Law School was the cradle for and has been, in many ways, a driving force behind the organization’s success.
A month before Trump’s second trial, when Cruz objected to the certification of the presidential election just hours after the insurrection those objections had helped incite, Harvard Law School professor Duncan Kennedy thought back to the grievances he believed gave rise to the Federalist Society.
“The rage of some Harvard law students [in the 1980s] at being bullied and ostracized translates directly into the vote of Ted Cruz in the Senate last week,” he said.
Indeed, Cruz’s frustration from those days when conservatives were laughed out of classrooms has followed him past the gates of Harvard Law. It may have been a strain of that same frustration which led him to falsely claim, before an audience of conservative activists at a 2010 Americans for Prosperity luncheon in Austin, Texas, “There were fewer declared Republicans in the faculty [at Harvard Law School] when we were there than Communists!”
The senator’s false conviction, according to his press office, traces back to a struggle at Harvard in the 1980s over Critical Legal Studies: a left-wing academic movement so threatening to the conservative establishment that the backlash it faced helped fuel the Federalist Society’s staggering ascent.
Cruz continued, “There was one Republican. But there were twelve who would say they were Marxists who believed in the Communists overthrowing the United States government.”
In 1985, within the mahogany-paneled walls of the Harvard Club of New York City, the Federalist Society held a debate that helped turn the tides of power in their favor. For if the battle that had given rise to the conservative legal movement centered on the future of legal education, then Harvard was the first theater of the war.
Alumni across New York had received provocative letters inviting them to “learn more about the intellectual crisis confronting Harvard Law School and legal education in general.” The “crisis” in question was the rise of Critical Legal Studies (CLS) — which, as Duncan Kennedy explained to the audience, asked students to examine how “the system by which the rich and powerful, white and male, stay rich and powerful, generation after generation, has a very strong legal component.”
The invitation letter, sent by the Harvard Federalist Society (then still called the Harvard Society for Law and Public Policy) and the national Federalist Society, was so derisive of CLS that one left-wing speaker withdrew from the event, and panelists who did participate condemned the letter in their opening remarks.
The panel featured four Harvard professors. Paul M. Bator and Robert C. Clark spoke for the conservative position, while Kennedy represented CLS, and Abram Chayes, as he referred to himself, “the muddy middle.”
At stake was the political right’s ability to gain control of the American law school, and thus over the future of American lawyers and the law. The rise of CLS also seemed to reinforce the narrative of institutional bias against conservatives, a resentment parallel to that which, 35 years later, animated the belief that the 2020 election had been stolen.
As Clark told the audience in New York, Harvard Law School’s atmosphere appeared to be: “Let a thousand flowers bloom, so long as they’re all leaning sharply to the left.”
Since its emergence at Harvard in the early 1970s, the CLS movement had, by 1985, turned the school into the stage for what Clark deemed at the New York event to be a “prolonged, intense, bitter conflict among different groups of faculty members.” The rivalry came as close to a civil war as faculty lounge bickering can get — the Law School was sometimes referred to as “Beirut on the Charles.”
CLS existed at other schools, but as Bator told that room of over 250 alumni in 1985, the movement’s “strongest presence is at Harvard Law School, where its founding trinity teach.”
Though the battle began at Harvard, the Federalist Society’s campus triumphs came to be nearly synonymous with those of the nationwide conservative movement. During his keynote address at the 1988 Federalist Society National Lawyers Convention, then-President Ronald Reagan reveled in the victories he shared with the network: how far they had come in “changing the terms of national debate.”
“Nowhere is that change more evident than in the rise of the Federalist Society on the campuses of America’s law schools,” he continued. “To think of it, in schools where, just a few years ago, the Critical Legal Studies movement stood virtually unchallenged like some misplaced monster of prehistoric radicalism.”
One of the first seeds of the Federalist Society had grown at Harvard eight years before the panel, in 1977, when two students named E. Spencer Abraham and Steven J. Eberhard, feeling frustrated by the domination of liberal and left ideas on campus, started a conservative and libertarian law journal.
They called it “the Harvard Journal of Law and Public Policy” and declared its mission to be the countering of the liberal orthodoxy on campus. Lawrence J. Siskind ’74, one of the Harvard JLPP’s first editors, recalls that he felt the problem went deeper than a mere lack of an outlet for conservative ideas: “We felt that there was definite discrimination.”
The preface to the first issue of the JLPP, published in 1977, concludes with a telling Latin phrase: “Vox clamantis in deserto,” a biblical reference which translates to “the voice of one crying in the wilderness,” or “a wise person whose counsel or warnings are ignored.”
This journal went on to become the official publication of the national Federalist Society and the top journal of conservative legal thought; it is, to this day, among the five most circulated legal journals in the country, according to its website. The Harvard JLPP published the proceedings of the 1982 conference at Yale that formally founded the Federalist Society, distributing its ideas to a wider audience at a time before the internet. The Journal has continued this practice for every annual symposium since.
In bringing the front of the fight beyond the gates of Harvard Yard and to New York City in 1985, the Harvard Federalist Society mobilized the might of alumni pressure, warning of a communist takeover of their school.
The conservative professors on the panel cast CLS as an existential threat. At risk for the crowd was the prestige of their alma mater, which the professors warned could descend into “mediocrity” should Critical Legal Studies continue to grow unchecked.
Bator and Clark equated the silencing of conservatives with the decline of the school: “The Harvard Law School is the only educational institution I know where it is considered a symptom of right-wing extremism to be in favor of rigorous standards of scholarly excellence,” Bator lamented. Clark claimed that hiring had been paralyzed; no longer was Harvard the desired perch of the nation’s top legal scholars. Professors at other schools, he said, had confided in him that they did not want to enter the trenches of such a bitter conflict.
The Harvard Society of Law and Public Policy, which put on the 1985 panel and later renamed itself the Harvard Federalist Society, was first formed as a nonprofit shell for the Harvard JLPP in 1977. And the group would send a transcript of the panel to every HLS alumnus in the NYC area, to far-reaching effect.
When the last question had been asked, Duncan Kennedy stepped out of the Harvard Club into the summer air and walked toward Fifth Avenue, looking for a taxi to the airport. But the events that the panel set in motion had just begun.
From these early stirrings, the Society rose to hold such sway that its credentials sometimes appear all but the prerequisite for obtaining a judgeship on the federal bench.
October 30, 2019 was perhaps the biggest day in Lawrence J.C. VanDyke’s career — the day of his Senate confirmation hearing for the seat on the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals to which Donald Trump had nominated him. But things weren’t going exactly as planned. The night before, the American Bar Association had sent out a withering letter concerning his qualifications for the job. The group had interviewed 43 lawyers, 16 judges, and one other person who had worked with VanDyke, and come to the conclusion that he was, in the end, “Not Qualified.”
When VanDyke was a student at Harvard Law School and an editor of the Harvard Journal of Law and Public Policy, he penned an op-ed in the Harvard Law Record expressing his worries about same-sex marriage. He wrote in the 2004 article that there is “ample reason for concern that same-sex marriage will hurt families, and consequentially children and society,” and insisted that “it isn’t ‘absurd’ to be concerned about threats to religious freedom given the chimera of ‘tolerance’ affiliated with homosexual rights.”
It perhaps should not have come as a surprise, then, when Senator Joshua D. Hawley (R-Mo.) — a leading voice behind calls to overturn the 2020 presidential election — gently asked VanDyke, “The [ABA] letter also says that you would not commit to being fair to litigants before you, notably, members of the LGBTQ community. Can you speak to that? Did you say that you wouldn’t be fair to members of the LGBT community?”
But VanDyke appeared to feel as though he were an innocent man, tired of constantly being accused of this, the same old crime.
“Senator, that was the part of the letter…”
He could not go on; the question had hit a nerve. Tears filled VanDyke’s eyes and his face turned a deep red. He began to cry.
Lawyer and journalist Dahlia Lithwick co-wrote in Slate following the hearing, “Despite his years of anti-LGBTQ writings and advocacy, VanDyke was the one who felt persecuted.”
The ABA letter stated that interviewees had described VanDyke as “arrogant, lazy, an ideologue, and lacking in knowledge of the day-to-day practice including procedural rules.”
Lithwick continued, “What, exactly, does VanDyke have to cry about? That someone hurt his feelings? That after a career spent maligning and excluding gay Americans from everyday civic life, he feels entitled to glide onto an Article III court without answering for any of it?”
When confirmed, VanDyke became the 50th judge to reach the federal Courts of Appeals, the last stop for a case before the Supreme Court, during the Trump administration; the president would name four more before the end of his term. Having appointed 30 percent of the judges across the circuits, Trump can claim to have effectively reshaped the American judiciary. Or rather, the Federalist Society can.
Forty years after its founding, the Society claims some 70,000 acolytes. However, those who study it, including some leaders of the group themselves, have explained that while many people do pay membership dues, to limit one’s sense of the Federalist Society to its card-carrying members would be to misunderstand its shape. These scholars propose, instead, that we think of it as a network, or as a movement, rather than a static organization.
While this movement’s power has swollen under Trump, its momentum has been building since the controversy that roiled Harvard Law School in the 1970s and 1980s, and in particular, in the aftermath of the Harvard Club panel of May, 1985.
In June of that year, Harvard Law School alumni across the greater New York City area opened their mailboxes to another letter from the Federalist Society. This time, what they found was not an invitation, but a transcript.
In a letter addressed “Dear Harvard Law School Alumnus,” David M. Bader ’81, then-president of the Harvard Federalist Society, and Eugene B. Meyer ’64, who has held the top position in the national organization since his appointment in 1983, announced that they had “decided to send the attached transcript to all the Harvard Law School alumni in the greater New York City area.” Even if they had not attended the panel themselves, they would be able to experience the event as if firsthand.
Duncan Kennedy remembers a later conversation with one of the conservative architects of the 1985 panel. It was then that Kennedy realized how much the event had helped turn the tides in favor of the Federalist Society at Harvard and beyond. The man told him, “Well boy, did you screw up!”
Kennedy’s comments, flattened into printed form, seemed to confirm all the stereotypes about a leftist takeover of the symbolic heart of meritocracy that anyone could harbor. The event had turned the private battle of campus conservatives into a national cause for concern.
The ensuing alumni pressure on HLS was so intense that Harvard had to establish a special temporary communications office. Clark’s appointment to the deanship in 1989 — a surprise which, given his championship of the Federalist Society and outspoken stance against CLS, was seen as a victory for conservatism at Harvard — can arguably be traced in part back to the event. So can the founding of the Olin Center for Law, Economics, and Business at Harvard, endowed by conservative philanthropist John M. Olin, whose foundation hoped to realize an explicit political agenda at HLS with its donation.
The Harvard chapter and JLPP have not only helped build an impressive conservative legal network and roster of judges. The journal has been the vanguard in the Federalist Society’s long-term project of reshaping legal thought, in particular in helping to legitimize and widen the discourse on originalism and textualism, conservative modes of judicial interpretation once considered fringe. Before the Harvard Law Review would publish originalist scholarship, the Harvard JLPP would.
"In the early stages of the Federalist Society, having a publication that could take the proceedings of the conferences and put them into a format where they could be read by many people who couldn't attend helped to get us, to get the Federalist Society, and its activities, better known,” says Spencer Abraham, the Harvard JLPP’s co-founder.
John O. McGinnis ’79, who was among the founding members of the Harvard JLPP and is now a law professor at Northwestern, says there is no doubt “that the Federalist Society has had far more effect than any law school, or law schools collectively, on the nation.”
He explains that originalism was probably not “discussed at all in my Harvard Law School class, and now it’s not only an important theory on the court, I would say, but four of the justices are probably originalists in one way or the other, and two others have a lot of sympathy with originalism.”
Originalism says judges should interpret laws, and in particular the Constitution, to have the meaning they would have had at the time of writing. Meanwhile textualism, at least on paper, holds that laws should be interpreted only according to the actual words in the text of the statute, and nothing more.
Both originalism and textualism have been subjects of widespread critique on from the right and left since their inception. Critics say they are a way of working backward from policy goals, such as dismantling the Affordable Care Act, rather than a bona fide philosophy of jurisprudence. “I think textualism and originalism are a fake. It’s a propaganda tool; it’s a slogan,” says Fried, who served as solicitor general under Ronald Reagan.
Asked how he reconciles the support he’s provided the Federalist Society — which is largely responsible for the rise of originalism — with the fact that he finds the legal theory to be “propaganda,” Fried replied, “debate and discussion.”
Abraham described a positive-feedback loop between the two organizations: The Harvard JLPP helped the Federalist Society reach a broader audience and bring conservative legal ideas into the mainstream; meanwhile, as the Federalist Society has grown, so, too, has the Journal’s readership, and thus its influence over legal thought.
As Kennedy remembers the Federalist Society event planner confiding in him later, “‘That [panel] was the turning point for the Federalist Society — after the debate, our membership at Harvard went up. But it wasn't just at Harvard. All over the country, we got new members as a result of the debate. What were you thinking?’”
When Ted Cruz entered Harvard Law School, in 1992, the Federalist Society was ascendant and CLS mostly on the other side of its prime. Nonetheless, speaking at the Americans for Prosperity luncheon in Austin nearly two decades later, he seem to harbor bitter feelings from a conflict that had all but subsided by the time he arrived.
Cruz had the power he had been looking for: A U.S. senator, he was presenting at an elite conservative summit sponsored by the Koch brothers, the oil refinery magnates known for bankrolling many of the nation’s most influential right-wing and libertarian enterprises, including the Federalist Society.
But he was still sounding the alarm over a leftist insurrection, and although that claim was false, Cruz’s rage was real — a decade before his calls to overturn the 2020 presidential election results and reinstate a president who gave the conservative legal movement unprecedented power. Cruz’s press office did not respond to a request for comment.
The Trump administration marked another inflection point in the Federalist Society’s rise. The group held enormous behind-the-scenes sway in crafting Trump’s list of nominees, its executive vice-president Leonard Leo serving as advisor to Trump’s administration.
But as Fried, the current advisor to the Harvard Federalist Society, explains, to some this power came at cost. The rupture which has become clear within the network since the Jan. 6 insurrection — between support for Trump through his senate trial and a feeling that such support goes beyond the realm of conscionability — may have been bubbling below the surface before then, even as their power reached new heights.
“Well, [the Federalist Society] seems to have been very influential in the Trump administration, because there was a kind of devil’s bargain,” Fried says. “They supported Trump if Trump allowed them to pick the judges, who were overwhelmingly members of the Federalist Society."
The national Federalist Society did not respond to multiple emails with questions about their work with the Trump administration.
The appeals court judges appointed by Trump bring more open support for conservative causes, and are whiter and younger, than the judges appointed by the last three presidents. They are also more likely to have gone to an elite law school.
Sixty-nine percent of Trump’s federal appeals court judges attended a top-ten law school, compared to 51 percent under Obama and 44 percent under Bush. Harvard Law School, long central to the Federalist Society’s ascent, is no exception. Its alumni now hold an inordinate share of seats on the nation’s appeals courts. Because federal judges have lifetime tenure, that influence will persist long after the end of the Trump era.
Eleven of the appellate court judges appointed by Trump — more than 20 percent — attended Harvard Law School. All 11 of those have strong ties to the Federalist Society, with at least nine beginning their paths to the federal bench at the Harvard Federalist Society or the Harvard Journal of Law and Public Policy.
Fried insists that national organization’s support of Trump did not apply to Federalist Society members at Harvard, that no Faustian deals were made in Cambridge. “I don’t think that is at all the disposition of our students at Harvard,” he says. “They are, as I say, courteous, generous, good, people — friendly, and they have none of the repelling qualities members of the Trump administration demonstrated.”
The Harvard Federalist Society also did not respond to multiple requests for comment.
VanDyke was among this group, having graduated from HLS in 2005; his confirmation in December 2019, despite the ABA’s rating of “Not Qualified,” was one of many boons to the Harvard Federalist Society under the Trump administration.
In March 2019, crowds of HLS alumni squeezed into the dimly lit rooms of Russell House Tavern as Donald F. McGahn II, who helped oversee Trump’s judicial selections and spearheaded his deregulation agenda, gave the opening address at the Federalist Society’s annual Harvard Alumni Symposium. Other festivities, beginning the following morning, included an “Abigail Adams Breakfast” and a “Lawyering in the Trump Administration” panel.
After lunch, alumni headed to the first floor of Pound Hall for a “Judicial Nominations Panel.”
Three judges spoke on the panel — Andrew S. Oldham, Jonathan A. Kobes, and John K. Bush; each graduated from HLS in ’05, ’00, and ’89, respectively. All sit on the U.S. Court of Appeals, and all had been appointed in the past three years, under the Trump administration.
Just four short years before, reunion organizers would have had to scour for panelists who fit the bill: federal appeals court judge, HLS alumnus, Federalist Society devotee since law school. But this time, options abounded, a testament to just how much Trump’s presidency meant to the Harvard Federalist Society network.
Before they were judges, these men were clerks — the Federalist Society’s pipeline begins in law schools and runs quietly below the careers of its members, from cocktail hours to the Supreme Court. The past three HLS graduates to obtain clerkships with Supreme Court Justice Clarence Thomas, for instance, held editorial positions on the Harvard JLPP while in law school.
As Charles Fried says of his Harvard student advisees, “There’s no doubt that if you put ‘Federalist Society’ on your resume, particularly ‘officers’ and so on, that will help getting placed with some judges. Some judges will respond to that.”
Of the 11 Harvard Law School alumni that Trump nominated to the appeals court, nine joined the Federalist Society or served as editors of the Harvard JLPP while in law school. Another, Kevin Newsom, joined the Society in 1999, two years after graduating. Thomas Kirsch, the only other one of the Harvard Trump judges who did not become tied to the Federalist Society in law school, lists his official membership as lasting from 2006 to 2007, seven years after he graduated.
The Federalist Society is not the sort of college club you shed like an old coat once you’ve outgrown it and moved on to bigger and better things. It is, rather, the fur cowl that helps you fit in at the party and gets you invited to the next one, and then, with a little bit of effort, you’re the party’s host and the guest will be arriving soon.
Oldham, among the 2019 reunion speakers, took one of many paths along the Harvard Federalist Society pipeline before becoming a part of it himself.
While a student at Harvard Law, Oldham was an editor on the JLPP. After graduation, he obtained a prestigious clerkship on the D.C. Circuit Court for Judge David B. Sentelle. That served as a stepping stone for him to advance to a clerkship on the Supreme Court, with Justice Samuel A. Alito Jr., who has close ties to the Federalist Society. He then served as general counsel to the governor of Texas. Finally, Oldham became a judge himself, nominated by Donald Trump on February 15, 2018.
Soon after Oldham was confirmed to the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals, he accepted an application for a clerkship from Stanford Law student Trevor Ezell. Ezell was co-president of the Stanford chapter of the Federalist Society. After finishing his clerkship with Oldham, Ezell went on to be accepted for a clerkship with Supreme Court Justice Neil Gorsuch, who was nominated by Donald Trump in 2017 and has been a member of the Federalist Society since 1989, when he was a student at Harvard Law School.
Meanwhile, Alito’s roster of law clerks illustrates the clerkship and judgeship network that Harvard Federalist Society members can access.
Fifteen of 68, or 22 percent, of Alito’s clerks are graduates of Harvard Law School. Eleven of those 15 have Federalist Society affiliations.
Three of the Alito clerks ascended from previous clerkships for Judge Diarmuid F. O’Scannlain, who was appointed to the Ninth Circuit of Appeals by Reagan. O’Scannlain went to Harvard Law School and has deep connections to the Federalist Society, including speaking at more than 18 network events since 2003. One of those three clerks, Jose J. Alicea, graduated from Harvard Law School in 2013. While he was there, he served as president of the Harvard chapter of the Federalist Society.
And the system is circular: as the Federalist Society uses its growing influence to appoint more loyal judges, law students have more justices they can count among the ‘some’ who will ‘respond’ to a Federalist Society credential, as Fried puts it. Some of those students are on track to become judges themselves, thus expanding the spiral.
An email sent out at the start of the spring 2021 semester by the Harvard Federalist Society provides insight into the pipeline’s twists and turns, with students who have benefited from the infrastructure becoming a part of it themselves. The email asks those alumni who have had a clerkship in the past 12 months to contribute to “The Clerkship Guide,” which “collects advice from Federalists over the years and is distributed in hard copy towards the end of the academic year.”
“Please consider passing on any tips you learned from your application process to help future Federalists,” the email reads. “Entries generally describe the applicant’s general strategy, the timeline on which they applied/interviewed, what their application looked like, how the interviews were conducted, and any general advice or advice specific to your judge.”
The Harvard chapter has, in the past, tried to disentangle itself from the tethers cinching its national organization to Trump. Annika M. Boone, then-president of the Harvard Federalist Society, told the Crimson in 2018, “It’s not very fair. We certainly don’t have anything to do with the Trump administration.”
But the ‘bargain’ the national Federalist Society made with Trump is a done deal. When considering their careers, Fried explains, students must be pragmatic. “They take account of what that world is,” he says. “And if their disposition is of a conservative sort, that’s going to mean you go with where the bodies are.”
Trump’s time in office has concluded, but, as Fried suggests, for conservative students who want to rise high in the legal world, his legacy may be impossible to avoid.
“Students are much more alive to the existing situation than are faculty because we’re there, we have tenure,” Fried explains. “They’ve got to go into this world. So, they are to be forgiven.”
— Magazine staff writer Malaika K. Tapper can be reached at malaika.tapper@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @malaika_tapper.
Sections
It almost feels like a conversation with a friend.
I stare at my screen as I fill out the Aphrodite Project’s questionnaire, detailing my beliefs and long-term goals to a computer. The Project, which recently expanded to pair up students at Harvard and MIT for Valentine’s Day, promises to find me my “ideal” match.
Co-founder Aiden Low, a senior at The National University of Singapore, cites many sources of inspiration for the Project, including the Stanford Marriage Pact, a survey which claims to use an algorithm to suggest stable marriage pairings. The Aphrodite Project was also a response to complaints that Low observed at his own school and heard from his friends: that students often struggled to date because of their busy schedules and the difficulties of meeting compatible people. “Why not try and create something that could create more meaningful opportunities for love and acceptance?” Low asks.
Low also recalls a specific conversation he had with another student, a transgender woman. Listening to her struggles dating in the “more conservative” environment of Singapore motivated him to focus on inclusivity. To that end, the Project provides a range of gender and sexuality options for participants.
The first iteration of the Aphrodite Project began at The National University of Singapore in 2019. When he went on an exchange to Canada, Low brought the Project with him. Low and his team later expanded the Project to other schools in Singapore, Canada, and Hong Kong, before eventually making their way to Cambridge.
Low reached out to Raphael Chew, his friend and a graduate student at MIT, to initiate the MIT leg of the Project. Based on an informal survey of MIT students and the proximity of the two schools, Chew got the idea of expanding the Project to Harvard. He then reached out to his friend Lionel Oh, a Harvard graduate student, who completed the connection.
“Really the algorithm benefits from having as many people signing up for the Project as possible,” Oh explains. “The broader the pool, the better the matches.”
***
“PS: You’re now past the halfway mark — hang tight!” the website tells me. The depth of the Project begins to dawn on me.
The extensive survey includes more than 70 questions, ranging from the participant’s desire to own a pet to their religious beliefs to their thoughts on drug use. The spectrum of questions is intended to improve the quality of matches.
“The Aphrodite Project is very intentional compared to some of the other matching platforms, particularly because of the psychology research that goes into the questionnaire,” Chew says. Vivian Lai, the team member in charge of brainstorming questions and another leader of the Harvard/MIT matching, has contributed to psychology research at several other universities.
Despite the care and attention put into the questions, some students worry they can be invasive or triggering. “There was one question, and it was like, ‘I would not want to date any applicants of a certain race,’ which kind of rubbed me the wrong way,” says Ian M. Espy ’23. Similarly, Ellen S. Hwang ’24 remembers a question asking about childhood or teenage trauma, which she worried could be too intrusive.
While the Project’s members stress inclusion, the questionnaire allows users looking for a romantic match to list their “dealbreakers,” which can include certain religions, ethnicities, or gender identities. The Aphrodite Project explains in a statement that, since everyone only gets one match, this feature is designed to make matches successful for both parties. “We do not wish for anyone to feel the pain of outright rejection due to any aspect of their own identity,” the statement reads.
However, this decision could contribute to the stereotyping and systemic exclusion often present in the dating scene. Data from other dating apps have demonstrated that certain demographics consistently get fewer matches.
After collecting participants’ responses, the Aphrodite Project utilizes a “Nobel Prize-winning algorithm” to help participants find their perfect match: the Gale-Shapley algorithm. Created by two economists, it is designed so that once everyone is matched, there are no two people who would rather be with each other than with their current matches.
According to Harvard economics professor Dr. Scott D. Kominers ’09, the Gale-Shapley algorithm is “great” for a one-time matchmaking service like the Aphrodite Project. However, he warns there is room for error in how the Project ranks each participant’s prospective matches. “The algorithm requires the assumption that agents have strict preferences over prospective partners,” he says. This assumption means that the Aphrodite Project must use participants’ responses about their own lives and carefully extrapolate to help rank participants’ possible matches.
***
“Now’s your chance: write a short personal message to your match!” Part of me feels like I’m writing to a close friend, while another part reminds me that this person is currently a stranger.
For me, taking the questionnaire was essential to understanding the Project. But most participants have done it for other reasons. “I was like, ‘I have nothing to lose. I’m just going to do it,’” says Hwang, describing her decision to take part in the Aphrodite Project.
The pandemic’s disruptions to campus life also affected her decision. Unlike most freshmen, Hwang is on campus this spring, which has made it difficult to meet new friends.
Once the matches have been made, social distancing could affect their success. “For me personally, it’s really difficult to maintain a lot of relationships over the phone and never be able to see them in person,” Hwang says.
Physical distance is not the only challenge. “People have gotten a lot more awkward just because we’re not interacting with each other,” Espy adds. “I think in terms of actually being social, like physically face-to-face and not over Zoom, [there] is a learning curve.”
According to the Aphrodite Project, it is up to the participants to take necessary precautions if they choose to meet up. “We encourage people to meet at whatever capacity they are comfortable with,” says Chew. “We view ourselves more as connectors, and we allow [participants] to have the power of decision.”
Despite the challenges posed by the pandemic, the Aphrodite Project hopes that they can help alleviate the difficulties of distance by connecting students. “We’re hoping that on two fronts, trying to recreate that connection [to campus] and tying it back to that shared sense of identity, we can help people bridge that physical gap,” Low says.
“Look out for your matches on Saturday, Feb 13th! Fingers crossed.”
— Magazine writer Tess C. Kelley can be reached at tess.kelley@thecrimson.com.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard scientists have developed a new twisted graphene configuration for achieving superconductivity that could help lead to the realization of superconductors at higher temperatures, according to a Feb. 4 paper published in Science.
Members of Physics professor Philip Kim’s group have developed a new superconductor — a material that conducts electricity with zero resistance — by stacking three layers of graphene and twisting them. Graphene is a material consisting of a single sheet of carbon atoms.
The new trilayer system builds upon the 2018 discovery by MIT Physics professor Pablo Jarillo-Herrero’s group that graphene could act as a superconductor when doubly stacked and twisted at a “magic” angle.
Compared to the previous bilayer system, the trilayer is a more robust superconductor; it can carry larger currents, and its layers can be stacked at larger angles, Kim’s group found.
The twisted graphene trilayer system is also capable of superconductivity at higher temperatures than previous bilayer systems. Conventional superconductors only work in extremely cold temperatures — below minus 140 degrees Celsius — at atmospheric pressure, rendering them impractical for everyday use. A better understanding of high-temperature superconductors, however, would allow for technological breakthroughs in many fields, ranging from power transmission and transportation to quantum computing.
This finding will allow scientists to use and study the trilayer graphene as a controllable model system in attempts to unlock the mysteries of high temperature superconductivity.
“It’s very hard to predict what materials are going to superconduct and at what temperature, and having this very tunable material where we can control the superconductivity lets us disentangle those,” co-lead author of the paper and postdoctoral researcher Andrew M. Zimmerman said.
Experimentally, stacking two layers of graphene was already “challenging,” and adding the third layer was even trickier, according to co-lead author and Harvard graduate student Zeyu Hao. Hao said the process required a lot of practice as well as the development of a new technique over the course of a year.
“We developed, based on some previous knowledge, on how to use a so-called atomic force microscope to cut this material — previously, people just tore the material,” Hao said. “When you tear materials, they tend to move, and we’d have these wrinkles that would mess up your twist angle.”
Jarillo-Herrro’s group also published its own realization of the trilayer system in a Feb. 1 paper in the journal Nature. The superconductivity in this graphene system can be controlled with “two knobs” that allow the variation of the charge density and electric field, according to Jarillo-Herrero.
“That is very rare — I’m not sure there is any other material that does that,” Jarillo-Herrero said. “It means you can make devices with it, and you can investigate the properties of the materials in much more detail and obtain much more insight.”
Xi Dai — a physics professor at The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology and materials professor at University of California, Santa Barbara — said the graphene system allows for new research possibilities.
“This is very unique, because we can realize many different interesting states in condensed matter,” Dai said. “Maybe in the next step, we can try some other ways of twisting the trilayer, and also we can try the four-layer system.”
—Staff writer Justin Lee can be reached at justin.lee@thecrimson.com.
—Staff writer Lauren L. Zhang can be reached at lauren.zhang@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
On the way to his first practice of the semester at 7 a.m. Tuesday, Harvard baseball player Matt R. Thomas ’21 was not thinking about the cold weather or the early hour. Rather, Thomas said he only gave thought to his coach’s advice to enjoy those remaining walks across the river.
Student athletes residing on campus began sport-specific training Monday as Harvard proceeded to the next phase of its campus reopening.
Under “Level 3: Yellow,” College students living on campus can congregate outside in groups of 10 and use some University common spaces, including athletics facilities. In lockstep with Level Three, Harvard Athletics rolled out Phase One of its plan to safely bring back athletics to campus over the course of the semester amid the coronavirus pandemic.
As of Monday, athletes can participate in strength and conditioning workouts and sport-specific training, provided they wear face coverings during all practices, congregate in groups of no more than 10, and remain at least 6 feet away from each other, according to Harvard Athletics spokesperson Timothy J. Williamson.
Harvard proceeded with its phased reopening plan after “careful consideration” of public health conditions, according to a statement released by the Dean of Students Office.
As athletes headed back to the fields and courts beginning Monday, training did not look the same as it did roughly a year ago. Still, athletes said they are grateful to play sports again after the coronavirus canceled their seasons.
When men’s basketball player Justice U. Ajogbor ’24 was on campus last semester, he hoped that he would get a freshman year basketball season. In November, though, the Ivy League canceled the winter sports season. As a result, Ajogbor said he is approaching training on campus with long-term goals in mind.
“Now that I know for a fact that we’re not going to have a basketball season this year, it makes it easier to focus on long-term goals and developing my jump shot and developing my ball-handling,” Ajogbor said.
Ajogbor said he enjoyed working out on Monday, when he lifted weights and went through basketball drills with his coaches.
“[I] was a little rusty at first, but as the workout went on, it was kind of fun. I was able to get back in the swing of things,” Ajogbor said.
Women’s basketball player Lindsey S. Lawson ’24, who started training Tuesday, said athletics provides structure to her life on campus.
“I think it’s super important for athletes at this time to have a schedule and structure, so I really appreciated that they’ve opened up facilities already for us,” Lawson said.
Lawson, who said Maria A. Guramare ’21 is her only teammate living on campus, said she welcomes the opportunity to learn from and get to know the veteran Ivy League athlete.
“We’ve only had a few practices so far, but she’s just been such a positive role model for me,” Lawson said. “It's just been really cool having her with me because I wouldn’t have wanted to do it alone.”
Harvard Athletics’ phased approach to on-campus sports this spring resembles the fall semester, when athletes living on campus gradually returned to sport-specific training. This semester, though, Harvard has expedited the introduction of sport-specific training.
“The spring phasing has been altered moderately to allow for more sport-related activity earlier, and is intended as a path to competition, whenever it is deemed safe to resume,” Harvard Athletics Director Erin McDermott wrote in a January email to student athletes and coaches.
Later this month, the Ivy League is expected to make an announcement regarding the spring sports season, McDermott wrote in her email.
Regardless of whether he has a senior sports season, Thomas, who also serves as the co-president of the Student Athlete Advisory Committee, said he believes this semester provides an opportunity for senior athletes on campus to leave a meaningful legacy.
“We’re trying to set the standard for culture and consistency and work ethic and how you treat other people,” Thomas said. “Being on campus has afforded us the opportunity to lead by example.”
—Staff writer Davit Antonyan can be reached at davit.antonyan@thecrimson.com.
—Staff writer Benjamin L. Fu can be reached at benjamin.fu@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @benfu_2.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Two pioneering artists spoke on their work, the symbiosis of art and social justice, and creativity amid the coronavirus pandemic at a virtual event hosted by Harvard’s Office for the Arts Wednesday.
The event — titled “Creativity and Courage: Two Artists Speak to Our Moment” and moderated by Office of the Arts Associate Director for Programming Alicia Anstead — featured musician and music entrepreneur Aaron P. Dworkin and dancer and choreographer Claudia F. Schreier ’08, who described their journeys from childhood to career.
“I spent my whole life in some way, shape, or form working in and around racial equity, diversity, inclusion in the arts,” Dworkin said, recounting how he was adopted by a white family at an early age and reunited with his birth parents 31 years later. “As a Black, white, Jewish, Irish, Catholic Jehovah’s Witness – you know, a kid with a big Afro growing up playing the violin since the age of five – no big surprise my life has been diverse.”
A digital artist, filmmaker, and composer, Dworkin has built a career in arts leadership, serving as former President Barack Obama’s first appointment to the National Council on the Arts. At Wednesday’s event, he shared his experience founding The Sphinx Organization, a social justice initiative that promotes diversity in classical music.
Dworkin also shared a sample of one of his works titled “American Rhapsody,” a spoken-word and orchestral work that sets various speeches and writings of George Washington over Samuel Coleridge Taylor’s “Symphonic Variations on an African Air.”
“What I wanted to do was to capture the complexity of the human condition and to also show how different worlds and time periods can combine in a single artistic experience,” he said, reflecting on his artistic process.
Schreier, a world-renowned dance, opera and film choreographer who has worked on programs at the White House, Jazz at Lincoln Center, and Juilliard Opera, spoke about art’s role in driving social change.
“It is no longer a question of how art can serve other areas of social justice,” she said. “It is all one large ecosystem.”
Schreier also detailed her experience of creating art during the pandemic, specifically describing her New York Times-acclaimed work “Places,” which was filmed in an empty theater. Scheier harnessed cinematography to bring her choreography — paired with an orchestral performance — to life.
“It’s to honor the theater and honor dancers and provide hope for when we can all gather together,” she said of the work, after sharing a short clip with the audience.
She added during the event’s Q&A section with undergraduate students that there are many ways in which aspiring artists can take advantage of a virtual world.
“Don’t discount the power of being able to fly halfway across the world with the click of a button and experience something that could really change your life,” she said.
Both artists concluded that art ultimately doesn’t come from a place of caring about what other people think.
“I value those opinions and I’m interested in them and I’m curious because they help make me a better person,” Dworkin said. “But if someone doesn’t approve of what I’m doing or doesn’t like what I’m doing, I don’t care.”
Schreier agreed.
“As long as you feel good about what you are making, you feel good about yourself, and you feel like you’re surrounded by people who love you, forget about the rest,” she said.
— Staff writer Felicia He can be reached at felicia.he@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
University President Lawrence S. Bacow said in a Wednesday interview that Harvard is taking steps to create a “centralized process” to access personnel records following an external review that in part blamed Harvard’s decentralized structure for failures to respond to sexual harassment complaints.
Bacow’s remarks come one week after the external review — commissioned following the 2018 revelation of decades of sexual harassment by former Government professor Jorge I. Domínguez — detailed Harvard’s failures to respond to reports of misconduct over a span of nearly 40 years.
Bacow said in the interview that the University accepts the report’s recommendations, but some policy changes “are going to take a little bit of time” to develop.
The external report urged the University to create a central database for personnel files after notes of sexual harassment disclosures against Domínguez were spread across multiple offices and files. According to the report, this decentralization “could have impeded” the efforts of University leaders to adequately vet Domínguez for positions of higher authority.
Bacow said the University’s human resources department is working with the Title IX office, the Office for Dispute Resolution, and the Office of General Counsel to create a more streamlined system to access personnel files.
“We are working with the schools right now to create a centralized process so that it’s easy to access information about any one individual, given our decentralized nature,” Bacow said.
Bacow said the University has yet to determine whether the reforms will involve a central database of files or will enact procedural changes to the same effect.
“We have a group that’s working together now to figure out a process which will expeditiously allow a search of any one individual’s personnel records across the University, regardless of where they’ve been employed,” he said.
“It could take the form of a function which allows for a simultaneous search of multiple databases,” Bacow added.
The report also said that Harvard “has put in place a sophisticated and orderly process” for sexual harassment reporting in the years since Domínguez was fired — a point Bacow reiterated Wednesday.
Four women who were harassed by Domínguez — former Government assistant professor Terry L. Karl, Government Ph.D. graduate Suzanna E. Challen, and Government concentrators Charna E. Sherman ’80, and Nienke C. Grossman ’99 — took issue with that section of the review’s findings in a letter to Bacow last Friday.
In the letter, the women said they could not advise other women to use Harvard’s current procedures to report sexual misconduct by tenured faculty members and urged Bacow to include harassment victims in efforts to reform University policies.
“I understand Professor Karl’s frustration,” Bacow said Wednesday. “As I said in my message to the community, we failed her, and nobody should have to go through what she went through.”
Bacow said all Harvard affiliates bear responsibility for shifting the University toward a culture intolerant of harassment, which is necessary for individuals to feel comfortable reporting misconduct.
“It’s one thing to have policies and procedures, but they really are not of much value if they’re not widely understood and adopted,” he said. “It needs to be a larger effort on behalf of the entire community.”
Bacow pointed to Faculty of Arts and Sciences Dean Claudine Gay’s decision to publicize the 2018 sanctions against Domínguez as a positive step, and pledged to continue increasing the University’s oversight and improving its response procedures.
“Are they perfect? No,” Bacow said. “Can we do better? Yes. Will we do better? Yes.”
—Staff writer Jasper G. Goodman can be reached at jasper.goodman@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @Jasper_Goodman.
—Staff writer Kelsey J. Griffin can be reached at kelsey.griffin@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @kelseyjgriffin.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard undergraduates residing on campus said they were surprised and excited after the Dean of Students Office announced the College would move into “Level 3: Yellow” of its campus reopening plan Monday.
In December, the College announced a color-coded system to indicate the different phases of campus reopening amid the coronavirus pandemic, with the most restrictive campus guidelines occurring under “Level 0: Purple” and the least restrictive under “Level 5: Green.”
In Level Three, students can reserve slots for individual use at common spaces, such as the Smith Campus Center, Memorial Hall, Malkin Athletic Center, and the Student Organization Center at Hilles. In addition, each student can host another on-campus student in their suite and will be allowed to travel within a 10-mile radius of campus.
Sydney V. McDonald ’21, a Lowell House resident, said she was happy to be able to invite guests to her suite under Level Three.
“It’s really great to be able to have people over to watch TV and kind of try and proxy what senior year might have been like normally because that way, it feels like we’re really not missing out on as much,” McDonald said.
“Even though classes are online, this is a really great way to kind of feel like we’re getting the real experience,” she added.
Katherine Y. Zhu ’23, who is currently residing in Quincy House, said she was “surprised” the College reached Level Three this early in the semester.
“I always feel like Harvard was always on the more cautious side,” Zhu said. “But at the same time, I do feel like everyone on campus has been really careful. I see everyone wearing masks. We’ve all been doing testing.”
Other students said they were not surprised by the update in campus status.
Gabrielle J. “Gaby” Pesantez ’24, who lives in Wigglesworth Hall, said she saw on Instagram that the campus would undergo a phase change and “didn’t think too much” of the status update.
Alyssa N. Klee ’22, who lives in Eliot House, said she was unsurprised by the announcement due to consistent updates from her community health lead — a tutor, proctor, or faculty dean who supports a group of students in following the College’s Covid-19 guidelines.
“Our community health lead kept us pretty well-informed,” Klee said. “This was pretty much on-time with what he said.”
Some students said they anticipated taking advantage of the new common spaces open under Level Three.
Elias E. Q. DeLeon ’23, a Kirkland House resident, said he’s looking forward to getting some of his readings done in Cabot Library “for the first time in a long time.”
“On the second floor, there are these really cool sort of chair-pods,” he said. “They’re very colorful, charges your laptops — that’s probably my favorite study spot.”
“I was actually here on campus last semester as well, and I think that they really got the Mac reservation system going quite smoothly, so that’s something I really want to take advantage of,” McDonald said, referring to the reopening of the Malkin Athletic Center on a reservation basis in the fall.
Zhu said she is looking forward to using the music rooms in Quincy House to practice violin without fear of disrupting her suitemates or hallmates.
“I couldn’t really feel like I could practice in my room because just playing instruments is really loud,” she said. “I’d always be feeling like I was possibly disrupting my roommates, or other people that were living in the building.”
Some students said they were optimistic about future campus status updates.
“The fact that we’ve moved to Yellow so quickly, I feel really good about getting to Lime,” McDonald said. “I would say as long as the case numbers stay low and people are filling out Crimson Clear, we’re doing our tests and all that, that could lead favorably into Lime for us.”
DeLeon said he was “hopeful” that the College would progress to the less restrictive phases by the end of the semester.
“I’m surprised, but not in a way that comes from fear,” he said. “I feel pretty hopeful that the student body can keep this going to get to Lime Green — even Green — by the end of the semester.”
Zhu said she trusts the College to “make the right decision” about the timing of campus reopenings.
“I trust Harvard to have looked at all of the data and the scientific knowledge that we have and make the right decision, so I’m excited that we are in Phase Three,” Zhu said.
CORRECTION: March 11, 2021
A previous version of this article incorrectly stated that the most restrictive level of Harvard's color-coded reopening guidelines is "Level 1: Purple." In fact, it is "Level 0: Purple."
—Staff writer Hannah J. Martinez can be reached at hannah.martinez@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @martinezhannahj.
—Staff writer Sixiao Yu can be reached at sixiao.yu@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
As students trickle back into Cambridge for the spring semester, Harvard Square business owners said they are hoping to see sales pick back up after a challenging year and quiet winter break.
When students left campus in November for winter break, many business owners said they feared not being able to survive into the spring. Some tried to negotiate rental costs with their landlords, while others, including Café Pamplona and Wellbridge Athletic Club, permanently closed in the months prior.
Alex W. Meriwether, general manager of the Harvard Book Store, said it has been a “difficult year” for the independent bookstore.
“We’ve evolved to meet with the challenges of the pandemic, but certainly expenses are up, sales are down, and everything is uncertain,” he said.
Meriwether added that in a typical year, a large portion of the store’s revenue comes from in-person book signings and author talks. During the pandemic, these events have been hosted virtually with much less success.
Meriwether noted that students are “certainly” an important part of the book store’s customer base.
Playa Bowls owner Dana S. Nentin said opening the store last August was a “challenge,” but she remains hopeful that business will pick up with more students in the area.
“We’re excited to have students back. We’ve definitely seen more foot traffic in the Square,” she said. “[We’re] hopeful that their return will have a significant, positive impact on our business for this semester.”
To keep business afloat during the pandemic, some stores have implemented loyalty programs, while others have tried to increase brand awareness by collaborating with student ambassadors.
At Harvard Book Store, customers can now join a Frequent Buyer Loyalty Program, which provides discounts and access to special sales for customers. The bookstore has also tried to increase its online presence in hopes of connecting with its customers.
“We’ve been working to create a digital experience of an independent bookstore on our website,” Meriwether said.
Nestin said she has been working with Harvard student brand ambassadors to ramp up Playa Bowls’ campus presence and advertise special promotions for Wellness Days — five days of break scattered throughout the spring semester for undergraduates.
Kung Fu Tea shift manager Tianquan Li said the store — which opened in January 2020 — has been holding “happy hours and events” to appeal to students.
Despite their proximity, some students expressed concerns about the potential health risks and financial burden posed by frequenting Square businesses.
Gene H. Lee ’24, who is living on campus this semester, said measures to respect the safety of others should include “not going out too often.”
Likewise, Sherry X. Liu ’24, who is living off-campus in Cambridge, said she shops at Harvard Square businesses “significantly less often” than last semester.
“I think living off-campus makes it so you are trying to be more financially responsible,” she said. “And I know Covid-19 has gotten a lot worse in general in the U.S.”
Amanda L. Stickels ’24, who is also living off-campus in Cambridge, said she “definitely went out more” last semester compared to this semester, when she is not relying on Harvard University Dining Services for meals.
“I think it’s just a matter of being able to cook the food that we want to, other than being at the mercy of HUDS,” she added.
—Staff writer Hannah J. Martinez contributed reporting.
—Staff writer Tracy Jiang can be reached at tracy.jiang@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @_tracyjiang_.
—Staff writer Davin W. Shi can be reached at davin.shi@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Harvard is known for many things. Among them, a mascot that is quite literally a shade of color, Mark E. Zuckerberg ‘06, and a notoriously piss-stained statue. Most notably, though, it seems Harvard is known for its infamous dating culture — or rather, lack of. And let’s face it, the pandemic hasn’t made things any easier. So how does one go about finding a partner now, especially with Valentine’s Day coming up? For many, (and you presumably, seeing as you’re reading an article titled “A Harvard Student’s Guide to Tinder”) Tinder is their go-to. So go ahead and download it right now, avid reader.
...Go ahead, we’re waiting.
Photos
Gotta get those good shots! Here’s an ideal formula for pictures: Make sure to have at least one of you alone. When you do pose with your friends, try not to pose with any of your friends that look like Ryan Reynolds or Margot Robbie. That never seems to work well, for obvious reasons. (Figure it out, you’re a Harvard student.) Speaking of which, please don’t have any pictures that scream “I go to Harvard!” Save that Coop sweatshirt, socks, scarf, and hat for another day. And a note worth considering — leave out the fish pictures. Just do it, you’ll thank us later.
Bio
Keep it short but witty, something that people can use if they decide to message you. Try going with a fun fact or pun, and maybe even go down the pro/con route. I’d tell you to put something interesting about yourself to find people with similar interests, but let’s be honest, if you’re on Tinder, you’re not really looking for a long-term relationship. For that, wait until Flyby’s “A Harvard Student’s Guide to Bumble in a Pandemic” comes out.
If you’re in a plagiarizing mood, take your pick:
- “Red flags start looking orange when their Linkedin says 500+”
- “Only on here cause my Craigslist dates were going poorly”
- “What do you call a potato that does yoga? A medi-tater. Pro: makes dad jokes. Con: makes dad jokes.”
Pick-Up Lines
Well, you’ve matched with somebody! What will you do now? If you’re going to message first, you have to make a good first impression. Try making a joke about one of their pictures or their bio. If that doesn’t work for you, here’s a handy list of good pick up lines to use at your will:
- For the corny: Are you a parking ticket? Because you’ve got FINE written all over you.
- For those who have left the Harvard bubble: Can’t lie, you are BUtiful!
- For the ~spicy~: I thought my psets were hard, but looking at you has made something else harder.
Asking Them Out
Say your pick up line was a smashing success (thanks, Flyby!) and the conversation’s been going well. You’ve even exchanged pictures of your dogs, and several winky faces have worked their way into the chat. How do you go about taking the next step and meeting up in person? (Six feet apart, of course.) Just be casual! A simple “want to marry me?” will suffice just fine. If they say no, well, then, it clearly just wasn’t meant to be.
The Date
They said yes! What now? First of all, don’t forget we’re still living in the midst of a pandemic, so put that mask on. Just make sure you’re meeting the right person… we all know you’ve accidentally jumped into conversation with strangers thinking they were someone else when wearing their masks.
Next, try to establish some boundaries. Have you both been tested for Covid within the past few days? Are either of you immuno-compromised/have at-risk family members you’re seeing regularly? Since you don’t ~really~ know this person, opt for something more pandemic-friendly on the first date, such as a romantic picnic in the Yard surrounded by tourists for a bit of extra ambience. Impress them with your dorm microwave cooking skills (soggy grilled cheese anyone?), or if you’re not feeling quite that brave, opt for some takeout. Who knows, maybe if things go well you might even end up getting some dessert ;)
So, everything actually goes well and you have a great time with this person! First of all, pat yourself on the back. You have perfectly followed Flyby’s Tinder guide, and won the pandemic dating game. Seriously, that’s quite the feat. But also, keep up with everything you’ve been doing so far! Don’t ghost them because you’re getting serious with your math pset, since they’ll think you lost interest. (It’s okay we get it, partial derivatives turn you on). And make sure you get their phone number so you’re not chatting exclusively over the glitchy Tinder app, where they’re constantly reminded of other potential matches. Who knows, maybe you can have a few romantic Zoom study dates sometime. The future is in your hands now <3
Sections
Hoping for inspiration on how to make that ~perfect first impression~? Seen too many men holding fish on your screen lately? Fed up with the less-than-ideal or nonexistent bios? This Valentine’s Day, Flyby Blog went on a hunt to find the very best — and very worst — Tinder bios. But be warned: you may suffer from permanent eye damage.
Best:
“Are you Papa Bear’s porridge? bc you’re way too hot”
Witty. Intellectual. Immediately sexy ;)
“Private Equity at Bain”
We swiped right immediately. Love a partner who can provide. 
“Don’t worry, I’ll kill the spider”
Every person’s dream. Though technically we’d prefer you putting it in a cup and taking it outside, even if we personally refuse.
“In reality I’m 5’4”. Standing on my money, I’m still 5’4””
Points for making us laugh.
Worst:
“You can say I’m a bit of a Taurus”
With all the ~less than ideal~ Tauruses we’ve encountered, yeah, we’re running away. Hey, at least they’re not Scorpios!
“My school mascot once made out with me, so you could say I’m easy to love”
I mean…. factually, correct. Visually, oh so wrong. 
“Please someone teach me how to eat sushi before it’s too late”
Dear 32-year-old creepy man who set his settings to include 20-year-olds, it is officially too late.
“Harvard Class of 2024”
NOOOOOOOOOOOOOO–(inhales deeply)–OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO
“I just wanna make a girl as horny as the Grinch made Martha May”
No one needed this energy. No one asked.
“If you wear leather pants, swipe right”
??????
“Grabb a potato and get ready for war”
How do you spell “grab” wrong?????
“Mamma Mia is the worst film of all time”
This is the worst bio of all time. Full stop.
We hope your dating app escapades are going better than ours, but if not, at least you’ll have something to complain (or write an article) about. Or maybe you’ve fallen victim to one of these unfortunate bios — have no fear, we’re here to help with that too. Either way, we wish you the best of luck and the happiest of Valentine’s Days!
