News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
What some Harvard students might not know is how some students have experienced traumatic loss, impacting their psyche and interaction style with other students.
January 2020: My father suffered a sudden stroke in Phoenix, Ariz. I was living in Indiana. Per Arizona law, without a spouse, adult children must make any medical decisions for an adult patient unable to make or communicate health care treatment decisions for themself. Thus, my sister and I booked an immediate flight to Arizona. After a week in the hospital, he was deemed brain dead. He never spoke a word during that week or showed signs of awareness. We were left with the final decision to call his death, determine whether he would be an organ donor, and book a flight back home, all of which occurred in the span of twelve hours.
Traumatic loss is not uncommon amongst college students. In a 2010 study of randomly selected college students, 22 percent to 30 percent were indicated to have experienced the death of a family member or friend within the past 12 months. That number jumps to 39 percent when expanding the time-frame to 24 months. This means that death is not unfamiliar on college campuses, Ivy Leagues included.
May 2020: I learned that I was accepted to Harvard. I had taken a gap year from 2019 to 2020 and was very uncertain, not only in my academic skills, but also in my ability to leave home. After the death of my father, I held irrational fears that death loomed, out to get another family member the moment I left. I feared waking up in the morning and receiving a similar call that a family member was hospitalized, only for me to be across the country. But in the same vein, I was incredibly driven to succeed at college, especially acknowledging that I would be making my father proud.
Students are forced to untangle grief and trauma on top of the “stress culture” that college already creates. In the semester following a close death, they tend to experience decreased academic performance and a higher risk for comorbid mental health concerns. Considering that complicated grief can remain for an indeterminable period of time, it is difficult for students to comprehend their “new normal.” Students attest to needing help without ever truly seeking it, further proving the difficulty in socializing post-loss.
August 2020: I started my college career online. And this might have been for the better, especially considering my worries of not being around family in the unlikely occurrence that they died. But, there were days when I was paralyzed by grief. Thanks to Covid-19, I was neither challenged to make social contacts nor challenged to partake in campus culture from nearly 1,000 miles away. Isolation eased its way into my routine, and I was simultaneously avoiding my feelings by doing schoolwork. I was stabilizing at the expense of my sociability.
While there are recommendations for actionable ways to provide support for students who face traumatic death, they seem futile for some students like myself. For others, counselling resources and education by university administration is what helps them most. The pain in losing someone is inescapable. Pain can lessen; it can temper; it can ebb; but it will never go away. Consequently, with varying degrees of pain, there are varying mourning processes and different approaches that best address them.
January 2021: Somewhat impulsively, I moved away from home (closer to campus), and I was forced to battle complex grief on a more personal level. In my first year without my father, I still found myself crying in obscure moments and obscure places. I could reach out to my sister or my mom, but I found my composure steadying quicker the more I learned to face my sadness independently. Eventually, I was able to meet others at Harvard with similar grief: the loss of a parent, of a grandparent, of a close friend, or of a distant relative. I may have felt isolated, but I felt oddly reassured by knowing I was not alone in the grieving process at campus.
The loss of a loved one is unfathomable. It has the capacity to psychologically, socially, academically, and physically alter an individual. On campus, Harvard students without this traumatic grief must understand the irregular moments of sadness, anger, and numbness that students who have complex grief face.
November 2021: I can say that I have learned to balance the good and bad of grief with equanimity. Recalling the unique moments I shared with my dad, like singing “Watching You” by Rodney Atkins or making baked mac-and-cheese or buying cheap cereal boxes for the toys, I tear up — less out of sadness and more out of fondness. As I near his two-year death anniversary, I wonder less about what he would think of me now if he were still alive. Instead, I consider how I will continue to think of him then. How I will continue to memorize him, eternalize him, and love him in his absence.
Jordan R. Robbins, a Crimson Editorial editor, lives in Leverett House. His column “What Some Harvard Students Don't Know …” appears on alternate Thursdays.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
To the Editor:
A recently published opinion, “The Practice of Body Positivity Requires More,” argues that the body positivity movement has neglected the importance of physical health. But the assumption that undergirds its logic — that fat individuals do not engage in healthy habits — is as false as it is fatphobic.
It is impossible to judge someone’s health by the shape or size of their body. There are thin people who are unhealthy. Likewise, there are fat people who are strong and fit — take Meg Boggs, the fat influencer and powerlifter who wrote “Fitness for Every Body.” We should also question why we feel entitled to pass judgment on the bodies of others at all.
If the answer is still “health,” we should also understand that it’s fatphobia, not fat, that poses the real danger to health. A study of nearly 19,000 adults found that weight discrimination was associated with a nearly 60 percent increase in mortality, independent of other risk factors. Weight discrimination has also been associated with worse medical care; almost half of doctors report having negative attitudes about obese patients, including some who report “disgust.”
It’s also worth remembering the multitude of issues inherent to Body Mass Index, the measure typically used to categorize individuals as obese or overweight. BMI was developed in 1832 by a mathematician as a way to study the “normal man,” and was only based on Europeans. Its height-to-weight ratio can’t account for muscle, and individuals it classifies as “overweight” have actually been found to have lower all-cause mortality than individuals it classifies as “normal.”
Regardless, though, all humans — fat, thin, and otherwise — deserve to be treated with respect and dignity; all humans deserve the chance to love their bodies, and to have their bodies be loved back. That’s what the body positivity movement is about. It’s also a movement by and for women of color, interrogating the centuries of racism that underlie our culture’s valorization of thinness and vilification of fatness.
I agree with the statement that “body positivity is an action.” But that action looks different for everyone. It’s misguided, for example, to assume that exercise is always beneficial. For individuals like myself, who are in eating disorder recovery, the healthier choice is often to refrain from a workout. It’s also important to be aware of external social factors — like access to fresh produce — that make it much harder for some individuals to take actions like “managing stress and anxiety, getting enough sleep, exercising, and eating a healthy diet.”
For all its flaws, the opinion is right about the fact that “we still have a long way to go.” I don’t need to read a report about the social and economic costs of eating disorders; like tens of millions of Americans, I lived it, and could have died from it. For most of middle and high school, I suffered in silence; no longer. Since I arrived at Harvard, with the support of therapy and Harvard University Health Services Nutrition, I have been in recovery from anorexia. It’s the hardest thing I have ever done; it’s also the best thing I have ever done, and I encourage anyone who is grappling with food and body issues to seek the help they deserve.
The body positivity movement will be waiting to welcome you.
Camille G. Caldera ’22, an Associate News editor, is a History & Literature concentrator in Cabot House.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Many people back home in Arizona cautioned me against the “intellectual elitists” of the East Coast and the “liberal indoctrination” of the Ivy League, but I wasn’t concerned in the slightest.
I thought Cambridge would be a breath of fresh air.
Growing up, I was routinely labeled a “libtard” for daring to use terms like “rape culture” and “body positivity.” I often felt like I was swimming upstream against a current of dogmatism in my suburban high school each time I urged action on subjects like immigration and gun reform. Just seeing so many friends and family members buy into post-truth messaging made my head throb with frustration, and I eagerly looked forward to the day when I could go to college.
Since coming to campus, though, I have grown increasingly uncomfortable with the open contempt toward conservatives harbored by many faculty members and students alike. While the vast majority of my classmates and professors have been overwhelmingly kind, respectful, and open-minded, on more than one occasion after sharing my faith or home state with other students, I have felt politically litmus-tested. Classmates would ask follow-up questions in a thinly-veiled effort to assess whether I was sufficiently progressive for them to entertain my opinions. Perhaps other students from conservative settings can relate to the pressure to disassociate from their backgrounds.
More stunningly, I cannot even go on a run without viewing stickers on street signs that tell me “the Republican Party is a fascist junta” and that “it is impossible to be an American and a Republican.”
In all honesty, I, too, am infuriated by Republican officials’ deception and cowardice on topics like election integrity and climate change. The events of January 6 deeply disturbed me, and I empathize with the rightful anger undergirding these signs. I agree that the Republican Party has lost touch with the principles of small government it once embodied, and large portions of it are now freefalling into misinformation and racial vitriol. Many Republican politicians, for decades, have pandered to special interests at the expense of constituents and stoked the flames of race-based fear through dog-whistle politics.
Ultimately, though, I worry that the jarring, sweeping language of these “Republican Party” stickers fails to capture the variety of perspectives that exist among conservative individuals and is emblematic of a larger issue of social intimidation on campus.
Here is a confession: As a freshman in high school, I rooted for Jeb Bush in the 2016 GOP primary and practically worshipped laissez-faire economics. Seeing my party coalesce around someone as openly misogynistic and racist as Trump, however, left me jaded and disaffected. My perspectives have grown much more nuanced over time, and I now see little overlap between my personal opinions and the Republican Party’s platform. Having said that, however, I think there is real danger in haphazardly conflating Trump’s pseudo-populism with conservatism more broadly and caricaturing all individuals right-of-center as ignorant bigots.
Whenever I hear a classmate fall into this line of reasoning and maliciously censure the character of Republicans at large, I wince and reflect on how these comments are, in effect, blatant attacks against many family members and friends whom I respect and love. Too often, these caustic criticisms are lodged by people who have had limited exposure to right-wing, rural, and religious contexts. It is exactly this sort of indiscriminate condemnation that engenders resentment.
We, as a student body, lament the radicalization of the right-wing, yet occasionally find ourselves actively contributing to it as we sideline conservative voices and exclude from our circles of contact those who differ from us politically. How often do we feel warranted in severing ties and disengaging in conversation with anyone who opposes vaccination? Gun control? Abortion access?
Hurtful, noxious rhetoric is a legitimate, frightening reality, and I have no intention of downplaying the difficulty and near-impossibility of giving grace to those who peddle dehumanizing ideologies, especially when those hateful perspectives target us or our communities. Nonetheless, it is critical that we resist the urge to flatten the diversity of opinion among conservatives to the most vocal, radical, spiteful individuals on the fringes of society.
It is in deifying ourselves as the gatekeepers of human decency and marginalizing those who don’t meet our prerequisites of progressivism that we miss out on occasions to instruct and be instructed. We forgo opportunities to correct misinformation and iron out ill-informed conclusions. Similarly, in reflexively disparaging and dismissing those whose opinions challenge our own, we acidify public discourse, breed tension, and widen the partisan divide. This perceived social control and moralizing condescension fuel the anger of right-wing, counterculture, extremist groups, and we are partly to blame.
It has been my experience in life that when I give others a generous assumption or high expectations, they generally rise to the occasion. While I am not suggesting that we sanction hate or conspiracy, I am willing to argue that we will only guarantee its proliferation if we continue to intimidate, ostracize, and blacklist conservatives at our school and in the world at large.
We lose our seat at the table when we walk away.
Grant B. Williams ’25, a Crimson Editorial comper, lives in the Prescotts.
Have a suggestion, question, or concern for The Crimson Editorial Board? Click here.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Mashing the delete key as I sculpt the final paragraph of my research paper, I glance at the time. 8:50 p.m. With a sudden fervor, my fingers fly across the keyboard, stringing together what I hope are coherent sentences, before slamming my laptop shut.
"Wait for a bit, I'm almost ready!" I call to my dad. Still shaking off the adrenaline rush of cramming my essay, I curl up on the leather sofa in our living room, wrapping a blanket around my shoulders. My dad takes his spot on the ground, using the sofa as a backrest and glancing back, as he always does, to make sure he's not blocking my view.
“Do you want to watch this one?” he asks, after flicking through several films on HBO and choosing “The Adjustment Bureau.” Skimming over the synopsis, I get the sense that this is probably a cheesy romance movie that tries to compensate for its lack of a good plot with Matt Damon.
“Yeah, sure.”
Because frankly, I don’t care what we watch, and I don’t think my dad does either. All that matters is that for two hours, I get to sit here, bathing in the quiet warmth of everything — the blanket over my shoulders, the incandescent lights overhead, my dad’s presence — my mind blissfully free of any what-ifs and I-still-have-tos.
***
Growing up, I never spent much time with my dad. He’d take me to school in the morning before leaving for work, returning in the evening, and often sitting in virtual meetings for hours after. Of course, he still spent as much time as he could with my mother, my older sister, and me — cooking for us or taking us out to a restaurant on the weekends, being my sister’s and my de facto math tutor, letting us help him with yard work — but I spent much more time with my mother, who stayed at home. Adding this to the fact that neither my dad nor I are particularly talkative or open people, our relationship, although warm and loving, developed at a sort of distance.
We began to develop our own wordless way of communicating with each other, of saying “I love you.” It manifested in the way we’d squat in our backyard together, the sun beating down on our damp necks as we pulled weed after weed from the soil, dirt embedding itself beneath our fingernails. It manifested in our trips to the grocery store or the farmers’ market, how we’d stroll through the aisles while my dad pointed out how to pick out the best produce. And it manifested in the nights we’d spend in the living room, our attention not even fixed on each other, yet still quietly savoring the feeling of just being together.
***
My earliest memory of watching a movie together evokes the aroma of a Thanksgiving turkey wafting from the kitchen as I sprawl on the living room carpet, watching “Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire.” Already a voracious reader at 6 years old, I had begun devouring the series a few months earlier. We’d watched the previous movies over the past two days.
My dad returns from checking on the turkey, floral oven mitts still on his hands. “What part is this?” he asks, leaning briefly in front of the television.
The screen flashes blue as the goblet regurgitates a slip of paper. “They’re choosing who gets to be in the tournament,” I respond.
He nods, clasping his hands behind his back, and stays like that for a while, watching the scene unfold.
My dad, for the record, has never read the Harry Potter series or had any intention of doing so. He chose the movies because he knew I’d enjoy them and, as I realize in hindsight, because he wanted to experience something that I loved, to be a part of this little world of mine that he never got the chance to immerse himself in during a regular week.
And so it began. Wherever I had a break from school, we would watch at least one movie together. Occasionally, one of us would have a specific film in mind, but most of the time, my dad would flick through Hulu or HBO, or he’d borrow a stack of DVDs from the library, which we’d go through one by one.
Anything was fair game. We watched everything from “The Wolverine” to “Hidden Figures,” from “Spotlight” to “Inside Out.” There were even times when we’d forgo a movie for something else. PBS science documentaries were a favorite, but we’d pick up the occasional TV series as well, like the time we binged “The Handmaid’s Tale” following Justice Amy Coney Barrett’s confirmation.
Every time, I would take my spot on the couch and he on the floor. Every time, we would sit in almost total silence, save a few chuckles or quick remarks, while the film unfolded. And every time, we’d leave the room perhaps with lingering feelings about the film (“That was kind of a lame ending, huh?”) but with an undeniable sense of warmth and contentment underlying it all.
As my workload grew in high school — and with it, my tendency to push myself to the point of burnout — movie nights morphed into something that meant more than just quality time. At the end of a particularly stressful week, my dad would lean back in his seat at the dinner table, a content, postprandial smile on his face, and ask a simple question:
“Do you want to watch a movie?”
Immediately, my mind would run through my ever-expanding to-do list, regurgitating reason after reason to not spend two hours on a Friday night to relax for a bit. But I still have to analyze another passage for my English homework. I have to take notes on next week’s biology readings. I have to edit these newspaper stories and write my own column as well. I have to start studying for my calculus exam. I have to, I have to, I have to.
Occasionally, I’d decide that I’d feel better if I could just clear some work off my plate. But almost always, I would look at my dad, the expectant smile and almost childlike joy on his face, and say, “OK.”
Like that, my dad would pull me from the whirlwind of I-have-to’s and back to reality. Two hours, I’d remember, won’t make me fall significantly behind on anything. I have to rest. I deserve to rest. And most of all, some things are just more important than items on a to-do list.
In these moments, curling up on the sofa while my dad chooses a movie, I learned and relearned what it means to love. I learned that the perfect words and grand gestures fall short of what is communicated in this quiet, in simply being attuned to someone's needs and making the time and space to let them soak up your presence in their life. I learned how much my dad loves me, and I learned how much I love him.
***
It’s been months since I last watched a movie with my dad, and aside from his brief text messages and jovial cries of “Hello!” in the background whenever I call my mom, I haven’t spoken to him much since leaving for college. It’s as if our bond has transcended even the bridges technology builds between people. How could a phone call or a text message possibly replace weekly trips to the farmer’s market or evenings spent fending off mosquitoes as we admire his plants? How could they possibly replace our movie nights, those cozy evenings of simply being together in the same room?
In the throes of midterm season, I call my mom from my dorm as I push around the remainders of a semi-soggy salad with a plastic fork.
“How have you been?” she asks.
Stabbing a leaf of spinach, I open my mouth to give her the usual “I’m doing alright,” but stop. Do I tell her that I’m exhausted and overwhelmed? That I’m working too hard and don’t know how to stop? That I just really need a big hug?
Before I can decide, the words stumble, petulant, from my lips: “I miss watching movies with Dad.” Almost immediately, tears spring into my eyes.
My mom laughs. “Did you know that he hasn’t watched any movies since you left?”
My heart aches, and I don’t know whether to smile or cry. The salad becomes a blur of green, then sharpens into focus again as the tears roll down my cheeks.
“No,” I whisper, clearing my throat. “No, I didn’t know that.”
But what I do know now is what I’ll ask the minute my dad picks me up from the airport. And chances are, he’ll already have a stack of DVDs on the coffee table in the living room, waiting for me to come home.
Sections
The Massachusetts Correctional Institution at Framingham, the oldest women’s prison in Massachusetts and one of the oldest in the nation, is quickly decaying. According to a state report, its brick buildings have deteriorated, its health services are strained, and its housing options fail to adequately support the women inside. Even more concerning are the issues that remain hidden from view. In 1999, an editorial in the Boston Globe revealed that the Massachusetts Department of Corrections settled a lawsuit the year before regarding an incident in which 112 women at the prison “were roused from bed and strip-searched by screaming masked guards doing a training exercise.” More recently, in June of 2020, the American Civil Liberties Union determined that 85 women incarcerated at MCI-Framingham and 14 staff members had contracted Covid-19 while inside the prison, bringing the Covid-19 positivity rate for the women there behind bars to over 50 percent.
Today, many believe MCI-Framingham is a dangerous and non-restorative home for women convicted of crimes in Massachusetts. But that hasn’t always been the case.
Once known as the Massachusetts Reformatory for Women, the prison used to function as a program focused on rehabilitation for women convicted of crimes. Miriam Van Waters, who served as the superintendent of the prison for 25 years starting in 1932, created and implemented this program, paving the way for the restorative justice movement today.
The Schlesinger Library at the Harvard Radcliffe Institute contains two collections about Miriam Van Waters and the Framingham Reformatory among its archives on the leadership and history of women in the United States. These papers reveal how the Reformatory once operated and document the impact of Van Waters’s creative solutions to incarceration.
Florence J. Adriance, a student at the Reformatory during Van Waters’s leadership, wrote a letter in 1948 testifying to the effectiveness of Van Waters’s program. Before she entered prison, a psychiatrist had condemned Adriance as a “hopeless alcoholic.” But, she wrote, “Dr. Van Waters doesn’t know the meaning of the word hopeless and I have never heard it used in this institution.”
Though Adriance had been a member of Alcoholics Anonymous in the past, the Reformatory gave her the tools she needed to finally succeed in her healing. After directly communicating with Adriance, Van Waters enrolled her in a rehabilitation group for her addiction and gave her work experience that aligned with her skills. Adriance did clerical work that taught her “much about office technique,” a skill she would use outside of the prison when she reentered society and sought out a career.
“I was not ready for it,” Adriance wrote, describing why her past attempts at recovery had failed. “Dr. Van [Waters’s] program of rehabilitation helped me to be ready.”
Van Waters used to say, “My alcoholics are gifted women.” She personally studied the case histories of everyone incarcerated at Framingham and held meetings with her employees to see that each woman was guided toward rehabilitation with the support of the entire team at the Reformatory.
Van Waters’s program also helped inmates who struggled with other difficult life experiences. Many women at the Framingham prison faced the challenges of motherhood. Some entered prison while pregnant and went on to give birth at the Framingham Union Hospital, while others were separated from their families and forced to leave their children behind when they were incarcerated. To address these challenges, the Reformatory had a group called the “Mother’s Club” in which new mothers were educated on childcare practices. “[Van Waters’s] tenderness with babies and their mothers, her understanding of every phase of human behavior makes her an outstanding personality in her field,” Adriance wrote.
Van Waters’s approach made her a pioneer in the field of penology and garnered the attention of prominent political figures. In one of Eleanor Roosevelt’s “My Day” newspaper columns from 1949, the First Lady wrote that Van Waters’s methods were “humane, scientific and successful.” She continued, “My faith in Dr. Van Waters is quite unshaken.”
But the Reformatory faced its downfall when the state began worrying about Van Waters’s progressive treatment of crime that prioritized humanity over the strict hand of the law. On January 11, 1949, the Commissioner of Correction at the Reformatory, Elliott E. McDowell, dismissed Van Waters from her role as superintendent for treating the women at Framingham as “students at a boarding-school” rather than as criminals. Even though she was eventually reinstated, Van Waters later had to change many elements of her program to comply with the commissioner’s harsh directives.
Today, the case of Miriam Van Waters is of special importance because of the ongoing debate surrounding the building of a new women’s prison in Massachusetts.
The Framingham facility is in need of serious change — serious enough that the Department of Corrections believes that a renovation project alone could not fix its problems. It has proposed a $20 million to $40 million plan to build a new prison: the Correctional Center for Women.
The low number of women at Framingham and the non-violent nature of their crimes, however, has prompted local prison justice advocates to question whether building a new prison is really necessary. As of July 26, 2021, the prison is only at 30 percent capacity, making it the least occupied medium-security prison in Massachusetts. And, in 2019, only 4.1 percent of the women in prison in the U.S. were incarcerated for violent crimes, while the majority of women in prison — 59.2 percent — were incarcerated for drug-related crimes.
The activists are calling for the state to use its budget to create a rehabilitation center for women convicted of crimes instead. On Mother’s Day of this year, the organization Families for Justice as Healing rallied outside of MCI-Framingham to protest the state’s proposal for a new prison, arguing that women and girls cannot rebuild their lives behind bars.
The idea of transforming Massachusetts's main women’s prison into a reformative space may sound radical, but it has a strong historical precedent. Miriam Van Waters’s program serves as a model of an alternative approach to criminal justice — proof that healing, rather than punishment, can be an effective solution to crime.
The question is: will the state follow her lead?
Sections
Within the first 24 to 48 hours of life, a few drops of blood are taken from every baby born in Massachusetts to test for rare health conditions that need early treatment.
According to Robert C. Green, a professor at Harvard Medical School, there are several thousand treatable rare conditions that are not currently screened for.
This moment is when Green imagines a comprehensive approach like the BabySeq Project can step in.
BabySeq is an experimental research study that seeks to understand the medical, behavioral, and economic impact of sequencing newborns, the goal being to decode newborns’ genes to scan for potentially life-threatening and genetic diseases.
Newborn health screening “saves the babies’ lives,” Green says. “It’s a public health triumph, but it relies on a very elaborate system for approvals and funding. And we don’t think that system, as it’s currently configured, is going to be flexible enough and nimble enough to keep up with a torrent of rare disease therapies that are being developed.”
Green and Alan H. Beggs, director of the Manton Center for Orphan Disease Research at Boston Children’s Hospital, began the study in 2015 with 325 infants born in Boston’s academic hospitals.
The research team then followed each of the families to understand what they did with the information, how results identifying potential disease risks impacted their decision-making, and how much their follow-up visits cost the hospital. But they weren’t sure they would receive a grant to delve further and study how parents felt after receiving these results.
“It is a very controversial topic,” Green says. “It’s not a topic, even everyone at NIH or anyone who reviews NIH grants is enthusiastic about. Many people feel that it’s too soon or inappropriate or dangerous.”
This past July, the team had a breakthrough. BabySeq — now led by Green and Ingrid A. Holm, professor of pediatrics at Harvard Medical School — received a grant to expand the study to include three locations: Boston, Birmingham, Ala., and New York City. The researchers also plan to recruit more underrepresented minorities who’ve historically been excluded in such research initiatives.
“Part of the rationale against genomic testing has been that certain findings are not actionable,” Green says. He explains that historically the prevailing narrative has assumed sequencing results will cause distress and that results are “not actionable, and all you can do is worry about them.”
When the team investigated this claim, Green says that they saw that the “degree of the distress is simply far less than was anticipated.” There were no persistent negative psychosocial effects on families who received sequencing, even when that sequencing brought potentially bad news.
Despite supportive clinical studies, Kurt D. Christensen, a co-investigator for the study, and his team’s findings come with limitations.
“It’s too short a time period to understand if we’ve done any benefit or harm here,” Christensen admitted. For conditions like cardiomyopathy, long-term impacts can range from preventive procedures to simply being a burden on the wallet due to years of surveillance.
Additionally, expanding screening to the entire population rather than simply families with known histories of genetic diseases raises an entirely new set of questions. As Green mentioned, the current healthcare infrastructure is likely insufficient to handle information from such extensive screening.
BabySeq also runs into ethical issues that have always surrounded the idea of newborn screening. On top of potential partner and self-blame upon receiving negative results, the ability to precisely measure a human’s fitness opens the door to “genetic discrimination” from employers. As a result, the FDA has always taken a conservative approach to authorizing genetic services. “Everybody wondered when they would come down and who they would come down on,” Christensen said. Their research group has scaled back on the aggressiveness of their genetic screening protocols, changing their sequencing methods to faster ones that would not get entangled in the grueling FDA approval processes.
Green recognizes that some parents may find the results of the sequencing upsetting, but he feels the benefits can outweigh the perceived distress, especially since BabySeq identifies disease risk earlier in life than other gene testing projects.
Despite the structural and moral hurdles, newborn genome screening continues to be a rapidly evolving field where projects like BabySeq hold the potential to transform our collective thinking about the benefits of sequencing our babies.
​​— Staff writer Akila V. Muthukumar can be reached at akila.muthukumar@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @akila29m.
Sections
I’m not prone to frequent all-nighters. In fact, I’m more prone to falling asleep as soon as the movie starts. But I wanted to write an article about staying up all night, and there’s only one way to do that.
The mythos of Harvard gets suspended after dark. The sun is no longer glittering on the Yard like it’s cast in gold, and the hordes of tourists head for home. We take a collective sigh of relief.
During the day, we fold our time into tiny little boxes that we can arrange on our computer screens. Personally, I refuse to entertain a Google calendar, but that stubbornness doesn’t stop my time from being fragmented, poked, and prodded. And I certainly still miss my fair share of meetings.
But at night, we get our time back. We get parts of ourselves back. At least I think we do. What do we actually do when we’re supposed to be sleeping?
That’s what I wanted to figure out. I knew Harvard nightlife had to be more varied than it’s made out to be, and by nightlife I don’t just mean parties. I’m talking about the life of the night.
My plan was simple. Embark at midnight. See who I could find and see what they would tell me about their nighttime thoughts, feelings, and doings. I had no route in mind. I had vague aspirations to see the sunrise. Carrying some chocolate, a brand new notebook, a mechanical pencil, whatever other shit was already in my tote bag, and my phone with 16 percent battery, I set out.
***
It’s midnight outside Kirkland, and Thursday just became Friday. Walking up Dunster Street, there are still too many people out to count. People are coming home on scooters, heading out in cars, walking alone or in clusters and pairs.
I wonder how many people around me are already sleeping soundly. Bumping into my friend Chris, he tells me, “I like everywhere more at night.”
The Fly is playing “We Are the Champions” and, I’m sorry, I have to chuckle.
A man in a tuxedo emerges and leans against a pole to fiddle with his foot. “Was there something in your shoe?” I ask him as he walks by. “Just a little pebble,” he says. I ask why he didn’t want to bring it on his adventure with him, but I can’t make out his reply.
It’s 12:48 a.m. outside Jefe’s, and there’s still too many people to count between here and The Fox. The last cigarettes are being smoked before people start to disperse and I steal a few drags. They’re as sleepy as they are friendly and I can imagine they’re all about ready to get out of that stuffy attire. Their night ends as mine begins.
Now it’s 1 a.m. A kid outside Wigglesworth wants to know where DeWolfe is so I offer to walk him over there. He tells me the night lets you focus on yourself. “These are the experiences that form you, not the walk to Annenberg. It’s the crazy experiences that make you a Harvard man,” he says.
He’s on his way to a Grindr hook-up. This is his first time seeing this person. I asked him if he feels like Harvard is a comfortable place to be queer and he tells me that he has five straight roommates and has never once felt ostracized because of his sexuality. One time, they even chanted him off, saying “Go get some dick,” on his way to meet a potential hook-up.
Half an hour later, I’m sitting on a bench outside the Lampoon with a man named James. Another man, also named James, sprints by us, and it seems preposterous to me that someone could have somewhere so urgent to be at approaching 2 a.m. on a Friday morning. “Where are you going in such a rush?” I yell after him. He stops and makes his way back to us. “You know when you’re drunk and you’ve just got to go?” James asks, and James nods. “You acknowledge the inefficiency of walking when you’re drunk,” James says to James.
A man walks by our James sandwich carrying a 12-pack of Celsius and offers us one, which I gladly accept on behalf of the group.
At 1:37 a.m., four men run by holding a statue in two pieces. As if a magician had sawed it in half, one person carries the legs and another carries the torso. James and James concur: Delphic initiates.
“I need to go pass out, and then write my thesis,” James says as he departs. He offers me a pack of Marlboro Reds with 3 cigarettes left. I’m glad to accept. I don’t have a lighter but I don’t think that’s to my detriment. I’m a forager tonight.
It’s becoming increasingly apparent to me that no matter the time, people still have somewhere to be. But it does seem like people are a little more generous of heart here in the wee hours.
***
At just after 2 a.m., I head to Widener. Pairs of freshmen walk from one dorm to another and the air is ripe with the sounds of Taylor Swift listening parties on the eve of her re-release.
Sitting atop the steps are two people who tell me that at night, their thoughts go Big Picture. They like to sit up there for the vantage point, good for stargazing. “We saw a shooting star last week,” they tell me. I ask them what they wished for: “To create a happy family,” says one. “You stole mine!” exclaims his friend. “I want to raise good kids.”
Then she points. “I like sitting here because you see stuff like that.” Across the steps, two people are busy being passionate, wrapped in each other’s arms and making out intensely. Mmm. A kiss like that would be nice right about now.
Stepping into Lamont brings me into a new phase of the night. It’s largely deserted. The security guard tells me he has to listen to music to stay awake. Rows and rows of empty cubicles make me feel like maybe we shouldn’t have libraries open 24 hours.
On the first floor, all I find are four discarded masks and two Kit Kats. In the basement, I find a pair of roommates, one working on an op-ed for The Crimson and one working on an Econ problem set. They’re sharing guacamole from Annenberg and they describe their relationship as wonderful. If they’re at Lamont, it’s usually at these hours.
I stop by the second floor to pee and charge my phone a little. God, I want to tap out. I keep sipping my Celsius but it makes my tummy hurt. Twenty-five minutes in Lamont feels like an eternity. Most people pull all-nighters to get something done that cannot be put off. But I don’t have anything strictly to do, apart from staying awake, so my awareness of my solitude grows.
It occurs to me at this point that I might be alone for the rest of the night, and I don’t think I want that. There’s so many people on this campus and here I am, alone in Lamont, on a Thursday night. In an effort to crowdsource company, I post on my Instagram story asking people to call me if they’re awake. No one calls.
A Securitas worker standing outside the gate asks me to bum a cigarette. The hours ahead are too present in my mind. It’s hard to admit that, reluctantly, I said no.
***
It’s now pushing 4 a.m. This is the moment when the world feels really empty, with the birds starting to chirp, faint and infrequent. I stand in the middle of the otherwise vacant street and watch a truck approach me slowly. The driver rolls down his window. “What are you doing?” he asks me. I can’t tell if he’s being creepy or just curious. Moving out of his way, I decide to head to the one place where you can be absolutely sure to find a waking human at all hours.
The late weeknight hours at the radio station, WHRB, is the Record Hospital, the underground music department. They can only play songs with less than 10,000 streams. I walk in and meet my new friend Ryan Golemme ’23, playing a song called “Antimatter v Antimatter” by a band called DK3. Something about this feels deeply appropriate.
“I don’t mind the nighttime,” he tells me between announcing his track titles. We don’t know each other but that’s one of the things I love most about the station, there’s a pretty immediate sense of camaraderie. He tells me my questions don’t bother him at all. “The pace is slower and you don’t have to worry about avoiding people on the sidewalk. I don’t like to rush things. Sometimes to my detriment.”
I do love the sound of a CD coming out of the CD player as Ryan switches his tracks. In the daytime, he says, he listens to more intense music. But at night, he likes to listen to ambient sounds, and let his thoughts drift towards space and the stars. The science of thousands of degrees of burning gas in an endless cycle fascinates Ryan, and how much empty space there is between us and them. “We’ll probably never get there,” Ryan says matter-of-factly. “But at least we can look and see the light.” Later, I’m surprised to learn Ryan is an Economics concentrator.
On my walk away from the station, towards the river, the only person to talk to is a woman wiping down the tables outside Jefe’s. She speaks Portuguese. I ask her with Google Translate if she likes working the night shift, and she uses Google Translate to tell me yes. Her daughter is three and clearly consumes much of her days.
By this point, I want to kick myself for leaving the house without a lighter. I had faith I’d at least find one — lingering, discarded and lonely — along the Charles but the likelihood of that is dwindling. The pack James gave me is burning a hole in my pocket, three unsmoked cigarettes that clearly serve as karmic retribution for Securitas.
The breeze is strong close to the river and the shadows cast in front of me keep me looking behind myself for something stirring. But all I see are leaves moving. I like to sit on a bench between, so I can look at both bridges at the same time. Solitude is not loneliness but I can’t quite tease apart which one settles on my shoulders as I look out at the dark water.
Originally my goal was to last until the sunrise. The sky is not leaking light yet, but I feel myself extinguishing. At this point my body is running on Celsius and cigarettes. McDonald’s is open for five more minutes and I take that as a signal that I, too, should close for the night. My quarter pounder with cheese provides a different sort of company before I crawl, finally, into bed.
— Staff writer Maya M.F. Wilson can be reached at maya.wilson@thecrimson.com.
Sections
Hogwarts. Spells. Quidditch. The Boy Who Lived. As children and as teens, so many of us were transported into the world of “Harry Potter,” J.K. Rowling's fantasy series where anything seemed possible. From brewing potions to fighting dragons, the characters and their stories were a magical, fantastical escape from the real world.
The podcast “Harry Potter and the Sacred Text” revisits the classic series with a new goal in mind: reading “Harry Potter” with the rigor of scripture in order to draw lessons from the fantastical world and apply them to our real one. HPST was started in 2016 by Vanessa M. Zoltan, Ariana N. Nedelman, and Casper R. ter Kuile, graduates of the Harvard Divinity School. Zoltan and ter Kuile, the hosts of the first season, dissected one chapter of the text in each episode through the lens of a central theme. At its peak, the podcast attracted 1 million listeners each month.
The podcast defines its sacred reading process in three parts: trusting the text and taking it seriously, reading with slow and concentrated attention, and reading it with communities who value the text. The idea of reading a secular text through a religious process may seem a bit far-fetched at first, but Zoltan believes there is tremendous merit in doing so.
“When we are open to reading a text as sacred, we are willing to learn from it, and not just about it,” Zoltan says. “We are willing to be changed by the text. Art, even if we don’t go in with that intention, can end up forming us.”
For example, in Chapter 37 of “Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix,” Dumbledore explains to Harry that Aunt Petunia took him in “grudgingly, furiously, unwillingly, bitterly, yet still she took you.” Zoltan believes there is a link between this fictional exchange and today’s political climate — she encourages listeners to learn from Aunt Petunia, to take in people in need of a home and help build them a new one.
Now in 2021, the podcast is back for series two with a new host team: Zoltan is joined by Divinity School professor Matthew I. Potts, who is also Pusey Minister of Memorial Church. The show’s structure and goals will remain the same as they read through the series again. But this time, HPST is working within a more challenging political context: In 2020, J.K. Rowling tweeted messages that many people considered transphobic and which colored some readers’ memories of her books.
The HPST team immediately released statements on social media and in a newsletter condemning Rowling’s tweets. “We love and support our trans and non-binary friends and listeners. Harry Potter is sacred because we the readers treat it as such. We believe in a Hogwarts that is radically welcoming to all,” HPST tweeted in December.
J. K. Rowling’s transphobia is an extreme example of how the fantastical and real worlds collide: in some cases, Rowling’s beliefs seem to contradict the lessons about empathy the podcast draws from the text itself. But Zoltan and Potts still see value in studying Rowling’s text, and they believe the show can help listeners navigate this tension and continue to find value in their beloved childhood series.
The podcast makes a distinction between the art and the artist, separating the text of “Harry Potter” from Rowling’s tweets.
“The meaning of a text is not determined by the author, and the meaning of the text can be free from the author,” Potts says. He cites his background in theology as helping him understand the complexities in “Harry Potter.” “There are lots of [aspects of] the Christian Bible I find problematic, even offensive and difficult, and I’m used to part of my relationship to the Bible being one of struggle and interpretation."
Zoltan explains that there are many flaws even within the “Harry Potter” books themselves — classist portrayal of house elves, body shaming, and racial stereotyping. But she believes that neither those imperfections nor Rowling’s transphobia should be barriers to a sacred reading of the text. The positive messages in “Harry Potter” about love and tolerance can and do outweigh the author’s recent hateful rhetoric, Zoltan says. A sacred reading can separate the words on the page from the author herself — one of the reasons the HPST team decided to continue for a second series.
“I don’t want to give over or resign what these texts mean to several tweets. I want to keep making meaning with folks I trust,” Potts says. "This community is important to us. And this practice is important to us."
For Zoltan, HPST is a powerful force for inspiring change. “It’s about taking a central story and trying to move ourselves to do a braver and better thing,” says Zoltan.
Sections
The names in this piece have been altered for anonymity. 
On February 20, 2021, Katherine is on a grocery run. She sits in the passenger seat of her Nissan Altima watching the people, trees and shops of Forney, Texas, appear and disappear. Mark, her husband, is at the wheel. A beautiful and giggling three year-old, Alice, swings her legs in the backseat. It’s a Saturday afternoon, and Katherine is on the phone with me.
“Here you go, Alice.” Katherine hands her some snacks; it sounds like she’s holding her breath while talking.
Katherine, homeschooled and raised strictly evangelical, grew up getting all of her vaccines. When Katherine came out as “anti-vax” shortly after Alice was born in 2017, she was validated by other anti-vax Facebook moms in the Bible Belt. But then years went by and Katherine started researching, coming out as “pro-science” in 2019.
I ask Katherine why she thinks anti-vax dads aren’t as involved in the movement.
“I mean, it’s cultural. We’re known as a Christian country. Mom is in charge of the child and the father works,” she says. “But that’s not how our family is run. My husband is just as involved with my daughter as I am...” her voice trails off on the call.
“Sorry, my husband just ran into the grocery store.” She’s louder, clearer. “He was forcing me to say all of that stuff. This is what I really meant.”
I sit up in my chair and open my mouth to respond —
“It’s completely because of the Christian culture that women are having to do the children thing way more than men. I’m sorry, my husband gets annoyed when I talk about the patriarchy. He was motioning for me to stop talking. He doesn’t believe that the patriarchy exists.” Katherine laughs: “What a fun little dynamic in our eight years of marriage.”
The media caught on to Katherine’s vaccine storyline soon after she made her blog post on a prominent site for pro-vax parents. She received interview requests on podcasts, news segments, even CNN. People wanted to hear the story of a white, conservative, evangelical woman from the South publicly endorsing vaccines, especially in the wake of a global pandemic that could be put to rest if those millions of “crazy evangelicals” just got the vaccine.
But this, I soon realize, is not the story that matters most — at least, not to Katherine.
***
When Katherine met Mark, she was an actor and he was an extra on her film. On the West Texas set, he told her she was attractive, making her laugh and blush. Mark was charming, handsome, and financially stable. They began dating shortly after.
Yet there were warning signs.
“He told me, ‘If you don’t believe in speaking in tongues, we can’t get married.’ That shit is ridiculous. But I said sure, whatever. We believed enough of the same stuff,” she recalls. In fact, Katherine’s vaccine hesitancy also started as a shared belief, when she and Mark watched a documentary titled “Truth About Vaccines,” produced by an alternative medicine activist.
They married quickly and moved to Odessa, a small desolate oil town for Mark’s six-figure truck management job. Katherine quit film; there is no film in Odessa.
“I knew it wasn’t normal to cry every night,” Katherine says, her voice wavering.
I get a sense that Katherine looks at her life like one big tragic comedy, where she is sometimes the writer deciding the fate of the character and other times the actor who has surrendered control.
“Anyways,” she continues, “when we moved to Odessa, that’s what really started me on a dark path.”
The dark path continued when the couple was transitioning from Odessa back to Dallas and apartment hunting. They crashed at Katherine’s parents’ home for a few months. She was on the couch one evening, holding Alice, with Mark in the corner, playing Clash of Clans as he does for two hours every night. Alice gave a hungry whine. Katherine asked Mark to get Alice a cup. He reluctantly obliged. And after she snatched the cup from him, he smacked her across the head with his free hand.
That’s how he would have disciplined a 12-year old boy, Mark told Katherine later. “But… I’m not a 12-year-old boy, I’m your wife,” Katherine shot back.
The next morning, she sent Mark a text after he left for work: “You can never do that again or I’m gone.” It’s been over a year since, and he hasn’t. I ask Katherine if she lives in fear. “I walk on eggshells. There’s a piece of clothing out or a blanket and I’m like, oh no. He’s gonna kill me,” she laughs. “Not actually kill me. But, you know.”
***
Katherine was a good Christian girl. Growing up in Dallas, she went to church every Sunday
and memorized Bible verses. She was homeschooled and sheltered. Abortions are bad. The Republican party is the Christian party. It’s a sin to vote otherwise. But lately, Katherine hasn’t been a fan of church, especially after learning about how it mistreated women for centuries. “When did you become such a fucking feminist,” Mark said to her one day after she decided not to log onto a service on Zoom.
When things with Mark were bad, she confided in a woman at church. “God doesn’t have any will in our life except to please your husband,” she told Katherine. Then Katherine tried marriage counseling groups at the church, only to find they taught a book called “Love and Respect: The Love She Most Desires; The Respect He Desperately Needs.” “My Christian friends idolize their husbands,” she says. “You’re not supposed to make idols out of anyone if you’re a Christian. Oh, the irony.”
The data on the number of women who experience emotional abuse in Evangelical relationships is sparse. The stories rely heavily on women’s first-person accounts or Christian counseling blogs. Perhaps it’s because the dimensions of emotional abuse are ambiguous; for Katherine, this was precisely the origin of her years of psychological harm. Digs at her cooking, snide comments about her hair, and claims that the house was never clean accumulated. Katherine hesitated to call the teasing a sign of abuse. And the Evangelical church neither validated nor helped. It was a closed loop.
“They all think they’re the only ones,” says Natalie Hoffman. “That’s what happens when you’re in a bubble.” Hoffman is a domestic abuse survivor herself. She is also a Christian life coach, and the founder of the Flying Free program — an infrastructure that helps women of faith in emotionally destructive relationships gain control, power, and liberation. During the interview, there’s a painting of a young girl floating into the sky behind her.
Hoffman says the Christian faith is like a software program. Many of her clients are raised to believe their own feelings, pain, and heart matter very little. They’re taught self-love is selfish, which may lead them to tolerate abuse from their husbands. What these women need, Hoffman says, is something to interrupt the loop. Something to de-program. Something to make them realize life does not have to be this way.
One afternoon after searching on Amazon for “books on emotional abuse in marriages,” Katherine placed an order for Hoffman’s book, “Is It Me? Making Sense of Your Confusing Marriage: A Christian Woman’s Guide to Hidden Emotional and Spiritual Abuse.”
“Is it Me?” arrived on Katherine’s doorstep days later, and over the next few weeks, its pages became dog-eared and paragraphs underlined. The book became her new Bible, her new place of worship in bed or at the kitchen table. Katherine underwent a quiet revolution, one that took place between these weathered pages that seemed to have been written just for her. The book, Katherine says, gave her the confidence to know she’s not crazy.
“I felt like a fake. Have I been faking it this whole time?” Katherine says. “No, I haven’t. This is just what happens when somebody’s life changes.”
Katherine wanted so desperately to have the space to think for herself in her marriage, to unlearn the perceptions of wifehood, motherhood, and womanhood that she grew up believing. But she couldn’t. The marriage, the church, her family, and her upbringing stifled her. There is no room for change or personal inquiry for a woman in an emotionally abusive marriage, she later learned.
The anti-vaccination narrative is heavily focused on figuring out why so many people choose not to vaccinate. Women in particular are maligned for being insensitive mothers, for risking their family’s health. But maybe there are more Katherines: women who were raised to believe one thing and denied the opportunity to explore beyond. If domestic abuse is missing from the anti-vax narrative, our answers as to why some women still reject vaccines will be incomplete. We need to go deeper. How are women’s minds limited? How is their individuality diluted?
“Is It Me?” was liberating and revolutionary for Katherine, and it helped unlock her new intellectual world. It verbalized everything she already knew but wasn’t given the grace to realize, mobilizing her to formulate beliefs, unfettered.
“People don’t want to unlearn,” she says. “But you have to.”
Katherine came out as pro-vax in January 2021, shortly after reading “Is It Me?” Since then, she’s been featured on podcasts, asked to speak at events sponsored by researchers and doctors, and vaccinated herself and Alice. It was almost an afterthought, the product of questioning her relationship and her place within it, a mere result of seeking to change herself from the inside out. Becoming pro-vax was only the manifestation of a deep, internal change that was a very long time coming.
***
“Mommy, we’re gonna be on TV!” Alice says as she zooms around the wood floors in her socks munching on a Luna Bar.
It’s March 2021, and a CNN camera crew is setting up in Katherine’s backyard. They contacted Katherine through Facebook about doing a segment on her anti-vax to pro-vax transition. The vaccination debate has resurfaced in the wake of the FDA approving Covid-19 vaccinations from Pfizer, BioTech, and now Johnson & Johnson in the last few months, and thousands are booking appointments, anxious to get their fair share of the dose. People — the media, that is — are fascinated with stories like Katherine’s.
After almost 10 years, Katherine is back in front of a camera. The solo shots feel good, but then, the producer wants to interview the couple together. Katherine tells the producer about Mark’s history of abuse. There are some uncomfortable pauses and calling of managers, but they proceed.
Katherine and Mark sit apart in their backyard. Mark is tall and pale with a frizzy brown beard; his eyes are cold. They don’t look like a couple, but rather two acquaintances who have no desire to become anything more than that.
“Do you believe in vaccines?” The producer turns to Mark.
“I don’t believe all vaccines are necessary, like tetanus for example. The likelihood of someone getting that is really low.” Katherine contorts her face, laughs, and looks directly at the camera. “Because everyone is vaccinated,” Katherine insists, exasperated.
There is an awkward silence, but it feels more awkward for Mark and the producer. As the interview continues, Katherine stays calm when the producers ask her if she feels guilty for being responsible for the loss of lives when she was an anti-vax proponent, if she thinks she is a bad mom for not focusing more energy on raising Alice. She defends her choices and does not waver.
“What I say is gonna piss people off. You own everything that happens to you,” she recalls to me later.
After the main interview, the camera crew got shots of Katherine reading and playing outside with Alice and the family hanging out — “making our life look beautiful,” Katherine laughs. Then they left and the first thing Katherine did was take off her bra, hop in the car, and drive to Starbucks for an extra-hot soy chai latte. Her eyes look straight ahead as she heads for the open road.
Sections
At 7:30 p.m., the last dinnertime stragglers leave Annenberg and the doors shut. But two nights a week, small groups of student volunteers file back in. Methodically, they plate any uneaten food and frozen leftovers from the day, portioning out balanced meals consisting of proteins, starches, and vegetables into sectioned containers, assembly-line-style.
These meals will be frozen and redistributed to busy community college students balancing school and jobs, families in homeless shelters, and others in need. The meals are part of the Family Meals program run by Food For Free, a nonprofit in the greater Boston area that, according to its website, “fills the gaps in the emergency food system.”
Harvard is reaching its seventh year of partnership with Food For Free. In the 2018-2019 school year, the last full year the program operated, Harvard produced 4,064 meals for the nonprofit. This fall, the program is restarting after being suspended during the pandemic and has seen lots of interest from Harvard students and staff. “Almost all, if not all, of our sessions for this semester are booked for volunteers,” says Breda R. Page Violette ’24, a sophomore and a Food Recovery Fellow with HUDS’s Food Literacy Project.
Page Violette emphasizes the dignity inherent in the meals she plates. “This is a good meal to eat, a balanced meal to eat, a nutritious meal. They’re packaged nicely,” she says, forming the shape of a plate with her hands as she speaks.
Highlighting the nutritional quality of the meals, Page Violette notes that if the volunteers run out of an ingredient, they freeze the remaining food and stop plating meals for the night. Growing up on a fruit and vegetable farm, Page Violette says she saw firsthand how access to balanced and nutritious meals can fall along class lines.
When Massachusetts implemented its Healthy Incentives Program (HIP), which offered rebates to families on SNAP for fresh produce purchases, she says she noticed that the customer demographics dramatically changed at the farmers markets where she and her family sold their produce.
Stephanie Tyler Smith, the vice president of programs at Food For Free, says that providing these prepared meals overcomes accessibility issues between people and the food they need. “It is expensive” and “time consuming” to cook food while poor, she says.
Smith mentions how something as simple as a food pantry’s closing hours might prevent someone who works overtime from getting a meal. She says it’s important to meet people where they are so that those who are already struggling don’t have to be burdened with an extra to-do or deadline.
Smith says she’s received personal calls from community college students who’ve received Family Meals. “They're like, ‘that was amazing for me because I could eat dinner when I came to class. And otherwise, I work all day, and I couldn’t do that. And then I could bring some home for my two kids and it was amazing.’”
Working at a food pantry, Smith met families who were receiving SNAP, yet struggled to make ends meet due to restrictions on those benefits. “You see their whole situation on paper and then you see that they're only getting $16 a month in food in SNAP,” she says.
According to Smith, people tend to overlook the realities of food insecurity, which are intimately tied to people’s individual situations and daily lives and thus difficult to generalize: “There are still so many Americans that don’t realize that people are food insecure in this country.”
Sections
If you had visited Buckminster’s Cafe in the early mornings this past year, you would have passed super senior Benjamin P. “Benjy” Wenzelberg 21-'22 composing an opera. As a concentrator in English with a secondary in Music, Wenzelberg’s senior thesis is an opera adaptation of James Joyce’s “Ulysses.”
The opera, called “Nighttown,” is a culmination of Wenzelberg’s time with the arts at Harvard. During his college career, he has music-directed productions for Harvard College Opera, the Mozart Society Orchestra, and even performed Beethoven for German Chancellor Angela D. Merkel.
Though Wenzelberg has loved “Ulysses” since reading it in Hum 10 freshman year, his initial goal wasn’t explicitly to set “Ulysses” to an opera. In fact, he wasn’t even sure that he wanted to write a thesis at all.
But when the Lowell House Opera, for which Wenzelberg has served as assistant music director and chorus master, approached him in November 2019 to write an opera for his senior spring, the pieces began to fall into place. “My first response was yes,” Wenzelberg says, “and my second response was, ‘Can I choose the story?’ And they were like, ‘Yeah, and in fact, if you want to write the words, you can, because you’re an English major.’”
While Wenzelberg’s opera is based around the plot of “Ulysses” and takes much of Joyce’s original wording, he emphasizes that this “is a distinct take on Ulysses” and “not a direct modulation of Ulysses by any stretch of the imagination.” Instead, his thesis interprets the story from a new perspective.
Joyce’s “Ulysses” itself alludes to Homer’s “Odyssey,” an ancient Greek epic poem, with characters Leopold Bloom corresponding to Odysseus, the hero, and Molly Bloom corresponding to Penelope, the dutiful wife. In the novel, Molly Bloom only gets to speak in her own words at the very end, but Wenzelberg decided to spin the narrative to tell the story through her eyes.
Wenzelberg’s opera adapts the famous Circe chapter, which is written in a play format and largely unfolds through drunken hallucinations. In an attempt to understand what Wenzelberg describes to be a “cacophonous” and “absurd” chapter, his opera “turns all of these crazy events in the book into projections of who she is.”
“The entire story is framed and mediated by her consciousness,” he explains. The opera begins and ends with the same scene of Molly Bloom lying in bed with her husband, preserving but also transforming Joyce’s narrative. We get this kind of odyssey, but the odyssey is through Molly’s eyes and it’s a nonlinear odyssey, which is true to Joyce’s work,” Wenzelberg says.
Though the opera was originally slated to take place last year, it was delayed until this coming spring as a result of Covid-19, which also allowed Wenzelberg to take time off and spend additional time on the project. Now, back on campus, he has finally completed the thesis, submitting the score, the libretto, and demos of himself singing and playing all of the parts.
“It’s been kind of a personal odyssey too, through this process,” he says. “It’s been literally two years since I’ve gotten the commission, so turning in this thesis was very special.”
Though senior theses are not usually taken from the page to the stage, Wenzelberg’s opera is an exception. The commission from the Lowell House Opera means that his next step is now orchestration — putting together the individual pieces in rehearsal and making adjustments along the way. The audition process has started, and the opera is slated to open in spring 2022.
As Wenzelberg looks into the future, his main concern is how to synthesize all of his artistic interests without compromising any one medium. He is not guided by a specific job or career path, but by a commitment to “always being in [an] interdisciplinary space” where he can “contribute actively to classical music and opera’s future.”
For now, he is enjoying creating music with fellow students. After a year-and-a-half of Covid-19, he has especially missed the vibrancy of creating music to share with an audience: “Every day is a gift to do that, and I don’t take that lightly,” he says. “I want to always live by that.”
Sections
Aaron J. Kang ’25 lives in Grays Hall, but you’re more likely to spot him in the middle of Old Yard giving haircuts to fellow students for a suggested price of $10 a head.
We meet Kang in the Grays common room to see his expertise in action; one of us, Dina R. Zeldin ’25, is getting a haircut. Kang typically sets up shop outside, right in the middle of the Yard, but the rain forced us to improvise. He sets up methodically — he puts a plastic tarp out on the floor, and motions for Zeldin to take a seat.
Laying out the rest of his supplies — several pairs of scissors, a spray bottle, wireless clippers, a cape, and an apron — it’s clear this is no makeshift operation. Kang soon transforms the kitchenette into a salon. He tapes to the window a piece of construction paper with his Instagram handle, “@kangs.cuts,” which students can direct message to set up an appointment.
Kang’s Grays common room salon had the feeling of a meditation sound recording: the pitter-patter of the rain, the slice of scissor blades meeting, the hustle of students walking past the window. For Kang, the appointment was indeed a meditation on patience, persistence, and symmetry — skills that he first developed while making origami. “Spending a lot of time staring at the same thing, working at it incrementally, I think, is a very important skill for haircutting,” he says.
Kang isn’t the only freshman snipping away his peers’ split ends. Alex N. Lee ’25, scrolling through a list of names on their phone as proof, gave 27 haircuts in the span of a few days. “I have one for tonight, two for tomorrow, so I’m going to hit 30 this week,” they boast.
Lee’s haircutting ventures, which they run through their @harvardhaircuts Instagram account, began out of a desire to help students elevate their atrocious mops. “Sometimes I just walk around campus and all I see are split ends, you know what I mean? Harvard students do not care enough about hair care, and I’m here to remedy that,” they say.
For Kang, the motivation to start an on-campus hair cutting venture was more serendipitous. “It started off as a joke, because one of my friends had suggested to me, ‘Oh, you should cut hair in front of the John Harvard statue because, let’s think about it, how many people in history have had their hair cut in front of the John Harvard statue?’” Kang recalls. “We took that idea and ran with it.”
Both Kang and Lee traced the origin of their ventures back to the spring of 2020, when Covid-19 lockdowns necessitated makeshift haircutting at home.
“We sort of learned how to be self-serving and self-sufficient in certain ways during quarantine, and cutting hair is one of those,” Lee says.
Kang explains he and his dad started cutting each other’s hair while barber shops remained closed, and grew closer as a result. “I talk to my dad while he cuts my hair, and they’re very different conversations than if we were just sitting around,” he says.
Now at college, Kang thinks that his business model can serve as a bedrock for friendships. “I get to hang out with my client, start conversations,” Kang says as he snips away at the back of Zeldin’s hair. “There’s a very special bond between the client and their barber.” Though we had met just an hour ago, it’s evident that like all good barbers, Kang carries a certain je ne sais quoi that makes him adept at slow yet thoughtful conversation.
His customers agree. “I’ve had good and bad experiences with local barbershops before, but I thought getting a haircut from a student might be a bit less intimidating,” Michael Yin ’25 says of his recent cut from Kang. Yin walked away not only with a fresh cut, but having had a lively conversation. He says he would definitely return.
Cheap prices are also driving students to their classmates for help managing their hair.
“I got a really crappy haircut from another place that I paid 20 or so dollars for. And 20 dollars was too much for a bad haircut,” recalls Frank T. Berrios ’25. Berrios sings in the Harvard Glee Club with Kang, who jokes he’s trying to become the club’s official barber. “I already knew Aaron and he was like, ‘Hey, want to get a haircut in front of John Harvard?’ And I was like, ‘Sure.’ I had a nice haircut with a view, but definitely the main reason was because everything else is too damn expensive.”
What fees he does collect, Kang says he saves as pocket money or puts back into the business. He’s currently saving for a wider variety of combs and brushes that will let him diversify the range of hair textures he can work with.
Ultimately, the haircuts mean more to Kang than the money he makes. “I can just tell you I snip hair and I make money,” he quips, “but that would be quite a boring story, wouldn’t it?”
The sun had set by the time we left, Zeldin’s hair eight inches shorter than when we started, sleeked with water into a shoulder length “u-shape” cut. Kang told us not to worry about the locks that littered the kitchen floor, and we parted ways as he headed to Yard Ops for clean-up supplies.
Students looking to don a new ’do or just in the mood for a good chat need only step outside their dorms for help. Kang says it best: “Something that would ordinarily be just a chore has become a social event.”
Sections
Romeo P. Alexander ’11, who was eliminated in Week 4 of Michelle Young’s “Bachelorette” Season 18, is not your typical “Bachelorette” alum. The 32-year-old New Yorker does not host a podcast, nor does he sell protein shakes on Instagram. He has no ostensible ambitions to be a career social media influencer. Instead, he’s a mathematician with a Ph.D. in Atmosphere-Ocean Science and Mathematics from NYU whose preferred social media platform is Reddit.
At Harvard, Romeo concentrated in Mathematics and lived in Cabot House. He developed a love for travel: He spent a summer in Ghana taking a history course on the transatlantic slave trade, and did a homestay and internship in Tokyo after studying Japanese for three years.
After graduation, Romeo attended NYU’s applied math doctorate program because of its mission of tackling problems related to climate change. “My dissertation was on utilizing machine learning techniques to extract predictions from climate data sets, satellite observed data sets, and precipitation data,” he says, casually.
While Romeo was familiar with the reality TV of his youth — namely, he watched “TRL” and “The Apprentice” as a teenager — he hadn’t seen an episode of “The Bachelor” until January of 2021. This year’s “Bachelor” Season 25 saw the first Black bachelor in the franchise’s 18-year run: Matt James.
“Throughout Matt James’ season, [my dad] kept saying ‘You gotta watch this, it’s history being made with the first Black bachelor,’” Romeo recalls.
The first episode Romeo watched was Season 25’s “After the Final Rose” special, which, he notes with a smile, was also the first time he saw Michelle.
“The ironic thing was that the entire time my dad was watching this he kept saying, ‘That could be you up there’ and ‘This is very relevant to you, son, because what if one day you’re up there and you need to know how to handle the drama.’ I was like ‘Yeah, sure, whatever.’”
Within a week, Romeo was contacted on LinkedIn by a recruiter who encouraged him to apply to the next season of the “Bachelorette” . Romeo researched the process and “took a while to fully comprehend” what he was getting himself into. Ultimately, he decided to go on the show to have fun, build confidence, and learn about dating and romance.
“I was very fortunate that I got a lot of support from my colleagues and my employer,” he says. “They were like ‘There’s more important things than money and career. What if you find love?’”
Romeo is not the first Harvard alum to appear on the “Bachelor” franchise. The first Bachelor, Alex M. Michel ’92, graduated with a degree in History and Literature in 1992; “Bachelorette” season 16’s villain, Bennett A. Jordan ’07, graduated with a degree in Government in 2007.
“There was a thorough and comprehensive process — and kind of, in a way, more thorough and stringent than [an] application to Harvard,” Romeo says of the show’s vetting process. “I had never really done fingerprinting before.”
Romeo’s first bit of screen time was his limo exit — a segment in the season premiere in which suitors exit a limo to meet the lead and deliver some sort of greeting to them. Romeo recalls it as a “too obvious” opportunity to make a joke of his name — he delivered a line about Michelle being his Juliet, in French, and then delivered it again in English.
“I went in thinking I’m going to deliver this long monologue speech, but very quickly Michelle made it clear that we’re gonna have normal conversations.” Romeo noted that he was attracted to Michelle, and thought the feeling was reciprocated; though their time together was brief, there was definitely a spark.
Ever analytical, Romeo approached rose ceremonies, where suitors are eliminated and favored candidates make it to the next episode , with probability; if there’s a villain in the crowd, that would be one more rose up for grabs. “I also thought that I had a Chris S. buffer, because surely he wouldn’t get a rose, so the whole time I was doing these calculations,” Romeo says. “When he got the rose it was weirdly simultaneously shocking and at the same time there might be some method from Michelle’s perspective, because it can be very valuable having a bit of a dramatic person to help her see how the other guys react.”
While Romeo was disappointed to be eliminated during the rose ceremony, he notes that he and Michelle had explored their connection as much as they needed to, and that his time on the show had a positive impact for him.
“Being in that setting, I learned a lot about myself and dating and how I come across and what I should talk about or not, and understanding the flow of conversation,” Romeo says. “Immediately after I left the show, I could already feel that I was happier and more confident.”
Romeo still meets up with friends he made during his time on the show, both producers and fellow contestants alike, including Pardeep Singh, Casey Woods, and Rick Leach. He watches the show every week; after we hung up, he was headed to watch Episode 5 of the “Bachelorette” with some friends from high school.
Romeo’s love of Reddit — he noted that he “can’t imagine watching a football game or watching a TV show without reading all the forums” — has now extended to the “Bachelor” world. I asked him if he was on any of the “Bachelor” subreddits, to which he gave a definitive response: “Yeah. I’m in all of them. I read every comment. ” A true patriot of Bachelor Nation, Romeo also listens to “Bachelor” podcasts, including “The Betchelor” and a personal favorite, “Dear Shandy.”
As his reach into Bachelor Nation expands, so does the list of people sliding into his DMs. “A lot of strangers started looking at my Instagram profile and that’s been an interesting experience but I welcome it,” Romeo says.
He noted that the messages came in waves, the first being from high school, middle school, and college classmates after the cast announcement came out: “They’re like, ‘it’s mind-blowing and yet, if it would be anyone, of course it would be the guy named Romeo.”
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard Law School affiliates congregated to watch United States Supreme Court Justice Elena Kagan preside over the final round of the Law School’s annual Ames Moot Court Competition Tuesday night.
Founded in 1911, the Ames Moot Court Competition judges students’ ability to develop appellate briefs and advocate for a legal position. Qualifying rounds are open to second-year law students.
Kagan — who was formerly Dean of the Law School — was joined by Consuelo M. Callahan, a judge in the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, and Kimberly S. Budd, the chief justice of the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts.
The final round case — Charles Artiss v. Westlake Pharmaceuticals, Inc. — focused on the issue of personal jurisdiction.
Stacy N. Livingston, a third-year law student who serves as the Board of Student Advisers’ vice president for the Ames Moot Court Competition, said this year’s final-round case “poses two key questions.”
“The first is whether a court can exercise specific personal jurisdiction over a brand-name drug manufacturer who promotes and sells its product in the forum state when the plaintiff was injured by the generic version of the same drug, which is required to copy the key features of the brand-name drug by law,” Livingston said.
“The second is whether Ames Statute Section 5101 comports with due process to the extent that it conditions registration to do business in the state on consent to general personal jurisdiction in the courts in the state,” she added.
Prior to announcing the decision, Kagan said that choosing a winner was not easy.
“This was absolutely great, and it did not seem obvious at all who should go home with the prizes,” Kagan said.
Third-year law student Morgan J. Sandhu of the Lila A. Fenwick Memorial Team, representing the respondent, won the award for “Best Oralist.”
The honors of “Best Brief” and “Best Overall Team,” however, ultimately went to the Carrie E. Buck Memorial Team, which represented the petitioner and was composed of students John S. Acton ’17, Jason K. Altabet, Mateusz J. Bendisz, Ryan M. Dunbar, Maria Huryn, and Fenella McLuskie.
Kagan said that each of the competitors presented a unique style of delivering arguments, an important skill in the legal field.
“An important thing for an advocate is to develop a personal style and to be the person you are, and you could see that each of you had his or her style,” Kagan said.
Budd commended the competitors for their dedication throughout the year preparing for the qualifying, semi-final, and final rounds of the competition.
“This is something that you’re going to remember and be able to draw on for the rest of your lives, so congratulations,” Budd said.
—Staff writer Emmy M. Cho can be reached at emmy.cho@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
As its first in-person semester in over a year winds down, Harvard is preparing to loosen its on-campus Covid-19 restrictions, which include mask requirements and limits on gatherings.
University Provost Alan M. Garber ’76 said in an interview Tuesday that it is “a fairly safe bet” the school will relax its public health restrictions next semester. He said the school could soon allow lecturers and small groups to remove masks indoors.
“We are preparing for a number of different contingencies in the spring,” Garber said Tuesday. “But if current trends continue, we expect to see substantial lessening of restrictions related to Covid.”
Currently, the school limits gatherings in private living spaces to 25 people, an increased number from its restrictions at the start of the fall term. In compliance with Cambridge policies, the school requires masks to be worn in all public indoor areas.
“Sometime — and we don’t know when — we just will no longer routinely wear masks,” Garber said. “It is not inconceivable that that will happen during spring semester, but I would not say that’s likely yet.”
Schools within the University currently may allow lecturers to remove their masks only if they comply with a list of safety requirements, such as keeping a six-foot distance from all students. Faculty of Arts and Sciences Dean Claudine Gay said at a November faculty meeting that only 80 FAS classrooms and 14 School of Engineering and Applied Sciences classrooms afford enough space to meet the rule.
Both Gay and Garber are optimistic that faculty mask requirements will be among the first measures loosened in the spring.
“I think relaxing mask restrictions for lecturing faculty will occur very early,” Garber said Tuesday.
Harvard has seen only minor spikes of Covid-19 cases across its campus this semester, with an average of about 52 cases per week since Aug. 15. The school conducts more than 39,000 Covid-19 tests per week.
Garber said he has been “pleased with how the semester has gone,” even as the coronavirus continues to spread across the country. At least 97 percent of students and staff are vaccinated, according to Harvard’s Covid-19 dashboard.
“I have to say, our community has just been incredibly impressive,” Garber said. “I think if we had known how people would be so careful about protecting each other, we might have been able to ease up on some of the restrictions earlier.”
Though many undergraduates gather and party without masks on campus, Harvard has seen just one substantial Covid flare-up — during the final week of August, when many students were first moving in. The school saw 135 positive tests between Aug. 29 and Sept. 4, including 95 undergraduate cases.
Since Sept. 26, the school has not seen more than 53 cases in a week. It has conducted more than 1.2 million tests since June 1.
“There are some restrictions that we would conceivably want to end even before spring semester, but I just have to point out with all the travel occurring around Thanksgiving, to do it right now would be riskier than most of us would be comfortable with,” Garber said.
—Staff writer Jasper G. Goodman can be reached at jasper.goodman@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @Jasper_Goodman.
—Staff writer Kelsey J. Griffin can be reached at kelsey.griffin@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @kelseyjgriffin.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Adams House dining hall reopened Friday after shutting down for two weeks due to an infestation of fruit flies.
Adams Faculty Deans Mercedes C. Becerra ’91 and Salmaan Keshavjee wrote in emails to House residents that Harvard maintenance staff completed repairs to the plumbing under the House kitchen — where a broken pipe in the food composting system served as the apparent source of the infestation — and a pest control company conducted a “fogging operation” to get rid of the flies. Berrera and Keshavjee noted that some flies remain.
“All of the repairs are completed and a special fog was used on Wednesday to kill any remaining adult flies and larvae,” they wrote to House affiliates last Thursday. “Some bugs at different stages of development do manage to survive the fog, but we have been told that they will not last long. Fingers crossed.”
In honor of the reopening, Adams held a celebration dinner Friday, which included shoofly pie, followed by a “Flies Club” party, featuring dance, food, and alcohol. The first 100 attendees received a “kinky gift”: a hand-shaped fly swatter, according to the invitation.
Ashal Malik ’24, who lives in Adams, said she was excited to return to her House’s dining hall but bemoaned the persistent presence of flies.
“I kind of wish that all of the flies were exterminated before they reopened it, and now we know that they aren’t because we see them in the d-hall,” Malik said.
Malik also reported the presence of flies in her dorm room.
College spokesperson Rachael Dane wrote in an email that the flies do not pose a health or safety risk, citing Harvard’s Environmental Health and Safety department. She added that the College is taking additional measures to eradicate the remaining flies.
“Lingering flies are often expected, given that some were in a larval state when the area was first treated,” Dane wrote. “A second fogging treatment is scheduled [Wednesday] to address the issue, and a plan is in place to monitor and inspect the crawl space regularly to avoid a similar situation.”
Javhlan Amgalanbaatar ’23-’24, who lives in Adams, said she noticed fewer people eating in the dining hall this week, which she attributed to the remaining fruit flies.
“You can see a few fruit flies flying around,” she said.
But Amgalanbaatar and other students said they were excited to return to the dining hall and will monitor the situation.
“If the flies persist or if the number gets bigger, I will try going to the other houses, but for now, Adams seems to have it under control,” she said.
“It’s honestly not ideal, but the location is so convenient and I missed it so much that I honestly think I’m just gonna keep eating here,” Adams resident Caroline H. Dent ’24 said. “If the fly situation becomes disgusting, and they’re diving into my food again, then I’ll move on.”
—Staff writer Taylor C. Peterman can be reached at taylor.peterman@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @taylorcpeterman.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Researchers at the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health found an association between high whole grain and fiber intake and a lower risk of liver cancer and chronic liver disease mortality, according to a study published in Nature Communications on Nov. 4.
The researchers used a sample of nearly 500,000 participants surveyed by the National Institutes of Health between 1995 and 1996. After a median time frame of 15.5 years, 940 participants had been diagnosed with primary liver cancer, and 993 had died as a result of chronic liver disease.
Researchers observed a 22 percent decrease in risk of liver cancer and 56 percent decrease in chronic liver disease mortality for participants who had the whole grain intake in the highest quintile. Similarly, they observed a 31 percent decrease in risk of liver cancer and 63 percent decrease in chronic liver disease mortality for participants who had fiber intake in the highest quintile.
Xuehong “Hong” Zhang — a cancer epidemiologist and assistant professor of nutrition at the School of Public Health who worked on the study — said it was a “prospective cohort study based on the NIH-AARP study.”
“We use the validated food frequency questionnaire to measure the intake of whole grain and fiber,” Zhang said. “We have accounted for major known liver cancer risk factors in the analysis, suggesting that the results we observe here for whole grain and fiber are likely independent of those known risk factors.”
Jessica Petrick — another study author and an epidemiologist at Boston University’s Slone Epidemiology Center — said the study “supports current dietary recommendations for cancer prevention.”
Though scientists don’t yet understand all the biological mechanisms underlying the association between diet and liver diseases, the study is a step towards understanding “some more of the dietary etiology of liver cancer, which is fairly poorly recorded,” Petrick said.
“The incidence of liver cancer in the U.S. is fairly rare compared to more common types of cancer,” she said.
The study also has implications for future research on diet and liver disease, such as its intersections with race and ethnicity.
According to Zhang, most of the participants in this study were non-Hispanic whites.
“It is desirable to study the relationship between diet and liver cancer or liver disease mortality in more diverse racial or ethnic populations, especially given the fact that liver cancer disproportionately affects minority populations,” he said. “To my knowledge, the studies in that area are relatively limited. More investigation in those populations is needed going forward.”
Despite the findings, Petrick said the public should be cautious about adjusting diets.
“I would make sure to recommend that they do talk with their physician or their dietician before making any dietary changes on their own. Because this is epidemiologic literature, it’s very broad,” Petrick said. “Every single person has their own individualized risk profile, and that should really be considered whenever they are making dietary changes.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard graduate student union members remain split ahead of the vote on whether to ratify the tentative contract agreement reached Monday, with some eager to vote yes and secure a contract now, while others are determined to organize for a stronger contract in the spring by voting no.
The ratification vote opens at 5 p.m. Thursday and closes at 5 p.m. on Saturday, Nov. 27. Only a majority of voters is needed to ratify the four-year tentative agreement, turning it into the union’s second contract.
The Harvard Graduate Students Union-United Automobile Workers bargaining committee unanimously recommended the tentative agreement for ratification after they reached it with University negotiators Monday. HGSU-UAW bargaining committee member Koby Ljunggren wrote in an emailed statement that while they recognize the tentative agreement fails to meet all of the union’s demands, bargaining committee members believe it is the best path forward.
“I want to be clear—we [tentatively agreed to] this agreement believing that this is where our union’s collective strength lies at this moment,” Ljunggren wrote. “Contract cycles are iterative, and we’re focused on building a strong foundation to propel us forward based on our energy today.”
The four-year tentative agreement includes significant compensation increases, including a 5 percent raise retroactive to July 1, with 4, 3, and 3 percent annual increases in the last three years of the contract.
Monday’s agreement, however, only includes a handful of new provisions for non-discrimination procedures, a major union priority. It also lacks another longtime union demand: agency shop, which would require all student workers to contribute financially to union activities or a student worker health fee.
HGSU-UAW trustee Andrew M. Bergman said he is not in favor of the tentative agreement largely due to the lack of an agency shop. Bergman is one of more than 50 signatories of a letter urging other members to vote no on the tentative agreement. The letter acknowledges the tentative agreement’s wins on economic proposals, but protests the omission of an agency shop provision, which signatories argue would keep the union financially sustainable. The letter added that organizing next spring may prove even more effective.
“Harvard has returned to in-person teaching and research work, so we can hold effective and disruptive strikes,” the statement reads. “Instead of giving up on a strong union now, student workers can make a resounding statement, vote no on this [tentative agreement], and strike for a strong contract in the spring.”
Alexander J. Hartley, a Literature and Comparative Literature Ph.D. candidate who plans on voting to ratify the contract, said he feels progress has been made on non-discrimination procedures and union security, and that the compensation increases are “substantial.” Hartley added he trusts the bargaining committee’s judgment of the union’s organizing power.
“I trust [the bargaining committee] to have the best sense of our power and our negotiating position at this time,” he said. “My real worry is that if we vote this down, it could really threaten the whole work of everybody who has worked on unionization for the last five years.”
Voting down the tentative agreement and organizing for a spring strike would also mean a new strike authorization vote, a whole new strategy, and potentially a new bargaining committee, Hartley noted.
Zoe A. Feder, a steward for Medical Sciences, said she will vote to ratify the contract to solidify the union’s wins on compensation because both parties can change their offers if the tentative agreement is voted down.
“I’m afraid that we will truly be starting from zero and that we will lose any possibility for retroactive benefits or raises,” Feder said.
Other members, however, said they are unsure of which way to vote. Oscar Rodrigo Araiza Bravo, a Physics Ph.D. candidate, said he was supportive of the tentative agreement at first, but became more skeptical as he discussed the non-discrimination provisions with other members.
Araiza Bravo added he is disappointed that the union has still not achieved its demands for discrimination and harassment third-party arbitration, especially after October’s three-day strike.
Still, Araiza Bravo said he wants to “see where people are at.” Similarly Kara Hartig, another Physics Ph.D. candidate, said she wants to gauge the union’s will and ability to organize before she votes.
“I was planning to go to some of the meetings over the course of the next few days,” she said. “I want to try and get a sense for whether I think we’re in a position to push really hard for a stronger contract.”
—Staff writer Cara J. Chang can be reached at cara.chang@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @CaraChang20.
—Staff writer Meimei Xu can be reached at meimei.xu@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @MeimeiXu7.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Earth was once inundated by episodic cycles of heavy rainstorms followed by severe droughts, according to a study published by Harvard Environmental Science and Engineering researchers in the journal Nature earlier this month.
Robin D. Wordsworth, an Environmental Science and Engineering professor at the School of Engineering and Applied Sciences, and Jacob T. Seeley, a postdoctoral fellow in Environmental Science and Engineering, co-authored the study.
Wordsworth and Seeley created an atmospheric model designed to mimic conditions when Earth was 20 to 30 degrees Fahrenheit hotter. In their simulations, the researchers increased Earth’s sea surface temperature to 130 degrees Fahrenheit, either by adding more carbon dioxide to the atmosphere or by upping the sun’s brightness by roughly 10 percent.
Under those conditions, the sunlight absorbed by atmospheric water vapor forms an “inhibition layer” that traps evaporation in the surface atmosphere. At the same time, clouds form above the inhibition layer, but their rain evaporates into the lower atmosphere before reaching the Earth. After several days, the inhibition layer evaporates, prompting severe rainfall.
After these storms, the Earth would experience several days of dry weather before the cycle repeats, according to the study.
The study has significant implications for understanding the conditions of Earth’s past as well as the conditions on exoplanets, according to Wordsworth. The conditions in the simulations help researchers understand the conditions under which a planet can produce water and sustain life.
“We were looking to go to a world that was up to 310 or 340 Kelvin,” Wordsworth said. “These conditions that are relevant to understanding Earth’s paleo climate — how climate would have behaved in the distant past — but also to exoplanets, or planets around other stars that could have a diverse range of earthlike planets.”
Wordsworth also said these simulations are beneficial towards understanding the impact of climate change in the modern era. He stressed, however, that the severe conditions of the model are far more extreme than current predictions for the impact of climate change in the coming century. Though climate change is a pressing issue, the highest estimates of temperature increases on Earth by 2100 are about 8.6 degrees Fahrenheit.
Nevertheless, Woodsworth said his study can enhance modern conceptions of the impact of climate change.
“This is also a practical motivation of doing a stress test on existing models of climate on Earth — to make our understanding of it more robust,” Woodsworth said.
Woodsworth said he believes the world must take more prompt action to curb harmful emissions and to limit the consequences of climate change.
“The political leadership is not taking the problem seriously enough, so my concern is that we’re going to go slower than we need to be going,” Woodsworth said.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
While Harvard University Health Services is not yet offering Covid-19 booster shots, students and other Harvard affiliates said they have secured booster shots from local pharmacies like CVS and Walgreens.
In an Oct. 28 interview, HUHS Executive Director Giang T. Nguyen said HUHS does intend on offering booster shots in the future but is now focusing on providing primary Covid-19 doses and flu shots, which Harvard students are required to receive by Dec. 10 to avoid a registration hold being placed on their account.
“[A Covid-19 booster is] not something that you have to rush out to get right now. And anyone who really is eager to do it soon can do it at a commercial pharmacy free of charge, so that is an option as well if you don’t want to wait to get a booster through HUHS,” Nguyen said.
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention expanded Covid-19 booster shot eligibility on Oct. 21 to include those who initially received Pfizer or Moderna vaccines more than six months ago and are 65 years of age and older, or 18 and older while living in long-term care settings, high-risk settings, or have underlying health conditions. Anyone 18 or older at least two months out from receiving an initial Johnson & Johnson vaccine is also eligible to receive a booster shot under federal guidance.
On Thursday, Massachusetts announced that all adult residents who are six months out of receiving a Pfizer or Moderna dose are now eligible.
Zachary J. Lech ’24 said he opted for the one-shot J&J vaccine in May because he was unsure about his summer plans and worried he might not be able to get a second dose.
On Oct. 29, days after the CDC approved the mixing and matching of Covid-19 boosters, Lech received a Moderna booster. He said no appointments were available at the Cambridge Health Alliance, so he took the first one available at a Boston Walgreens location.
Lech called HUHS’s decision to not yet provide booster shots “simply ridiculous.”
“We have vaccination rates in excess of 95 percent among all the members of the Harvard community. The University insists that public health is its priority,” Lech said. “And yet, even though there is no actual demand in our community for the vaccines, except among the people who want to receive booster shots, those are not available.”
“When it comes to receiving the booster shots at other locations, Harvard students are competing with the general public, and it’s really hard to secure a date, especially if you want to get the booster shot promptly. So it’s a huge inconvenience,” he added.
Matt R. Thomas ’21, a student at the Graduate School of Education and Faculty Dean aide in Kirkland House, scheduled his Pfizer booster shot for Monday at a local Walgreens.
As a Harvard Teacher Fellow working at a local middle school, Thomas said he felt especially responsible for the people around him.
“I feel like it’s really important for me, just being around so many different people every day, to make sure that I do my part in not only keeping myself safe through the pandemic, but keeping others I come in contact with safe,” he said.
Thomas said he decided to get a booster shot “as soon as hearing that it was the recommended guidance of the CDC and that the higher scientific authorities in this country noted that it was the best way to stay safe from Covid.”
Other students said they became eligible for a booster shot because of a mental health condition. Those with schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, or major depression are eligible to get any of the three boosters at least six months after their initial doses.
Though Liz C. Hoveland ’22 brought documentation for depression to her appointment at the Central Square CVS, she said she was never asked for proof of eligibility when signing up online or at the pharmacy.
The process of getting her Pfizer booster at the CVS went “so smooth,” Hoveland said, though she said it would have “been nice” if HUHS offered boosters.
“I just don’t think that there’s quite a need for them right now,” she said. “I don’t see a reason for HUHS specifically to have to do them unless they really see a demand.”
Anna, a Ph.D. student who declined to give her last name and whom The Crimson granted anonymity to discuss personal health matters, said she originally received the Sputnik V vaccine, the only available option to her while she was living in rural Russia.
Anna said she did not feel as if she had a choice as to receiving a booster, since Harvard required all affiliates to receive an FDA- or WHO-authorized vaccine, which Sputnik V is not.
Through Harvard University Health Services, Anna was vaccinated again with two doses of Pfizer. She said going through the process has “psychologically given her a sense of protection.”
In the interview earlier this month, Nguyen said Harvard does not have “any intention right now” of making Covid-19 booster shots mandatory.
Hoveland said she hopes HUHS will implement a booster shot mandate, once all affiliates become eligible.
“Ninety-six percent of the Harvard community is fully vaccinated. When boosters are released to the general public, I would love to see 96 percent of Harvard community members boosted as well,” she said.
—Staff writer Claire H. Guo can be reached at claire.guo@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @clairehguo.
—Staff writer Christine Mui can be reached at christine.mui@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @MuiChristine.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard epidemiologist Michael J. Mina — whose snippets of medical advice on Twitter throughout the pandemic have captivated hundreds of thousands — is leaving academia for a leadership position at biotech software company eMed.
Mina resigned from his faculty positions at Harvard Medical School and the Harvard School of Public Health, as well as at the Harvard Center for Communicable Disease Dynamics, on Nov. 12. He is beginning his new role as Chief Science Officer at eMed Thursday, the company announced in a press release.
Beginning July 2019, Mina served as an Epidemiology and Immunology and Infectious Diseases assistant professor at HSPH and an associate medical director in clinical microbiology at Brigham and Women’s Hospital.
HSPH Epidemiology chair Albert Hofman first announced Mina’s departure to department faculty in a Monday email, though he provided no further information about the sudden move.
Mina — who has been a major proponent of the usage of at-home Covid-19 antigen tests — said in an interview he was drawn to the equity-driven mission of eMed, a company that provides at-home medical testing and interpretation guides for diagnostic results.
“One of the things that really excites me about this new position is I can start thinking of all the new ways that we can bring public health and medicine to become much more accessible to people,” Mina said.
He also pointed to the company’s potential in increasing the speed by which patients receive care, thus maximizing treatment benefits for individuals. With Covid-19 antiviral drugs, in particular, their effectiveness wanes within a few days after symptoms arise, making rapid testing all the more important.
“Essentially the moment they have symptoms — if they use this verified, authenticated test, and they can get a prescription immediately — then we can reduce the time from symptom onset to treatment to 12 hours instead of five days and really gain massively from these drugs,” Mina said.
According to Mina, convenient access to medical testing at home is integral to a deeper understanding of personal health needs.
“What I hope to do in this position is to really change the way that we think about how health care has to be performed,” Mina said. “Frequently, it’s been gated by physicians — for good reason — but I also feel very passionately that people should have a right to know about their body.”
Mina said his work at eMed will focus on expanding eMed’s research efforts and promoting equity in recruitment of individuals into the company’s national clinical trials.
He added that his transition from academia to the biomedical industry stemmed from his desire to break through what he sees as “antagonism” between the two fields, in order to help generate advancements in public health and medicine.
“I felt like my hands were tied quite frequently during this pandemic in terms of the actionable effort professors can really take on,” Mina said. “The reality is if we want to create thought pieces and have thought leadership in public health or in medicine, and if we ever want that to go anywhere and become useful, then it requires industry to bring that to life.”
—Staff writer Anjeli R. Macaranas can be reached at anjeli.macaranas@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard women’s hockey coach Katey Stone has no shortage of accolades under her belt: Eleven Beanpot titles, 11 NCAA tournament appearances, and three ECAC Hockey Coach of the Year honors.
On Saturday, she added another: Her 500th career win — a triumphant 5-2 victory over Brown.
This win, which came after a tough two-goal loss to Yale a day earlier, brought the Crimson’s record to 6-3 (4-3 ECAC). While Harvard dropped out of the national top ten, the Crimson did receive votes in the polls to stay right on the doorstep of the national rankings.
Friday’s game against Yale marked the Crimson’s first regulation loss of the season. Harvard junior forward Anne Bloomer was the only player who scored for the Crimson, which fell, 3-1, on the road to the Bulldogs. Bloomer, whose second-period goal marked the fourth straight game in which she has scored, has been one of the standout performers for Harvard this season, with six goals and four assists — the second-most points on the team.
“I’m pleased with both my individual performance as well as the team’s performance,” Bloomer said. “We have a large roster this season with a lot of depth and plenty of great players, which makes it easy for the team to perform better and score more goals, and this is something we didn’t have the luxury of in the previous years.”
“It’s been a lot of fun and encourages everyone to compete and get the most out of one another,” she added.
Harvard returned to its winning ways the next day in Providence, R.I., where Stone achieved her 500th career victory.
“It’s just good to get through these things,” Stone said of her milestone. “The way I look at it, it’s all about the players and all the support staff helping along the way, and it’s just nice to get through some of this stuff.”
Stone was also named a recipient of USA Hockey’s Distinguished Achievement Award over the summer, which recognizes a person who has made outstanding contributions, on or off the ice, to the sport being the first woman to receive the award. Stone, who has led Harvard for the last 27 years, is also the first female head coach to reach the 500-win milestone. Adding further to her resume, Stone has coached six Patty Kazmaier Award winners, 13 Olympians, and 11 NWHL Draft picks over her tenure.
“There really is no coach more deserving of this milestone. She’s been a trailblazer for not just female coaches, but all coaches and athletes in the NCAA,” senior forward Becca Gilmore said. “Her numbers just show the amount of success she’s had, and it’s great to be able to celebrate with her, but there’s definitely a lot of players that came before us that made this happen, and many will come after us too.”
The Crimson won comfortably over Brown on Saturday, scoring three third-period goals to put the game out of the Bears’ reach. The victory marked Harvard’s 39th win in its last 40 encounters with the Bears. Bloomer extended her goal-scoring streak to five games, leveling her goals scored with Gilmore, the highest goal and points scorer, who has amassed six goals and five assists this season in nine games thus far.
“After 18 months, I know myself and the rest of the squad were very excited and energetic to get back on the ice, which translated to a very fast start, just having fun out there and formulating itself into a great start. We play best when we’re enjoying ourselves,” said Gilmore of the squad’s morale and energy. “For me personally, I’m super happy with how the season has gone, and it has a lot to do with the linemates I play with — we’ve been playing together for some years now and have cultivated a great chemistry between us.”
It was always going to be a tough ask for the team to come together after such a long hiatus, to gel together as a team and perform on the ice right off the bat. However, the team has answered these questions with six emphatic victories thus far, playing complementary hockey on both the offensive and defensive sides of the ice.
“I think we’ve done pretty well so far. We’ve had a couple of tough overtime losses, but we’ve also bounced back. We've got fight to our game and some great depth. We just need to be prepared for every game, no matter who we’re playing or where, or which position we’re in,” Stone said of Harvard’s season. When asked about her goals and aims for the rest of the 2021-22 campaign, Stone’s response was short and enthusiastic: “Win everything.”
With only three losses — two of which came in OT — the players are looking forward to a competitive and ambitious rest of the season. Wins against ranked opponents, such as No. 9/9 Cornell and No. 7/7 Boston College, show the Crimson’s current form, as Harvard looks ahead to the rest of the season, looking out especially for the Beanpot and, of course, the playoffs.
“We obviously want to keep winning games, and important games especially. We need to make sure we value every game in the season, and when playoff time comes around, we want to be situated in the best spot that we possibly can, and ultimately of course our goal is to win the championship,” said Bloomer about the team’s objectives going forward. “We also haven’t claimed the Beanpot title in a while, and it’s something we’re looking forward to.”
Harvard will look to continue the momentum from Stone’s 500th victory when it faces off against the University of New Hampshire on Nov. 23, after which it will enjoy a short break before playing Union College and Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute on consecutive days.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The No. 2 Harvard women’s rugby team (6-2, 6-1 NIRA) was unable to hold off No. 3 Army (7-2, 4-2 NIRA) in the 2021 National Intercollegiate Rugby Association National Semifinals, drawing its 15s season to a close. West Point returned hungry for vengeance after its recent loss to Harvard in the regular season, and the Crimson’s hope of defending its 2019 NIRA Championship title was ended on Saturday, Nov. 13th at Mignone Field with a final score of 25-17.
“The whole theme of the week was we're not building anymore, we're just polishing,” said senior prop/lock Erica Jarrell on the team’s mindset before the game. “We’ll go into Saturday, just playing our game and doing the things that we do well, well.”
Senior Michelle Groth opened up scoring for the Crimson with a deft sidestep to tie the game five-all 14 minutes into the first half. Followed by a successful conversion, Harvard took its first lead of the game at a score of 7-5.
“There were some points where we had really great momentum,” said junior prop Michelle Groth. “We were able to really link passes together, which ultimately led to our second try.”
Both teams flexed their defensive prowess to produce a low-scoring and evenly matched game, with a majority of play occurring in the center of the field as neither team backed down.
Entering the second half with Army in the lead by a score of 15-14, the game maintained the back-and-forth intensity. All Harvard attempts to regain the lead were quickly met with an Army response.
Brogan Mior’s successful penalty kick with 10 minutes remaining narrowed the contest to a three-point game, with Harvard still trailing 17-20. But the Crimson’s hopes to edge out West Point were dashed when Army wingback Emma Richards-Smith returned with a try. Though Harvard never took the pedal off the gas, time ran out, ending their season in a 25-17 loss.
The Crimson closed out their fall season with an overall record of 6-2 and an impressive 4-1 home record. This defeat also marked the end to an impressive 13-game winning streak on Mignone Field, which dates back to Oct 7th, 2017.
Senior wing Emma Kearney and first-year flyhalf/fullback PK Vincze led the team in tries this season, each notching a total of nine. First-year fullback Chloe Headland and sophomore flyhalf Brogan Mior led the team in conversions, coming in at 18 and 11, respectively.
This was the fourth consecutive NIRA Semifinals for the Crimson under head coach Mel Dunham.
“[The coaches] take a really holistic approach to coaching. They really support us — as students and as athletes and as people — and that really helps us to perform our best, both athletically and academically,” said Groth. “Coach Mel really wants to teach us how to analyze and exploit the space in our game, so we can have really high rugby IQ, and we can all be good decision makers.”
The team has improved and established itself as one of the top rugby contenders over the past couple years.
“I'm just really grateful that I got to be a part of it. I think I was very lucky to come in during a growth period so that I could grow with the team,” said Jarrell. “I'm really grateful that I had that opportunity. I'm proud to be leaving it in such a dominant place. Harvard is expected to do great things in rugby for the next few years.”
After four years on the team, Jarrell will graduate this December and hopes to continue playing rugby in her future.
No. 1 Dartmouth will face No. 3 Army for the Division I NIRA National Championship game on Saturday, Nov. 20th at 7:00 p.m. at Army West Point Athletics Anderson Rugby Complex.
—Crimson staff writer Lucy Connor can be reached at lucy.connor@thecrimson.com.
—Crimson staff writer Elizabeth Pachus can be reached at elizabeth.pachus@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
You could say this has been a long time coming. Well, at least since Wednesday morning, when I bought my Harvard-Y*le ticket. It says Y*LE across the top in these big letters, like Y*le needs to make sure that we all know that we were forced to make the trip to the middle of nowhere, Connecticut, just for the honor of seeing Harvard brutally crush their football team or being nice enough to let them win.
So today, I would like to give you some ideas on how to look and act like a Y*le student. That way, they can believe nobody from Harvard chose to show up at their game and be humiliated forever. And hey, it might even make it easier for you to get yourself a Y*le cutie. Without further ado, here’s what you actually need to do.
Dress up in navy blue
This one might be easy enough, depending on the wardrobe that you’ve cultivated over the last few years of your life. Sure, it’s probably disproportionately crimson from all of the free merch you’ve gotten from the Student Involvement Fairs, but perhaps there’s just one piece of blue attire that you own simply for aesthetic reasons. No luck? Feel free to cut out a giant “Y” from white paper and paste it on the front of your Harvard merch, being sure to cover up anything that says the name of our beloved institution. Most Y*lies won’t be able to tell the difference!
Manufacture a Y*le ID card (JK)
This one’s for all of you that miss the simpler times in elementary school when we would have designated art periods. Print out a copy of a Y*le ID card, put your own personal info on it using an app like our beloved Canva, print it out, and then laminate it! That’s all you need. Once you get to New Haven you can flash it everywhere and tell the other people that it’s a temporary ID. Or better yet, just print it out and tape it to the front of your actual ID card. People will believe that you’re a real life student, just like them!
Fawn over bulldogs
Let’s be real, this task is the easiest of them all. We love bulldogs. They’re just so cute, even if they have trouble breathing from all that inbreeding. Maybe we can get Y*le cancelled for glorifying the inbreeding of puppies? I wonder how related Handsome Dan’s parents are...
Ask your fellow students what they are majoring in
What’s a concentration? Time to remove that word from your vocabulary. From this moment on, you are majoring in econ with a minor in being a snake. You also don’t live in a House, you live in a residential college. Don’t worry about remembering the names of all the residential colleges, if it sounds like it’s named for an old white person, that’s a residential college. Like Benjamin Franklin. That’s the only one you need to know.
We’re unsure if Y*le has any other lingo, perhaps besides saying not-so-nice things about universities that are definitely superior to them. If someone says “the city,” they will probably mean New York. If someone says “fun,” they will probably mean avoiding certain death on a Friday night. We can learn together!
Brainstorm some Toad’s stories
Sources indicate that Toad’s is the only place Y*le students can go for a mediocre night out. Apparently stuff gets really crazy there between the unknown bands that sometimes perform and the sheer crowds caused by the fact that there is literally no other establishment in the entire vicinity of New Haven. Maybe you got stepped on at the last show. Maybe someone vomited on you. The sky’s the limit in terms of how crazy your story can get, but remember, this is still New Haven. Nothing too cool ever happens here.
Cry about not attending Harvard
Everybody knows this is the only thing that Y*le students do in their downtime. Who can blame them? They go to an extremely mediocre university while Harvard is well, Harvard. If you actually dedicate yourself to the ruse, make sure to cry at any mention of Harvard. Yes, Harvard, the school that brutally rejected you, forcing you to attend your safety, Y*le University. Everybody else will be doing the same thing!
Even if you don’t go for the full deception, remember one thing: there’s a reason Yuck Fale rolls off the tongue so much easier than Huck Farvard. It’s almost as if Y*le recognizes how yucky it is. As long as you remember that, you’ll be fine.
