News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Over the past several weeks, the chorus of support for Professor Cornel R. West ’74 and his request for tenure consideration has become increasingly spirited. Now, we must add our own voices to the mix, singing praises for West and chanting disillusionment with the University, which has undervalued yet another faculty member of color with its decision to deny his request.
The University’s decision is a profound loss. West has the presence of a rockstar, the deep wisdom of a prophet, and the warmth of a friend. His capacity to hold a room captive — to speak directly to the souls, minds, and hearts of every student he interacts with — is unrivaled, and our campus would be dimmed without his light. This plain reality, paired with the absence of any concrete explanation from the University, leaves us baffled, unable to connect the dots that led to this decision — a decision that will inevitably deplete the nature of academic life at Harvard.
The fact that West takes this recent decision as an act of disrespect is not at all surprising — in fact, it is entirely reasonable. West is prolific in ways that transcend his written publications, which are also formidable; his centrality to the academic lifeblood of this institution is unquestionable. Beyond that, tenure status — which West once held at Harvard before leaving after a rift with then-University President Lawrence H. “Larry” Summers — is intended to be for life unless something goes terribly awry. The University’s inability to honor its promise to West not only backtracks on its initial support of his work and undermines the concept of tenure, but also exudes a sense of disregard and ingratitude for his tremendous contributions — past and present — to Harvard’s academic vitality.
This particular controversy, as many have been quick to point out, does not emerge within a vacuum. It emerges within a culture of academia grounded in Eurocentricity and the systemic marginalization of Black and minority scholarship. It is directly tied to the ongoing fight for ethnic studies, and it is simply the latest iteration of a centuries-old pattern of barring Black voices from academia. This decision disrespects the importance of Black radical thought and ultimately harms Harvard students who wish to engage with it.
In light of the plethora of commitments Harvard made this past summer to uplift Black scholars and to push for greater diversity, this leaves a particularly bad taste — making it hard to view those promises as anything but cursory.
Indeed, there are other passionate intellectuals of color without West’s level of recognition and distinction who have been similarly scorned by tenure decisions in the past. The absence of these critical voices deserves the same level of outrage that West’s tenure denial has received. If a professor as renowned as Cornel West cannot receive tenure consideration, what hope is there for other academics of color working to test and push the bounds of radical thought?
Whatever its intent, the University’s choice also sends disquieting signals about the voices that Harvard seeks to elevate. West’s suspicion that the University denied his request because it views his work as “too risky” is particularly troubling, especially in light of the fact that Harvard professors so often come under scrutiny for their controversial views but continue to be provided with a solid foundation for their work at the University. What Harvard deems acceptable scholarship is all too arbitrary; this paradigm will no doubt leave lasting ripples.
At a minimum, the University must communicate its reasoning to the public. Academia on the whole would benefit from greater transparency on Harvard’s part about the tenure process: Tenure appointments are not simply matters of human resources, but are instead public statements about what constitutes intellectually valuable work. The former can be kept confidential; the latter cannot.
Fortunately, the University still has time to correct its missteps, and we believe that it must. Indeed, at the most fundamental level, it is the administration’s duty to grant Professor West the respect that he deserves; to pay tribute to the lineage of academic thought and Black scholarship that he helps to uphold; and to ensure that our campus is not stripped of one its most spirited, sharp, and incandescent voices.
This staff editorial solely represents the majority view of The Crimson Editorial Board. It is the product of discussions at regular Editorial Board meetings. In order to ensure the impartiality of our journalism, Crimson editors who choose to opine and vote at these meetings are not involved in the reporting of articles on similar topics.
Have a suggestion, question, or concern for The Crimson Editorial Board? Click here.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
By my fifth year in a professional degree program, a concerning pattern has been made clear. Graduate programs of this nature enjoy unique protection from student-driven criticism both when and after students attend. This leads to an asymmetric information problem whereby the public, including prospective students in these programs, overweights the value of graduate degrees. Different programs benefit from this ultimate outcome through both similar and disparate dynamics.
First, graduate students are older. Most have work experience and likely greater responsibilities, financial and otherwise, than they might have had in college. Second, most graduate students have already been oriented towards professionalism through post-college work experience — notably, experiences that led them all to choose to return to the academic environment. Conditioned by the low expectations for justice and equity across corporate America, in contrast, the professional school environment seems enlightened. The passion of protesting undergraduates just buildings over is exhilarating enough — at a safe distance. Two years at McKinsey will do that to you. Many are just relieved to be back in school, compared to whatever unfulfilling work environment they chose to leave behind.
Additionally, the personal sacrifice required to attend a professional degree program often leaves entrants with limited options. Professional degree programs pose a unique financial burden. One study found that among advanced degree holders, “professional degree recipients were the most indebted group, with 56 percent having borrowed $100,000 or more for their professional degree studies.” Ninety percent of professional degree holders graduate with at least some debt. In contrast, up to 30 percent of college graduates complete their education with almost no debt.
Costs, of course, are not only financial. Consider a Master in Public Policy student at the Harvard Kennedy School who has quit a middle-income job, uprooted a spouse and young child to move to Cambridge, and taken out tens-of-thousands of dollars in loans. This is not someone likely to rock the boat. No matter how awful the HKS experience may or may not be, students in this position will avoid the cognitive dissonance of an honest program assessment.
In my experience, as someone who has spent half a decade in such programs, those pursuing a professional degree program consider their degree, at least in part, through a return-on-investment lens. If a graduate degree is an asset, intuitively, you don’t devalue your own asset. In a world where brand names matter, it behooves students and alumni to ensure their school remains in high regard. Spilling dirty little secrets will not serve professional graduates in the long-run. It signals to future employers that you might do the same to them — if they hire you. Even your classmates and future colleagues may take offense to you criticizing the program they’ve just invested in.
To many, college is about freedom and experimentation — broadening horizons and earning access (at least in theory) to a new world of opportunity. Conversely, most professional graduate school programs are about narrowing choices, specializing – and for many – leaving the working world for the chance at a second start. According to the U.S. News & World Report, two-thirds or more of MBA candidates, for example, use their degree to switch industries upon graduation. Everybody knows — you don’t throw away a second chance.
The burdens of age aside, even professional degree students that skew younger than others, like those in law school, are arguably less likely to ruffle feathers. The overwhelming majority of those attending a professional degree program … want to be a “professional.” More than three-quarters of students at top law schools across the country take a job in “BigLaw” upon graduation. The close mapping of the school environment and network onto post-graduate job prospects puts students in a pseudo-employee mindset. “This is a professional school and, being on time is important, think of this like your job,” one Kennedy School professor would nag our cohort every chance he got. Good employees follow the rules and don’t constantly challenge superiors. They are not negative. They are collegial. Good employees never publicly criticize the company. And good employees understand that when the company succeeds, they succeed.
After graduating, the incentive to be honest about the negative aspects of professional graduate programs diminishes even more. Your degree is now a networking tool. In professional conversation, it will always serve to reminisce over Harvard Business School’s famous gym and rarely serve to recall the school’s stunning lack of faculty diversity.
Kaivan K. Shroff is a third-year joint-degree student at the Harvard Kennedy School and Harvard Law School.
Have a suggestion, question, or concern for The Crimson Editorial Board? Click here.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Violence is a visceral attack. It is one that latches onto our bodies in both physical and emotional ways. My last article mentioned violence towards Black women. Oftentimes, when one hears the word violence one thinks of physical abuse, rather than a spectrum encompassing psychological, emotional, structural and institutional violence. However, it is these invisible violences that most forcefully and ubiquitously keep Black girls from reaching our full potential, all while forcing us to maintain an impossible standard of “strength” that we continue to rise up to and surpass.
What does it mean to bring a child into a world with the understanding that you will not be able to protect them from the racism they will almost inevitably experience? What does it mean to feel uncomfortable in your own skin? What does it mean to feel nervous or scared in situations that everyone around you, who does not look like you, feels comfortable in?
There was a moment in my life when I realized not everyone has to ask these questions. Black femininity forces you to interact with the world in a manner that takes an unremitting physical and mental toll.
When I think of violence, I think of the lack of protection and license to authenticity afflicting Black women’s souls and bodies. But the most violent act is the erasure of these experiences, and being forced to recognize that no one else sees them but you: the infliction and subsequent denial of the social, emotional, and psychological pain that Black women experience every day. My experience of violence has largely been a matter of erasure, one which has been so normalized that, even in writing these words, it feels impossible for me to translate my experiences and feelings to a greater audience.
Sojourner Truth is one prominent example of this erasure and its connection to the “Strong Black Woman” trope.
Prior to reading her narrative in my Black women’s studies class this semester, if you were to ask me if I knew who Sojourner Truth was, I would have given you an automatic “yes.” After reading her narrative, which I cannot even properly say belongs to her, I felt a sense of grief that, before now, my knowledge of her stopped at her name.
Sojourner Truth was molded into an American Symbol, but her symbolism was never grounded in her actual story. She was an enslaved person in the North who spoke Dutch and English, and her original name was Isabella Baumfree. She was a woman who suffered abuse from both her master and her mistress, but would later go on to be the first Black woman to sue a white man and win to free her son.
No one authentically knows Sojourner Truth, and we will never fully know her because every narrative of hers was reinterpreted to appeal to an audience. Her authentic version of the truth has been lost in translation — the “Ain’t I a woman” speech famously associated with Truth, while based on her remarks, isn’t hers. The speech she actually gave has been lost to history. Who knows how much of her story was stolen from her; colonized by someone else.
Strong Black women are born out of experiences and survival. Erasing those experiences and simply portraying someone as “strong” removes the lessons from those narratives that could help other Black women to survive. Sojourner Truth did not escape slavery out of choice, but out of necessity. She freed herself and two of her five children for the sake of survival, and even then still suffered from cycles of abuse, returning to her master who abused her because she saw him as a protector from her abusive mistress.
The Strong Black Woman trope is often used against Black women. The expectation that Black women defy stereotypes and traumas is flawed because, in reality, even the figures that we are told to emulate struggled. Within these struggles is where our paths, the rivers of our everflowing experiences, cross.
These moments of confrontation and reality make Black women strong. Her strength comes not just from “rising above” but being in touch with herself and tending to herself and her psyche even when it may feel “weak.”
For Sojourner Truth, religion and speech allowed her to find her authentic self. For modern Black girls, it is wearing their hair in their desired style and taking pride in it. Coming into your authentic self for Black girls now can mean speaking up in their classrooms and feeling comfortable using the tongue that their mothers have passed down to them when engaging in conversation.
These are just a few modes of resistance that Black women embody and implement in order to navigate their worlds. Our physical presence, embodying of space, and owning the entirety of our identities will continue to challenge the violence that the rest of the world wishes to attach to our beings.
Our strength lies in our continued existence.
Black women continue to create communities of care for themselves. The warmth I receive when seeing the Black women in my life builds my strength. Our rivers cross into each other, exchanging wisdom and love. Those who recognize the paths that Black women have paved to let their river flow more freely may engage in this love that we offer.
Our resistance comes in our authenticity and love for one another as Black women. When I reach back into the past and observe and read all that has been done against Black women throughout history, I sit and tell myself: And yet we are still here.
Although there are layers of our existence that go erased, once we put back these layers — sheath ourselves in the armor of visibility — and feel the entirety of the skin underneath for everything that it is, the power and beauty that radiates is so bright.
Ogechukwu C. Ogbogu ’24 lives in Wigglesworth Hall. Her column appears on alternate Thursdays.
Have a suggestion, question, or concern for The Crimson Editorial Board? Click here.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
I felt like I was flying. For a brief moment, as I turned and leapt across the studio, everything aligned — my balance on pointe, my spine, maybe even the cosmos. Gliding through the air with each push off of the ground, I felt free from the rest of the world.
But these moments never last long, and within seconds, I crashed back down into reality. The steely voice in my head that underscores all of my movements with scathing reminders to “hold in your stomach” and “smile through the pain” returned. My body felt exposed, and I could feel the critical gazes of my fellow dancers piercing every inch of my body, like dozens of lasers scanning me for flaws. As a ballet student, you’re taught to think that once you become a professional, your whole life will feel like that euphoric moment, but this is a naive delusion. Being hired by the National Ballet of Canada was not an affirmation of the work I had put in thus far. It was a green light to push myself even harder.
Even as I came off the floor and one of my fellow dancers praised me for my execution of the combination, I could barely look him in the eyes as I accepted his compliment. All I could think to myself was, “Surely he can’t mean it.” And I basically said as much, replying with a weak, “Thank you, but it wasn’t that great. I fell off pointe here, lost my core in that last pirouette, and barely pointed my foot in the last jump.” He rolled his eyes, but he didn’t seem surprised that I failed to accept his praise. In the ballet world, no one can take a compliment.
I returned to my spot on the side of the studio, waiting for the next combination. Around me, some of the highest-caliber dancers in the world casually lounged across the ballet barres, rolled out their muscles on the floor, and chatted with each other in the back. If you’ve only ever seen our finished product on stage, you’d be surprised by the disheveled scene in a rehearsal studio. Contrasted with our brightly painted faces and sparkling tutus during performances, behind the scenes, we wear ratty warm-ups, very little makeup, and messy hair. Unlike the perfect posture that ballet technique requires while executing the steps, during rest periods many dancers slouch, as if the weight of the world is on their shoulders.
The emotional confidence and polish that we present during performances falls away when the spotlight turns off. Standing in a ballet studio is like standing in a hall of mirrors — sometimes quite literally. Not only is your vision crowded by unsatisfying reflections of yourself, but being surrounded by world-class dancers feels like drowning in a sea of iterations of yourself, except all you can see is what each one has over you — better extensions, higher jumps, smoother movements.
But you are never alone in this insecurity. The reality is that, when you survey the dozens of seemingly confident dancers nonchalantly watching from the sides or flying across the floor during grande allegro, there is always an underlying current of dissatisfaction. Like any other high-achieving endeavor, there is no room for complacency.
Looking around a studio, you see the beads of sweat, heaving chests, flexing muscles. But more than anything else, you see the furrowed brows and alert eyes as people try to gauge how they and the dancers around them are being perceived by the people at the front of the room. From a very early age, we are trained to take the word of anyone in ballet leadership as gospel. George Balanchine, the father of American ballet, is revered like a god, despite the fact that he glorified prepubescent female body types and had sexual relationships with many of his dancers. My childhood teacher would always tell me to, “Be a sponge.” Her message was that I should diligently soak up as much knowledge as I could; the implication was that I must passively absorb all of the criticism from my teachers, with little recourse to do anything more than internalize those critiques and try to appease the demands of those at the top.
Given that we are so often torn down by the people in the front of the room, it is no surprise that we take it upon ourselves to preemptively point out our flaws. It is a method of self-protection, a race to acknowledge our own flaws before someone else can point them out first. Revisiting that rare moment of euphoria while I was dancing, I clearly remember the thought I had as I was ripped out of my fleeting joy. Although I was ecstatic to actually be enjoying my own dancing, I immediately had the premonition that at least one other person in the room probably thought I looked terrible; I could not afford to appear self-satisfied.
I have a distinct memory of finishing a combination when I was 16 and having my teacher promptly say to the class, “Ladies, that was much better. Except for you Shelby… you were terrible.” The harsh criticism wasn’t the problem; I was used to that. What rattled me was the intonation of her voice, the condescension at the fact that I had seemed happy while I was dancing, a condition which she felt the need to immediately rectify. Because, for some reason, the crime of being bad at ballet doesn’t come close to the crime of letting yourself believe that you’re good — even if you are, in fact, very good. There is an unspoken rule that if you are not actively picking apart your own flaws, you are falling behind. And there is truth to this: many of the best dancers are those who are never satisfied with their performances.
This fear of self-delusion may not be apparent as dancers effortlessly glide across the stage — particularly because it is our job to come across as confident — but it is unmistakable in conversations among ballet dancers, which often involve a formulaic amount of self-criticism. Although there is an element of comfort that can be derived from discussing shared experience, most of the self-degrading commentary one hears in such conversations is not a form of bonding or humor. It is precautionary, a way of shielding ourselves from falling even harder when a biting remark from a ballet master or a critical sideways glance from a peer inevitably brings us down to earth. Unlike the masochistic ballerina portrayed by Natalie Portman ’03 in “Black Swan”, much of dancers’ self-degrading behavior is the result not of some cold pursuit of perfection, but rather a human instinct to guard against being hurt.
Ballet is beautiful, and that sense of flying is why we endure what we do — to chase an otherworldly feeling of power and grace. I was initially drawn to ballet because I was a shy child, and dance gave me an outlet to express myself without words. Even when I began using words that tore me down, similar to the way other dancers around me did, I was simultaneously expanding my artistic vocabulary, and ballet’s physicality continued to be my most authentic form of expression. Though I often feel weighed down by that inner voice telling me I’m not good enough, I will never stop reaching for those moments of transcendence.
— Staff writer Shelby N. Tzung can be reached at shelby.tzung@thecrimson.com.
Sections
I keep an eye on my Facebook messages starting at around 7:30 p.m. every night, because that’s usually when my friend Nathan logs on. Our chat history looks something like this, but exponentiated:
league?
ok
ok get on
If any schoolwork or extracurricular tasks are left on my schedule, I’m not getting them done tonight. I hop onto the Discord server, boot up the League of Legends game interface, and prepare for a string of games to end the day.
***
The summer after high school, I flew to a resort in Washington, D.C. for an engineering competition. The competition was held in an airy convention center with indoor waterfalls and shrubbery, so the air always smelled a bit humid. Indoor street lamps lined cobblestone walkways in the shopping and eating area, giving the impression of a quaint little downtown rather than a hotel with a hodgepodge of chain restaurants and expensive gift shops.
My team consisted of seven boys, and me. Our rooms were on the 12th floor, offering a fantastic view of the National Harbor. The competition was structured so that we had a couple of days between the opening ceremony and our presentation to the judges. We spent these days lounging in the hotel room, supposedly practicing our presentation but mostly fooling around. Occasionally, we’d look outside and point out to each other how blue the sea or the sky was. We ordered fast food, built forts, and conducted pillow fights: a handful of graduated seniors holding onto the sweet last bits of high school.
At some point, my teammate Anthony hooked up his new laptop to the TV, ostensibly so we could see our PowerPoint in HD. But soon we were too busy cooing over the sharp TV graphics and the laptop CPU to focus at all; we instead found ourselves watching the 2019 League of Legends Championship Series Summer Split on the 48-inch screen.
League of Legends is a massive multiplayer online battle arena in which players are matched into teams of five based on their skill ranking. Teams compete against one another on a battlefield called Summoner’s Rift. Each player chooses one avatar, called a champion, to control — as of 2020, there are more than 150 champions, each with unique abilities and playstyles. The goal is to take the enemy team’s home base, which is protected by castle structures called turrets.
The square-shaped arena is divided into three lanes: one along the left and top edges, one along the bottom and right edges, and one cutting through the middle from the bottom left corner to the top right of the map. Creatures called minions, generated by each team’s home base, creep along the lanes. A river bisects the middle lane, and the rest of the space is filled with a shadowy, swirling maze of paths, trees, and monsters — the jungle.
Champions level up and gain stats throughout the game. This can be sped up by killing neutral monsters in the jungle and the enemy team’s minions in the lanes, then using the income to buy items in the shop to strengthen your champion. Killing enemy players also provides income. While an unlimited amount of deaths are allowed, respawn timers get longer the further the game drags on. This was my first time watching the game in action.
“Holy shit,” breathed Anthony, when a little figure on the screen detonated a blast that chunked down the health bars of four other characters.
A couple minutes later, a fight in the bottom right portion of the map drew exclamations from the boys. “Vlad had to TP there,” Drake commented. “Otherwise there’s just no way. Shen’s pushing too hard on botside. Now Kai’sa’s fed.”
Anthony and Jonathan nodded solemnly in agreement.
“Do you guys know what they all do?” one of the boys who didn’t play League asked, referring to each champion’s specific abilities.
“Yeah,” Anthony and Drake said at the same time. They looked at each other.
“Nothing to be ashamed of, boys,” Jonathan said.
I started playing League a couple of hours later. The League Championship Series games had fueled the boys’ desires for their own Summoner’s Rift glory, and they set up on the coffee table, pulled out their wireless mice, and booted up their clients. I joined them partly out of curiosity, but mostly because I wanted to get closer to them and didn’t quite know how to communicate the desire. Throughout high school I’d intermittently found people interesting and wished to know them better, but it wasn’t until close to graduation that I realized I was seriously running out of time. I didn’t want another such chance to slip through my fingers.
At the very least, I’d understand the League jargon.
“Can I learn from anyone?” I asked.
Jonathan’s face lit up. “I’m gonna teach you the top lane,” he said. “I’ll teach you Garen.”
“Don’t die too much,” Drake offered helpfully from the sofa, where he, Anthony, and Abhi had set up shop.
I found the website and downloaded the game.
“It’s time,” said Jonathan. He hammered his chest.
“Yeah, it’s time,” echoed Anthony.
“Gamers rise up,” said Drake.
After a couple of matches against bots where I spun around the map as Garen, I leveled up my account enough to be able to join the games the rest of the boys were playing. The PowerPoint was left unrehearsed for the day.
We played as the sun set and the sky split into pink and yellow, the room awash in gold. We played as the lamps turned on and the rooms around us quieted down to rest. When I went to bed that night, still giddy, I saw the graphics imprinted behind my eyelids, just as vibrant and animated as they’d been on screen.
The next day, after we actually practiced our presentation, we played again, and more the day after that.
It might’ve been a little unproductive, cooped up in a hotel room playing League when we could’ve been using our free time to explore the nation’s capital (we did, a little) or meet new people (we didn’t). This wasn’t really important, though. None of us voiced it, but we all felt that these might well be the last few moments that we spent with each other. As far as we knew, we were shooting toward the end of an era.
League games are 30-minute retreats from reality. Since there are so many moving parts, for most people it’s pretty hard to not concentrate in game. We focused on our champions, on teamfights, on macro strategy. In those days, we channeled our energy into the game — more tangible than the big, looming future.
That summer, after we returned from the competition, we went to each other’s homes twice a week to play League. These sessions extended well into the night, sometimes to 2 a.m. or later, in which case I, having no driver’s license, would have to hitch a ride home with a friend. Of course, League could be done remotely. It’s a video game. But being in the same room with Jonathan as he bellows “LET’S GO” at a particularly sick play, or watching Drake leap up and crab-walk around the table for a victory lap — no substitutes exist for that.
Going to someone’s house is now out of the question. So as quarantine drags into month twelve, I log on to League of Legends almost every night. Queuing up with friends miles away, their yells mingling with in-game sound effects right in my ear, lets us share the magical sensation of being somewhere else entirely.
— Magazine writer Vicki Xu can be reached at vicki.xu@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @vicku___.
Sections
A photo from our Vision content category, imagining the diffusion of the self in nature.
Digital scan of a black and white film print, created by layering two film negatives. Photos taken with 35mm, 400 ISO film.
Sections
In the fall of 1976, Yale had just declared victory, 21-7, over Harvard’s football team. Following tradition, Crimson players converged in the Harvard Club for a team dinner, where the seniors made speeches. Among them was Andrew P. Puopolo Jr. ’77, referred to by his teammates simply as “Pop,” short for his last name and a gesture to his immense popularity. Described by his teammate Mark S. Taylor ’77 as “a scrappy little guy with a lot of heart,” he was “somebody who cut a wider swath than his small stature would lead you to believe.”
After dinner, the players set out for the Combat Zone, a nickname for what was then Boston’s burgeoning red light district, an area zoned in 1974 as a home for strip clubs, unregulated bars, and adult film theaters. Hosting dozens of thriving X-rated establishments, the area was a haven for sin in an urban fabric still soaked with the legacy of Puritanism. The events of that night — ending in a fatal encounter between Harvard football players and Zone regulars — would lead to the eventual shuttering of most of these black market businesses.
As they piled into a taxi, Michael J. Lynch ’77 recalls that “Andy was the last guy in [the car], with his leg hanging out.” He and his fellow players spent two hours at a strip joint called the “Naked i Cabaret.” They left around 2 a.m., closing time at the ominously addressed 666 Washington St. Walking to catch a ride home, a member of the team, Charles F. Kaye ’78, was solicited by a sex worker who allegedly stole his wallet. A few fights ensued between the players and the three men in the sex worker’s company — Edward J. Soares, Richard S. Allen, and Leon Easterling. During the altercation, Easterling stabbed Puopolo. Puopolo was rushed in an ambulance to a hospital where he would remain in a coma for a month. On Dec.17, he died.
Thomas J. Lincoln ’77 was stabbed as well, although he survived. He described the events of that night through an elaborate list of the factors that culminated in his friend’s death: “a chaotic mixture of unfortunate interactions between two different social cultures, questionable judgements all around, lack of clarity and understanding of the street rules in play that evening, a bit of mob-like sensibility and behavior, and a touch of tragedy in the air.”
The origins of the Combat Zone’s moniker are murky — it either alludes to the proclivity of war veterans to frequent the area or to the Zone’s high crime rates. Either way, the four-block radius of the area was legislated into existence as a response to both local priorities and national rulings. Rising crime rates, a boom in the underground sex work industry, and the city’s unique decision in 1974, just two years before Puopolo’s death, to corral adult businesses into one central location all contributed to the Zone’s creation and reputation. One central location made policing and patrolling the area that much easier. As Jan Brogan, author of a forthcoming book on the topic, puts it, the Boston Police “weren't going to be able to get rid of […] the sex shows or sex movies. So they decided to try to limit it to those four blocks.”
In a morbid coincidence, just a week prior to Puopolo’s death, a new police superintendent, Robert J. di Grazia, had commissioned an internal review of police misconduct in the Zone. The scathing report revealed what the New York Times’ John Kifner cited in 1976 as the “widespread ‘incompetence and corruption’” of the Boston Police — in one instance, it was reported that officers were given free drinks in the Zone’s bars and strip clubs, and in return allowed alcohol to flow freely with no concern for liquor licenses.
Puopolo’s death was just under a decade after the start of President Lyndon B. Johnson’s War on Crime and only a few years after President Richard Nixon declared a War on Drugs. The media latched onto the story. The image of an Ivy League athlete falling prey to the dangers of the inner city was hard for publications to resist. A Globe column from the time illustrates the mold in which Puopolo’s story could be neatly fitted, referring to him as “a young guy whose life was going well. Young Puopolo had graduated from Boston Latin School and was playing football for Harvard, and things must have looked so beautiful until that night,” when he was “stabbed by pimps.”
Police response was equally overwhelming. Brogan recounts that directly following Puopolo’s death “the combat zone got flooded with police.” A sex worker named Corinne told the Boston Globe in 1978 that after Puopolo’s murder, “the police cracked down on us.” “‘The cops,’ she continued, ‘tightened clubs. Everything and everybody was uptight in the Zone for a long time.’” The Los Angeles Times newswire remarked in 1977 that it “began to look like a military outpost, with uniformed officers standing in pairs every 50 feet along the streets.”
While public outcry led to swift police action, the painfully slow end of Puopolo’s life made for an agonizing close to the fall semester at Harvard, especially for the football team. “It was just waiting,” Lynch describes. “Those that were religious, you know, prayed a lot.”
The mourning of friends and teammates was also met with an administrative response. A Crimson article from 2002 cites then-Dean of Students Archie C. Epps III saying, “I didn’t understand why one would go to the Combat Zone, but it had been a practice for some time.” Lynch recalls that the “silly, sophomoric tradition” of visiting the zone after the Harvard-Yale game “obviously stopped after that night.” Taylor admitted that “regretfully, we were being totally irresponsible… Full of ourselves, invincible… out in traffic.” Immediate changes in team rituals, University policy, and Zone policing in the aftermath of the murder were met by stagnation in actually adjudicating the crime, which would take two trials and many years to resolve.
The public reaction to the story was perhaps heightened by the fact that all three men implicated in the stabbing were Black, while the Harvard players involved were white. A coalition of Bostonians, including Harvard professors George Wald and Ruth H. Hubbard ’44, demanded that the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court overturn and grant retrials to the three men, noting that the prosecution was “playing up the fact that Puopolo was a white Harvard football player while the defendants were black.” Their demands were answered, and eventually upheld by the U.S. Supreme Court. Soares and Allen went free, and Easterling was sentenced to two decades for manslaughter after confessing to the stabbing.
Puopolo’s stabbing reverberated both at the University level and nationwide — yet eventually, his story stopped being told. Most current undergraduates would not know the Combat Zone existed, let alone that a Harvard student met his tragic end there. Further cementing our lack of collective memory, the Boston of that era has long since vanished: The plot of land at 666 Washington where the “Naked i Cabaret” once stood now hosts a parking garage for luxury condominiums. When asked about revisiting those same streets, Taylor expresses bewilderment: “Going back up there, I’ve wondered where the heck it was.”
— Staff writer Olivia E. Gopnik-Parker can be reached at olivia.gopnik@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @GopnikParker.
Sections
Nick J. Grieco moved to Boston in 2006 for his first year at the Berklee College of Music and relocated to Allston soon after. Fourteen years later, he’s still there. Even after watching friends move to other cities, he chose Allston as the place to build his network and launch his music career.
“I think my circles of friends that left before — they totally see me as the guy who stayed,” Grieco says.
Grieco stays for the same reasons that compelled him to settle in Allston in the first place: He recognized the opportunities a diverse neighborhood with a rich arts scene could offer a young guitarist early in his career. Allston, known by some as “Rock City,” has been a creative hub since the ’60s, cultivating a punk and alternative rock scene that bred the likes of Aerosmith.
But these days, Grieco is increasingly uncertain of his future in the area. “I’ve spent a lot of time setting up my roots here. But the relationship between myself and the city is really starting to feel love-hate,” he explains.
Six years ago, Grieco tried to establish an independent rock club in Allston’s Studio 52 building, but came up against city bureaucracy he feels stood in the way. Identifying a disconnect between local government and artists’ needs, he co-founded Artist Impact, an advocacy group that aims to connect artists with city resources and generally act as a conduit between them and Boston officials.
More and more, Grieco and Artist Impact have found themselves advocating for artists’ voices in ongoing real estate development plans. For some Allstonians, their livelihoods depend on ensuring development does not uproot what they see as the spirit of the neighborhood — clusters of mom-and-pop shops, collaborative creative spaces, even sweaty basement rock parties (pre-pandemic, of course).
Harvard is a major landowner in Allston, with a particularly strong presence in the Lower Allston area directly across the Charles River from its main Cambridge campus. The University has already spent over $1 billion on development in Allston, which has focused on building capacity in technology and the sciences. Other plans in partnership with private development companies involve a research campus with housing, restaurants, and a hotel.
While the community’s historic arts culture continues to attract and retain artists, many residents worry increased investment in science, technology, and commercial real estate will shift not only the terrain, but also the composition of Allston, pushing people out through rising rents.
“Right now, pretty much everybody in my shoes is fully prepared to have a rent raise that forces them out of their home and out of the city,” Grieco says.
Along with its development plans, Harvard has made efforts to support Allston through promises to build affordable housing and launching various “community benefits,” ranging from grants for arts organizations and public infrastructure, to open lectures and workshops. Some wonder, however, whether such initiatives can make up for rising housing and living costs.
The story of Harvard’s expansion into Allston has been told before, but often with the University at the center. Shifting the focus to the voices of Allston residents unearths a range of complex, often contradictory visions for the neighborhood’s future. As Allstonians ask whom development will benefit, the continuing challenge will be to ensure that the needs of the most vulnerable don’t end up slipping through the cracks.
Grieco describes himself as “pro-development,” yet that support is contingent upon Harvard and real estate developers incorporating artist and working-class voices into their planning processes. He, like residents across the neighborhood, must weigh the potential opportunity of development against an anxiety that the spaces he loves will become unaffordable, if not unrecognizable.
“I can’t help but wonder if I spent all this time on all this stuff somewhere else, how much further along the process I would be?” Grieco asks. “How much closer to achieving my goals would I be, as opposed to bashing my head against a brick wall trying to fight these developers?”
A middle-aged woman looks down from the second floor terrace of a three-decker, multi-family home, her elbows grazing a white poster that covers the entire front of the balcony. Anyone passing by can clearly read the message, scrawled in bold black script: “the BRA [Boston Redevelopment Authority] is evicting the people of No[rth] Harvard to make way for LUXURY APTS.”
Another 20 people of all ages sit defiantly in front of the building’s entrance, forming a blockade with their bodies and smoking, playing, and chatting with one another. A myriad of other signs pepper the scene, among them calls to “BAN RENEWAL ACTION” and warnings that “The Rich Get Richer and the Poor Get Homeless.”
In 1961, the BRA made plans to knock down 52 structures located on the 9.3-acre plot known as Barry’s Corner in Lower Allston, a neighborhood home to a unique community of over 70 families, many of them Irish and Italian immigrants.
Residents banded together over the next several years to oppose the BRA’s plans. While the BRA ultimately tore down their homes, their protests successfully disrupted plans to put up luxury apartments. Instead, between 1969 and 1970, the city constructed an affordable housing complex: Charlesview Apartments.
Meanwhile, Allston was steadily building its reputation as a thriving arts community and hub for diverse groups. Particularly in the ’60s and subsequent two decades, Allston attracted young artists, many of whom were college students or recent graduates, because of its public venues and affordable rents. Affordability and employment opportunities also attracted various immigrant groups — Irish immigrants in the 1850s, and Haitian, Cambodian, and Vietnamese people in the late 1970s.
This young, diverse population has only grown in recent decades. Brazilian, Chinese, Korean, and Russian communities have established roots in the neighborhood, among others. And as of 2017, 18 to 24 year-olds also comprised 41 percent of the Allston population, compared to 15 percent of Boston; 56 percent of Allston residents were enrolled in college or university.
But Allston’s appeal was never exclusive to potential residents. Real estate developers have increasingly recognized an opportunity to pursue institutional and commercial expansion in the neighborhood. In 2018 alone, the Boston Planning and Development Agency (BPDA) reported the approval of 651,000 square feet of development space. Notable projects including Allston Square and Allston Yards — which collectively span over 1,000 housing units — are positioned to transform the neighborhood.
Harvard is a major player amidst the slew of developers in Allston. The University had long established itself in Lower Allston, building its athletic stadium and business school across the river in 1903 and 1924, respectively. But in 1997, the University caught some residents off guard when it covertly acquired more than 50 acres of land in the neighborhood.
“They started purchasing property under the guise of [the Beal Companies] because they were afraid that they’d have to pay a premium for the land if they knew it was Harvard University buying it,” recalls Anthony P. D’Isidoro, current president of the Allston Civic Association.
“That did not go over very well with the residents. That didn’t go over very well with Mayor [Thomas M.] Menino,” he adds. “So the relationship started in a very rocky way.”
Still, Harvard forged on in its expansion, working to mend strained community relations along the way. In 2007, the BRA approved plans for a science complex that would eventually house a new campus for Harvard’s School for Engineering and Applied Sciences (SEAS). Although construction on the project stalled when Harvard’s endowment plummeted during the 2008 financial crisis, the University revitalized the project in 2014. After delays due to Covid-19, the $1 billion SEAS complex was completed last month.
A year before plans for the new SEAS complex recommenced, the BRA had approved Harvard’s Institutional Master Plan (IMP), a nearly 300-page vision for the future of its growth in Allston. The IMP outlines additions to the Business School and athletic facilities, as well as an Enterprise Research Campus on Western Avenue: 900,000-square-feet of primarily office and lab spaces, in addition to living areas, restaurants, and a conference center.
That same year, the BRA also authorized Harvard’s plans for a new Residential and Retail Commons in Barry’s Corner. Harvard moved the affordable Charlesview Apartments to a new space with additional amenities down the street and partnered with developer Samuels & Associates to build a new luxury housing complex called Continuum. Today, Barry’s Corner is also home to restaurants and a Trader Joe’s.
Kevin A. McCluskey, who served as Harvard’s community relations director from 1989 to 2011, says the principle of mutual benefit was “most clearly represented” in the University’s conversations with the Charlesview community.
In anticipation of resident anxieties, Harvard made extensive efforts to address concerns over its growing presence in the area. The IMP includes a $43 million community benefits package that, among other things, would sponsor home ownership opportunities, local school improvements, and a “flexible fund” for other public enhancement projects.
“The mitigation and benefits that came out of [the IMP] have been extremely helpful in our community, and they were negotiated in good faith by both sides,” says D’Isidoro. “There’s been a lot of good things that have come out of that IMP process.”
Though Harvard’s presence in Allston looms large, the University’s identity is more complicated than many of its fellow developers. While Harvard purchases land and temporarily leases it to developers, the University itself is here to stay — so amiable relationships with its neighbors are integral for future initiatives.
With the “community benefits” outlined in the Institutional Master Plan serving as a blueprint, the University continues to devise ways of establishing trust with the neighborhood. While some residents have welcomed these partnerships enthusiastically, others doubt whether they are enough.
“The artists aren’t choosing to go elsewhere,” recited BPDA Project Manager Nick Carter. “You’re kicking them out.”
Carter was reading aloud a number of anonymous comments during a public Zoom Meeting on Feb. 8 to review plans for the demolition of 119 Braintree St., a building which contains studio spaces for many artists in Allston.
Braintree Street Realty, partnered with Bracken Development, has proposed razing the current 119 Braintree building as part of a larger project to develop over 400,000 square feet into non Harvard-affiliated labs and offices, and another 86,000 square feet into residential housing.
Michael Blank, one of the landowners of 119 Braintree, assured the Zoom attendees that he and his partners have been considering the best way to protect current tenants, specifically artists, since the earliest stages of planning. “I care deeply about this community,” he said. “This is my family. I’ve been with these people for 50 years. So I’m not just looking to cast everyone aside and move on.”
Although Wayne P. Strattman, one of the 74 current tenants and roughly 27 artists with studios in 119 Braintree, says the building owners have been “wonderful,” he’s far from worry-free.
Strattman was originally drawn to Boston for its university-rich landscape. “We have, depending on who you ask, up to 60 universities here,” he says. “It’s a very educated, liberal area. It’s perfect for developing communication around the arts.”
Now, his anxiety about leaving 119 Braintree is enmeshed with a broader cultural concern. He fears that the arts are losing relevance as the neighborhood develops to accommodate ambitious STEM-centric projects — projects made possible and profitable by the very university-rich landscape he cherishes.
“The pricing per square foot for those spaces is astronomical in comparison to what artists can afford. We’re not even in the same universe, in terms of income,” he says. “What we give back to the culture is far greater, and that doesn’t compute in dollars or cents.”
For Strattman, Boston’s arts community does not merely denote a physical space, but also a shared atmosphere of collaboration and exchange. He recalls that in decades past, hundreds of people would gather in local theaters and public spaces to listen and share their work. “We built a real community,” he recalls. “But a big new biotech company is not going to do much for building community.”
“When developers come up against artists, it’s a very unbalanced confrontation. And artists are losing space all across the city,” he adds. “You can’t point to too many viable arts communities left, and what few are left are under assault.”
Concerns about affordability don’t stop with studio space. In recent years, Allston residents have witnessed a worrisome and, in the worst cases, unmanageable increase in housing costs.
Between 2017 and 2019, average rents for 3-bedroom or “family-sized” units in Allston-Brighton have risen over $600 per month, an increase of 30 percent, according to a study conducted by the Allston Brighton Civic Development Corporation. To live in a three-bedroom home, a family earning the neighborhood’s median household income of $52,795 would have to pay roughly 63 percent of their income per month.
Boston City Councilor Elizabeth A. Breadon calls housing issues in Allston “the ongoing battle.” She explains that stabilizing the cost of living in the neighborhood is critical to maintaining its socioeconomic diversity. “This has been a working-class, middle-class neighborhood for a very long time,” she adds. “And it’s very sad to see working families not be able to stay.”
Breadon is particularly steadfast about expanding the city’s Inclusionary Development Policy (IDP), which mandates that at least 13 percent of new development units are income-restricted. She would like to see new developments designate 20 percent of units as affordable.
Christine A. Varriale currently occupies one of the affordable housing units mandated by the city through the IDP. She works in the music industry and lives in Continuum Apartments, the luxury complex above Trader Joe’s in the renovated Barry’s Corner.
“To me, that’s the only reason that I’ve been able to stay in the city and live on my own and not have to have five roommates like all of my friends,” Varriale says of the opportunity to live in the building at a reduced rate.
She loves living in the building and has had a positive experience with developer Samuels & Associates, noting that they provide great service for tenants and promote public artwork. She’s not necessarily wary of new developments popping up in the neighborhood, but she hopes that going forward, as they do appear, there will be a concerted effort to include affordable housing units beyond the IDP’s stipulated 13 percent.
“Having that opportunity and making sure that other people can use that as a way to stay in Boston is important to me and [for bringing] new people who can call Boston their home,” Varriale says.
Housing advocacy is part of the reason she decided to join the Harvard-Allston Task Force, an advisory body organized by the BPDA in order to facilitate resident feedback throughout the University’s development planning process.
Varriale says she is committed to representing a new voice in the room, noting she is the youngest on the Task Force and a renter, unlike many homeowners in the group. Often, she perceives an effort among more established residents to lift up the importance of creating homeownership opportunities in Allston.
But as a young person without current plans to invest in permanent housing, she wants to refocus on the challenges of renting: “Affordable homeownership still isn’t something that I could attain, even as somebody who’s lower-middle class,” she says. “I can’t get approved for a mortgage, you know? So what good is it for me?”
For others, homeownership remains vital. Brent Whelan ’73, an Allstonian of 40 years and member of the Task Force, says Harvard’s pattern of retaining ownership and facilitating development under lease arrangements — as opposed to transferring ownership of the land — often “precludes” homeownership.
Harvard has set aside $3 million for the All Bright Homeownership Program. Through this program, the Allston Brighton Community Development Corporation — a nonprofit focused on amplifying resident voices and promoting affordable housing — purchases homes with cash to compete with investors in North Allston-Brighton, in turn reselling these homes to owner occupants.
Harvard spokesperson Brigid O’Rourke wrote in an email that the University has and continues to promote affordable housing opportunities in Allston and Boston at large.
“We are proud to continue our work with partner organizations on the front lines of addressing local housing needs and opportunities, and are incredibly proud to have helped support the creation and preservation of hundreds of affordable units in Allston-Brighton, and thousands more across the region,” she wrote.
But for some residents, concerns over homeownership opportunities persist. “Even condos can’t really be built if the landowner is not surrendering the land,” Whelan says. “This becomes a big issue for people who would like to see not a transient population, but an established community population of homeowners, and see that fostered by Harvard’s development.”
Even from a distance, the sculpture resembles the shape of real coral — that is, if coral were 17 feet tall, bright white, and studded with tiny fuchsia “petals.” Closer up, however, the massive structure’s true form reveals itself: Thousands of individual laser-cut paper fragments, fastened from the inside by binder clips, converge in what is two artists’ cutting-edge visualization of “biomimicry.”
James V. Dalessandro and Jason G. Hasko are the architects behind this detailed geometric construction, aptly titled “Coralyte,” as well as co-founders of the interdisciplinary design consultancy Emergent Design. “Coralyte” was the culmination of their 30-day residency last November at Artisan’s Asylum, a non-profit that Harvard is supporting as part of its efforts to facilitate arts and community in Allston.
Artisan’s Asylum provides local artists with equipment, classes, and a collaborative workspace to facilitate their creative endeavors. It was previously situated in Somerville, but plans to transition to expanded Harvard-leased and Harvard-renovated spaces in Allston.
In November 2018, Lars H. Torres, the newly-hired executive director of Artisan’s Asylum, began a search for the organization’s next home, seeking a larger space as close to the organization’s established location in Somerville as possible. He was soon introduced to the Harvard real estate team, and in February 2020, Artisan’s Asylum signed a letter of intent to lease around 52,000 square feet from Harvard.
“Harvard stuck with us, you know? I don't know how many landlords would have done that,” he says of the University’s decision to remain in partnership with Artisan’s Asylum throughout the Covid-19 pandemic.
Recent graduates of Wentworth Institute of Technology, Dalessandro and Hasko say they appreciate being in the Boston area in part because of the institutional resources at their disposal.
“It’s all about access to tools,” Hasko says. “In Allston, there isn’t really much opportunity for somebody to walk down the street and be able to use a 3S printer or laser cutter. You have to have access to a university or have membership to more expensive shops downtown or other areas.”
While much of Harvard’s development in Allston centers on the expansion of science and engineering, Hasko believes that these goals are not mutually exclusive with the arts. Instead, he says the two can coexist in a “circular economy,” where technology finances the space and materials necessary for art, and art can help promote innovation.
The move of Artisan’s Asylum to Allston marks but one of Harvard’s initiatives to support local residents, which also include the $43 million dedicated to community benefits in the IMP.
Another notable initiative is the Harvard Ed Portal, a collaborative network that engages the local community through a slew of programming ranging from panels, career planning workshops, arts initiatives, and grants for local businesses and nonprofits. One well-established program is the annual Allston-Brighton Winter Market, an artisanal fair that allows local creatives to showcase and sell their work.
For Ross M. Miller ’77, the opportunity to partner with the Ed Portal is one of the reasons he calls Harvard “a good neighbor” to him. Miller is a longtime local artist who specializes in “landscape integrated artwork,” according to his website. A Cambridgeport resident, Miller has been based out of a studio in a building he’s owned in Allston for nearly 20 years. Through the Harvard-Allston Public Realm Flexible Fund, which funds community outreach and artists’ residencies at Artisan’s Asylum, the University has financed Miller’s current project at a park on Franklin Street in Allston.
But Miller recognizes that engaging with Harvard and its community benefits may be most helpful to those who feel comfortable enough to do so, which often entails already having some degree of privilege.
“I’ve been fortunate because Harvard seems like a familiar entity to me,” he says. “So it’s not this ‘other.’ I didn’t grow up in a triple decker in Allston and see the rents increase because people are looking to move in and work at Harvard or work in the science complex or something.”
Allston resident and tenant advocate Bonnie A. Atterstrom was interested in interfacing with the Ed Portal, but found that few of its programs and course offerings aligned with her unconventional work schedule.
“This isn’t just Harvard,” Atterstrom says. “I think universities in general forget that a lot of the times [in] the neighborhoods they belong to, the landscape of that neighborhood is very different from the landscape of a university, right?”
Miller, however, remains optimistic about the good that Harvard is doing for Allston, especially in comparison to other real estate developers in the area.
“When I look at that, rather than be upset about Harvard’s approach or the neighborhood, I go, ‘Oh my gosh, it’s really sad that that doesn’t happen in Dorchester, Roxbury, or Mattapan,’” Miller says.
He also cites some of the sustainability efforts that Harvard has made in its projects — including research on runoff water and water table replenishment — as part of what sets the University apart as a developer.
“I’m not saying that Harvard has the most perfect values,” he adds. “But I think its values are, in many cases, more progressive than other large real estate developers.”
Cindy Marchando calls her path to civic engagement in Allston a “long journey.”
“When I first came into the neighborhood, it did not feel welcoming for an outsider coming in,” says Marchando, who is originally from Trinidad and Tobago and moved to Allston in 2006. But after years of attending local meetings and making her voice heard, she came to feel that she belonged. “I had to work my way and be able to be vulnerable,” she adds, “and allow people to get to know me.”
Marchando is now a member of the Harvard-Allston Task Force, and sees her participation as a way to uplift the voices of Allstonians who may feel excluded from the decision-making process.
Marchando’s past struggles with finding affordable housing — “[I] almost got evicted from the projects because I could not even afford to live there,” she recounts — have informed her current drive to help others. “Looking at where I came from, and what I did to be able to help myself get to where I am — it’s why I’m passionate about giving back,” she says.
Other advocates for Allston’s vulnerable populations have been familiar with the neighborhood, and the University, since childhood.
“I grew up in Cambridge, and Harvard Yard was my playground. I didn’t have any context of what that meant until I went to college,” says Anna E. Leslie, one such advocate, with a laugh.
Today, Leslie is Executive Director of the Allston Brighton Health Collaborative, a public health organization focused on improving the “social determinants” of health — food access, transportation, and more — in Allston-Brighton by partnering with nearly 40 local health care providers and organizations.
Leslie perceives Harvard’s entrance into Allston as a potential opportunity to expand resources for locals — one contingent, however, upon the University’s willingness to seek out and listen to resident voices.
“A place like Allston has tens of thousands of people who already live there,” she says. “So it can’t be like Seaport; it has to be inclusive of who already is invested in that space.”
Renovating the Seaport — a neighborhood in Boston — was an expansive project that, after 10 years and $22 billion in public investment, transformed 33 acres of land into a high-end complex featuring restaurants, hotel space, boutiques, and biotech companies. Leslie says many Allstonians worry Harvard and other real estate developers will turn their neighborhood into a second Seaport, which might look shinier but would be less affordable than the historically working-class Allston.
Leslie notes that Allston has seen positive strides in recent years toward transparent communication and increased dialogue with Harvard — a trend partially facilitated by the transition to Zoom following the start of the Covid-19 pandemic, as well as by the expansion of the Task Force. The Task Force has recently been meeting more frequently and has developed a more diverse membership. “That was a long time coming,” Leslie says. “And it was something that community members had been asking for for a long time.”
BPDA Project Manager Gerald Autler, who oversees several of Harvard’s ongoing development projects, wrote in an email that the frequency of advisory group meetings “[depend] on what proposals are being reviewed” and that in his experience many residents express concerns over there being too many community meetings, rather than too few, making it hard to attend all the sessions of interest.
Autler also emphasized that soliciting diverse perspectives remains a priority as development plans move forward, writing, “We have worked hard to dig more deeply into the population and have had a lot of success but continue to work hard at this.”
Yet for some who are struggling with food insecurity, rent, and homelessness, Marchando says civic engagement can seem pointless. She emphasizes the importance of communicating openly with these individuals, centering their perspectives, and ensuring that they feel comfortable accessing community resources, including those provided by Harvard.
She recalls her daughter’s aversion to the Ed Portal in her early years: “The first thing out of her mouth would be, ‘I would never get involved with those Harvard people,’” Marchando recalls. “Because she did not feel like that is a place for her, as a minority.”
Now, Marchando’s daughter serves as a counselor at three different high schools in the area, working to connect students with the Ed Portal’s resources. “She realized that she needed to go and bring those programs to the students,” Marchando says. Service providers need to actively reach out and communicate to residents to make such programs accessible and attractive, according to Marchando. “I think that’s really lacking in a lot of the resources that we do have,” she adds.
Jason Desrosier, the Manager of Community Building and Engagement at the Allston Brighton Community Development Corporation, describes himself as one such “liaison” between real estate developers and residents whose voices too often go unheard.
“There’s a bit of a learning curve when it comes to development meetings and community planning. If you’re a non-native English speaker, you may not feel comfortable in those spaces,” he says. While he says he often relays residents’ concerns at Harvard-sponsored meetings, his ultimate goal is for all Allston residents to feel comfortable bringing such concerns forward themselves.
Breadon, the Boston City Councilor, agrees, saying that crafting conversations in languages that reflect the ethnic diversity of the neighborhood — including Korean, Portuguese, Russian, and various dialects of Chinese — remains a pressing issue.
Additionally, despite the transition to Zoom increasing participation for some, others, particularly essential workers, have found it difficult to attend meetings during evening hours, according to Breadon.“Going forward, I think we need to be really mindful about ensuring that we do outreach to those neighbors and engage them in the process,” she says.
Whelan says he often wishes for opportunities for more substantive communication with developers and University representatives. “You reach a point which is very amicable and pleasant, but ultimately a kind of brick wall,” he says. “Harvard is cooperative with this process — they kind of have to be — but it’s not as though you can roll up your sleeves and say, ‘Let’s pull out a blueprint and talk about what would be great for us.’”
Autler, of the BPDA, wrote in an email that, although the agency is “always happy to consider ways to improve” communication processes, several avenues to collaborate and express concerns already exist, including multiple meetings and written forums for each project. He also cited Tishman Speyer’s commitment to affordable housing as an important example of how Impact Advisory Groups have been effective in incorporating community feedback.
As Grieco — the musician and co-founder of Artist Impact — contends with the complexity of the Allston development scene, he finds his mind drifting to hypothetical futures away from Boston.
Like many Allston creatives, he stands at a crossroads. It is more than a matter of growing fond of the neighborhood and its people: Allston is his home.
Despite his efforts to ensure artists’ needs are incorporated into developments that will shape the neighborhood’s landscape and culture for decades to come, Grieco admits he’s “getting tired.” He says contending with powerful developers as the neighborhood changes before his eyes can often feel like a battle of attrition.
“It’s strange,” Grieco muses, his voice colored by an ambivalence somewhere between exhaustion and wistfulness. “It’s strange to invest so much in this city, and then wonder when it’s ever going to give me something back.”
— Staff writer Mollie S. Ames can be reached at mollie.ames@thecrimson.com.
— Staff writer Isabella B. Cho can be reached at isabella.cho@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @izbcho.
Sections
Lorén M. Spears, the Executive Director of the Tomaquag Museum in Exeter, R.I., has strong views on whether museums should hold human remains. “Would you want this to happen to your family, your grandfather, or your great-grandfather?” she asks. The way that museums hold human remains now, she continues, “is not leaving people at peace.”
Spears spoke at a Harvard Peabody Museum of Archaeology and Ethnology panel on Feb. 25 entitled “Reimagining Museums: Disruption and Change,” back by popular demand after a panel on similar topics in November 2020 sparked an important public discussion on the best ways to enact decolonization. Decolonization is defined by the Abbe Museum — a museum in Bar Harbor, Maine on the history and culture of the Wabanaki people — as “sharing authority for the documentation and interpretation of Native culture.” This second iteration covered topics like the repatriation of human remains, land acknowledgements, and ways that museums can continue to decolonize and promote ethical stewardship.
The panel began with Shelly C. Lowe, the Executive Director of the Harvard Native American Program, acknowledging that Harvard sits on land originally inhabited by the Massachusett tribe. Then, in a panel discussion organized and moderated by Peabody Museum Curator of North American Ethnography Castle McLaughlin, Spears, Chris Newell, the Executive Director of the Abbe Museum, and Jane Pickering, the Director of the Peabody Museum, discussed the importance of land acknowledgements. In the panel’s opinion, land acknowledgements are a first step towards decolonization. “So many people aren’t even conscious that they’re on Indigenous land,” Spears said. Land acknowledgements, she added, create an “a-ha moment for people who hadn’t realized that.”
Newell noted that land acknowledgements are part of the decolonization mentality. “Institutions must write the words themselves, shaped by communities to make sure they’re being culturally competent,” he said — and museums should avoid outsourcing this process to check a box. Both Newell and Spears agreed that while land acknowledgements are solid first steps, institutions must take further, concrete actions towards ethical stewardship.
The panel then turned to the question of repatriation of artifacts, in particular human remains. In an interview after the panel, Spears roundly criticized the holding of human remains and funerary objects. Museums, she said, often used “the deaths of our ancestors… for science [or] study, as opposed to respecting the people and their nations.”
In the panel, Newell commended the Peabody Museum for its positive steps on repatriating human remains. When Harvard President Lawrence S. Bacow apologized in January for past collection practices that had allowed the Peabody to accumulate more than 22,000 sets of human remains, Pickering issued a concurrent apology. “Our goal is to face that history and fulfill our obligations,” Pickering said during the panel. “We needed to step up and make that apology that was long overdue.”
Newell said that communities across what he refers to as “Indian Country” had received the apology well. “[Decolonization] is a long process and it’s going to take time, but it starts with truth-telling,” he said.
Despite Newell’s praise, the Peabody has faced criticism for dragging its feet on collections outside of the legal mandate that the 1990 Native American Graves Protection and Repatriation Act (NAGPRA) set out, which only applies to objects and remains taken from federally recognized Native American tribes.
In an interview the day after the panel, Pickering said the Peabody has responded more slowly than the Tomaquag or the Abbe because the Peabody is such a large institution and has other stakeholders within Harvard. “What we want to do is not see that as an excuse for inaction,” Pickering said. “It just sometimes means that action doesn’t happen as fast as it should.”
To close out the panel, Newell highlighted several actions that museums should actively take to decolonize their collections. “If you’re a museum with a Native collection, it benefits you to have Native decisionmakers in your structure,” Newell said. “Look to the structure of the power … that’s where the rubber of decolonization hits the road.”
In our interview, Pickering noted that the Peabody had followed up on Newell’s imperative: According to Pickering, the Peabody’s NAGPRA Advisory Committee is 50 percent Indigenous, and an Indigenous voice also sits on the museum’s Faculty Executive Committee. The Peabody ultimately takes its direction from Harvard itself, though, and there are few Indigenous people represented at the University’s top levels.
Spears also offered ways for the general public to get involved in decolonization. “When you’re visiting a museum, ask the question: ‘Whose voice is being uplifted?’” she said. “The average passer-by visitor can push on this as well.”
This advice is consistent with the Tomaquag Museum’s own curatorial practices. Since it is a Native-run museum, it centers “our own cultural belongings, our own stories, our own history, and bringing that forth for the public,” Spears said the day after the panel.
Obviously, decolonization will not happen overnight. Spears expressed hope that the Peabody will repatriate Native remains and funerary objects “expeditiously,” but Newell cautioned that museums have to work on the timelines of Indigenous communities. He then cited a maxim about two boys who asked their elders how long a recipe would take to cook. In the maxim, the elder responds, “You cook it until it’s done.” To paraphrase a similar saying in English, decolonization will not be over until it’s over.
CORRECTION: March 12, 2021
A previous version of this article misstated the location of the Tomaquag Museum. It is located in Exeter, R.I., not Essex.
CORRECTION: April 8, 2021
A previous version of this article omitted the fact that Castle McLaughlin, Museum Curator of North American Ethnography at the Peabody Museum of Archaeology and Ethnology, organized and moderated the event.
Sections
“Coming soon @harvard,” announces the Instagram page @toppingsapp. “Join the waitlist at the link in our bio!”
The page belongs to Toppings, a food delivery startup founded by Raymond Qin ’24 and led by him, Justin S. O’Dwyer ’24, Maxwell D. Yu ’24, and Jeffrey K. Chiu ’23.
Toppings allows users to get free food delivery by having a friend or family member grab the order on their way back from the restaurant they were already going to. Both the deliverer and the orderer receive store credit and in-app rewards through a point system. Depending on the restaurant, the deliverer can also receive food bonuses; for instance, El Jefe’s Taqueria offers Toppings deliverers free chips and guacamole. The app also allows users to link with their friends and broadcast where they’re going out to eat, among other features such as in-app bill splitting and order tracking.
All four of the Toppings leadership team are members of the social class of 2023, currently taking leaves of absence, and studying CS or math-adjacent fields. Though they hail from all across the country, they all are living close to Cambridge, making app development easier.
Their roles are fluid, and they prefer to call themselves the founding team” in lieu of specific titles. “The main goal is always to make sure every person working on the project feels ownership and feels like they’re being heard,” says Yu.
Toppings was born out of the pandemic. After returning home to Atlanta, Ga. in March 2020, Qin found that social distancing and the threat of the virus made getting groceries difficult, so he started a WeChat group for his neighborhood.
A high school friend of his, Praneet Kedari, had worked on a food delivery app at a Hackathon and mentioned the potential to monetize. Both were excited by the project and they got to work building Toppings. “It all pretty much went down in a week,” Kedari wrote in an email. Kedari eventually left the project due to a lack of personal “interest in the delivery space” and the sense that he lacked the technical capabilities to lead the startup. He added, “The only thing I regret is that I left behind a great team of people.”
By May 2020, Toppings was accepted into the startup accelerator programs Harvard Computer Society Builder’s Incubation Program and the OneSixOne Program.
By the end of June , beta testing began at the Georgia Institute of Technology, where Qin’s high school friend attends. In August, Toppings was accepted to the Harvard Innovation Labs. Qin then recruited O’Dwyer to spearhead Toppings’s partnerships with restaurants, O’Dwyer then brought on his blockmate, Chiu, to work on product vision. Yu, Qin’s blockmate, joined around this time to provide assistance with web development.
Now, thanks to aggressive recruitment over email lists, Toppings is a team of nine with two-thirds of the employees focusing on software development and the other third focusing on marketing and corporate relations. Currently, Toppings has secured partnerships with El Jefe’s Taqueria, Hong Kong Restaurant, Playa Bowls, and are in conversation with several other restaurants around Harvard Square.
Qin explains that while the food delivery market is growing, popular food delivery companies require high consumer fees and commission rates from the restaurants they partner with. According to Qin, Toppings doesn’t charge consumers; its income comes from charging partnered restaurants a flat 12 percent fee on revenue generated through the app. The reason for this business model, according to Qin, is that “a lot of these [restaurants] are going out of business because their profit margins are basically being cut.”
“The way people buy food in general has changed so much due to the virus,” adds O’Dwyer. He describes a conversation with a restaurant manager who was enthusiastic about the Toppings partnership because the majority of his/her restaurant’s business currently hinges on delivery. O’Dwyer says, “I think hearing stuff like that… is really interesting, and we feel like we’re doing something good for the community — both for students here and the restaurants.”
The app is slated for an April 2021 release, and the team is currently in a development and marketing frenzy — calling for ambassadors, promoting on social media stories, and sprucing up the app for launch. They plan to successfully scale the app on Harvard’s campus by May 2021 and expand to other college campuses over the summer. By the fall, they hope to expand Toppings to other sectors, such as groceries or retail.
The team has given some thought to post-pandemic expansion, but largely hopes to take the future as it comes. “It’s great to plan ahead,” says Qin, but they’ve learned that even the most careful plans often don’t pan out. A better approach, he adds, is to keep asking questions and “calibrate based off of that constantly.”
At the heart of Toppings, Chiu and O’Dwyer emphasize that they want their startup to be “the most community-based company,” alluding to Amazon’s claim to be “Earth’s most customer-centric company.”.”
According to Qin, “The core of what Toppings is is this community-focused model that doesn’t have to be limited to the food.”
— Magazine writer Vicki Xu can be reached at vicki.xu@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @vicku___. 
Sections
When Eric Feigl-Ding was 17 years old, doctors found a baseball-sized tumor in his chest. The prognosis was grim — he had five years to live.
On a Zoom call two decades later, Feigl-Ding — a Harvard-trained epidemiologist and a former faculty member at the School of Public Health — gestures at his chest. “I still have the scar,” he says. After the tumor was surgically removed, it turned out that the diagnosis was wrong; Feigl-Ding would survive, and the ordeal would forever alter his outlook on life. “I quickly became obsessed with risks,” he says. “At the beginning, risk of cancer, but also, risk of anything.”
In January 2020, after hearing about the rapid spread of the novel coronavirus from relatives living in China, Feigl-Ding tweeted, “HOLY MOTHER OF GOD,” warning of what he called a “thermonuclear pandemic level” threat. Citing a preprint publication arguing that the virus was significantly more transmissible than previously understood, he urged the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the World Health Organization to declare a public health emergency.
Feigl-Ding soon faced widespread backlash. Established science communicators criticized him for his use of alarmist language and his reliance on a publication that had not yet been peer reviewed. The Atlantic published an article, titled “How to Misinform Yourself About the Coronavirus,” about Feigl-Ding’s now-deleted Twitter thread. Feigl-Ding based his warnings on the coronavirus’ R-Naughtvalue, the number of individuals an infected person is likely to transmit the virus to. However, the piece in The Atlantic criticized Feigl-Ding for incorrectly claiming that the novel coronavirus was eight times as infectious as SARS and failing to acknowledge that other infectious diseases, including measles, also have high R-Naught values.
More than a year after his tweet, Feigl-Ding, to some, seems like something of a prophet. Over 2.5 million people have died of the coronavirus worldwide. Millions of Americans have lost their jobs. Harvard, which former Dean of Students Archie C. Epps III once quipped would “close only for an act of God, such as the end of the world,” has been largely remote since last March.
Although Feigl-Ding’s prediction was correct, some still denounce his attention-grabbing tone and sensational approach to science communication. His tweet threads are multi-part missives dotted with bright-colored emojis.
After the pandemic started, Feigl-Ding joined the Federation of American Scientists as a senior fellow; shortly after, he resigned from his teaching position at Harvard. Today, he continues to share his thoughts on developing stories related to Covid-19 via Twitter, where he has amassed over 440,000 followers.
Below are excerpts from our conversation. The transcript has been edited for length and clarity.
FM: What compelled you to start sounding the alarm so early on, before the public health community and political community were raising concerns about the virus?
EFD: A lot of people in science are very conservative; they need a mountain of evidence to prove anything before they can determine that, say, XYZ causes cancer. I was seeing, for example, the WHO saying there was no evidence of person-to-person transmission, even though there was tons of anecdotal evidence of human-to-human transmission. I work in public policy. I know that political leaders need clear messaging, fast messaging, and pandemics need early messaging and urgency. Even in the absence of clear and perfect science, you need to act urgently. I respect a lot of other scientists, but I realized they were never going to really shout about it at the volume necessary to get the public's attention, media attention, [and] political leaders’ attention. So I decided, I need to do it.
FM: What was the reaction, and was it consistent with what you had expected from your peers?
EFD: My D.C. policy friends said this was the right move. Someone needed to do it, but no one wanted to do it themselves. Now, on the flip side, those who work in infectious disease and epidemiology full-time didn’t like it because, in certain ways, they don’t have their ears in China the same way many of us Chinese-Americans do, and their academic career was much more an ‘I need to see more data’ kind of thing. But you must act fast, especially in a pandemic. If you wait until you’re absolutely certain, you’re going to be too late. So obviously, some people disliked that, and I knew it was going to happen. I was prepared to take the hit. I was insulated because my tenure was not on the line. A promotion wasn’t on the line. My grant funding wasn’t on the line. And so I had a lot of supporters. And there were also a lot of detractors, but I think it was worth it because someone needed to do it.
FM: What motivated your decision to leave Harvard?
EFD: The first time I left Harvard was in 2018. I resigned to run for Congress, and so I resigned with the blessing of my department chair. The whole system of science is you publish and hopefully policymakers use it for creating public policy, but under Trump, none of that mattered. So there was this movement for scientists running for office, and I ran in my home district in Pennsylvania. In response to gerrymandering, there was a redistricting, so it was a purple swing district, still, leaning red. After I didn’t win, my Harvard colleagues were supportive and immediately gave me an appointment. After the pandemic started, I was recruited by the Federation of American Scientists, which is a D.C. policy think tank; I thought it was a really good fit.
FM: You’ve mentioned a disconnect between anecdotal evidence — the things that people in everyday life are experiencing — and the rate at which academic science research is conducted and published. What do you think can be done to help those facets all work together better, especially in this age of social media?
EFD: I think social media has risen to a new level. Ten years ago, Facebook was still young, and everyone was a casual user for the most part. Now, I think Twitter is also very impactful because that's where all the reporters are; they aren’t hanging out on Facebook. People said I was some attention-seeking person, but if I was, I would have put that “holy moly, God” thing on my five-million-person Facebook page, not my 2,000-follower Twitter page. I wanted to reach the policy leaders and obviously, that one [tweet] took off. There are people from Australia, New Zealand who say they read my thing and took action, and the governor of Maryland actually sent me a note in July say[ing] your tweet made us take action. I’m not one of those preppers who likes to stock up on personal gear and survival equipment, but I think the philosophy around it is right.
CORRECTION: March 5, 2020
A previous version of this article stated that Feigl-Ding resigned from his position at Harvard and joined the Federation of American Scientists as a senior fellow. In fact, he joined the Federation of American Scientists while still at Harvard, then resigned from his Harvard teaching position.
—Staff writer Ellen M. Burstein can be reached at ellen.burstein@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @ellenburstein.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
In light of the threatened departure of Professor Cornel R. West ’74 from Harvard, Dean of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences Claudine Gay said during a faculty meeting Tuesday that Harvard is “unequivocally” committed to supporting an environment in which faculty of color can thrive.
West — a Professor of the Practice of Public Philosophy at the Harvard Divinity School and of African and African American Studies in the FAS — threatened in late February to leave Harvard for the second time after he said the University denied his request for consideration of tenure.
In subsequent media coverage, West claimed that the University cited that his work was “too risky” and “too fraught” while reviewing his tenure request. Student organizers who had rallied in support of West’s tenure have argued that the decision not to consider him for tenure speaks to broader challenges that faculty of color face at Harvard.
Gay acknowledged at the faculty meeting Tuesday that West’s situation ignited a broader debate of “whether Black scholars can succeed at Harvard.”
“Professor West is not only an esteemed philosopher, he’s a deeply valued colleague, and we take his concerns seriously,” she said. “It’s a legitimate question to ask of a University as old as ours, with a past represented rather instructively by the portraits on the walls of our Faculty Room. And I understand why it can be difficult to answer.”
However, Gay highlighted the work of the FAS to diversify its faculty ranks, including naming Sheree Ohen as its first Associate Dean of Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging in August 2020.
“I will state unequivocally that the entire academic leadership of the FAS is committed to recruiting, retaining, and enabling the research and teaching of a diverse faculty,” Gay said. “And if you look over the last decade, for example, almost 90 percent of Black faculty who stood for tenure were successful.”
Gay also acknowledged that, despite the best efforts of the FAS, Black scholars at Harvard nonetheless face “particular challenges” in addition to Harvard’s already rigorous research and teaching responsibilities.
“Our ultimate goal is not just about recruitment and promotion,” Gay said. “It’s also about creating a community in which a diverse faculty, including Black faculty, can thrive. And that’s where we still have work to do.”
In 2021, just eight percent of tenured and 13 percent of tenure-track Harvard faculty are underrepresented minorities, up from five percent and 11 percent, respectively, in 2007, according to an annual University report.
In January 2020, Gay launched a review of the FAS tenure promotion process, with a final report expected to be published later this spring; however, in an interview with The Crimson last March, she said the review will examine neither Harvard’s use of ad hoc committees nor individual tenure denials.
University President Lawrence S. Bacow said during the faculty meeting that it would be “inappropriate” for him to comment on specific tenure cases because he evaluates tenure decisions after they are approved by individual schools. He said, however, that the University is deeply dedicated to inclusion efforts.
“The Provost and I are firmly committed to the success of our Black faculty, and here I would add, not only in the Faculty of Arts and Sciences, but throughout the entire University,” Bacow said. “It’s a commitment that we each have to live up to daily. There is work that remains to be done, but it is work that we all collectively embrace.”
Last Friday, a group of undergraduate students penned a petition to University administrators demanding tenure for West, arguing the issue demonstrates that the University is “not committed to racial justice in any meaningful sense.” The students additionally called for the creation of an Ethnic Studies department within the FAS and the abolishment of the ad hoc committee — a faculty committee, which is chaired by the president or provost and whose composition is secret, that makes the final decision in most tenure cases — from the University’s tenure review process.
“Instead of investing in critical scholarship and pedagogy, Harvard has quelled dissent from students and faculty criticizing the University’s latent and active practices of racism, defended a racist and problematic tenure process, and continually failed to provide secure and valued employment for Black and Brown faculty,” the petition reads.
“How can this university possibly claim to champion ‘racial justice’ while denying the foremost scholar of race in America occupational security and institutional support?” the letter continues.
As of Wednesday evening, the petition had garnered signatures from nearly 90 student organizations and almost 1,700 Harvard students, affiliates, and alumni.
Sofia Andrade ’23-’24, a Crimson Arts editor who helped draft the petition, said the University has yet to respond to the petition.
University spokesperson Jonathan L. Swain and FAS spokesperson Anna G. Cowenhoven declined to comment on the petition. Michael P. Naughton, a spokesperson for the Divinity School, also declined to comment.
Meshaal Bannerman ’21, former vice president of the Black Men’s Forum and a contributor to the petition, said Harvard’s treatment of West is “emblematic of how Black scholars are treated” at the University.
“If you’re not able to accept Professor West for all himself — meaning his political views, his charisma, and his in-a-way unorthodox manner — then you can’t really post when it comes to admissions time that your school has ‘X’ amount of Black people, your school that does this and that for Black people,” he said.
“To me, that’s just showing that you’re being performative,” Bannerman added.
Injil Muhammad Jr. ’21, former president of the Black Men’s Forum and a fellow contributor to the petition, said he and other undergraduates who drafted the petition are considering not participating in Visitas, the College’s annual admitted students’ weekend, if the University does not reconsider granting West tenure.
“We understand that Professor West is part of the reason why we came to Harvard,” Muhammad said. “So if he’s not here, we would have to reconsider whether we want to encourage others to come.”
—Staff writer Meera S. Nair can be reached at meera.nair@thecrimson.com.
—Staff writer Andy Z. Wang can be reached at andy.wang@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
A Middlesex Superior Court judge on Tuesday dismissed Connecticut resident Tamara K. Lanier’s lawsuit against Harvard alleging that the University unlawfully possesses and profits from historic photos she says depict her enslaved ancestors.
Lanier plans to appeal the decision, she and one of her attorneys told The Crimson Wednesday.
Lanier’s suit, which she filed against the University in March 2019, centers on the daguerreotypes of two enslaved people named Renty and Delia, which scholars believe to be some of the oldest images of slaves. According to Lanier, they depict her great-great-great-grandfather Renty and his daughter Delia.
Harvard biologist Louis Agassiz commissioned the photos in the 19th century as part of a racist study to prove the biological superiority of white people. Lanier requested in the suit that Harvard turn the daguerreotypes over to her, relinquish any profit made through using, reproducing, or licensing the images, and pay her punitive damages.
Lanier alleged in her suit that the photographs are not legally in Harvard’s possession because they were taken without their subjects’ consent. She also alleged that Harvard has continued to profit from the images by selling an anthropology book with the daguerreotype of Renty on its cover.
Massachusetts Superior Court judge Camille F. Sharrouf, Jr. on Tuesday approved Harvard’s motion to dismiss Lanier’s complaint, partially on the grounds that the statute of limitations had passed and that Lanier did not have property rights to the daguerreotypes.
“Fully acknowledging the continuing impact slavery has had in the United States, the law, as it currently stands, does not confer a property interest to the subject of a photograph regardless of how objectionable the photograph’s origins may be,” Sharrouf wrote.
“Unfortunately, this Court is constrained by current legal principles, as it is the role of the Legislature of Massachusetts and Appellate Courts to determine whether or not to recognize causes of action and to provide the redress Lanier now seeks,” Sharrouf added.
Lanier said she plans to reconvene with her attorneys to begin the process of appealing the decision.
“After the attorneys have a chance to digest what’s written, we’re going to have another strategic conference call, and a session to discuss a way forward,” she said. “But ultimately, I will never let this rest as it is because it is a grave injustice.”
“The court system has failed my enslaved ancestors, and it’s unfortunate, but this is sadly not surprising,” she added.
Joshua D. Koskoff, one of the attorneys representing Lanier in the suit, said he was not surprised by the Court’s decision given the lack of specific precedent for this case, and that he planned to appeal to the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court.
“I always expected that the Massachusetts Supreme Court was the right court to address the issues raised in our complaint,” he said.
“This case has a lot of very old legal principles and very established legal principles, but it’s fair to say that it’s also a groundbreaking case,” he added. “We would expect that given the nature of this case, and the importance for the plaintiff but also for future generations, that the Court will take the case.”
Koskoff said that while he agrees legal precedent has generally favored the property rights of those who take a photograph over the photograph’s subject, “the circumstances of this case are different.”
“If every photograph were taken in the manner that this photograph was, where a person was taken in the manner that Renty and Delia were, stripped and photographed to be part of a study with such abhorrent aims, forced against their will, then the law wouldn’t be the way it is,” he said.
Harvard has faced scrutiny in recent years over its historical ties to slavery, and in November 2019, Harvard President Lawrence S. Bacow launched an initiative to study those ties.
In January, Bacow announced that the Peabody Museum of Archaeology and Ethnology — which houses the daguerreotypes — had discovered the remains of at least 15 people who were likely enslaved in its collections.
Responding to Tuesday’s ruling, Harvard spokesperson Rachael Dane wrote in an emailed statement that the University hopes the decision will allow it to find an “appropriate home” for the images.
“The Zealy daguerreotypes are powerful visual indictments of the horrific institution of slavery,” Dane wrote. “We are hopeful the Court’s ruling will allow Harvard to explore an appropriate home for the daguerreotypes moving forward that allows them to be more accessible to a broader segment of the public and to tell the stories of the enslaved people that they depict.”
Samantha C. W. O’Sullivan ’22, the president of the Harvard Generational African American Students Association, which has been engaged in activism supporting Lanier’s case, said she was hopeful the case could establish a new legal precedent for forcing institutions to give up artifacts related to enslaved people.
“Even though the law is on the side of Harvard, it clearly shouldn’t be and I hope that this case can lead to legislative change,” she said.
She added that students will continue to pressure the Harvard administration to “do what’s right.”
Koskoff said he hoped the case would function as a reminder that “the laws that we live under were written by, generally speaking, white men, without consideration for people of color,” he added.
“I’m not in any way accusing anybody at Harvard of harboring racist views,” he said. “I do think we’re dealing with an institutional haughtiness and point of view that is fostered by their position of wealth and power and by their ability to hide behind laws written by white people.”
—Staff writer Oliver L. Riskin-Kutz can be reached at oliver.riskin-kutz@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @OLRiskinKutz.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The City of Cambridge experienced an 8 percent increase in serious crimes last year compared to 2019, according to a report published by the city Friday.
The serious crime hike can largely be traced to a 10 percent increase in property crimes, Cambridge Police Department spokesperson Jeremy C. Warnick wrote in a Wednesday night email. According to the FBI, property crimes include arson, burglary, larceny theft, and motor vehicle theft.
“Much of this property crime increase can be attributed to pandemic-related rises in thefts from motor vehicles and thefts of packages and bicycles,” Warnick wrote.
Serious crime is broken down into two categories: violent crime and property crime.
With social distancing measures and economic shutdowns in place, Cambridge saw 286 fewer violent crimes in 2020 than in 2019, corresponding to a two percent decrease in crimes such as aggravated assault, forcible rape, murder, and robbery.
CPD’s BridgeStat from December 2020 — a program used to disseminate monthly updates about crime in Cambridge — reports one homicide and 27 incidents of rape in 2020, equating to a zero percent change on both crimes from 2019. On April 23, 2020, a Massachusetts man was charged in the homicide of 33-year old Danilo Perez, a homeless man stabbed to death in Central Square.
Other violent crimes — such as street robbery and aggravated assault — decreased by 18 and 1 percent, respectively, according to BridgeStat.
However, commercial robberies increased by 27 percent — partially due to a string of armed bank robberies in late 2020. In January 2021, a Boston man was arrested in connection with one of these robberies. An investigation into the other bank robberies remains ongoing, according to a February email from Warnick.
In 2019, Cambridge reported the lowest number of serious crimes since 1968, at 2,257 violent and property crimes. Since 2010, crime has decreased every year with the exception of 2018 and, now, 2020.
Warnick wrote that CPD’s approach to fighting crimes is “data-centric,” explaining that the department deploys resources to certain areas at particular times where crimes occur the most often statistically.
—Staff writer Raquel Coronell Uribe can be reached at raquel.coronelluribe@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @raquelco15.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
UPDATED: Thursday, March 11 at 3:40 p.m.
Benjamin A. “Ben” Ray ’24, an international student from England, hasn’t set foot on Harvard’s campus as a student, much less experienced residential life at the College.
Yet on Thursday morning, when housing lottery registration closes, he and hundreds of other international freshmen — who have been restricted from Harvard campus life by international visa restrictions — will commit to a group of up to eight students with which to be placed in one of Harvard’s 12 upperclassman houses for the next three years.
Ray said it was “difficult” to find potential blockmates since he did not live on campus last semester; he eventually defaulted to blocking with fellow members of the rowing team.
“In any other year, maybe I would have ended up not just blocking the rowers, but actually living with them as roommates and so on and so forth,” he said. “But having not met each other, it’s a bit difficult to make that call, so that’s where we’re at.”
Ray, along with some other international students in the Class of 2024, have reported trepidation and confusion with Harvard’s blocking process and the subsequent tradition of being assigned to an upperclassmen house in an event known as Housing Day, scheduled for March 12 this year.
Even before the blocking process, many international freshmen said they were already feeling disconnected from both their peers and the College after federal visa restrictions, time zones, and social isolation last semester hindered them from being able to fully participate in collegiate life.
Sakiko Miyazaki ’24, who is living in Tokyo, said the entire blocking process has been “nerve-wracking” and “confusing.”
“Just by not being on campus, and not seeing people — that’s another thing that’s been taken away from us,” she said. “So when we found out we were expected to magically find a group of people that we have never met in our lives — we’ve only seen through Zoom — that’s definitely been really — not annoying — but just really difficult.”
Miyazaki added that a lot of the freshman international students seem to be blocking among themselves.
“It kind of shows that we never really had a chance to really get to know our domestic classmates,” she said.
Ray said he penned a letter to the Dean of Students Office to notify administrators of the “unnecessary psychological pressure” the blocking process has placed on certain students during the pandemic.
“I definitely would have liked to have seen Harvard change things up this year and either delay blocking, or have some change to it that won’t discriminate against international students, students who weren’t able to be on campus, and the like,” Ray said.
“The Students Office was pretty defensive about not making any changes, which was disappointing to say the least,” he said.
Associate Dean of Students Lauren E. Brandt ’01 said in an interview Monday that the administrators within the First Year Experience Office are aware of the concerns raised by international students.
“The First Year Experience Office has heard very clearly that first-year international students were feeling disconnected from their class and from the Harvard College community in general,” Brandt said. “They’ve actually started someone working in a position specifically to support international students.”
Other international students said they felt indifferent toward Housing Day and the entire blocking process.
Matilda G. S. Marcus ’24, who is from England, said she was feeling “nonchalant” about the upcoming virtual Housing Day.
“You can’t build a community without trust and respect, but those things are very difficult to happen if you don’t really know anybody,” she said. “And you can’t really get to know anybody, because you’re doing it through a screen.”
Samuel Ho ’24, who lives in Singapore, said he was never “super concerned” about blocking and decided to enter the housing lottery by himself.
“I’ve not generally been very comfortable with being a part of a predefined, usually large, group of people,” he said. “I’ve never really had a particular desire for blocking in the first place, so I guess the pandemic didn’t change very much.”
When asked how he felt about the upcoming virtual Housing Day, Ho said he was not aware the tradition happened during freshman year.
“Quite frankly, I didn’t even know that was a thing,” Ho said. “I thought they assigned houses later on.”
Micheal “Mike” Zhang ’24, who is from Australia, said he also was not aware of the Housing Day tradition until his other friends started planning a gathering to commemorate the annual event.
“I didn’t really know what’s happening,” he said. “My friend from Australia was like, ‘Hey, I was thinking about having a party at my place for Housing Day, because it seems like a scary process.’ And me and my friends were just like, ‘What? Like what day is Housing Day?’”
“I think it might be exciting, but it just seems so far off that it’s incomprehensible in the sense that I probably can’t grasp the magnitude of it,” Zhang added.
Brandt said the DSO recorded a webinar about the blocking process and published it on the DSO website to help freshmen navigate the process.
“I think there have been a number of ways for students to ask questions about blocking and to get more information, but we know that it’s always a stressful time for first-year students to experience this,” Brandt said.
“We really want to encourage anyone who still has questions to reach out and try to get answers from their proctors, their resident deans, the housing office — they’re all great resources for them,” she added.
CORRECTION: March 11, 2021
A previous version of this article misquoted Micheal “Mike” Zhang ’24. The correct quote is, "me and my friends were just like, ‘What? Like what day is Housing Day?’”
—Staff writer Hannah J. Martinez can be reached at hannah.martinez@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @martinezhannahj.
—Staff writer Sixiao Yu can be reached at sixiao.yu@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @sixiaoy.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Law professors and health experts explored how the coronavirus pandemic exacerbated social inequalities during Wednesday’s fourth installment of a Harvard Law School seminar series on the intersection of Covid-19 and the law.
The Law School’s Petrie-Flom Center — which promotes interdisciplinary scholarship in health law policy, biotechnology, and bioethics — hosted the event, which was moderated by Yale Law School senior research fellow Ryan P. Knox.
The virtual panel — titled “The Disparate Burdens of COVID-19” — brought together legal scholars including Berkeley Law professor Daniel A. Farber, Middlesex University senior lecturer Joelle Grogan, and Yale Law professor Judith Resnik. Amherst College political science professor Tess E. Wise also spoke at the event, in addition to two health experts — American Medical Association Chief Health Equity Officer Aletha Maybank and Erik J. Rodriquez, a biobehavioral epidemiologist at the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute.
The six panelists discussed how societal disparities and structural forces — ranging from racial inequities to health policy regulation — contributed to the effects of the pandemic.
Grogan said robust health care systems are vital for countries to respond effectively to the Covid-19 pandemic.
“Countries with well-functioning health care systems, particularly where that health care system is considered sacrosanct in political culture,” Grogan said. “They’re inevitably in [a] better place to tackle major health crises than those with weak or dysfunctional health systems.”
Maybank and Rodriquez both spoke extensively about how the coronavirus crisis has worsened socioeconomic inequities.
Rodriquez noted certain minority groups are disproportionately suffering from the pandemic.
“More than 50 percent of cases and about 45 percent of mortality related to Covid-19 are among Latinas and Latinos, African Americans and Blacks, and American Indians and Alaskan Natives. Yet, these three groups only represent about 33 percent of the U.S. population,” he said. “So this disproportionate burden of Covid-19 on racial and ethnic minorities has persisted over the past year.”
The pandemic has also disproportionately hurt incarcerated people, according to Resnik, who addressed health issues in the prison system. The current health crisis has demonstrated how prisons — which densely pack inmates — are vulnerable to the spread of disease, Resnik said.
While several panelists focused on how Covid-19 has exacerbated inequality in society, Farber, the Berkeley professor, highlighted how the pandemic has provided an opportunity to slow the effects of climate change.
Farber presented data showing a decline in global emissions over the past year, which coincided with economic shutdowns put in place in response to Covid-19.
Farber said he hopes governments enact policies that bring about lasting change in a post-pandemic world. Describing the possibility of a “green recovery,” Farber advocated for environmentally-conscious infrastructure bills that would reduce long-term emissions. Farber suggested such investments could be incorporated into countries’ Covid-19 stimulus plans.
Farber said the Covid-19 pandemic will be far from the last time countries will need to cooperate in response to global crises.
“I’m confident that we will see some new, global systemic risks emerging that we’re not even thinking about today,” Farber said. “And we need to start thinking about institutions to deal with it.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard Medical School professor Michelle E. Morse was appointed as the New York City Health Department’s inaugural Chief Medical Officer and as Deputy Commissioner for the Center for Health Equity and Community Wellness on Feb. 16, per a press release.
As the department’s first-ever Chief Medical Officer, Morse’s primary responsibilities will be to lead efforts to bridge public health and the health care sector, as well as to serve as a liaison between the NYC Department of Health and Mental Hygiene and local clinicians.
Morse said in an interview that the department created the role in response to a “major structural challenge” in coordinating the large number of health systems across a city as expansive as New York.
“The need to be able to coordinate and collaborate — across sectors, across disciplines, across agencies — is critically important,” Morse said, especially when it comes to addressing “the social determinants of health.”
In addition to these responsibilities as Chief Medical Officer, Morse is also charged with overseeing the Center for Health Equity and Community Wellness as Deputy Commissioner.
Morse said her sights are set on Covid-19 recovery, with a particular focus on ways to promote health equity and racial justice.
“We have to do absolutely as much as we can to end community spread of Covid, get as many folks vaccinated as possible, and do as much as we can to see ourselves to the other side of the pandemic,” she said.
Prior to her appointment to the Health Department, Morse worked as an internal medicine hospitalist at Brigham and Women’s Hospital and founding co-director of EqualHealth, an organization that supports the development of Haiti’s future healthcare leaders. She served as Deputy Chief Medical Officer at another nonprofit, Partners in Health, for three years and now serves on the organization’s Board of Directors.
Joia S. Mukherjee — Partners in Health’s current Chief Medical Officer and a professor of Global Health and Social Medicine at the Medical School — said she first met Morse at Brigham and Women’s Hospital when Morse was a resident.
“Right away, I saw Michelle to be just such an outstanding thinker and listener — so thoughtful about the problems of inequality and injustice,” Mukherjee said.
Mukherjee added that Morse possesses a passion for elevating underrepresented voices in medicine.
“Michelle is really wanting to hear the voice of people who are affected by this horribly racist and unfair system and really elevate those voices and center those voices,” Mukherjee said. “And she does that better than anyone I’ve ever met.”
Camara P. Jones, former president of the American Public Health Association and a 2019-2020 fellow at the Radcliffe Institute, cited Morse’s effective leadership and communication skills.
“She facilitates conversation and facilitates group movement after inviting everybody’s voice,” Jones said. “That’s a style of leadership that will serve her well in that position, and in anything.”
Both Jones and Mukherjee expressed confidence in Morse’s ability to take on this new role.
“She’s just a terrific, terrific choice for New York,” Mukherjee said. “They really couldn’t have somebody who’s more dedicated to equity and justice than Michelle.”
—Staff writer Ariel H. Kim can be reached at ariel.kim@thecrimson.com.
—Staff writer Anjeli R. Macaranas can be reached at anjeli.macaranas@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Three Harvard administrators who were appointed in 2020 to lead diversity and inclusion efforts at the University gathered to discuss their work at a panel discussion hosted by the Harvard College Women’s Center Wednesday afternoon.
Entitled “Black Womxn Deans at the Forefront of DIB Work,” the panel featured Harvard Chief Diversity and Inclusion Officer Sherri A. Charleston, College Associate Dean for Inclusion and Belonging Alta Mauro, and Faculty of Arts and Sciences Associate Dean of Diversity, Belonging, and Inclusion Sheree M. Ohen. The event marked one of several held by the Women’s Center this week as part of the annual Women’s Week — a series of speaker events and discussions around feminism, female achievement, and womanhood.
Charleston said she and her colleagues are focused on advancing “research and data-informed practices,” “organizational effectiveness,” “community and campus engagement,” and “inclusive excellence” in their roles.
“We want to build structures that outlast us, such that at a minimum, they are annoying to uproot so that they can never be dug up right,” Charleston said.
While transitioning into her role last year, Mauro said she encountered a “tricky barrier” between empowering students to champion diversity efforts while reminding them of the institution’s responsibility to solve diversity-related issues.
“What is the balance between them demonstrating agency and them saying, ‘This is a barrier that the institution has the responsibility to eliminate?’” Mauro asked. “I personally want people to feel empowered to drive the change that they want, but I also know that that’s not a student’s job. The priority is for you to be a student and to practice self-care.”
Looking ahead to future events, Ohen said she and her colleagues are planning a conversation on the intersections of academic freedom and free speech.
“How do we highlight marginalized voices while also protecting the right to be able to have open discourse?” Ohen said. “One of the early initiatives is the Faculty Liaisons for Inclusive Excellence, which is launched in all three academic divisions: Arts and Humanities, the Sciences division, and Social Sciences.”
In the Q&A segment of the panel, Mauro explained how the equity, inclusion, and leadership projects she took on within her sorority helped prepare her to pursue a career in diversity advancement.
“It was really activating with me that there was a way to commit myself professionally to the things I was already committed to at a gut level,” Mauro said. “The priority of my job is really translating this lofty institutional language around equity and pulling that down into something that is strategic.”
Kayla Martinez, an FAS academic planning specialist who attended the event, wrote in an email that she was “in awe of the incredible work” of the panelists.
“As many institutions seek to become anti-racist, it’s important to be intentional about policies and culture,” she wrote. “This involves not using diversity solely as a buzzword, but rather thinking critically about structural inequities and ways to effectively enact change.”
—Staff writer Audrey M. Apollon can be reached at audrey.apollon@thecrimson.com.
—Staff writer Leah J. Teichholtz can be reached at leah.teichholtz@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @LeahTeichholtz.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
As the Covid-19 pandemic continues to wreak havoc on small businesses in Harvard Square, many have found themselves relying on supportive patrons and financial support from the state government to stay afloat.
Square businesses were able to apply for government funding through the Massachusetts Growth Capital Corporation in January. The $668 million small business package – which Governor Charlie D. Baker ’79 announced in late December 2020 – prioritized women- and minority-owned- businesses.
Massachusetts Secretary of Housing and Economic Development Michael J. “Mike” Kennealy wrote in an email that small businesses make up a “fundamental component” of the Massachusetts economy.
“As the largest program of its kind in the country, these grants are vital to supporting small businesses – especially those in communities and neighborhoods that have been hit the hardest by COVID-19,” he wrote.
Joanne B. Chang ’91, owner of Flour Bakery and Cafe, said though she received an email confirming a grant, she is still waiting to receive the money. Once she receives the funding, she plans to use it to compensate employees.
Steve Welch, owner of sandwich restaurant Oggi Gourmet, said the funds from the grant had to be used for specific expenses like utilities, inventory, and payroll.
“We got one grant, and it was for your utilities, help with buying your inventory, and your payroll,” he said. “It was small money so we had to focus on using it exactly that way.”
Stephanie C. Nist, co-owner of women’s clothing store Mint Julep, said she was grateful the relief program was rolled out in December, as federal financial assistance from the spring of 2020 had largely been exhausted. She added that the state grants — which Mint Julep used for payroll and rent — provided an extra boost for her business.
“We’ve made it through these past six months and now this is when we need more funding, and it was available, so we were really grateful for that,” Nist said.
The pandemic forced many small businesses to adapt to survive by transitioning to online platforms, increasing social media presence, and sending out hand-delivered packages.
Chang said she had to close down her business for about five weeks before figuring out how it could operate safely. In addition to providing takeout, Flour Bakery and Cafe is increasing its digital presence and encouraging customers to order online.
Nist said Mint Julep has been open for about 17 years and survived the 2008 financial crisis, Hurricane Irene, the Boston Marathon bombing, and now the pandemic. Her boutique thrived on face-to-face interactions with patrons, she said, but during the pandemic she began to hand-deliver packages to local customers.
“I think that everyone was kind of in a state of, ‘What’s happening?’” Nist said. “This was just a way to connect with our customers and our community.”
Shoshanah G. Ramirez, co-owner of Black Sheep Bagel Cafe, said the response from Cambridge residents ever since the cafe opened four years ago has been “wonderful.”
“People are very supportive of women and minority business owners and a lot of people go out of their way to be patrons of these businesses,” she said. “The city itself has lots of amazing resources for us.”
She acknowledged, however, the cafe had to change “a lot” of its business model to stay open during the pandemic.
“Our goal was if we could continue to keep all of our full-time staff employed and be able to help the people that worked for us and not make them have to turn to unemployment, that we would keep the doors open,” she said. “We were successful in that.”
“We didn’t close even for one day of this pandemic,” Ramirez added.
She credited Cambridge city initiatives with helping her business stay afloat.
“Throughout the pandemic, grants from the city of Cambridge were enormously helpful, programs that the city of Cambridge put into place, including contracting with local restaurants to feed the homeless, were enormously helpful,” she said.
Alison L. Fong, co-founder and executive chef of Bon Me, said the pandemic allowed her to “reflect” on her experiences as a minority business owner.
“As a person that is a part of a minority group, there’s always these assumptions that people make of you and you develop defense mechanisms to address them,” she said. “I’m a small, petite woman and people always assume I’m not the boss.”
Fong also said her business expanded to provide meals for people in East Boston and Chinatown.
“We provided thousands of meals over the course of a number of months in the spring and the summer,” she said. “That was great because that gave some hours to employees and we were able to provide meals that were made in a food-safe way.”
Fong said the extra funds through the grant are “crucial” for her business.
“It’s really hard to operate a business when you need revenue coming in and you rely on foot traffic and people coming in the door to purchase your food,” she said. “Having extra funds is really crucial to be able to pay rent and pay our employees.”
Welch said his business has been “fortunate.”
“We have a great landlord, we have good people working here, we got some money to help us move forward,” he said. “I think we are lucky — lucky in a lot of senses.”
—Staff writer Tracy Jiang can be reached at tracy.jiang@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @_tracyjiang_.
—Staff writer Davin W. Shi can be reached at davin.shi@thecrimson.com.
Sections
It is a truth universally acknowledged that politicians are not the most truthful or reliable people. Still, abandoning your constituents during a deadly winter storm to go vacay in Mexico is pretty low. If you’re like me and are looking for more stability, here’s a list of things that are always reliable, no matter the (apocalyptic) weather — Sorry, Fled… uhm, I mean, Ted Cruz.
Harvard Mailing Lists 
“Please pub to your House and club mailing lists!” It is inevitable that you’ll spend 40 minutes clearing out your inbox every weekend. Then before you know it, you have 300+ emails pubbing upcoming events from the IOP, HCCG, or the 10,000 variations of consulting clubs at Harvard. Even if you’re an email hermit who never signed up to be on any orgs’ mailing list, you can always count on your House mailing list to flood you with pub emails. But hey, at least it’s consistent.
The Zoom Recording Disclaimer Lady
Sure, our world is full of uncertainties, but at least the monotonic and robotic “This meeting is being recorded” is something you know will always be there for you. Let’s hope Zoom won’t mess it up during the next update. They better not replace my emotional support Zoom recording announcer.
Color’s Reminders
For on-campus students, Color is a familiar presence. Three times a week, students are required to take a Covid test. And three times a week, on the day before our testing day, at 5 p.m. ET sharp, Color will send out emails with the subject “Your next COVID-19 test is due tomorrow.” And sure, maybe the tests themselves aren’t always reliable, but at least we can always count the reminders email to be on time.
Breakout Rooms Being Awkward
It has been almost a year since Zoom College became the new branch of Harvard University (move out the way Allston campus). But nope, breakout rooms are still as awkward in March 2021 as they were in March 2020. Maybe connections just aren’t meant to be formed over computer screens. Or maybe, you just need to turn your camera on and actually say something, @that guy in my GenEd class.
“Sleeping Tips for Optimal Exam Performance” Trending On Flyby
Throughout all my time at Harvard, which admittedly isn’t that long, that article has always made the trending list. Rankings might fluctuate with every new published piece, but no matter what happens, Jessica A. Barzilay’s masterpiece will always have a spot in Flyby’s Trending. Despite being written back in 2012, it seems that the message is still as timely as ever — which leads me to our next entry on the list…
Procrastination
Ah, every college student’s worst nightmare and hated companion. Maybe it’s the first week and all you have to do is read the syllabus or it’s midterm week and you have endless papers, psets, and exams — either way, you can always rely on procrastination to show up like an unwanted wrecking ball to ruin your meticulously planned study schedule, replacing it with 10 hours of TikTok and then 10 more hours of YouTube. At this point, it’s like part of the routine now. (And yes, I am using this article as an excuse to procrastinate on a close reading analysis for my seminar. At least this is more productive than YouTube, right?)
While we hope that the weather in Cancún was nice for Cruz and his daughters, the rest of us are just trying to make it to the next Wellness Day. But, even though 2021 is just one curveball after another for both politicians’ poodles and students alike, at least some things never change.
Sections
It’s that point in the winter where we’ve seen our fair share of winter weather fashion statements. Check out our ~winter weather~ alignment chart before the sun actually returns to Cambridge to find out just where you (and everyone else you judge) fall in the grand scheme of winter apparel.
