News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
What some Harvard students don’t know is that going to college was never the only clear option for some of their first-generation, low-income peers.
The idea of “real work” is passed down within the family, which forces FGLI students to reconcile the premise of educational mobility with family values. Some first-generation college students come from families that would never define pursuing a post-secondary education as “work.” Instead, the mindset of starting from the bottom and working to the top is instilled as the most valid form of both social and economic mobility.
Before deciding on Harvard, I frequently asked myself if college, in general, would be the right fit for me. As an FGLI student, I saw some of my family members find sustainability in jobs that did not require a degree as other family members, like my mom, struggled to keep their heads above financial waters. Some thrived on this exact mindset of trying to work their way up from a lower position over several decades, regardless of their academic credentials, while others did not.
In light of the current skilled labor shortage, avoiding college debt and going into a skilled job might be more practical. First-generation students have been found to graduate with greater debt and earn less post-grad than their non-first-generation peers. Certainly, FGLI students at Harvard do not have to worry about debt to the same extent as most other college students, thanks to the University’s financial aid promise of meeting all demonstrated need. But they do still face the likelihood that they will make less than their non-first-generation peers — not to mention incur a wide range of social costs.
The inequalities are impervious, even within supposedly equalizing higher education institutions. FGLI students are compelled to ask, “Is college worth it?”
FGLI students frequently battle the feeling that they don’t belong at higher education institutions. Being around students who do not come from blue-collar backgrounds can be debilitating. A 2007 study by the University of Ontario found that first-generation students will leave university, even if in good academic standing, simply due to not fitting in or being able to relate to other students. The sad fact of blue-collar students attending white-collar institutions is that they will almost inevitably feel out of place.
While my dad was building houses, another student’s dad was buying his second vacation home. While my mom was driving a school bus, another student’s mom was driving her to campus in a Mercedes. While none of my family has stepped foot onto Harvard’s campus, other students’ families have visited countless times. While most students’ families could help them move in, mine was unable to drive our clunker across the country nor afford plane tickets.
Certain resources cannot be supplemented by the University, even with the substantial Harvard financial aid package. While some FGLI family members might be supportive, they will rarely understand why it might take an FGLI student so long to achieve his or her desired profession, or the mental stamina needed to be a college student 24/7. As a result, FGLI students must navigate the college world on their own.
In many cases, FGLI students were never equipped with the tools to navigate academia. College was always a goal for which students like myself had to reach without help. I could never go to my mom to ask about a math problem in high school, and I definitely could never ask her for guidance in college now.
My parents are not equipped with the experiences to help guide me through my current circumstances. It is not necessarily something I miss because I never had it to begin with;  however, it is something I wish I had, especially having seen peers who have support systems at home. Ultimately, the lack of a parenting presence in academics strengthened my intrinsic motivation to tackle obstacles and struggle through learning difficult topics.
Harvard is a different world. I am moving further away from my roots, supplanting myself in the University setting — a setting not understood by my family. I live with the appreciative understanding that I will have opportunities to explore places that my family was never able to, constantly juxtaposed with the “what-ifs” of where I would be if I would have picked up a trade or apprenticeship at home and how integral my family would be in that journey.
I still feel an otherness at university, but know my time here is simultaneously creating a different strain of otherness at home. FGLI students like myself are left ambivalent, paving our road forward while trying to ration how to incorporate our families into the roadtrip. We are moving forward in our pursuits but somehow feel like we are leaving parts of ourselves and our family behind.
Jordan R. Robbins, a Crimson Editorial editor, lives in Leverett House. His column “What Some Harvard Students Don't Know …” appears on alternate Thursdays.

Have a suggestion, question, or concern for The Crimson Editorial Board? Click here.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Good Will Hunting is one of the classic movies every Harvard student needs to watch at least once. During one of my many repeated viewings, I paid particular attention to the bar scene, where Matt Damon’s character, Will Hunting, gets into an argument with a Harvard student at a bar. Amid an intellectual cockfight, Matt Damon tells the student that one of the few certainties in life that he’ll one day discover is the fact that the student “dropped a hundred and fifty grand on a f----n' education [he] could’ve got for a dollar fifty in late charges at the public library.” While that’s true, the Harvard student concedes, he’ll have a degree, and that’s what seems to matter at the end of the day.
Were they right? Is a flimsy piece of paper really what distinguishes a Harvard education? Remember, Matt Damon went to Harvard when he started writing the screenplay for Good Will Hunting, so he has at least some prior experience to support that claim. The question of “what makes Harvard different?” is one that many of us asked ourselves in our senior year of high school and still do so now.
There is some merit to the fact that a Harvard diploma really does make a difference, regardless of the quality of education received. The name by itself is one of the most useful tools in a student’s arsenal when facing the real world. At the same time, though, it seems dissatisfying to think that all the value provided by such a seemingly elite institution is an arbitrary and illusory divide that is fueled by exclusivity and continually widened by the society we live in.
There have to be some differences in education though, right? Even though I’m taking the same Computer Science 50: “Introduction to Computer Science" class that millions of people have taken online for free at home, and even though I’m learning the same multivariable calculus concepts that people are studying on Khan Academy, some classes are unique to Harvard. Not everyone has the opportunity to nod off in class while the former United States Treasury Secretary lectures on the political economy of globalization, or surf the web while a Nobel Laureate teaches chemistry.
But do two hours of lecture per week really make a difference? How different is the information gained from attending a professor’s lecture from reading the textbook that that same professor wrote on the same topic? Of course, you have the chance to ask questions, stay after class, go to office hours, and access other resources that increase the effectiveness of the learning process. But at the end of the day, you’re still learning the same information. In other words, what differentiates a Harvard student from a highly motivated individual reading the same readings somewhere else? Information is no longer as hard to come by as it once was. I mean, how many books have you checked out of Widener that someone else couldn’t have acquired for less than $150,000?
Of course, I’m being cynical on purpose. There are many reasons that I haven’t dropped out of Harvard yet (besides the wrath of my parents). A Harvard education does offer something more than connections and the Harvard label. The search for what makes this education different brings me back to March 2019, when I first toured Harvard’s snowy campus. The tour guide, when asked this same question, answered with the cliche answer that every Harvard student responds with: the people. At the time, I wondered why nobody seemed to be able to produce a more unique and satisfying answer. However, now that I’ve experienced this institution first hand, I understand — the students, faculty, and staff really are the one true factor that differentiates Harvard from a library card.
It’s true, the texts read in class are probably readily available at any major library. At the same time though, without the constant pressure around me, I wouldn’t be likely to spend a large amount of my time reading the writings of Mary Wollstonecraft and microeconomics textbooks (as riveting as they are). I could take Harvard professor Michael Sandel’s Justice course online, but I wouldn’t get the same experience of arguing over the ethics of college admissions in a way that expands my views and inspires me to write op-eds.
The real value of Harvard is being surrounded by people who push you to your limits, who help you realize how much you don’t know, and who inspire you to see how much potential there is in the world for you. It sounds cheesy, but you realize how important Harvard’s environment is once you find yourself exploring the law libraries, starting podcasts, and writing books, all because of the motivation given to you by your peers.
No one can live in a vacuum. Even Will Hunting, for all the discrete mathematics he does in his free time, ultimately realizes that there’s a limit to what you can learn on your own. In his own time at Harvard, it seems Matt Damon recognized that the one factor that really differentiated the education was not the famous lecturers, long problem sets, or name on the degree. Instead, it’s the people around you who force you to realize that college isn’t a straight path of readings and lectures, but rather an opportunity to discover interests and pursue less-traveled paths that lead you to create a new social network, start a computer software company, or write an Oscar-winning movie screenplay.
Manuel A. Yepes ’24, a Crimson Editorial editor, lives in Cabot House.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The pandemic’s hold on the past four semesters has called for reinventing approaches to teaching, managing, and learning. It has also fueled hardship and anxiety. The masks we still don in lecture halls are reminders that, even with some restrictions relaxed, Covid continues to rearrange campus. Students have largely been the center of conversations on how Covid-19 has impacted Harvard, but the no-less-important plight of professors, administrators, janitors, proctors, tutors, and many other administrative roles has largely flown under the radar.
When opining on the pandemic from a student perspective, our board has scattered thanks to Harvard’s faculty and staff across many pieces. But to do so in one-off paragraphs, tacked onto staff editorials largely concerned with the particulars of one aspect of the University’s pandemic response or another, has begun to feel insufficient. It's time for our gratitude for Harvard’s workers to become more overt. So, here we go:
To the faculty, staff, and workers of Harvard University: We, some dozens of students of Harvard College, deeply appreciate you.
Pandemic-era education has not only depleted student energy, but that of university personnel, too. A new data visualization project collects information on how university faculty across the U.S. feel about the state of affairs on their campus. Largely, it reveals that many are anxious and exhausted, but in some instances, still hopeful.
To our own university’s faculty members: We know that it was no easy feat to promptly adapt lesson plans, guest lectures, in-person activities, and programming to fit inside a Zoom screen once Covid hit. Even so, you worked tirelessly to do just that. And now, the return to in-person instruction — while more than welcomed — also leaves you readjusting your curricula to incorporate the best elements of Zoom and in-person learning. We’ve seen teachers offer Zoom and in-person office hours, noting student praise for the former’s convenience, and Zoom and in-person sections to remain as flexible as possible.
Teaching, administrating, and organizing have always been stressful, but current circumstances have made it more complex. Now, every teacher has essentially been tasked with arbitrating the finer public health guidelines of their classroom, peppered with decisions like: Should I hold class outside today? How can I work with students who contract Covid, or help them recoup participation points if quarantined? Juggling this new crop of questions has been an added responsibility for all faculty this semester. We recognize this effort, and value all teaching staff have done to guide and engage us during these disorienting times.
Despite faculty excitement for returning to in-person classes, we know the stakes of doing so are higher for our professors. We, students, live in a bubble of Harvard-provided tri-weekly testing, protocols for quarantine and isolation, and mostly only have other Harvard students as contacts. We are generally vaccinated young adults with less to fear from the virus.
Meanwhile, many of the faculty and staff in our community have young children not yet eligible for vaccination; though uncommon, Covid could still wreak havoc on their small bodies. To all Harvard workers: We know many of you have families to whom you go home at the end of each day — families who worry about you and whom you worry about in turn. We understand your heightened fears and anxieties regarding the return to in-person college, and we promise that we will continue to do our part to keep campus safe ourselves.
Faculty members are putting forth remarkable effort to honor and protect the in-person experience through their firm adherence to Harvard’s Covid-19 policies in the classroom. On that note, we have a small request for our fellow students. Our actions are what will convey how much we actually appreciate the tremendous effort of our faculty, and respect their children and families at home. Together, let’s step up and show that we care for them by making responsible, moral choices. Enforce your own testing schedule — even when the only consequence of skipping is a text reminder. Mask up in all indoor spaces, as Harvard requires, and especially when around faculty and children who are vulnerable to Covid-19. Don’t be reckless.
Our actions directly influence the health of our community and the faculty we interact with. Responsible behavior is a key way we can show respect for Harvard’s workers, but we know words matter too. We should be liberal in expressing our appreciation for Harvard’s incredible faculty and staff, who have kept this ship afloat through a generation-defining crisis.
Gratefully,
The Crimson Editorial Board
This staff editorial solely represents the majority view of The Crimson Editorial Board. It is the product of discussions at regular Editorial Board meetings. In order to ensure the impartiality of our journalism, Crimson editors who choose to opine and vote at these meetings are not involved in the reporting of articles on similar topics.
Have a suggestion, question, or concern for The Crimson Editorial Board? Click here.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
I finally decided to take seriously my long-held dream of becoming a teacher and spent my summer teaching middle-schoolers, 7,605 miles from home. I sat in the Zoom room with my co-teacher for lesson planning time, which inevitably devolved into a get-to-know-you time for us.
“I feel like I haven’t aged since the start of the pandemic,” he laughed. “It’s like time has stopped.” He looked up, expecting me to promptly agree.
“No, Ron, I feel like I’ve aged a few years this past year and a half.” His face fell in concern as I tried to explain myself, to put my experience into words, but they didn’t come. So much had changed. Words and tears evaded me.
***
When Harvard sent us home in March of 2020, abrupt decisions were made — what belongings to sell, how to spend the last five days on campus, where to use excess BoardPlus. As an international student with American citizenship, I had to make a decision about where to go. My options were to stay on campus, live with my older sister in Chicago, or to return to my home in Mumbai. Returning home didn’t make much sense in terms of finishing the semester, and it was a scary prospect to stay alone on an empty campus. I chose Chicago. At the time, everyone thought the virus would pass in two months. I thought I’d get home by July 2020.
It’s September 2021, and I haven’t been home for 20 months.
During the first few months of the pandemic, my sister and I often stayed up late talking. It brought back fond childhood memories of whispering to one another when we stayed up past bedtime. But we were overcome with worry. Things had run out in the grocery stores, and my sister felt responsible for taking care of me. She did everything she could, cooking meals for us, giving me her bed and sleeping on the floor, and introducing me to her graduate student friends, who were also stranded in the U.S.
It was soon clear, though, that she needed parenting too. One sunny morning, Raina and I sat in her bedroom, eating steaming bowls of upma. The room was warm, the food piping hot, and if I closed my eyes, the clink of steel spoons on steel bowls and the temperature made it feel just like breakfast time at home. Raina was scrolling on her phone when she suddenly put down her food. I wouldn’t have usually noticed, since I knew she often wouldn’t finish her food, but this time I saw her eyebrows scrunch up and her chin crinkle the way it always did when she was about to cry when we were younger. She refused to tell me what was wrong, but for the first time, I made the connection that she wasn’t eating enough because of anxiety. I realized that I needed to look out for her, too.
My sister’s summer Russian classes were online, and she had graduate exams at the end of that summer. I’d never seen her so stressed. She sought my advice on her problems, which was flattering, but at times overwhelming. I felt ill-equipped to tackle the issues of someone four years older than me whom I had always seen as more mature than myself. I stepped up, carrying groceries home from the store, which was a 20-minute walk. When my feet grew sore and my back began to hurt, I’d sit down in the summer heat to catch my breath. I tried to imagine the pounding rain typical of the monsoon happening at the moment in Mumbai. But all I could hear was my mother’s voice asking me when I’d be coming home.
Soon it was August, and the time had come for me to decide whether or not to live on campus for the fall semester. I had received permission, but I chose not to go — it seemed like rules would be strict and I was still reeling from my sophomore slump. Sharing a bedroom and house keys with my sister in Chicago wasn’t ideal, but I liked my online classes and it was nice to spend time away from Cambridge. But as the days got shorter and darker and finals season approached, the stresses that I had tried to put on the back burner during the summer became impossible to ignore. Covid-19 got worse in the U.S. that winter and my mother stopped asking us when we were coming home.
By the time the spring semester rolled around, I was utterly exhausted. I felt like a side character witnessing my sister’s life, so when Harvard called juniors back to campus and two of my blockmates said they would return, I decided to as well. It was eerie to be back on an empty campus and eat meals in our common room. I also had to deal with the fallout from my last 10 months in Chicago; I had ignored my mental health to help my sister, and I had a lot of back pain from lifting groceries and attending class on Zoom. Living apart from her gave me the space to recover and focus on my own needs. We still video-chatted daily. A sense of normalcy returned as we fell into our own routines.
I’ve been at Harvard since the spring, watching all the seasons go by and the shifting tides of the pandemic in the U.S. and in India. As things got better here, they seemed to worsen at home, with vaccination availability entrenching this inequality. My sister and I finally booked tickets to go home this December. I don’t know what awaits me there — reading the Indian news became too painful many months ago, and I know my parents haven’t told my sister and me everything. But I do know that for the first time, I will be returning home, not just as the baby of the family or the younger sister, but as an adult.
— Magazine writer Maya S. Bhagat can be reached at maya.bhagat@thecrimson.com.
Sections
In 2006, a new theory about the origin of emotions took the neuroscientific community by storm. Previously, researchers had agreed upon one thing: that emotions were universal, and universally measurable, across all brains. But when Lisa Feldman Barrett, a neuroscientist affiliated with Harvard Medical School, began looking at brain structure and development, she was surprised to find that emotions showed up in brain scans in different ways. Emotions were not hardwired or assigned to specific regions of the brain; instead, someone’s interpretation of the physical sensations of an emotion depended largely on their past memories and experiences.
As a director of the Interdisciplinary Affective Science Laboratory at Northeastern, Barrett is among the top 1 percent of cited scientists in the world. She often likes to explain her work with simple images and everyday metaphors. In one of her TED talks, which has since been viewed more than 6 million times, she shows a slide of amorphous black and white shapes. She explains that, upon viewing the image, each person enters a state of “experiential blindness” in which their brain sifts through “a lifetime of experience” while trying to visualize a suitable comparison that might reveal the image’s identity.
“I am going to cure your blindness!” she declares, before clicking to the next slide. The smattering of black and white morphs into a photograph of a yellow and black patterned snake, and the audience groans in realization.
The brain is “making thousands of guesses at the same time,” Barrett tells us, and she argues that emotions are guesses too. When you feel something in your body — a racing heart, sweaty palms — your brain has to predict its cause: Is it love at first sight, or test anxiety? It identifies an emotion to gear you up to face a situation.
During our Zoom call, Barrett leans into the camera to explain complex scientific concepts, mentions that she wrote her book “How Emotions Are Made: The Secret Life of the Brain” for her daughter, and expresses her concern about the mental health “epidemic” that is affecting people across the world. In her TED talks and lectures she presents to the world, but in our interview she tailors her message to sleep-deprived, stressed-out college students.
In Barrett’s mind, the evolutionary purpose of the brain has never been to think or feel; it has been “to regulate an ever increasingly complex body full of systems that have to be coordinated, and whose energy requirements have to be managed.”
For example, stress and anxiety, in moderation, can help the brain process and respond to a confusing situation. When an event misaligns with the brain’s perception of the world, the brain experiences unpleasant arousal. “The resulting emotion dictates your actions, what you do next,” Barrett explains. “Do you go searching for more information? Or do you withdraw?”
Stress is the state in which your brain prepares your body for a major metabolic outlay. Stress can be beneficial when you replenish what you spend, but turns detrimental when the debt adds up over time. When you run a deficit in your bank account, you stop spending; similarly, when the brain runs a deficit in its “body budget,” it stops spending energy, resulting in fatigue and distress.
Understanding the physical basis for emotions allows you to recognize that “you have more control over how you make sense of the sensory events in your body and in the world than you realize,” she maintains.
Rather than being interpreted as uncontrollable phenomena, stress and anxiety can be understood as the brain trying its best to learn something difficult. “Our go-to explanation for unpleasant arousal is anxiety,” she says.
Barrett emphasizes, however, that she does not claim that stress and anxiety disappear after a simple relabeling. “I’m not saying that people with serious mental illness can talk their way out of their mental illness,” she says. “There’s a serious metabolic basis for those illnesses.”
But for the college student dealing with the stress and pressure of everyday life, perhaps some insight into how the brain is constantly working to serve them can spark some appreciation. Emotions are just one of the functions of the brain, and this insight into their mechanism might create more awareness that the physical manifestations of emotions can be managed.
CORRECTION: October 2, 2021
A previous version of this article misstated the number of views on one of Barrett's TED Talks. It has been viewed more than 6 million times.
— Staff writer Dannie C. Bell can be reached at dannie.bell@thecrimson.com
— Staff writer Heidi Lai can be reached at heidi.lai@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @hiheidz.
Sections
You’ve always been infatuated with public health, and your love has grown exponentially during the pandemic — like antibiotic-resistant bacteria. Arriving back to campus, armed with crates of N-95s, kegs of hand sanitizer, and even a few face shields, you had hoped the pandemic would galvanize your peers into caring as much as you do. But you quickly find you were sorely mistaken. Take last Friday, for example.
It’s a brisk Cambridge morning. You left your HEPA filter on ‘Turbo’ mode when you went to bed, so you take a deep breath, hold it, and let go. “Damn, that’s the good stuff,” you say as you head out of your dorm for class.
You sit down for your first GenEd section of the semester, and the inevitably banal icebreakers commence. Your TF lists the Harvard identifiers you must disclose: your concentration, house, and year. Then comes the TF’s final, quirky query:“Favorite color?”
Finally, a question that gets to the meat of who we all really are.
“Who wants to go first?” they say.
You slap the table like it’s an anti-vaxxer, toss back your chair, and declare that you do. You want to go first.
After you’ve caught your breath from the exertion of leaping from your seat (those two N-95s do inhibit airflow), you proudly proclaim: “Color Health, Inc.! Everyone's favorite!”
You scan the room, hoping to hear some applause, or at least see some hearty nods of agreement — but nothing. Stunned, you sink back into your chair, unable to believe the hackneyed hues your classmates are naming: blue, green, yellow, red.
You amble out of section in a fog and head for the bathroom. This can’t be real. Who even likes yellow? Do they not appreciate the compassionate, almost paternal reminders of when you’re “due for your next COVID-19 test”?
To cool off, you stand in front of the sink and splash water on your face. It’s okay that your masks get wet; the CDC Google alert you read yesterday says a humid mask environment helps prevent the transmission of viral particles.
After a rage-filled lunch, you head back to the dorm, trying not to let despair overtake you. “So what if people don’t care as much as they should?” you monologue. You pause your march to respectfully detach the interlocked hands of an amorous pair. “Six feet, sweeties!”
“You have to be the change you want to see in the world,” you resolve out loud. It’s time you scaled up. But where could your efforts be most effective?
You gather white envelopes, your embossing kit, and with a little Harvard directory perusing, compile a roster of the [redacted athletic] team in your Notes app. You slide a Covid test into each envelope, seal the edge with hot wax, and write names on the front in cursive. It’s hard work, but someone’s gotta do it.
Six hours later, you march down the halls of Dunster, your chest puffed with pride. You carefully slide a wax-sealed envelope into each room until a noise stops you in your tracks. You cup your ear against the door.
“That feels so good babe, do you have protection?”
You seize another golden opportunity to promote Covid safety.
“I do!” you scream at the door, sliding two N-95s underneath. The noises from within the room stop suddenly, the pair undoubtedly speechless at their good fortune.
Walking out of Dunster, you pat yourself on the back with a gloved hand. It’s been a long day of being phenomenal. After so many hours bettering humanity, it’s high time for some self-care; time to take your Covid test.
The feeling of that plastic swab massaging your nasal passages, the righteous patter of typing in your kit’s activation code, the suspense that lingers in the split second before your results load: will it be that sweet, sweet negative green?
You head downstairs, eager for that thrill of slipping the biohazard bag into the drop bin.
But wait! Someone else approaches the bin. You are worried you both might step to turn in your test at the same time, but they respectfully pause, keeping the appropriate social distance.
Chivalry is not dead. And neither are you, because you followed Covid Safety Guidelines.
Their eyes, a luminous surgical mask blue, peer out from over their multiple face coverings. Their muffled voice breaks the silence: “What’s your favorite color?”
— Staff writer Maliya V. Ellis can be reached at maliya.ellis@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @EllisMaliya.
Sections
In the fall of 2018, three weeks into Susan D. Block’s first semester teaching a freshman seminar on death and illness — “The Heart of Medicine: Patients and Physicians and the Experience of Serious Illness” — she learned that she had a mass on her pancreas. In the worst way possible, her field of work and personal life had collided.
As the founding chair of the Dana-Farber Cancer Institute’s Department of Psychosocial Oncology and Palliative Care, Block, a psychiatrist, had spent almost 40 years treating patients with serious illnesses like cancer, trying to figure out how to make their last months more meaningful and less frightening. Now she found herself in the patient’s chair.
Block had been undergoing routine tests for pancreatic cancer as part of a research study for over a decade, due to a strong family history of the disease. Luckily, her preliminary screenings caught what seemed to be cancer at a relatively early stage. “People were looking for it and then they finally found it,” she says. “It was terrifying.”
That terror lasted for about three weeks, as Block prepared for a surgery to remove most of her pancreas. When she finally went into surgery, however, her doctors discovered that, against all odds, she had been misdiagnosed. The mass was the result of an autoimmune disease.
“People had told me that there’s a 95 percent chance that it’s cancer. I wish to be in the 5 percent, but I don’t ever assume that I am,” she says. “It was wonderful, amazing, incredible good news.”
Even after recovering, Block’s brush with cancer would touch all aspects of her life — her attitude toward work, her presence in the classroom, and her conversations with her own patients.
Block’s lifelong interest in the social and emotional aspects of serious disease began during her internal medicine residency program at Beth Israel Hospital in Boston, where she found herself gripped by “how poorly we cared for people who were at the end of their lives.” Drawn to understand her patients’ psychological experiences, she ended up completing a residency in psychiatry as well.
At the time, Block says, “there was no field of palliative care, and there was barely a field of psycho-oncology” — the study of the social and psychological dimensions of cancer. “There was sort of no way to go forward.”
If Block couldn’t follow traditional paths to change the way medical institutions supported critically ill patients, she was determined to forge a path herself. In 1998, she started a new job at Dana-Farber with a substantial mission: to build a psycho-oncology and palliative care program from scratch.
By the time Block landed in the operating room herself, she was a leader in her field. But even after 40 years of teaching about severe illness care and doctor-patient communication, when she found herself on the opposite side of that relationship, Block discovered that some things could still surprise her.
“The one really bad part of my care was being in the hospital after the surgery,” she remembers. Struggling to recover from the operation, Block shared a two-bed hospital room with another woman. “I had to crawl over her to get into the bathroom,” she says. “It was so cramped, and so small.”
At night, after her crowd of visitors had left, the woman began sobbing, and Block’s instincts as a physician kicked in.
“There I was, half doped-up still from the anesthetic, I was trying to comfort her,” Block says. “How can you not respond to somebody who’s that vulnerable?”
In that hospital room, she also saw another, uglier side of the health care system up close. “[The woman] felt like the nurses weren't taking good care of her because she was Black,” Block says. “Because [nurses] put on their best behavior when the doctor comes in the room. I’d never seen that kind of dismissive, seemingly racially-driven behavior, as I saw from nurses.”
Back home from the hospital, readjusting to normal life after the surgery brought its own set of challenges.
“​​I had a pretty hard recovery,” Block says. “And I thought a lot about how much stress was safe to put my body under.” This was especially challenging after decades of juggling a fast-paced career of clinical work, field-building, teaching, heading departments, and research.
Three years before, she had been by her husband Andy’s side through his own struggle with and, ultimately, death from an aggressive lymphoma. The pain of that experience instilled in her a philosophy of “do it now,” and in the wake of her own treatment, she’s focused on putting it into practice.
She built her own house in western Massachusetts — something she’d always wanted to do. She gave herself permission to cut back on the parts of her career that drained her energy, and focus on teaching and seeing patients instead. When she met a new partner, she allowed herself to find love again.
“I’ve been really lucky in terms of my material circumstances, and I have just wonderful people in my life,” she says. And, of course, she feels lucky to be back in the classroom, teaching undergraduates.
Leaving her seminar three years ago was bittersweet — she didn’t want to stop teaching, but she knew her experience with illness would be an arduous one.
“I felt this obligation to the students,” she says, “but it was really clear that I couldn’t teach a class on serious illness, death, and dying, while I was in the middle of this very terrifying personal experience.”
Her class focuses on encouraging difficult discussions about health; she often brings in speakers ranging from doctors to chaplains to seriously ill patients. At the beginning of the semester, she asks students to fill out a survey about their own attitudes toward death, and for freshman family weekend, she asks them to interview a family member about their goals for end-of-life care.
“I love the idea of trying to teach about this very difficult topic to younger people who hadn’t had the kind of indoctrination or socialization into either the pre-med world or the medical culture,” Block says.
At the end of fall 2018, she returned to the seminar class she had to leave behind when she began her treatment and told them her story.
“They didn’t really know me that well, but it was still sort of a traumatizing, discombobulating, upsetting experience for the students,” she says. She believed sharing her story would serve as a valuable learning opportunity. “I don’t like the word closure that much, but it brought things full circle in a way.”
This semester, Block is teaching “The Heart of Medicine” for the third time. The seminar looks different today than it did in the fall of 2018, but not necessarily because of her own harrowing diagnosis. She’s modified the course to incorporate a discussion of Covid-19, and to focus more on health inequities. She says she doesn’t go out of her way to bring up her story, although she does touch on it when the class opens up about personal experiences with death.
“I want them to name their experiences. So I can’t just stand behind a sort of wall of neutrality and pretend I don’t have relevant experiences,” Block says. “That would not feel right, as a teacher.”
— Magazine writer Tamar Sarig can be reached at tamar.sarig@thecrimson.com.
Sections
In 1953, John Geehan was growing up in a changing Roslindale, Mass., seven miles from downtown Boston. Charged with postwar energy, the neighborhood was full of immigrant families eager to adopt a life outside of the urban core. John, age 9, went to play in the nearest green space available to him — the Arnold Arboretum, the Harvard-managed public park and botanical institute across the road.
Playing in an Arboretum pond area used as a dumping ground for industrial waste, John fell in and drowned. Outraged by the danger the Arboretum’s poorly-maintained spaces posed to their children, about 300 residents signed and delivered a petition to Harvard to fill the pond in. They received no response, and their “furor subsided with time and nothing was done,” wrote the Boston Globe nearly two decades later.
John’s attempted rescuer, Ken Hobart, asked the Globe in that same story: “How many times does something like this have to happen before anyone does something about it?”
In June of 1953, Arboretum Director Karl Sax wrote to Boston Park Commission Chair Frank R. Kelley, asking for Kelley’s help in hastening a fencing project around the same pond John drowned in that year. In the letter, Sax acknowledged that proper fencing would prevent the South Street tract from becoming subject to “the mercy of wandering children.”
Geehan was not the only victim. A quarter-century string of drownings on Harvard property took the lives of at least five Roslindale children. The perpetrating backwater — “Muddy Pond,” as it came to be known — was one of the few public green spaces available for neighborhood kids to play in. But the pond, set in a Harvard and municipal dumping ground, had a perilous mixture of mud and silt that could trap someone: the more you thrashed, the deeper you sank.
Finally, in 1971, after another spate of drownings sparked outcry among community members and Harvard undergraduates, the University caved, rushing to fill the pond in. Still, faced with potential legal liability and student protests, Harvard’s lawyers denied any prior knowledge of the danger the area posed. (University spokesperson Jason A. Newton declined to comment, and Arboretum spokesperson Jon Hetman did not respond to a request for comment on this article.)
Letters from officials and residents over the course of several decades prior to the 1971 protests told administrators directly that the pond, a dumping area, was a hazard to children and should be fenced off or filled. Despite that, the dangerous wetland went unaddressed by Arboretum and Harvard administrators for nearly half a century.
But Muddy Pond and the tragedy it wrought were not the results of mere neglect or lack of oversight. This catchment area, used to store industrial waste created by the construction and maintenance of the ‘living museum,’ was necessary for the beautification of the Arboretum’s sweeping meadows and languid natural entrances. It allowed fundraisers, tours, and scientific work to proceed uninhibited, their garbage byproduct covertly stowed.
The Arboretum’s underbelly, the South Street tract, became its dumping ground — an area decidedly part of the Arboretum but distinct in purpose: it was the park for poor kids, filled with the refuse of the rich. When that refuse was all they had to play with, it turned deadly — decade after decade — while the institution seemed to close its eyes.
Tucked behind the Arnold Arboretum’s beautiful tree collection and gardens, a muddy wetland remains. Between the slope of South Street and railroad tracks sequestered off by mounds of land, the wetland now hosts a short footpath. As early as 1662, colonists drained the wetland to use it as pasture, and by the 1830s, a rail line to Providence was constructed nearby. In 1861, the South Street tract was bestowed to Harvard after the death of Benjamin Bussey, its former landowner. Harvard, which established the Arnold Arboretum in 1872, added the South Street tract to Arboretum grounds in 1919.
In the 1920s, Arboretum administrators drained a portion of the peat bog to create a pond — later known as Muddy Pond — connected to nearby Bussey Brook in hopes of making the area “less stagnant and more attractive.” Yet by the late 1930s, archival maps indicate that portions of the wetland had been labeled a “dump.” Archdale, a Boston Housing Authority development home to low-income families, was built a few blocks away in 1953.
Class divides were part of Muddy Pond’s troubled history from the start. In 1971, State Rep. James J. Craven, Jr. told a local newspaper that runoff from West Roxbury’s upscale Bellevue Hill, about a mile away but connected via tributaries, was pooling into the pond, making it larger. The runoff that pooled in the pond was just part of the risk to local children. The systematic dumping of industrial garbage, which began when the wetland was identified as a dump in the 1930s, made it deadly.
Jeffrey Savill, a 7-year-old student at Charles Sumner Elementary in 1957, lived in a working-class Catholic household in a duplex about a mile south of Muddy Pond. His father Vincent, a baker, and his mother Evelyn, a waitress, raised him and his three siblings: Vincent Jr., Dianne, and Neal.
Four years after John Geehan’s drowning, Jeffrey and a friend, Lawrence, went to look for frogs at Muddy Pond. They might have ventured in through the dilapidated fencing partially surrounding the area. It’s also possible that they traversed the “cow tunnel,” created to move cows under the railroad between a pasture in the Arboretum and a nearby ice cream factory on Washington Street.
Once at the pond, they happened upon two 10-foot planks, leftover construction debris. These planks were typical of the industrial waste left in the pond at the time. The boys decided to use them as rafts to paddle into the expanse of the pond. Meeting in the middle, they collided. Both boys were thrown overboard. Lawrence was still able to stand, but couldn’t drag his sinking friend out; he ran back home to raise the alarm.
The fire department, the ambulance, and Jeffrey’s father came to the scene. At the hospital, Jeffrey was declared dead on arrival.
In 1958, a year after Jeffrey’s death, Edward G. A. Powers, a Division Engineer at the Boston Department of Public Works, sent a letter to Henry H. Cutler ’29, who served as Harvard’s insurance manager. Powers wrote of “dangerous ponding conditions” around Muddy Pond. He told Cutler that after Public Works ran the numbers, the department estimated it would only cost Harvard $1,540, what is now $15,000 adjusted for inflation, to fill it in. Powers wrote that by doing this, Harvard “would eliminate any hazard due to drowning.”
“Anxious to know if the University would be able to meet the cost of this project,” Powers offered his engineers and inspectors for Harvard’s use. He proposed a bargain price of $1.10 per cubic yard of dirt for fill. The offer never left the table, and the drownings continued.
Less than a decade later, in 1966, Arboretum Director Richard A. Howard wrote to the Boston Department of Parks and Recreation expressing concern over a visitor’s entrance on the west side of the Arboretum, about a mile from Muddy Pond. City construction crews had completed water system maintenance work on Harvard’s behalf and “regrettably” left debris strewn around the visitor’s entrance. In his letter, Howard called for the “rehabilitation of this area as part of the Arnold Arboretum.”
The grounds — originally co-designed by Frederick Law Olmsted, the father of American landscape architecture — were intended as a “pleasure ground for the citizens of Boston” and as a tree museum, according to the Arboretum website. Staying true to this mission, Howard wanted to restore what he called “an attractive corner” in the park, rather than permit construction waste to stay there. For suburban visitors who drove in for day trips to the manicured grounds, the debris surely would have been an eyesore.
Howard’s suggested destination for the wooden planks, debris, and other assorted garbage from City work was simple: “dump this in the South Street tract area […] This would be fill for a swamp area of little use to us in its present wet condition.” Thus, Howard’s mandate to maintain the “pleasure ground” became part of the same tradition that led to the deadly conditions for children in Muddy Pond.
Muddy Pond’s ownership existed in a murky space between Harvard and the City, but both treated it as a dump. And as trash continued to pile up over the decades after John and Jeffrey’s deaths, kids still came to play.
In 1968, yet another child drowned in the Arboretum in a different pond — the third death in the archival record. The pond, part of the same wetland as Muddy Pond, was quickly filled, Arboretum spokesperson Wendy Marks then told the press.
The 1968 drowning was not referenced in the Arboretum’s annual Director’s Report.
In 1971, Clyde, Margaret, and Lesley Johnson were growing up in a working-class household of 10. They lived in the Archdale housing development, constructed by the Boston Housing Authority a few blocks from the Arboretum. The development was built for low-income families in 1953, the same year John Geehan drowned. Their father James, a carpenter, and mother Margaret received government benefits. The Johnsons, unlike the Geehans or Savills, were a Black family living in Roslindale during a time when the neighborhood remained mostly ethnically Irish and Italian.
The Johnson family had recently suffered multiple losses: two of their children had died a few years prior. James Jr. died fighting in Vietnam, and Maceo was killed in a car accident.
The three young children set out to play on a chilly Saturday morning on May 15, 1971, joined by their friend Michael Terry. Like many other neighborhood kids, they went to the nearest outdoor space available to them — the South Street tract, which contained Muddy Pond.
Botanist-turned-historian Peter J. Del Tredici built a career studying the landscape of the Arboretum and its flora as the institution’s Senior Research Scientist. He says the children gained access to Muddy Pond, now Bussey Brook Meadow, via the cow tunnel, coming in from the southwest side of the tract to make their way through the muddy wetland.
The trio assembled a raft fashioned from construction garbage strewn around the pond, full of waste left behind by Harvard and the City. The Johnsons rafted into the pond and capsized. Michael made it back to Archdale to get his father, and police and fire were called. Lesley was revived, but when first responders arrived, it was too late for his siblings. Clyde, 9, and Margaret, 8, drowned.
According to local newspaper the Jamaica Plain Citizen in 1971, “though there have been periodic drownings at the pond for many years, there has been little attempt to fence or clean the area, or otherwise remove the hazard.” A fence did wrap around a portion of the pond, but in its dilapidated state, could not close off the water to neighborhood children. And after all, as Arboretum Director Howard wrote to a concerned local resident in 1968, “fences do not stop kids.”
Harvard’s administration stalled in response to the children’s deaths. When asked by a reporter from The Crimson about the University’s potential responsibility for the event, Harvard’s General Counsel Daniel Steiner ’54 remarked that “this is a tragedy…I don't want to get bogged down in the legal aspects of the thing.”
Meanwhile, Cutler, now Harvard’s real estate manager, told The Crimson that it would be “pretty stupid” to fill in or modify the pond.
Cutler was known for operating with such nonchalance. In 1969, after a graduate student was murdered in a building without locks on its doors, Cutler refused to install any in the aftermath. He reportedly told the graduate tenants’ union president that “‘we can't make improvements if we don't get more money out of you people.’”
Cutler spent his career in the administration of University President Nathan M. Pusey ’28. G. Garrett Epps ’72, who in 1971 was a Crimson reporter covering the drownings, says that the Pusey administration met the community with a “tell these people to go fuck themselves” mentality. Only after the installment of the next president, Derek C. Bok, shortly before the drownings, did the University shift towards a stance of, in Epps’s words, “we’re awfully sorry you have to go fuck yourselves.”
Asked about the children’s drownings in 1971, Cutler remarked to The Crimson: “We can't just go around filling up every piece of water. Should we fill up the oceans because people drown there?”
Some Harvard students immediately decried the administration’s messaging. On campus, there were “always groups wielding bullhorns, and there was always a disruptive protest,” says David Landau ’72, a reporter for The Crimson in 1971.
With student activism in vogue — often with civil rights and anti-Vietnam War efforts working in tandem — campus culture had shifted dramatically since 1953.
Students for a Democratic Society, a group primarily engaged in anti-war protests, began to pressure Harvard’s administration to fill in the pond. They staged a protest about a week after the Johnson drownings, speaking in front of the Holyoke Center (now the Smith Campus Center). As they concluded their rally, Sargent Kennedy ’28, secretary of the University’s highest governing board, the Harvard Corporation, exited the building.
“We ended up following him with the bullhorn, and about 10 or 20 people, across Harvard Yard, and he walked into the Faculty Club,” says Joseph Rothchild ’74, an SDS member at the time.
A report from the Committee on Rights and Responsibilities (CRR), a Vietnam War-era tribunal convened by Harvard administrators, states that protesters called Kennedy and other Harvard officials “murderers.” They chanted: “Fill the pond with Sargent Kennedy.”
SDS members, including Bonnie E. Blustein ’72, Ira D. Helfand ’71, and Rothchild, later faced disciplinary action from the CRR. Blustein was initially ordered to withdraw from Radcliffe College following the incident, though she was later readmitted.
The SDS protest added pressure to an issue that was already coming to boil in the neighborhood around the Arboretum. According to an article in the local newspaper, The Parkway Transcript, locals Mary Boucher and Helen Clifford collected 1,300 signatures from Roslindale and Jamaica Plain residents calling on the state’s Metropolitan District Commission (MDC) — a predecessor agency to the Department of Conservation and Recreation — to seize Harvard’s land by eminent domain and develop a children’s play area. Community members also spoke up about other solutions, like filling the pond in, an option offered cheaply to Harvard back in 1958.
“Harvard should have filled that hole in long ago,” a resident told The Crimson in 1971.
Under pressure from all sides, the administration began to take quick action while sidestepping liability. Boston Fire Commissioner James H. Kelly sent a letter urging Edward S. Gruson, Harvard’s assistant to the President for Community Affairs, to take immediate action to prevent “the senseless loss of our young citizens.” Local politicians joined with Boucher and Clifford, asking the MDC to seize Harvard’s land, while SDS students continued to agitate around an immediate fix for the pond.
“The public pressure to fill this pond in was incredibly great,” Del Tredici, the botanist-historian says.
The MDC felt the heat. A letter from Gruson to Director Howard said that the MDC was “under considerable political pressure” to “take by eminent domain the South Street land.” Gruson told Howard that “it will take very persuasive arguments on our part to convince him not to take the land.” To keep its land, Harvard knew it had to act.
Blustein says that SDS planned to distribute protest leaflets to attendees of the 1971 commencement. Each handout would be emblazoned with the line: “No racist murder, fill in Muddy Pond.” But Harvard got word of their demonstration.
“Somebody from Harvard came knocking on the door” of one of the SDS members’ dorms, Blustein recalls.
She believes it was either the day of or the day before commencement. The Harvard representative told them to call it off: bulldozers had just dumped granite blocks in the pond, reducing its depth from five or six feet to just under two.
“They wanted to take no chances that we would miss the news that they had gone and filled in this hole,” Blustein says.
Under pressure, Harvard and the city government hurriedly reduced the pond depth with granite blocks, shy of a full fill-in. City officials additionally agreed to drain a channel downstream of the pond and clear their debris surrounding the pond. Harvard’s construction costs totaled about $10,000, or roughly $70,000 adjusted for inflation.
Despite the uproar among students and residents, the Johnson family never moved forward with legal proceedings. Steiner, the University lawyer, told The Crimson in 1971 that there was not “any question of liability here.”
Geneva Boykin, the aunt of the deceased children, said “that pond is a death hole for little kids,” but that “we’re not thinking about suiting anybody at a time like this.”
“We’re worrying about the money to bury them,” she added.
Steiner deflected further when asked in 1971 about the University’s responsibility in the drownings, holding that Harvard’s liability was minimal. Despite Steiner’s stoic front, Harold Kaltz, a Boston casualty claims lawyer quoted in The Crimson, said that the University may have been liable if it “had knowledge of a history of children in the neighborhood being attracted [to the pond].”
Whether Steiner, Howard, or Cutler knew about the drownings prior to 1971 is unclear, but the question of liability was on the lips of many student activists.
Had these drownings occurred six years later, Harvard could have stared down a liability lawsuit. In 1977, the Massachusetts legislature amended state torts law. Legal analysis from Westlaw details that under this law, landowners can be held liable for physical harm when: they know children are likely to trespass, know kids could be harmed by land conditions, where the children do not recognize the danger, where eliminating danger is easy compared to the risk for the children, and where the landowner fails to exercise reasonable care.
Rewind to 1971: the liability Harvard had, if any, for the drownings is unknowable in the eyes of the common law without litigation.
The 1971 granite fill-in only shallowed the water, and the pond area continued to pose some risk thereafter. George L. Homsy of Harvard’s Planning Office acknowledged in a construction management memo in 1975 that “wet and boggy” parts of the South Street tract still remained “a safety hazard to children.”
The pond remained a hazard for four more years before Harvard quickly moved to fill in the pond area again in 1975 following the circulation of the memo.
However, in 1972, Massachusetts codified a law requiring prior notice of construction on wetlands, including filling and dredging ponds. As a result, Harvard’s hasty 1975 fill-in earned them a stern cease-and-desist letter from the City of Boston Conservation Commission, reprimanding administrators for not providing prior notice.
“Harvard was in such a sweat to fill it in that they neglected to follow proper procedures,” says Del Tredici.
There are several victims mentioned loosely in the local press that we could not find records of, who remain nameless and unknown. In 1968, Craven, the longtime state representative, called Muddy Pond and the surrounding wetland, a “tremendous hazard to children,” claiming that it was where “ten youngsters drowned.” A Boston fire official estimated the number was even higher, telling the Boston Herald Traveler in 1971 that Muddy Pond and its surrounds had led to “15 to 20 drownings in the past 23 years.” These figures, though estimated, indicate a longer, unarchived legacy of death on Harvard land.
Most of the deaths are absent from the reports, letters, and other documents that Harvard maintains about its own history.
Not to be forgotten are the stories of the children who came close to death on the property but lived. The son of Robert Wheaton, a local resident, fell in while fishing amidst the industrial waste around 1968. He was saved by some friends, but residents in 1971 remarked in The Crimson that another death was “bound to happen sometime.”
Today, the South Street tract has been reimagined as Bussey Brook Meadow. Muddy Pond is no longer a dumping ground, blended into the bog it came from. From the Forest Hills MBTA station — a major terminal for local bus routes — the meadow is a short walk. The newer Washington Street Gate, a modest entryway whose design takes a cue from the wrought-iron decadence of the Arboretum’s other historic gates, opens up the north side of Roslindale to the tranquil meadow.
Bussey Brook Meadow is home to Blackwell Footpath, laid down in 1996, an idyllic winding gravel path that cuts through it. Along the walkway, stone blocks live out another life as spartan park benches, overlooking the shallow wetland remnants of Muddy Pond.
On the path, there’s a small sign the size of a pocket square, and just short enough that a kid could read it. It advertises a meadow soundscape app the Arboretum created. But it also has a map of Bussey Brook. That map contains one of the few contemporary institutional acknowledgements of the pond. A lowercase font resembling handwriting in the center, reads, “muddy pond (filled).”
The Blackwell Footpath today takes you through a manicured ‘pleasure ground,’ much like the rest of the Arboretum, with little reminder of the pathside death toll. The Washington Street Gate and the footpath are a new opening for the community to come in, but it only just begins to bridge the gap between the park and its neighbors.
The Archdale Housing Development still stands close by. In a 1969 Arboretum land appraisal delivered to Cutler, the realtors called this neighborhood on the other side of the railroad tracks “low quality three family housing.” Separated by invisible, stark divisions across race and class, Washington Street is a dividing line between sculpted park land and the low-income, working-class communities who live right next to it.
“While the Arboretum is free and open to all, that does not mean it is accessible or comfortable to all,” writes current Arboretum Director William “Ned” Friedman in a 2020 Black Lives Matter statement.
The cow tunnel is today derelict, covered in graffiti. The City of Boston’s Chief of Environment, Energy, and Open Space, Rev. Mariama M. White-Hammond, says in an interview it is “dark and dingy, and the road is not quite as maintained as it could be.”
Now, the City is “looking at rehabbing an entrance that would be most accessible for people in the Archdale Housing Development,” according to White-Hammond. Olmsted, the Arboretum’s original co-designer, “has this vision of land being available to the masses…particularly for folks who were living in tenement housing. That was some of the vision of what the parks were supposed to be,” White-Hammond says.
For children living in Archdale, this would mean direct access through a rehabilitated cow tunnel that “ beckons people to come,” White-Hammond says, and enjoy an Arboretum that is perhaps a bit more welcoming — and safe — for all its neighbors.
With a new gate and footpath, both built at the turn of the millennium, the South Street tract has become arguably more accessible to Roslindale residents, but nothing memorializes the young people who drowned. It doesn’t seem that either Harvard or the City ever provided any recourse to the families whose children died, at least no recourse that the archival record retains.
Fifty years after the Johnsons drowned, Muddy Pond today is filled with granite and topped with about two feet of water, rendered mostly harmless. The Arnold Arboretum remains idyllic, filled with flora and fauna from around our world. Its beauty is remarkable, but it is sobering to remember how faulty land stewardship engendered the needless loss of children’s lives.
White-Hammond put it well: “Sometimes, we can miss the people for the trees.”
CORRECTION: September 28, 2021
A previous version of this article misstated the owner of the Arnold Arboretum. It is owned by the City of Boston, but managed by Harvard. 
CORRECTION: October 3, 2021
A previous version of this article misidentified the location of the Archdale housing development. It is several blocks from the Arboretum, not across the street. 
—Staff writer Henry N. Lear can be reached at henry.lear@thecrimson.com.
—Staff writer Simon J. Levien can be reached at simon.levien@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @simonjlevien.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Committee on Course Registration announced Wednesday it will reveal its proposal for the College’s future course registration model in December, which could spell the end of the current shopping week system.
Under the shopping week system, Harvard students can freely browse courses in-person before locking in their schedule. For the last three semesters, however, the University has operated a virtual course preview period prior to the start of the semester, citing public health concerns.
In 2018, Dean of Undergraduate Education Amanda J. Claybaugh suggested a move to an early registration system, noting that administrators were unsure that the system was still advantageous. The next year, the faculty voted to preserve shopping week until 2022 and established the Committee on Course Registration to formulate alternatives to the shopping week model.
Prior to submitting its formal proposal to the Faculty of Arts and Sciences next spring, Philosophy professor Bernhard Nickel — chair of the committee — wrote in an email to students that the group will release its report to all Harvard affiliates once it is approved by the FAS’s Educational Policy Committee.
Nickel encouraged students to “read earlier materials related to course registration” from the committee’s website and give feedback.
“It’s important that members of the community have the ability to offer their insights on the Committee’s work,” he wrote. “The report will be made available to all members of the Harvard community through the Committee’s website.”
“At that point, we will also invite representatives of the undergraduate and graduate student communities, through the Undergraduate Council and the Graduate Student Council, to formally respond to the report,” Nickel added.
In recent weeks, undergraduates have rallied in support of shopping week. Harvard College students voted overwhelmingly in favor of maintaining shopping week in a referendum sponsored by the Undergraduate Council.
Teaching fellows, however, have voiced opposition to the current course registration model, including concerns over fluctuating course enrollment numbers and uncertainty surrounding schedules and teaching appointments.
Michael Y. Cheng ’22, the Undergraduate Council’s Academic Life Committee Chair, said while he thinks there is a “really powerful argument” that the shopping week model threatens graduate students’ “pay and security,” he believes that the issues arise from “how Harvard has decided to pay graduate students” rather than the registration system itself.
“Although it can seem that this might be a graduate students versus undergraduates problem, I think the Committee is going to have to try its best to enlarge the pie for everyone and not pit people against each other,” Cheng said.
—Staff writer Meera S. Nair can be reached at meera.nair@thecrimson.com.
—Staff writer Andy Z. Wang can be reached at andy.wang@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Education experts at the Harvard Graduate School of Education discussed the importance of rebuilding the education system to improve socioemotional learning and accommodate students of different socioeconomic backgrounds in a Wednesday webinar.
Hosted by HGSE lecturer Uche B. Amaechi ’99, the webinar included Andrew D. Ho, a professor on education; Stephanie M. Jones, a professor in early childhood development; Mary Grassa O'Neill, a senior lecturer on education; and Paul Reville, a professor of the practice of educational policy and administration.
The discussion began with panelists discussing their apprehension about the school year.
Jones highlighted the phenomenon of “learning loss” experienced among some students and its perception.
“I am worried, as I think we all are, about the issues tied to learning loss or missed opportunities,” Jones said. “I’m also worried about the language of it, and how that can become sticky and applied to children who might view themselves as having lost something that they might never get back,” Jones said.
“Related to that, I am worried about how that could lead to lots of pressure and rushing at a time that is going to continue to be turbulent and uncertain,” she added.
Citing issues like learning loss, Ho explained that schools should spend time on accommodating students’ socioemotional needs.
“It is very clear that we have to prioritize physical health, and then after that mental and social and emotional health, and then maybe after that there’ll be time for some learning,” Ho said.
“We’d be crazy to say, ‘Okay, now you have to learn fixed effects, random effects, and classical test theory’ when we are in mourning,” he added.
O’Neill noted that adults in the education field should also practice self-care as they transition back to in-person instruction.
“Educators and leaders are on my mind, and they have been so busy helping their students, families, and communities that to do their best work, I think a priority for them is to put self-care on the top of their list,” O’Neill said.
Reville explained that Covid-19 also challenged schools to alleviate societal inequities that they were not fully equipped to address.
“Schools were never really built to be nutritional centers, or mental health centers, or healthcare centers — they were built to be academic institutions,” Reville said. “Schools did the best job they could as they’ve always done in trying to put a bandaid on some of these grosser inequities that result from poverty and other circumstances of disadvantage that exist in our society, and that fall along racial and economic lines.”
O’Neill cited ways schools sought to address social inequalities, pointing to individualized tutoring systems introduced by some Boston public schools.
“I learned in Boston public schools what they’re doing with some of their resources is they have tapped into a 24/7 tutoring system, where students can get tutoring in their own languages,” O’Neill said.
As schools start to resume full operations, Reville said they should not simply strive to return to the way things used to be.
“Everybody wants some kind of ‘normal’ to grab onto and create security and predictability in the system, but the ‘normal’ shouldn’t be what we used to have, because what we used to have was inadequate,” Reville said.
—Staff writer Omar Abdel Haq can be reached at omar.abdelhaq@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard’s Davis Center for Russian and Eurasian Studies is launching a new program for Georgian Studies with the support of the Georgian government, the center announced Wednesday.
The program will be headed by Stephen F. Jones, a professor at Mount Holyoke College and at Georgia’s Ilia State University.
In a Davis Center press release Wednesday, Jones said that the creation of the center was a “first.”
“Now scholars of Georgia and the South Caucasus have an academic center at Harvard, where they can exchange ideas, pursue research, and collaborate with Georgian colleagues,” Jones said. “Its establishment here at Harvard benefits both Georgia and the United States.”
The program was made possible by a $2.3 million “research award” from the Ministry of Education and Science of Georgia with the purpose of supporting “research and scholarly exchange, teaching, and outreach,” according to the press release.
The program’s goal is to expand knowledge of Georgian history, culture, literature, and politics by American students. It will also fund the research projects of Georgian scholars and finance visits for them to Harvard’s campus.
Harvard Business School professor Rawi E. Abdelal, who directs the Davis Center, said in the press release that the creation of the center was a “real step forward” in the University’s capacity to study Georgia and its surrounding region.
“Students have been clamoring for opportunities to travel to the Caucasus and Central Asia. Working with the government of Georgia will allow us to establish high-quality internships and exchanges,” Abdelal said. “It is, after all, experiencing other countries and cultures that builds understanding, appreciation, and analysis.”
The program is set to host an annual conference on Georgia and the South Caucasus, and will offer events, lectures, and workshops about the region.
Courses on Georgia, including Georgian language classes, will be offered in history and the social sciences every year starting in the spring semester of 2022.
The executive director of the Davis Center, Alexandra M. Vacroux, said in the announcement that the creation of the program offers undergraduate and graduate students better “intellectual and physical” access to Georgia, which Vacroux said is “the way to create a pipeline of experts on the Caucasus.”
“Our master’s students go on to be leaders in the public and private sectors, and their enhanced knowledge of Georgia and the Caucasus will improve American understanding of the region’s foreign policy, its journalism, and business and cultural worlds,” she said.
—Staff writer Raquel Coronell Uribe can be reached at raquel.coronelluribe@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @raquelco15.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Prominent historians and scholars convened virtually on Wednesday to discuss the legacy of eugenics in New England and at Harvard in a conference hosted by Harvard’s Hutchins Center for African and African American Research.
The event — the first in a series of three conferences this fall — marked a century to the day of the Second International Eugenics Congress, a 1921 gathering of prominent scientists promoting the eugenics movement.
Wednesday’s conference opened by posing the central question of how and by whom eugenics is remembered today. The speakers in the introductory session focused on genocides committed against Indigenous people.
Bryant University professor Michael S. Bryant said European colonists employed “a kind of linguistic subterfuge” to justify genocide and robbery.
“Scientific racism supplied the needed argot,” Bryant said.
Bryant said the idea that Indigenous peoples would inevitably become extinct was commonly accepted by Europeans and Euro Americans into the 20th century. This notion, referred to as extinction discourse, became more prominent with the introduction of scientific racism and merged into the eugenics movement, according to Bryant.
The third session of the conference shifted the focus toward examining eugenics in Harvard’s history. Many prominent scholars at Harvard were tied to the advancement of the eugenics movement, according to Paul A. Lombardo, a law professor at Georgia State University.
Lombardo said former University presidents Charles W. Eliot, Class of 1853, and A. Lawrence Lowell, Class of 1877, actively advanced the study of eugenics. Eliot served as vice president of First International Congress of Eugenics in 1912 and as a member of the organizing committee of the First National Conference on Race Betterment in 1914.
“Eliot thought that the behaviors — such as murder, robbery, forgery, and prostitution — were all biological problems that could be solved by policies such as compulsory eugenic sterilization,” Lombardo said.
Lowell was vice president of the Immigration Restriction League, which was instrumental in the passage of a 1924 law that set quotas for Italian and Jewish immigration on the basis of eugenic ideology, according to Lombardo.
Another guest speaker, Christopher D. E. Willoughby, a fellow at Harvard’s Charles Warren Center for Studies in American History, said the measuring of skulls from different racial groups was a key aspect of the eugenics movement that arose during the 18th century, but became a standard part of medical education in the 19th century, including at Harvard Medical School.
According to Willoughby, the effects of scientific racism in education are still observed today in the form of false medical stereotypes about racial groups, particularly Black people.
Suzanne P. Blier, a professor of Fine Arts and of African and African American Studies, said landmarks on campus such as the Eliot Bridge and Lowell House that bear the names of supporters of eugenics serve as a reminder that eugenics still has a legacy today.
“I’m hopeful because I tend to be an optimist on these things,” Blier said. “But I also reflect back on January 6th, on white nationalism, on race replacement theory, on the anti-abortion movement, and what that may mean about what particular populations are being encouraged to [re]produce, and issues around immigration.”
–Staff writer Kate N. Guerin can be reached at kate.guerin@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
When University President Lawrence S. Bacow said earlier this month that Harvard would move to end its investments in the fossil fuel industry, the activists who had been pushing him to do so for years celebrated the news as a seismic shift.
Harvard, after all, had resisted calls for divestment for nearly a decade.
But less than two weeks after writing to affiliates that the Harvard endowment’s remaining fossil fuel investments were in “runoff mode,” Bacow insisted in an interview Tuesday that the move to effectively divest from the sector is consistent with the University’s past pledges and long-term strategy.
“I think that what we did was perfectly consistent with our net-zero commitment that we announced some time ago,” Bacow said, referring to the school’s 2020 pledge to achieve net-zero greenhouse gas emissions in its endowment by 2050. “And we clarified how we are in the process of implementing it.”
Bacow has opposed divestment for years, arguing that Harvard’s endowment should not be used to make political statements, and that the University is best positioned to address climate change through its teaching and research.
But despite the years-long standoff with pro-divestment activists, the Harvard endowment has slowly been reducing its exposure to the fossil fuel industry as part of its net-zero commitment. By the end of fiscal year 2020, the sector made up less than 2 percent of Harvard’s investments and the endowment was no longer directly exposed to the fossil fuel sector, according to a February report from the Harvard Management Company, which manages the endowment.
Bacow said in the interview Tuesday that before his announcement, made on Sept. 9, Harvard was already on the path toward ending its fossil fuel investments — and his email to affiliates was meant to “clarify where we’re going.” He has stopped short of using the word divestment.
“We made decisions a long time ago that set us on this path, and I clarified, you know, where we’re going,” Bacow said.
Yet, Morgan L. Whitten ’22, an organizer for student activist group Fossil Fuel Divest Harvard, said she believes the University’s decision to eventually fully eliminate the endowment’s exposure to the fossil fuel industry marks a dramatic shift from its previous stance.
“We disagree with his statement that their divestment decision is consistent because they swore for a decade that they would never divest and they fought calls for divestment with every tool at their disposal,” she said.
Whitten said the University had “made no indication” of its intent to cut ties with the fossil fuel industry prior to Bacow’s email earlier this month.
“We’re certainly glad that President Bacow and the administration finally recognized what we’ve been arguing for over a decade — that if the planet is on fire, Harvard can’t stand with the arsonist,” Whitten said.
In his letter sent earlier this month, Bacow cited climate change, “the need to decarbonize the economy,” and Harvard’s fiduciary responsibility as reasons for ending the endowment’s investments in fossil fuels.
“What I said in my letter was that we made judgments based upon our view of the future, and we think that the judgments — the investment decisions — that we’ve made are prudent,” Bacow reiterated Tuesday.
It is unclear when Harvard’s remaining indirect investments in the fossil fuel industry will end. Bacow did not provide a timeline for when HMC’s partnerships with third parties with investments in the fossil fuel industry will expire.
Until then, Harvard will continue to be indirectly exposed to the industry.
After years of sparring with activists over the endowment’s fossil fuel investments, Bacow still refuses to use the word divestment to characterize Harvard’s decision to eliminate its exposure to the industry.
“I leave it to others to decide what divestment is,” Bacow said Tuesday. “Different folks use the word in different ways. I think my message speaks for itself.”
—Staff writer Jasper G. Goodman can be reached at jasper.goodman@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @Jasper_Goodman.
—Staff writer Kelsey J. Griffin can be reached at kelsey.griffin@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @kelseyjgriffin.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard held on for its second win of the season at Merrimack in North Andover, Mass. on Tuesday, battling to secure its second shutout of the season by a score of 2-0.
Playing its physically closest away game of the season, Harvard (2-2-1, 0-0 Ivy League) pulled back up to .500 in a night to remember for the visiting squad. Junior goalkeeper Gianluca Trofa made his mark in his first full game for the Crimson, notching an assist as well as 12 saves, one of which came on a penalty kick.
“As a collective, we were able to deal well with their high press, not giving risky opportunities in dangerous areas,” Trofa said of the match. “The back line and defensive midfielders fought with everything they had for tonight’s result.”
Trofa kept Harvard ahead early on in the second half after Merrimack was awarded a penalty in the 48th minute, following a handball in the box from first-year midfielder Marko Isakovic. Trofa got down quickly to his right side, extending a strong hand to push the kick out for a corner and keep the Crimson up 1-0.
Harvard had opened the scoring in the 35th minute, after first-year forward Alessandro Arlotti rose above the opposition on a corner kick to head into the back of the net and put the Crimson ahead 1-0. Senior midfielder and captain Paolo Belloni-Urso notched his first assist of the season on the play, whipping a dangerous inswinger into the six-yard box which left the opposing goalkeeper in no-man’s-land, allowing Arlotti to do the rest.
A strong performance at the back kept Harvard in the game in the face of continued pressure from Merrimack. The Warriors registered 25 shots, 12 of those on target, all of which were saved by Trofa. Merrimack was also awarded 11 corners on the night, compared to the Crimson’s eight.
This strong backline performance was again anchored by the young center back partnership of first-year Jan Riecke and sophomore Nik White, who have played every minute of Harvard’s last four games. They were, as usual, flanked by senior Havard Hjermsted and captain Fernando Docters, who held strong defensively and provided width for the Crimson’s attack.
“Jan and I have definitely formed a great partnership at the back. We support each other on the field and are good friends off of it,” White said of the partnership. “Our back line unit as a whole has been very strong thus far — something we want to ensure holds for the remainder of the season.”
Trofa capped off a dream full-game debut for Harvard in the 79th minute as he registered his first assist in a Crimson jersey. Following a back pass from Riecke, Trofa took a touch and launched a ball upfield that would make Andrea Pirlo or Steven Gerrard proud. Senior forward Alfred Perez picked the ball up just outside the Merrimack box and finished with his second touch past the Warriors' keeper for his first goal of the season.
“We started brightly and kept the ball well in Merrimack’s half. We were very focused defensively and didn’t give them much — but when they did have chances, Gigi came up big for us,” White continued. “Collectively, I thought we had an excellent first half and battled hard to secure the road win in the second.”
The Crimson heads back home for its second home game of the season to face Vermont at Jordan Field on Friday. Kickoff is set for 7 p.m. in the last non-conference home game before Harvard kicks off Ivy League play.
— Staff writer Eamon J. McLoughlin can be reached at eamon.mcloughlin@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
When No.15/23 Harvard entered the Top Drawer national women’s soccer rankings after just three games, more than a few eyebrows may have been raised. The Crimson had not been ranked by either Top Drawer or the United Soccer Coaches poll since November of 2016, when Top Drawer ranked Harvard 24th for one week before dropping the Crimson out of the rankings.
After a few more successful weeks, Top Drawer has appeared justified in the No. 21 ranking it initially gave Harvard (6-0-1, 0-0 Ivy). As the Crimson prepares for the start of Ivy League play this Saturday, it now ranks 15th in the Top Drawer poll and has entered the coaches poll at 23rd. Furthermore, the stats-based RPI ranking, which accounts for opponent strength and margin of victory, was released for the first time this week and placed Harvard sixth in the country, behind five major-conference schools.
“It’s great for the team to get some recognition for the work that they’ve put in to this point,” head coach Chris Hamblin said. “But it’s also important to recognize that those polls are really important at the end of the year. They’re great to have as recognition points now but you want to be in those polls at the end of the year. So we’re focusing on the next game and not necessarily taking that information to heart because it’s what we do on the field that’s going to matter.”
The Crimson is one of just eight undefeated schools left in the country and has played the second most difficult schedule to date of those eight schools, per RPI. Harvard has faced the 24th toughest schedule in the country based on RPI’s opponent success metric. That is good for third in the Ivy League, close behind Yale (15th) and Columbia (19th). Yet while the Bulldogs (1-7) and Lions (5-2-1) have faltered, the Crimson has remained steady, as evidenced not only by its undefeated record but by the pressure it has consistently put on opponents. Harvard is averaging over 20 shots overall and 10 shots on target per game, good for a respective 20th and 12th in the nation (out of 336 schools).
“Part of the reason we put together a tough schedule is we wanted to be tested,” Hamblin said. “Those games where we go to overtime or are tied up or you’re holding onto a one-goal lead like we were against Kansas, those are all really formative moments for a young team, and I think we were able to come through those challenges in the non-conference and our performance in those games has set us up well for what we’re going to face in the Ivy League.”
The Crimson will be tested as always by the Ivy League slate. If 2019 is any indication, even strong Harvard teams find it difficult to break down resistant Ancient Eight defenses. After averaging about 2.5 goals per game in non-conference two years ago, the Crimson was limited to 12 goals in its seven league games and scored more than two just once — in a 3-0 win over Cornell, which again looks like the weakest team in the conference in 2021.
This time around, Harvard again averaged around 2.5 goals per game in non-conference. It is possible that the Crimson’s greater wealth of attacking options this season will make the sledding a little less tough come league season. The entire 2019 attacking stable — most notably senior Murphy Agnew, who has been identified by the NWSL as a promising player, and junior Angela Caloia, a fixture at center-forward with five goals to her name this season — has returned, along with a number of new threats going forward.
Long-time friends and Illinois natives Ainsley Ahamdian and Hannah Bebar have added dynamism to the attack in their first seasons, leading the team with 24 and 23 shots respectively and also pacing the squad with four assists apiece. Bebar is Harvard’s corner-kick taker, and Ahmadian has shown a propensity to find space for herself and create danger for opposing defenses. That the duo has just one combined goal to show for its work so far this season — an impressive Bebar solo effort to beat St. John’s in overtime — is evidence that the Crimson has more attacking potential.
Harvard also has more defensive talent this time around, with first-year center back Jade Rose walking straight into the team and establishing a strong partnership with junior Lara Schenk. Rose has also shown some ability to push up the field, making some dangerous runs from her own half and scoring two goals, including a game-winning overtime header against Northeastern.
“[The defense] has been great,” said sophomore midfielder Megan Mackey after Harvard beat Kansas. “They haven’t let anything through and they’ve been strong and solid. They’re always switched on and I think — especially in Ivy League games, where the games are so tight — our defense needs to be on point and we’ve done a great job of that. And so we’re in good shape going into next week.”
The first test for the new-look Crimson in the Ivy League will likely be a stiff one: Penn comes to town Saturday with a 5-1-2 record and a recent track record of making it very difficult for Harvard to score. There have been just three total goals scored in the last four meetings between the teams, with the Crimson going 2-1-1 in those games. In previewing Saturday’s game, though, Hamblin said that fans should not necessarily expect another similar game.
“All of the games we’ve played in to date have been really high-scoring games, and I don’t think there’s any reason why we’re going to change anything in our approach,” Hamblin said. “But Penn’s going to bring some different challenges and we’re going to need to break them down, so it’s very difficult to predict what this game will look like. Although historically the games have been tight, that doesn’t necessarily mean that it’s going to be a low-scoring game this time around. We’re certainly going to try to score some goals as we have done all season.”
— Staff writer Lev Cohen can be reached at lev.cohen@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @LevTHC.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
For jaunting around campus on your scooter, bike, unicycle, or legs. For silly little walks, aggressive power walks to the class you’re late for, or simply for vibing in your room taking in the first glimpses of New England autumn. A diverse set of tunes for all your wants and needs. Flyby presents: our Fall 2021 playlist.
_
/
/
/
/
/
/
/
/
•
