News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
January 6 was a painful inflection point in our nation’s modern history. I know I’m not alone in feeling shocked and horrified at the violence that enveloped Capitol Hill, leading to the deaths of four loyal Trump supporters and Capitol Police officer Brian D. Sicknick, who died after allegedly being beaten in the head with a fire extinguisher. The nation will feel the aftermath of this tragedy for months, and perhaps years, to come.
There is no doubt that the events of January 6 will color the early days of the Biden administration as the country will undergo yet another impeachment trial for President Donald J. Trump once the articles are sent to the U.S. Senate. What’s less clear, yet equally important, is how the final days of the Trump administration will shape the long-term future of the Republican Party, a party that is still smarting from historic losses at the ballot box.
The Republican Party is the first incumbent party to lose the White House in nearly three decades. Democrats gained House control in the midterm elections despite districts gerrymandered to cultivate a GOP majority, and Republican incumbents in the Senate forfeited their seats in a stunning upset to two Democrats in a once-deep red Georgia. Whatever you think about the political talents and policy proposals of Reverend Raphael Warnock and Jon Ossoff, their dual victory should be taken as nothing short of a five-alarm fire for a party now locked out of power in Congress for the first time in a decade.
What is becoming more and more clear is that committing the party to fight a neverending “culture war” is not only a recipe for electoral rebuke from an increasingly socially liberal electorate, but a decision that will condemn the nation to a no-holds-barred race to the bottom of moral and intellectual desolation.
The GOP’s attacks on the legitimacy of American elections, coupled with broader trends in public opinion, don’t bode well for a party aimed at re-taking Congress and the White House in the near future. Although President Trump overperformed compared to many expectations, his antagonism toward the media and barrage of racist, xenophobic, and sexist attacks made it so that large swaths of the nation were already firmly set in opposition to Trump and his agenda before he even took office. According to FiveThirtyEight, President Trump is the only modern American president to never hold an average approval rating above fifty-percent and it’s unclear if that was ever a goal of his administration.
One would think Republicans might be motivated to retreat from a strategy hyper-focused on conservative cultural grievances and conspiracy theories, because, well, it hasn’t been very successful. Almost 14 years ago during his reelection campaign, former President George W. Bush campaigned on ratifying a constitutional amendment to ban same-sex marriage. Today, gay marriage is legal in all 50 states and it’s more popular than ever. When Gallup last asked the question in May 2020, two out of three Americans, and half of Republicans, believed that same-sex marriage should be legal. Yet opposition to same-sex marriage still remains in the Republican Party platform. Local governments and institutions continue to remove Confederate iconography from state flags, military bases, and public spaces despite protests from many on the right. U.S. Attorney General Bill P. Barr can decry the secularization of society all he wants, but less than half of people now say that religion is “very important” to their lives, the lowest percentage since Gallup began asking the question in the early nineties. And as was proven in the Georgia runoffs, convincing the party’s base that their nation’s elections are hopelessly illegitimate is not the best “get out the vote” strategy.
During the nation’s racial reckoning last summer, it appeared to become a right-wing in-group identifier to refuse to say “Black lives matter.” Reasonable people who care about racial justice lose patience with leaders who seem more concerned with innocuous slogans and preserving confederate monuments than with addressing the very real challenges that Black people in this country face. The Republican party can both celebrate and nurture the facets of our national tradition that make this country a “shining city on a hill” while acknowledging that this city has only shone for so many.
I could go on, but in nearly every way, the GOP’s fight against social liberalism, from gay marriage to marijuana legalization, has been a complete and utter failure on the public opinion front. In response to this cultural lurch left, one would think those on the right would be desperately trying to understand and integrate conservative ideology into this new cultural dynamic. Instead, conservatives have ghettoized themselves into media ecosystems that insulate them from our changing culture.
Like many liberals and moderates, I echo President-elect Joseph R. Biden’s view that the country needs a Republican party that is “principled and strong.” This country is changing faster than ever before and we need leaders who make us genuinely consider whether all those changes are good ones. But somewhere along the way, the Republican Party decided that it would simply be better to attack the happenings of this new American moment than to join in it as good faith partners wary of where a new direction might lead.
The Republican Party represents nearly half of American voters and has the opportunity to channel a robust intellectual movement that could dramatically change this nation for the better, but it is preoccupied with defining itself in diametric opposition to the morals of an electorate that is becoming increasingly socially progressive. As the nation enters a new juncture in our democracy, Republicans might want to dial back from the rhetoric of a culture war that has now reached a boiling point and focus on improving the material conditions of Americans who are struggling during new waves of joblessness and food insecurity.
While the traditionalism that animates the GOP does not appear to be going away any time soon, the party might do itself a favor by being more judicious in which traditions it decides are worth fighting for (i.e. democracy), and which ones may no longer be compatible with American values in 2021 and beyond.
Gordon J. Ebanks ’24 is a Crimson Editorial editor.
Have a suggestion, question, or concern for The Crimson Editorial Board? Click here.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
In early May 2020, former Secretary of Education Betsy D. DeVos released a controversial Title IX rule that drummed up controversy, criticism, and confusion since it was first proposed in November 2018. DeVos — who stepped down just days ago — gave universities until Aug. 14, 2020 to update their policies to comply with federal law.
DeVos’s changes required universities to implement a grievance process in the investigation of formal Title IX complaints. In this process, both complainants and respondents will be allowed to question each other during a live hearing. The new guidance also restricts the kinds of sexual misconduct universities can investigate.
Harvard designed an “Interim Title IX Sexual Harassment Policy” to conform with the new rule, in addition to creating an “Interim Other Sexual Misconduct Policy” in August 2020 to “address misconduct that falls outside the jurisdiction of the Interim Title IX Sexual Harassment Policy.” This supplemental policy encompasses sexual misconduct during a study abroad program, for example, as well as other off-campus instances without significant university oversight.
University Title IX Coordinator Nicole M. Merhill said in an interview this month that she believes that the periodic Title IX policy changes that come with turnover in federal administrations do not disturb the work at Harvard’s Title IX Office to any significant degree.
“The work that we do at Harvard in this space goes well beyond the federal legal requirements,” Merhill said. “And so while there will be changes, as there always are with administrations — different administrations have different areas of focus — our work will continue. And I don't think that it’ll be largely impacted by the change in administration.”
According to Marisa J. Borreggine — vice president of the Harvard Graduate Students Union - United Automobile Workers — DeVos’s new guidance was poorly timed, coming out in the midst of a pandemic. Borreggine said it was already a tumultuous time for Title IX policy, with the pandemic raising questions about how “sexual and gender-based harassment policy is implemented on a virtual campus.” Now, online forms of sexual harassment do not fall under Title IX policies as they otherwise would.
“In the end, that's on Betsy DeVos for handing down these regulations in the middle of a pandemic — these regulations that narrowed down what even counts as an instance of harassment or discrimination that further interrogate survivors and their experiences,” Borreggine said.
Merhill said that the dramatic regulatory change seen in May “is not something that happens often,” stressing that the University’s efforts to comply with the new rule so swiftly — especially during the pandemic — were “truly remarkable.”
The Trump administration’s move to require a live hearing marked a major shift from Obama-era federal guidance, which “strongly discourage[d] schools from allowing the parties personally to question or cross-examine each other” during hearings, as released in a 2011 memo dubbed a “Dear Colleague” Letter. A number of survivors said that the potential for cross-examination by their assailant would deter them from coming forward.
Another major change implemented by the Trump administration was narrowing the definition of sexual harassment to conduct that is both “severe” and “pervasive.” Obama-era guidance, by contrast, more broadly described sexual harassment as “unwelcome conduct of a sexual nature” that included “requests for sexual favors, and other verbal, nonverbal, or physical conduct of a sexual nature.”
Colby Bruno — a senior legal counsel for the Victim Rights Law Center — wrote in an email to The Crimson that she foresaw the new Biden administration returning to Obama-era Title IX policies. She said that she believed that Biden influenced the formation of Title IX policies under the Obama administration.
Diane L. Rosenfeld — a Harvard Law School lecturer and co-counsel of the National Women’s Law Center — seconded that prediction.
“Biden will surely work to reverse the illegal overreach of DeVos’s rule,” Rosenfeld wrote in an email. Rosenfeld is also co-counsel in a pending federal court case in Boston challenging DeVos’s Final Rule — which she described as “damaging and horrific.”
Biden’s campaign policy director, Stefanie G. Feldman, told reporters in November that Biden intended to “return to and then build on” Obama-era policies. Additionally, Vice President-Elect Kamala Harris was one among a few dozen senators who condemned DeVos’s new rule in June.
However, other experts said excessive faith in the Biden administration may be premature, given enormous legal challenges it would face should it choose to reverse Devos’s policies.
Harvard Law School professor Jacob E. Gersen noted in an email to The Crimson that he was doubtful about a “straightforward return” to Obama’s Title IX policies.
DeVos’s Title IX Final Rule was issued by the Department after Notice-and-Comment Rulemaking, Gersen noted. This type of procedure — which requires a notification to the public of the proposed rule and acquisition of public comments — establishes policies that hold “just as much force and effect as a statute passed by Congress,” Gersen explained — and thus would be challenging to undo.
Changing DeVos’s policy would require undergoing a new round of notice of the proposed change, acquiring comments from the public, and implementing new final rules that would themselves be susceptible to further legal challenge. Gersen estimated this “onerous” process to take years. The last iteration drew more than 100,000 pieces of feedback that ultimately took more than a year to review.
Harvard Law professor Elizabeth Bartholet similarly said that reversing these policies would “take time” due to the extensive regulatory process.
“It will be a challenge for the administration to reverse the policies entirely,” Bruno wrote in an email. “I am confident, however, that they will address the most glaring and inequitable policies.”
Though “grateful” for a change in presidential administrations — and the hope of a survivor-centric approach to federal guidelines — Borreggine said HGSU-UAW will continue to call on Harvard to reform its sexual misconduct policies beyond federal requirements. She said the union hopes to resume its longstanding efforts reach an contract agreement by the end of the spring semester on a grievance procedure for sexual harassment complaints with Harvard.
One of the union’s central organizing tenets will be opening up more options for survivors of identity and power-based harassment, including “bullying for cases of sexism, racism, ableism, and queerphobia," she said.
Borregine said that Harvard’s existing sexual misconduct policies — even prior to the Trump administration — were “broken.”
“The way that Title IX exists right now is narrowing the options for survivors, and the best thing that you can do is always be providing survivors with more options so that they can have choice and power given back to them in this situation,” Borreggine said.
Rebecca S. Araten '22 — a former Crimson editor and spokesperson for Our Harvard Can Do Better, an anti-sexual assault advocacy group — commended Harvard for holding itself to a “higher standard” after DeVos’s policy was issued by introducing its own supplemental sexual misconduct policies.
She noted, however, that the University has nevertheless failed to meet the group’s remaining demands. Such demands include re-introducing a sixty-day timeline for completion of Title IX investigations, as removed by DeVos, and adopting an affirmative definition of consent — an explicit and informed agreement to engage in sexual activity.
Araten emphasized the importance of diversity and inclusion within Harvard’s Title IX Office.
“Currently, the Office for Sexual Assault Prevention and Response is shrinking in size and losing diversity,” Araten said. “Students should see themselves represented in the people who are providing them care and restorative responses.”
Merhill stated that the Title IX Office will remain committed to expanding gender and diversity initiatives, enhancing campus resources, and soliciting feedback from members of the University.
“We are here for our students; we're here for our staff; we're here for our faculty members. We would encourage people to reach out,” Merhill said.
Araten also stressed that a community-oriented support system is integral to the wellbeing of sexual harassment survivors, but she said she believes this system must grow from the student body, and not from the Title IX office.
“Change happens within a community and not necessarily within an administration or administrative office,” Araten said.
Rosenfeld said she hopes that student groups can spearhead major policy changes themselves.
“I am sure the Biden administration will want to hear from schools and students alike,” she said. “Harvard should get out in front of this with some new, innovative, student-led initiatives.”
Other experts emphasized that no matter what direction Biden’s new administration takes, it falls upon schools to uphold the value of fairness.
“Each school has different policies and procedures. They must strive to adhere to those policies and enforce them with an even hand,” Bruno wrote.
“Unfairly treating one party benefits no one,” she continued. “The person who is treated unfairly continues to feel victimized and then the case is prolonged with appeals. It’s difficult to do, but schools must do everything they can to be fair; that is what Title IX is all about.”
—Staff writer Jessica Lee can be reached at jessica.lee@thecrimson.com.
—Staff writer Christina T. Pham can be reached at christina.pham@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @Christina_TPham.
As President-elect Joe Biden and his administration address higher education issues in the coming months, many education and legal experts expect his Department of Justice to extend support to universities — including Harvard — currently embroiled in legal challenges from anti-affirmative action group Students for Fair Admissions.
Still, experts said that Supreme Court nominations made during the previous administration will likely more heavily influence the fate of the lawsuit and affirmative action at large than changes in the White House.
SFFA sued the University in Nov. 2014, claiming that Harvard intentionally discriminated against Asian American applicants through its admissions program.
District court hearings began in Oct. 2018, and Judge Allison D. Burroughs decided in Harvard’s favor just under a year later, determining that there was no evidence of discrimination in Harvard’s race-conscious admissions process.
Four months later — as many legal experts and observers correctly anticipated — SFFA appealed the ruling, claiming that Burroughs failed to properly apply strict scrutiny to Harvard’s admissions procedures. In November, the First Circuit Court of Appeals upheld the Burroughs' ruling, finding no evidence of intentional wrongdoing on Harvard’s part.
Following the unsuccessful attempt to appeal and reverse the district court ruling at the appellate level, SFFA President Edward J. Blum signaled the groups intent to further appeal the decision to the Supreme Court in a press release the same day of the ruling.
“While we are disappointed with the opinion of the First Circuit Court of Appeals, our hope is not lost,” Blum said in the release. “This lawsuit is now on track to go up to the U.S. Supreme Court where we will ask the justices to end these unfair and unconstitutional race-based admissions policies at Harvard and all colleges and universities.”
Harvard Law School professor Noah R. Feldman ’92, however, said he believes it is “pretty unlikely” that the Supreme Court will review this case.
“I think it's quite likely that in a case brought from a challenge to a public university’s policies, the Supreme Court will in the foreseeable future take up once more a question of whether diversity is a constitutionally-permissible rationale for taking account of race in admissions,” Feldman said. The Supreme Court previously ruled in two similar cases litigated by Blum against the University of Texas, a public university.
“But all of the other important Supreme Court cases have involved public institutions, and that's because the constitutional issue is more clearly presented in a case involving a state actor and public universities are state actors," Feldman said. "Harvard is not a state actor."
While the future of the lawsuit remains uncertain, Amia K. Ross ’22-’23, director of archives for the Asian American Brotherhood — one of 30 student and alumni organizations the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund represented in a statement denouncing SFFA’s appeal last year — believes her organization will remain committed to defending the University’s admissions practices.
“Both sides I think want the best for Asian Americans, even though that might be argued for or construed in different ways,” Ross said. “AAB, along with a lot of other Asian American cultural groups and affinity groups at Harvard, will continue to support Harvard and the lawyers representing Harvard in the best capacity that they can moving forward.”
Ross said she hopes that regardless of the lawsuit’s ultimate outcome, cultural organizations like hers and others at Harvard maintain a strong presence to the benefit of the entire student body.
“It's just really, really important for the whole student body to have those outlets for cultural expression and fostering community, regardless of whether they belong to that culture or not,” Ross said.
With the transfer of power to Biden, legal and education experts believe there is high potential for corresponding changes in the federal government’s position on the lawsuit and the use of race as a factor in higher education admissions.
The Justice Department filed an amicus brief in support of SFFA’s appeal in February 2020.
Dana N. Thompson Dorsey, the chair of education innovation at the University of South Florida, said she hopes the new president and his administration will actively defend affirmative action based on his stance against racism.
“Joe Biden has made it clear that he understands structural racism in this country, the longstanding history of structural racism,” Thompson Dorsey said. “For years, he has supported affirmative action, but now this is his opportunity to put some of that into action.”
Vinay Harpalani, a law professor at the University of New Mexico, said he believes the Department of Justice will reverse course and file an amicus brief in support of Harvard if the case is appealed even further.
“If the case goes to the U.S. Supreme Court, I would expect the Biden administration to file an amicus brief in favor of Harvard — so complete switch in position,” Harpalani said.
Harpalani added that he believes Biden’s Justice Department will re-evaluate its ongoing investigations into alleged discrimination in admissions programs at highly-selective schools.
“DOJ will be out of the Harvard and Yale investigation. So, [that is] one thing I expect to happen,” Harpalani said. “Number two: I expect Obama-era guidance on race-conscious admissions policies to be re-issued.”
Feldman said he is “confident” the Biden Justice Department will reverse course on its stance towards SFFA’s legal challenge.
“At the most basic level, you can expect that Biden’s Department of Justice will be 180 degrees the opposite of Trump’s with respect to preserving existing constitutional law that permits universities to consider race as part of their ‘holistic’ — that's the keyword in the literature — evaluation of admissions decisions,” Feldman said.
While many legal experts anticipate the Department of Justice to shift its support toward Harvard, Blum said in an interview that the administration change will in no way affect his team’s efforts to challenge Harvard’s admissions practices.
“SFFA was formed during the administration of President Obama. It went to trial during the administration of President Trump, and it will continue to litigate during the administration of President-elect Biden,” Blum said.
At stake in the lawsuit against Harvard is the use of race as a factor for consideration in higher education admissions programs across the country.
Though experts believe Biden and his administration will look favorably upon affirmative action practices, they also recognize that the future of affirmative action will depend solely upon the ruling of the Supreme Court.
Harpalani said he believes the future of affirmative action would be in danger were the case to be heard by the Supreme Court.
“If it goes to the U.S. Supreme Court — because of the conservative composition of the court — I would probably predict that the Supreme Court would strike down affirmative action, strike down use of race-conscious policies,” Harpalani explained.
“Whether they will hear it or not I think is the bigger question right now. I would say it's moved in the direction that they will hear it with the appointment of Coney Barrett, but I’m not convinced they’ll hear it,” he added, referencing Justice Amy V. Coney Barrett, whom President Donald Trump appointed to the high court in September.
Thompson Dorsey said she also sees the Supreme Court taking the case as an imminent threat to affirmative action.
“If the Supreme Court decides to take up the case and grant the writ of certiorari, there is a great chance that affirmative action and race-based admission policy in higher ed specifically will be eliminated,” she said.
Citing previous affirmative action-related lawsuits that the Supreme Court has previously reviewed, Feldman said he believes precedent will play a large role in defending affirmative action practices in higher education admissions, if the Supreme Court decides to review the case.
“It seems relatively unlikely that those litigants are going to be able to use this case to fundamentally undermine existing Harvard University admissions policies that continue to take race into account as part of a permissible effort to achieve diversity,” Feldman said.
In the case that race, specifically, can no longer be considered as a factor in admissions following a Supreme Court ruling, Feldman said he believes schools can achieve diverse student bodies through new, innovative means.
“Those [practices] could include geographical criteria. They could include economic criteria. They could include seeking to admit more students from high schools in relatively poorer school districts,” Feldman said. “There are a range of things that universities could do to try to preserve a racially-diverse student body without using race as their way to get there.”
Michaele N. Turnage Young — senior counsel at the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund — said while she believes the Trump administration’s judicial nominations could lead to a higher possibility of ruling in favor of SFFA at the Supreme Court level, it is still too early to know for sure.
“Because of the drastic change in the composition of the Supreme Court over the past few years, there is absolutely a chance that the Supreme Court might depart from where the law currently is on this issue,” Turnage Young said. “We will absolutely just have to wait and see what happens.”
—Staff writer Benjamin L. Fu can be reached at benjamin.fu@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @benfu_2.
—Staff writer Vivi E. Lu can be reached at vivi.lu@thecrimson.com.
In 2016, the National Labor Relations Board — under a Democratic majority — ruled in a landmark case that graduate students at private universities have the right to unionize.
That decision opened the door to Harvard graduate students who had long pushed for unionization. In 2018, the NLRB officially certified Harvard Graduate Students Union-United Auto Workers — the first student union in Harvard’s history — and the University officially recognized HGSU-UAW.
But within the year, President Donald J. Trump succeeded in installing a Republican majority on the NLRB, leaving HGSU-UAW in a precarious position just as negotiations for its first contract with the University began to ramp up.
Following the new appointments, the NLRB proposed a controversial rule that would overturn the 2016 landmark decision. Graduate student unions nationwide, many still in their nascent stages, feared bringing labor disputes to the NLRB because they worried the Board would use the opportunity to undermine their right to organize.
With the Trump majority in the NLRB, HGSU-UAW President Brandon J. Mancilla said it has been more difficult to ensure Harvard bargains in good faith and adheres to fair labor practices. Last year, the union accused the University of “hiding behind the Trump administration” during negotiations.
With President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. taking office Wednesday, however, Mancilla said he expects the “whole climate” for student unions to change.
Following the mold of the Obama-Biden administration, Biden plans to restore a pro-labor NLRB “to fulfill its intended purpose of protecting workers” through appointments and to support collective bargaining, according to his campaign website.
University spokesperson Jason A. Newton declined to comment for this story.
University of Oregon professor Gordon Lafer, who formerly served as a senior labor policy advisor for the U.S. House of Representatives Committee on Education and Labor, wrote in an email that, by the end of 2021, he expects Biden will be able to restore a Democratic majority on the NLRB. This could have significant effects on Harvard’s relationship with HGSU-UAW.
“This means that Harvard will be legally compelled to negotiate in good faith with the union,” Lafer wrote. “That will bring a lot more pressure to bear to negotiate a fair contract, including a neutral grievance procedure, and it will be illegal for the university to engage in regressive bargaining.”
Established by the National Labor Relations Act of 1935, the NLRB is composed of a five-member board and the General Counsel. According to its website, the Board acts as an independent “quasi-judicial” body, while the General Counsel acts as a prosecutor. Board members hold staggered five-year terms while the General Counsel holds a four-year term; all are appointed by the president and confirmed by the Senate.
The NLRB governs labor practices in the U.S. through two channels: adjudication in labor disputes brought by unions or individual employees and proactive rulemaking. According to William A. Herbert, executive director of the National Center for the Study of Collective Bargaining in Higher Education and the Professions at Hunter College, City University of New York, the Board has historically relied almost exclusively on the former for major changes, including employee classification.
The existence of Harvard’s graduate student union hinges on the Board’s ruling in Columbia University, a 3-1 decision in August 2016 that declared graduate students at private universities are employees and have the right to unionize.
Unionization rights for students at private institutions have swung dramatically between presidential administrations. The Columbia decision overturned a 2004 case, Brown University, which itself overruled a 2000 case, New York University. New York University was the first case to determine that graduate students at private universities are employees eligible for collective bargaining.
According to Herbert’s research, students from 19 private universities redoubled unionization efforts after the 2016 decision. Five student unions, including Harvard, successfully negotiated a first contract, with Columbia’s union currently in negotiations.
But in 2019, the NLRB published a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking threatening the Columbia decision. If adopted, the rule will deny recognition for graduate students at private universities as employees and thereby halt unionization efforts.
Herbert explained that the proposed rule would break with NLRB precedent.
“Their proposed rule would be the first time in American history in which rules are being utilized to eliminate a class of people from coverage,” Herbert said.
The NLRB currently consists of four sitting members — all appointed by Trump — with one seat vacant. One appointee, Lauren M. McFerran, was originally appointed by President Barack H. Obama. The General Counsel, Peter B. Robb, is another Trump appointee.
Chairman John F. Ring, with the support of fellow Trump appointees William J. Emanuel and Marvin E. Kaplan, announced the proposed rule threatening graduate student unionization in September 2019.
While Ring stated at the time that the proposed rule is intended to “bring stability to this important area of federal labor law,” some experts and graduate student organizers such as former NLRB Chairman William B. Gould IV have said it is a deliberate attempt to strip graduate student workers of their rights.
“I have no hesitation in saying that this is the worst National Labor Relations Board in the 85, now going on 86 years of the National Labor Relations Act,” Gould said. “The Trump Board has used rulemaking solely for the purpose of reversing precedent, going against the grain of what the Board had already established.”
The NLRB declined to comment.
The political leanings of Trump NLRB appointees have made many graduate student organizers wary, suspecting the Board would use any new case to overturn the Columbia decision. Many feared that — with the Republican majority — universities would bring the cases union requests to the NLRB, which would then overturn Columbia.
Sam H. Samore, a student organizer of Graduate Employees Together at the University of Pennsylvania, said that several prospective unions — including ones at the University of Chicago and University of Pennsylvania — withdrew their petitions to unionize in 2018.
“These schools withdrew their campaigns in order to avoid sending a case to the NLRB that they could use to overturn the Columbia ruling,” Samore said.
At Yale, student organizers were similarly disappointed with the NLRB under Trump.
“Last year, Trump’s NLRB tried to use the rulemaking process to declare that our work doesn't count as ‘work,’” Ridge Liu, co-president of Local 33 UNITE HERE, wrote in an email to The Crimson.
Although HGSU-UAW successfully voted to unionize in 2018, the Republican majority on the NLRB meant the union did not have as strong of a backing for some of the contract provisions it pushed for.
HGSU-UAW has long demanded that its contract include a grievance procedure that covers identity-based harassment and sexual harassment and include independent, third-party arbitration.
When the union and Harvard agreed to a one-year contract in June 2020, it did not include such a provision, which would have allowed union members to raise claims of harassment and discrimination outside of Harvard’s internal procedures.
Though HGSU-UAW currently operates as an “open shop,” meaning students are not required to pay union dues for representation, the union had hoped to negotiate for a “union shop,” where dues are mandatory.
“I think mostly because Harvard knows that it can get away with [open shop],” Mancilla said. “The administration knows that under the Trump administration, we have no real recourse to be able to push against that with the NLRB.”
HGSU-UAW also recently brought a grievance against the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences and the School of Public Health over the exclusion of 108 students in Population Health Sciences from the bargaining unit.
Mancilla said that the union will not take the grievance to the NLRB because a ruling unfavorable to student unionization may set a detrimental precedent for other private university student unions.
“If we had at the very least a moderate NLRB, or definitely a Democrat-appointed NLRB, we can easily go to them and have a fair hearing on this,” he said. “But because the National Labor Relations Board has Trump, anti-labor appointees right now, that’s not really an option.”
Gould said that he believes graduate students’ informal boycott of the NLRB led to the 2019 rule proposal. Since the Trump NLRB could not overturn Columbia through a new case, he said, it tried to do so through a rule.
The rule is still under consideration, but if adopted, Herbert said it will inevitably be challenged and taken to court under a Biden administration more favorable towards unions.
The incoming Biden administration can influence student unionization through appointments and through legislation, according to Lafer.
“I expect that a Biden administration will make a very significant difference to this issue, will overturn the Trump labor board and restore the status quo ante that was in place under the Obama administration,” Lafer wrote.
Given the Board’s current vacancy, Biden will be able to appoint one Board member immediately upon assuming office, presuming the Senate confirms his nominee. Emanuel’s term expires in August and Robb’s term as General Counsel expires in November.
Biden will be able to replace the chair with an existing Board member — likely McFerran given her Democratic leaning — and may also be able to remove Robb earlier than November, Herbert added.
If Biden’s appointees are confirmed, the NLRB will have a Democrat-appointed majority with a pro-labor General Counsel by the end of 2021.
In terms of labor legislation, Gould said he “doubts” Congress will approve workers’ rights acts, such as the Protecting the Right to Organize Act, a bill that passed the House and would dramatically expand worker protections.
“It’s going to be a heavy lift to get this kind of legislation through such a divided Senate and House of Representatives, even though both of them are in Democratic hands,” Gould said.
Cory W. McCartan, a member of the HGSU-UAW bargaining committee, said provisions in the PRO Act would help the union reach a contract faster and what he calls “combat stalling tactics” by the University.
“I don’t think anyone here is holding their breath waiting for the PRO Act to happen,” he said. “But we’re certainly keeping an eye on that...as that gets introduced and hopefully starts to move through Congress. Whatever we can do to put pressure on our legislators to get that passed, we certainly will.”
Samore, the University of Pennsylvania organizer, also noted that Senator Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) introduced the Respect Graduate Student Workers Act in November 2019, which aimed to protect graduate students’ right to unionize. It explicitly prohibits the NLRB from enforcing its 2019 proposed rule. The bill, however, has yet to receive a vote in the Senate and would have to be re-introduced in the current Congress.
As the union works to recruit more members and prepare to negotiate with the University for a complete contract, McCartan said he thinks it will be the “same old” for the union.
“As we move now into our second contract negotiation this year, a lot of the organizing will also focus on building power for that fight and on making sure everyone's voices are engaged in this pretty complex process,” he said. “So anything that happens at the Board is a bonus for that, but it’s not going to change our day-to-day work and our organizing focus.”
Mancilla said, though the NLRB can have influence over negotiations between private universities and their student unions, they are “not the end all be all.” Going forward, he said HGSU-UAW and graduate student unions across the nation will also be pushing the Biden administration for student debt forgiveness, immigration reforms for international students, and changes to Title IX regulations.
“In the meantime, the work continues,” Mancilla said. “Presidential administrations don’t set the agenda. They definitely shape the conditions and the tone, but they don’t determine what we do.”
—Staff writer Cara J. Chang can be reached at cara.chang@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @CaraChang20.
—Staff writer Meimei Xu can be reached at meimei.xu@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @meimeixu7.
UPDATED: Jan. 20, 2021 at 5:40 p.m.
During a tumultuous four years under the administration of Donald Trump, local leaders have dealt with the fallout of how its policies trickled down into the lives of Cambridge residents. While Covid-19 and economic fallout raged nationally, the city’s top issues — small business erosion, food insecurity, and homelessness — have all been exacerbated.
Now, as President-elect Joe Biden is set to take office, he has proposed lengthy plans to tackle the nation’s crises. Looking ahead, Cambridge leaders said they have both hopes and demands for renewed local support under a Biden administration.
Under Trump, the Cambridge Community Foundation, a public charity that funds nonprofits around the city, transitioned to devoting its funding to combat the effects of the administration’s “regressive policies,” according to its president, Geeta K. Pradhan.
She described an “environment of fear” over federal policies. While the local government recoiled, the CCF broadened funding streams to reach more residents hurt by Trump policies.
“Immigrants were too afraid to go to government for basic necessities and public benefits,” Pradhan said. “We should be actually lifting people up and pushing them up the economic ladder, [but] what we were doing was fighting to just keep them housed, fed, and safe.”
Harvard Kennedy School Professor David C. King, who chairs a teaching program for local government officials, dubbed the past four years an “anti-government atmosphere.”
King said distrust in government has gone so far as to inhibit its basic local functions. Without a change in administration, he added, the long-term damage to cities would have been “deeply problematic.”
King added that local leaders have deemphasized federal influence, and instead focused on “pragmatic,” on-the-ground measures as local budgets decayed without federal backing.
Cambridge Vice Mayor Alanna M. Mallon said in an interview that she ran for office “as a direct response” to Trump’s election. Her goal since, she said, has been to battle his platform and use the city's coffers to cover growing federal funding gaps, including programs for low-income residents and food-insecure families.
Now, as Biden is inaugurated Wednesday, Mallon said she hopes to “start playing offense again.”
With federal aid to local governments restricted by Trump administration policies, the city has had to stretch its budget to cover gaps in key areas, such as education and Covid-19 assistance.
Denise A. Jillson, director of the Harvard Square Business Association, said local businesses are deeply in debt despite some federal aid, and more than one in three Cambridge businesses have closed since March. She likened federal guidance to stumbling around in the dark.
“We need to figure out where the hell we are,” Jillson said. “What does the budget really look like?”
Cambridge was able to shift funding around to soften the blow of some of the federal funding cuts. The Cambridge Public School district allotted local dollars for student lunch programs altered by Education Secretary Betsy D. Devos, according to City Councilor Patricia M. “Patty” Nolan ’80.
Nolan, who previously served on the Cambridge school board, described it as a “constant struggle,” with a “palpable sense of depression and despair.”
Harvard Kennedy School Professor Jeffrey B. Liebman, who chairs Harvard’s Taubman Center for State and Local Government, said the Biden administration can step in, as the federal government can run deficits while local governments cannot.
The Senate, however, has blocked fiscal relief for cities, he said. Without a federal crutch, localities risk layoffs “at exactly the time when one needs to be ramping up unprecedented public health measures,” Liebman said.
City Councilor Quinton Y. Zondervan put it more bluntly: “Money,” he said. “Everybody just needs money.”
Many Cambridge public officials are imploring the incoming Biden administration for relief funding. As Biden’s Covid-19 recovery plan includes a commitment to funding shortfalls in municipalities and a “comeback package for Main Street,” cities could get the assistance they need.
Theodora M. “Theo” Skeadas ’12, who directs Cambridge Local First, a network of hundreds of small businesses, said relief loans handed down from the federal government have helped many, she said, but still excluded many business owners in need.
“It’s not just that people lost their jobs, it’s that a piece of Cambridge was lost,” Skeadas said. “The lights blink out. It’s like a little star winking out of existence.”
Cambridge received a record number of applications for small business relief grants, according to Skeadas. She said she hopes Biden will be able to support “existing networks” that “need more resources.”
Jillson added that federal money can save businesses but argued for caution. She specifically referenced stimulus checks recently doled out under the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act.
“They can’t just start printing money and handing it out without understanding the consequences,” Jillson said.
In recent national unemployment figures, women were affected the most. Women accounted for 100 percent of all 140,000 net jobs lost in December. Cambridge Women’s Commission Director Kimberly P. Sansoucy said she hopes Biden can revitalize a national women’s commission, a short-lived advisory council under President John F. Kennedy ’40.
Sansoucy said the Biden administration must retrain women following this “catastrophic” job loss, as well as bolster commitments to childcare.
“Childcare is as deep and as important infrastructure in our country as our bridges and roads,” she said.
Beyond local funding, many Cambridge leaders demanded strong and speedy federal guidance on the ongoing Covid-19 vaccine rollout. The U.S. missed the Centers for Disease Control’s goal of 20 million shots by the end of 2020 by nearly half. As of mid-January, only about 0.5 percent of Americans have received the two shots required for a full immunization.
Zondervan criticized the lack of federal guidance for vaccine distribution in cities and said that the responsibility should not lie with local governments.
“The one thing we can’t do is magically have vaccine doses appear in our city,” he said. “We are dependent on the federal government to take care of that.”
City Councilor Jivan Sobrinho-Wheeler said a “unified national voice” on vaccine rollout can help coordinate Cambridge’s local public health response. Meanwhile, his colleague Councilor Marc C. McGovern said he wants to see vaccination locations at Cambridge Common and “every single big public park.”
Jillson added that she sees the vaccine as the primary means of restoring consumer confidence and revitalizing Harvard Square.
According to Mallon, the city is currently vaccinating about 1,000 first responders and will then move to vaccinate at-risk groups and essential workers. The population of Cambridge is nearly 120,000.
Biden has committed to a $25 billion vaccine rollout once he takes office, though local leaders are still concerned. Without strong federal assistance, Nolan said she worries about the vaccination effort in the city.
“I don’t think we’re up to the task as much if we don't have some pretty clear direction and help from the federal government,” she said.
Cambridge Public Schools plan to offer some in-person learning for the more than 6,000 students in the spring semester. Superintendent Kenneth N. Salim said he is “very excited” for Massachusetts’ vaccine rollout, which prioritizes school staff, who are included in the essential workers tier of vaccine recipients.
Salim said the federal government has not been “particularly supportive” of public schools. Despite some CARES Act grants, the CPS budget relies mainly on the Cambridge city budget. He said he looks forward to a Department of Education under Biden’s nominee Miguel A. Cardona, who, unlike DeVos, has worked in public schools his entire career.
Salim added that with pandemic concerns and students learning mostly virtually, standardized tests — those often proctored en masse — should be put on hold.
More than 40 percent of CPS students are in the free or reduced-price lunch program. Mallon said that she would like Biden to appoint a “food insecurity czar,” though she is doubtful.
“Fourteen percent of Cambridge residents don’t know where their next meal is coming from,” Mallon said. “It’s a solvable problem. We just do not have the political will.”
The Covid-19 pandemic has also amplified the severity of the housing crisis in the U.S., and Cambridge is no exception. A shortage of affordable housing supply, outdated living conditions, and unequal access to existing units leaves a sober outlook for many on the state of local and federal housing policies.
Allan E. Sadun, the co-chair of volunteer housing advocacy group A Better Cambridge, said the federal funds allocated to affordable, low-income public housing are dwindling. In the past, a combination of low-income housing tax credits and vouchers were the main avenues through which the federal government has supported housing, but the funding has “dried up over time,” he said.
In addition, the Department of Housing and Urban Development discontinued public housing programs due to the Faircloth Amendment, leaving cities and states to fund affordable housing on their own, according to Sadun.
“The federal government has set the stage for the crisis that [A Better Cambridge] is working in,” he said.
Biden has already promised a $640 billion investment in housing over the next decade, which includes a $100 billion Affordable Housing Fund, according to his campaign website. Deron Lovaas, co-director of Energy Efficiency for All — a National Resources Defense Council initiative — called this plan “ambitious,” “visionary,” and “badly needed.”
Christopher E. Herbert, director for the Harvard Joint Center for Housing Studies, said though Biden’s plans for a universal voucher program may be costly and difficult to pass in Congress, it would have a “substantial and significant difference.” Herbert also said universal voucher programs could incur an “enormous” increase in demand for housing, which could lead to greater inflation and rents in markets where housing supply is tight. He added, however, that the Biden plan also includes financial assistance for affordable housing tenants, which could help spur supply.
In Cambridge, the housing crisis has remained unchanged over the last few years. In 2019, Cambridge Continuum of Care tallied 555 people experiencing homelessness in the city, a level consistent in the years since at least 2014. But building more affordable housing to reduce these numbers has proven difficult, Sadun said.
“In Cambridge, it is very expensive to find sites that are suitable to buy land on,” he said, noting that a lengthy permitting process has also been a obstacle, but this has been partially resolved by the Affordable Housing Overlay passed in October.
McGovern also emphasized the need for more affordable housing units and vouchers, calling for a “national strategy” to address these issues.
“We have to stop looking at this as Cambridge’s homelessness problem because homelessness is a national problem, and just even more locally, it’s a regional problem,” he said. “Cambridge is not going to solve homelessness.”
James R. Stewart, director of the First Church Homeless Shelter, said he hopes that the housing crisis will be addressed by the Biden administration “on a priority basis” instead of being “traded off.”
“There’s really been no significant initiative that would help homeless people off the street or out of shelters into stable situations since the end of the Carter administration,” Stewart said. “We are not able to respond to all the need out there.”
Many local leaders also argued the housing crisis is interconnected with issues of infrastructure, social justice, climate change, and inequality, which they said requires a multi-pronged approach in Biden’s plan.
Herbert, Lovaas, and Sadun all said they want to see the Affirmatively Furthering Fair Housing Rule reinstated. The provision mandates federal agencies and federal funding recipients to ameliorate historical inequities of “segregation, discrimination, and disinvestment” in housing policy, according to the National Housing Law Project’s website. Herbert added that he believes Biden’s approach to housing reflects this goal.
“The Biden housing plan has a number of aspects of it that would be intended to make the policies race-conscious,” Herbert said. “One of them would be to step up Fair Housing enforcement to address any explicit or implicit discriminatory practice in the housing market.”
Lovaas also mentioned how “legislative opportunities” can incorporate anti-discrimination practices, transportation improvement, infrastructure investments, and climate legislation such as weatherization and green retrofits in housing. He added that federal agencies have been “mismanaged and misled” during the Trump administration and hopes to see the new administration “resurrect interagency initiatives” that address these opportunities.
Many city officials said they hope Biden will tackle the climate crisis, which went largely unaddressed in Trump’s term. Cambridge recently produced a 120-page Climate Protection Plan focused on minimizing greenhouse gas emissions across multiple city departments.
Meanwhile, the state legislature passed a comprehensive 2020 climate bill in the same vein. State Senator Sal N. DiDomenico said Massachusetts had to “pick up the slack” in the absence of a federal climate program.
Nolan said she is “thrilled” to move forward with local climate plans and have the federal government “take the lead.” Zondervan, however, said he thinks Cambridge is much more reliant on Beacon Hill than Capitol Hill in terms of climate action.
Though the past four years have tested Cambridge and its institutions, local leaders are hopeful for the next four. With an incoming Democratic administration and majority in Congress, Sobrinho-Wheeler said the new term is a “realm of possibility,” but added that local leaders need to remain vigilant.
“There’s still lots of work to be done,” he said.
CORRECTION: Jan. 20, 2021
A previous version of this article incorrectly stated that Geeta K. Pradhan, president of the Cambridge Community Foundation, described an “environment of fear” over local budget cuts mandated by the federal government. In fact, the "environment of fear" was over the federal policies themselves.
—Staff writer Carrie Hsu can be reached at carrie.hsu@thecrimson.com.
—Staff writer Simon J. Levien can be reached at simon.levien@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @simonjlevien.
On Jan. 6, Zaosong Zheng, a former researcher at Harvard-affiliated Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, was ordered to leave the United States and return to China after being charged with lying to federal agents about allegedly smuggling cancer research. Zheng agreed to not return to the U.S. for 10 years.
Zheng’s sentencing, however, marks merely the latest development in an ongoing crackdown by the United States government and American universities on “academic espionage,” or the transmission of academic research by scientists at American universities to foreign governments. Multiple Harvard affiliates, including former Chemistry Department Chair Charles M. Lieber, have been subject to criminal proceedings due to alleged misbehavior.
Zheng’s departure from the country came exactly a week ahead of the inauguration of Joe Biden as the 46th U.S. president. With the swearing in of a new administration, experts say they expect to see — or at least hope to see — the U.S. change its tone toward international academic collaboration, particularly with regards to China.
As U.S.-China relations have slowly deteriorated across the span of a Trump presidency, academic exchanges have been caught in the crosshairs. In a 2020 seminar on academic security, FBI Deputy Director David L. Bowdich said the threat of Chinese academic espionage is one of the nation’s largest security challenges.
“In my 25 years with the FBI, we have faced a lot of challenging threats,” he said. “One that stands out right now as the greatest long-term threat to our nation’s information and ideas and to our economic vitality and leadership is the threat from the Chinese government.”
While the Trump administration attempted to limit efforts to attract and accommodate international scholars in the U.S., the Chinese government took a markedly different approach, establishing grants and programs to attract international talent. One such effort was the Thousand Talents Plan, established in 2008, hoping to attract scholars from across the globe to contribute to Chinese development.
Tim Byrnes, a member of the Thousand Talents program and an assistant professor of physics at NYU Shanghai, said he has never been required to submit information to the Chinese government since he was first awarded his grant five year ago; however, the Thousand Talents program became a target of suspicion for the U.S. government due to fears of “leakage of intellectual property” from the U.S. to China.
Early in 2020, Lieber — who is also a University Professor, Harvard’s highest faculty honor — was arrested on one count of lying to the National Institutes of Health and the Department of Defense regarding his involvement with the Wuhan University of Technology and the Thousand Talents Plan.
In a statement, Marc L. Mukasey, Lieber’s trial counsel — who wrote he chooses to ordinarily “stay out of politics” — wrote that Lieber’s case has been motivated by political overtones.
“It is quite clear from the public record that Charlie Lieber was used as a pawn in the U.S. government’s political chess match with China,” Mukasey wrote. “He was arrested to advance a political agenda, not because he committed any crime.”
However, Claude E. Barfield, a former consultant to the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative, said that there is evidence of Chinese state-sponsored extraction of academic and trade knowledge.
“There is evidence that the Chinese actually selected not only students, but professors, to try to purloin trade secrets and intellectual property and get them back to China one way or the other,” Barfield said.
“Most Chinese students are not part of a spy structure by the Chinese government,” he added.
Charles W. Wessner, a professor of innovation policy at Georgetown University, argued the Chinese government aimed to subvert norms of the academic community.
“What [the Trump administration] have done — which I think was long overdue — is to emphasize the scope and intensity of the efforts by the Chinese government to subvert international academic cooperation by violating many of the norms that are associated with it,” Wessner said.
“When we recruit a Chinese graduate student to work in our labs, they probably should tell us that they’re actually a major in the Chinese army,” he added, referring to a case in June 2020 involving a Chinese army major posing as a researcher at the University of California, San Francisco.
Michael A. Szonyi, professor of Chinese history, said the free exchange of ideas inherent in academia — as opposed to proprietary military research, for example — downgrades the threat of so-called academic espionage.
“Virtually all of the research that we do is eventually published in journals that anyone can read — everything that happens in the university,” Szonyi said. “There’s not very much to penetrate at a university because if you do gain access to cutting edge research, how much time — how much advantage — do you buy when that research is going to be published in a journal that is available in every library six months or nine months later?”
He concluded by suggesting that dialogue that “marks off very clearly” collaborative academic research and “genuine national security assets” would help to improve the climate of collaboration.
Denis F. Simon, senior adviser on China affairs to Duke University’s president, also argued institutions of higher education need to create a “code of conduct” to facilitate their exchanges.
“There would be rules of the road about engaging with one another that would have to do with which students can come, which scholars can come, what their obligations are, what their requirements are — and commitments for things like protection of intellectual property,” he added.
Experts said the Trump administration’s higher education policies hindered American universities’ ability to attract international talent and foster international research collaboration.
During the Trump era, the U.S. enacted an assortment of travel bans and executive orders to curb international travel and immigration. Hence, the Trump presidency “was very unpopular outside the borders of the United States,” specifically among intellectuals and academics, according to Boston College political science professor David A. Hopkins ’99.
“The Trump approach to international education was informed by two separate instincts, which were hostility to higher education and hostility to immigration,” Hopkins said. “And the combination of those meant that there was very little interest in the Trump administration in fostering international ties at a level of higher education.”
Jillian Gates, communications officer for the Association of American Universities — of which Harvard is a member — wrote in an emailed statement that Trump’s four years have had “serious impact on research universities and their ability to attract international students, researchers, faculty, and scholars.”
Caroline S. Wagner, an Ohio State professor who researches public policy related to science and technology, said while the Trump administration “sought to reduce the numbers” of foreign scholars who could stay in the U.S., other countries “were taking advantage of that” by actively inviting entry of international talent.
“It’s clear that the fact that the U.S. has been able to attract the best and brightest students and researchers to the United States has been really one of the most important aspects of maintaining leadership,” Wagner said.
“If we want to maintain that vibrant position where we’re an attractive location for smart people from around the world to come, and you want to maintain an innovation-based economy, then you really need to be more liberal in welcoming people and allowing them to stay,” she added.
Byrnes argued the American handling of the Covid-19 pandemic under the Trump administration sparked fears among prospective international scholars of coming to the U.S.
“I think people are really very cautious of going to the U.S. because of the fact that the situation is so terrible in the U.S.,” he said. “It is a real shame actually.”
On the other hand, Hopkins argued the Chinese government’s handling of the pandemic in early spring 2020 — including not permitting “the free flow of relevant scientific information as Covid began to spread within China” — also sparked distrust “on both sides of the partisan divide in the United States.”
The pandemic’s first few months, however, did see an increase in the number of U.S.-China research partnerships, Wagner said.
George Q. Daley ’82, dean of Harvard Medical School, described in an emailed statement how HMS has collaborated with researchers from China and several other countries in a five-year effort to study the coronavirus, create more accurate diagnostic tests, and design vaccines, antiviral therapies, and treatments.
“Our collective quest to vanquish COVID-19, as well as with other pathogens, will not be possible without collaborative, open-border science,” Daley wrote.
Lynn C. Pasquerella, the president of the Association of American Colleges and Universities — of which Harvard is a member — said that the need for global collaboration has been heightened by the recent pandemic.
“It seems more critical than ever as we look at the impact of Covid-19 that unscripted global problems that we are addressing as a global community require international collaboration,” she said.
Simon said cross-border collaboration has facilitated recent innovations in science and technology.
“The purpose of science is in fact the dissemination of information across borders and cultures. We live in a world of innovation in which most of the innovation already is cross border,” Simon explained.
“If you would look at the citation index in any particular field, you would see that increasingly most of the articles are not single author or even single country authored, but they are co-authored by people from several different countries,” he added.
Though Simon said there are certain risks from international exchange, he contends that the Trump administration’s policies towards international academic collaboration deter potential cooperation, particularly with regards to Chinese students and academic exchange.
“I think it sent a chill down the spine of a number of people who were afraid, simply by virtue of coming to the United States and engaging in scientific collaboration, that they could become the object of accusation or innuendo,” he said.
“They have sought alternative options in Europe or Japan perhaps, or in Singapore, where they’re not faced with the same kind of direct and explicit constraints,” he added.
Pasquerella, too, said that the Trump administration’s policies have had the effect of creating an unwelcome atmosphere for international collaborators.
“[The policies] seem to be nothing more than retributive, retaliatory, and xenopobic, and at the end, sending a message that you're not welcome here, we view you with suspicion and, we're not going to work together toward pursuing the truth,” Pasquerella said.
Data from the U.S. Department of State reveals that the number of international students in the United States decreased by 1.8 percent between 2019-2020 and the previous academic year — the first decrease since 2005-2006, according to the report.
Szonyi said that the impact of the Trump administration’s policies has been “enormously counter-productive.”
“American universities are the best in the world, precisely because of their openness, precisely because for the better part of at least half a century, American universities are where the talent of the world wants to come,” he said.
However, Wessner said much of the blame for the mistreatment of Chinese scholars is incumbent upon the Chinese government’s own policies.
“I would be very surprised if there’s any change in those policies,” he said of Chinese agents engaged in so-called academic espionage. “Stealing our IP is considered good sport, patriotic duty. That makes it harder for Chinese students, for Chinese citizens, and for Americans of Chinese descent.”
Thawing the tense U.S.-China relationship is possible, according to Byrnes, but will require Biden and future U.S. presidents to contend with “very thorny problems” that will not go away after Trump leaves the Oval Office. These include lingering concerns about China’s use of academic partnerships to gain advantage in terms of industry or military power.
William C. Kirby, a professor at Harvard Business School and the Faculty of Arts and Sciences who conducts research on contemporary China, outlined several steps he hopes Biden will take “on day two” in office.
“I would hope that we will see changes in the restrictions for F1 visas, which are highly skewed to penalize Chinese students,” Kirby said. “Second, Trump ended overnight, without any reason given, the Fulbright program with China, but that would be a very easy thing to reset.”
Sharvari Dalal-Dheini, director of Government Relations for the American Immigration Lawyers Association, said the Biden administration will also need to make structural changes to the operation of the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services and other agencies, which currently are grappling with significant backlogs and hikes in processing times.
“Structural changes need to be made before we can even pass legislation so that if we create legalization for potential workers, or DACA or TPS recipients, or individuals that hold doctoral degrees, the agency has to be able to process those,” Dalal-Dheini said.
Ned C. Price, a spokesperson for Biden’s transition team, declined to comment on potential plans of reversing President Trump’s policies that have affected higher education, instead referring to published policy on the campaign website.
“Biden believes that foreign graduates of a U.S. doctoral program should be given a green card with their degree and that losing these highly trained workers to foreign economies is a disservice to our own economic competitiveness,” the site reads.
Barfield, however, said he was skeptical of any broad-sweeping changes that the Biden administration would implement with regards to China.
“The Biden administration is going to be very careful in terms of the changes it makes to Trump’s policies, whether they’re economic policies or political policies toward China,” he said. “Biden is being aware of the potential — the political dangers — for seeming soft on China.”
Pasquerella, nonetheless, said she was positive about the Biden administration’s proposed changes.
“There are legitimate concerns about safety in the U.S. when we’re dealing with any foreign government, but the policies that have been enacted seem straightforwardly xenophobic,” Pasquerella said.
“The Biden administration has a counter narrative, one that welcomes diversity and is making it easier for qualified individuals to become green card holders, to obtain citizenship, and to work here,” she added.
—Staff writer Meera S. Nair can be reached at meera.nair@thecrimson.com.
—Staff writer Andy Z. Wang can be reached at andy.wang@thecrimson.com.
For Morgan R. Pratt, a Master of Public Policy candidate at the Kennedy School, a daunting obstacle stands between them and their dream of pursuing a career in climate activism following graduation — student loan debt.
“I have a lot of student loan debt and a really high propensity to do something in the public service industry,” Pratt said. “Right now, I have this huge incentive to just follow in the footsteps of my classmates and get a consulting gig — which would help eliminate my student loan debt, but put me into this workspace that creates all these perverse incentives.”
“Essentially, I’d be exacerbating the problems I really want to solve. Or I can just toil away and put myself in a bad place financially,” they added.
Pratt is not alone. This past year, the total amount of student loan debt for Americans hiked to roughly $1.7 trillion dollars across more than 43 million U.S. borrowers. President-elect Joe Biden pledged multiple times on the campaign trail to alleviate debt, claiming that representatives should “forgive a minimum of $10,000/person of federal student loans,” according to a tweet on March 22, 2020.
Recently, Biden also said he plans to extend the student debt forbearance program, building on a previous extension by former Secretary of Education Betsy D. DeVos scheduled to expire Jan. 31. Many of Biden’s supporters, however, remain skeptical as to whether the incoming administration will deliver on its promise to alleviate the financial anxiety facing millions of Americans.
Joshua H. Berry ’21, who said he has supported Biden since the beginning of the presidential race, said the president-elect has vacillated on his policies. It remains to be seen, according to Berry, whether or not Biden will act on his verbal pledge.
“I think what we may have witnessed is the campaign promise, and then the ‘pull the carpet out from underneath,’’’ Berry said.
To some, Biden’s pledge to cancel up to $10,000 of student debt per borrower is by no means enough. Brandon J. Mancilla, a current Ph.D. candidate in the History department and president of the Harvard Graduate Student Union-United Automobile Workers, said the singular best step forward for the administration is complete student debt cancellation.
Mancilla said widespread cancellation would be particularly beneficial to younger middle class individuals struggling with debt.
“When we talk about millennials and Gen Z, we’re talking about people going into their 20s, 30s, and 40s. These are people who can get a house, get a car, invest in property,” he said. “The more ambitious programs and proposals are the ones worth considering. 10,000 is not enough. 50,000 is great as a compromise position — I’m a little wary of going for 50,000 and then settling for far less.”
Ryan Zhang ’21 also emphasized that $10,000 should just be the first step, and that more aggressive policies will be needed to address the economic and racial inequality underlying issues of debt.
“Biden’s plan is infinitely better than what we have right now under Secretary DeVos and President Trump. But it doesn’t go nearly far enough,” he said. “There are people like Bernie Sanders, Elizabeth Warren — Democratic progressives who have advocated for cancelling much more than just $10,000, up to $50,000. That level of response is what we need right now.”
Others contend that swift debt cancellation through executive powers is the most effective step forward. Legal Director at the Project on Predatory Student Lending Eileen Connor said Biden and Vice President-elect Kamala D. Harris “will not need to wait for Congressional action to make a difference for millions of former students and their families” in a press release dated Nov. 9, 2020.
Connor highlighted that the use of executive powers to cancel student loan debt would prove particularly beneficial for borrowers of color.
“Debt cancellation of $10,000 per individual — the minimum that President-elect Biden promised — would deliver concentrated benefits for Black and Hispanic/Latinx borrowers, because it would entirely wipe out student loans for a disproportionate number of borrowers of color,” the statement reads.
In December, Biden said to the media that, though it is “arguable” that the president has the executive powers to cancel up to $50,000 in student debt per borrower, he is “unlikely” to go through with the executive action.
While blanket debt cancellation is desirable to some, others argue that universal forgiveness may actually exacerbate inequalities. Harvard Professor of Public Policy David J. Deming highlighted that individuals’ actual loan balances frequently do not reflect their economic conditions.
“You probably don’t want to just do blanket loan forgiveness for everybody. Why? Because most of the people who have six-figure debt are actually better off than the people who have small numbers in terms of debt,” he said. “That might seem counterintuitive, but the reason is that most people who have six figures of debt, it’s for graduate school, particularly law school and medical school.”
“A policy needs to focus on helping people who don’t have the ability to repay the loan, not just on paying back the biggest balances,” Deming added. “Because there’s an awful lot of people out there with $80,000 loan balances, who are going to make incomes in the top 1 percent, or close to it.”
Berry, a current senior at the College, said student loan debt at Harvard becomes a larger issue when factoring in graduate school. Roughly 83 percent of undergraduates at the College will return to pursue additional schooling in the form of graduate or professional degrees, according to a report published by the University’s Office of Career Services.
“I think the conversation is different if we talk about the graduate schools. That’s a bigger issue, especially because grad school is really expensive — I think that’s where we could extend the conversation,” he said.
Cynthia E. Ahmed, Vice Chair of Policy for the Harvard Graduate Council and a current student at the Law School, said there exists a division in the way student loan debt impacts graduate students across the University. Ahmed highlighted that, though loan debt can be extensive for certain individuals, it is not necessarily a universal issue.
“There’s definitely a split — students with loans, students without loans — and the career trajectories, life trajectories, lifestyles, happiness to a certain extent, begin to reflect this split amongst students,” Ahmed said. “I think the split is a little less concerning at schools with lower tuition.”
Victoria J. “Vicki” Dzindzichashvili, a Master of Public Policy candidate at the Kennedy School on leave during the Covid-19 pandemic, said she believes that, given the financial hardship of graduate school students, Biden’s current plan is not enough.
“I feel disappointed,” Dzindzichashvili said. “I believe that public higher education, at the very least, should be completely free. So when I see the administration saying only $10,000, I unfortunately feel like they’re not being serious about helping working-class people.”
“Let’s say, the half of students at the Kennedy School who are facing six-figure debt loans — if that wasn’t the case, then you’d have a lot more students thinking seriously about how they can make the world better, and thinking about public service the way that the Kennedy School likes to talk about public service,” she added.
Of the Kennedy School’s 569 Class of 2019 graduates, 4 percent went on to work in state government and 20 percent in the federal government, compared to 37 percent of graduates who worked in the private sector, according to an employment report published by the Kennedy School in 2019.
HKS spokesperson James F. Smith declined to comment on the Kennedy School’s financial aid policies.
The use of debt cancellation as a sweeping economic measure fails to account for the structural issues undergirding student loans, according to Berry. He described loan cancellation as “putting a band-aid on a giant, seeping flesh wound,” when the genuine reform needed is a “complete operation.”
“The proposal to forgive student debt is more like going to Rite Aid and buying a band-aid and putting it on and saying, ‘Oh, you’re okay now,’” Berry said. “The underlying issue is just that college is much too expensive.”
For some, educational reform starts not on Capitol Hill, but in classrooms themselves. New York University business professor Vadim S. Revzin — who also founded School16, a program that helps individuals find jobs in the tech industry — highlighted the importance of educational models that prioritize experience-based, interactive learning.
“The real change will come in alternative options for educational skill development,” he said. “It will come in alternative options that are more cost-effective, and also more optimized.”
Jack A. White III ’23, the president of Harvard Undergraduates for Bipartisan Solutions, said the incoming administration should aim to capitalize on affordable educational opportunities like community college.
“One of the biggest problems is that, even though these affordable community college pathways exist, there’s a societal racket — or a cultural racket — that is just telling people, ‘You can’t go to community college,’ or that there’s something wrong with it,” he said.
White added that Biden should use his presidential authority to reduce the cultural stigma associated with community colleges and other alternative educational pathways.
“I think that’s the core of the problem. And maybe that’s something that the moral leadership of the President can address from the bully pulpit,” he said.
Amen H. Gashaw ’24 said she is hopeful that substantive progress on the issue of student debt will be made following Biden’s inauguration, particularly because there exists a consensus along party lines in Congress.
“It’s really rare that we have an issue upon which both parties agree that there’s a problem here, and we need to do whatever we can in our power to help alleviate this burden on Americans,” Gashaw said.
“That underlying sense of agreement will definitely be helpful in allowing Republicans and Democrats to cooperate, especially in the Senate where the vote margin is incredibly tight. So I am optimistic,” she added.
Despite the complex challenges underlying the issue of student loan debt, Justin J. Bloesch, a Ph.D. candidate in the Economics department, also said he is broadly optimistic for the Biden administration’s ability to tackle the issue.
“It has been put on the table as a political issue in a way that it hasn’t before,” he said. “And it makes sense — it’s student loan debt. It’s one-and-a-half trillion dollars.”
—Staff writer Isabella B. Cho can be reached at isabella.cho@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @izbcho.
Fallout from the Jan. 6 storming of the U.S. Capitol, which left five people dead, reached Harvard’s Institute of Politics the following week. On Jan. 12, the bipartisan organization dismissed U.S. Representative Elise M. Stefanik ’06 (R-N.Y.) from its top leadership committee for her baseless claims of voter fraud.
The IOP’s move received an array of responses — including praise and criticism. Though Kennedy School Dean Douglas W. Elmendorf stated the decision was nonpartisan, it nonetheless surfaced questions about the commitment of the organization — and Harvard more broadly — to bipartisanship: with Stefanik’s removal, the Republican minority on the Senior Advisory Committee becomes even smaller.
“I think it’s important for Harvard and the IOP to continue to bring conservatives on campus and to sponsor them in some degree so that there is a presence and a voice for that school of thought,” Kyle A. Englander ’23, president of the Harvard Republican Club, said. “Because, ultimately, close to half of the country still identifies with that party.”
“We have to recognize that party. We can’t just shut it out,” he added.
Though roughly 30 percent of American voters identified as Republican as of 2019, per a Pew Research report, Republican-leaning students only account for an extreme minority among Harvard students. Just 7.4 percent of the current freshman class identified as “somewhat” or “very conservative,” a marked drop from the 12.4 percent of incoming students in the Class of 2023 who did the previous year.
Scarce as conservative students may be, conservative faculty are even fewer. A March 2020 Crimson survey found only 1.5 percent of Harvard faculty reporting they consider themselves “conservative” or “very conservative.”
President Donald Trump’s four years in office – which ended in his peddling of false claims of election fraud and a violent riot in Washington D.C. led by his supporters – have further fractured an already fragile campus discourse. Though Trump will leave the White House on Jan. 20, his influence over the country — and Harvard’s political environment — will surely not cease.
As the sun sets on Trump’s term and Joe Biden — who has vowed to bring the country together — is inaugurated as the 46th president of the United States, Republicans at Harvard hope to revive their party’s traditional emphasis on conservatism. At the same time, they believe the past four years have created a specter that will loom over them as they engage in campus discourse.
On Jan. 6, Harvard students and faculty scattered around the globe watched in horror as a pro-Trump mob stormed the U.S. Capitol forcing lawmakers to go into hiding.
In a rare display of bipartisanship that same day, the Harvard Republican Club, Harvard College Democrats, and the Harvard Undergraduates for Bipartisan Solutions issued a joint statement calling on President Trump to “forcefully denounce those inciting violence and interfering with democracy at the Capitol.”
Englander, the HRC president, said he hopes the Capitol riots will be a turning point for the country — in the direction of unity.
“I hope, from a more optimistic perspective, this can be a watershed moment, and moving into the Biden presidency, we can really recognize how fractured we are right now as a country,” Englander said.
Though Englander hopes Republicans and Democrats will come together, bipartisan unity on Harvard’s campus remains elusive.
In November, an open letter circulated online calling on Harvard to enforce “accountability guidelines” when inviting former members of the Trump administration to campus. It was met with outrage by some Trump allies with ties to Harvard.
Oluwatobi I. “Tobi” Ariyo ’22, a former member of the HRC who leans conservative, said he supports mandating Trump officials who come to Harvard’s campus to write a “statement of admission of any guilt or contribution they might have had to unjust outcomes.”
“Accountability is necessary if we do want to see a better state just discourse-wise and climate-wise in the nation and in college campuses, but also just openness to communicating and being civil,” Ariyo added.
Regarding the IOP’s decision to dismiss Stefanik, Ariyo said he was “really torn.” He suggested an option in which Stefanik could have retained her position as a conservative voice on the Senior Advisory Committee if she issued a mea culpa for peddling false claims about election fraud and acknowledging how those statements emboldened the rioters.
“I think that would have been a healthy alternative to demand her to do rather than just sacking her,” Ariyo said. “It’s definitely not great seeing the conservative voice being taken off, but that’s not to say there aren’t conservative voices that could replace her,” he added.
Treasurer of the HRC Loren M. Brown ’23 said he disapproved of the IOP’s decision to remove Stefanik.
“I disagreed with her decision to vote against the certification in a couple of states,” Brown said. “But, nonetheless, I think she’s an important politician – an important conservative one — and still contributed a lot in her [time at] Harvard, and I think should have been retained, but was pretty much just forced out because of a difference.”
Wesley L. Donhauser ’21, a former president of the HRC, said he hopes the IOP will take steps to recognize the importance of conservative representation on campus.
“I only ask them to replace her seat with another Republican voice,” he wrote in an email. “This is not only for the case of making us conservatives feel welcome and valid in IOP spaces, but the presence of Republican voices at the IOP should have significant education value for all students even if it is just to challenge their beliefs and expose them to new ideas and perspectives.”
A. Blake Barclay ’22 also said he believes educational merit resides in Harvard welcoming figures with whom the majority of its students may disagree.
“If we don’t bring people who disagree, then it’s a disservice to all these students who will encounter different views in the real world but aren’t encountering them at college,” he said. “Probably the vast majority of America doesn’t think like people at Harvard think. Not probably — definitely.”
As the Republican Party struggles to find its footing following Trump’s departure from office, conservatives on campus must evaluate what place, if any, Trump has in their party’s future.
Grace K. Bannister ’21, who formerly served as vice president of HRC and IOP director of membership, said she believes the absence of conservative representation among the University’s top brass — including faculty and administrators — contributed to a rise in support for Trump among some right-leaning Harvard students.
“I think we’ve seen this rise over the past four years of the quote, unquote — I’m going to call it — ‘the conservative victim,’ where people want to be really angry about the fact that they don’t feel like they have anyone listening to them,” she said. “That’s where we’ve kind of seen the growth of vocalness of Trump-supporting Republicans on Harvard’s campus.”
“People feel like they need to be really vocal and kind of counter the culture,” Bannister added.
Though Trump has been the leader of the Republican Party over the past four years, his big government and spending policies do not necessarily fit the mold of conservatism, students and faculty said.
Harvard Law School Professor Charles A. Fried, a self-proclaimed “Never Trumper” who served as solicitor general under President Ronald W. Reagan, said “Trump is not conservative.”
Fried, who is involved with the Harvard Law School Federalist Society, defined conservatism as “a respect for existing institutions, precedent,” and “a willingness to change when that seems appropriate, but considerable reluctance to come to that conclusion.”
Government Professor Harvey C. Mansfield ’53 also said Trump has not always aligned with traditional conservative principles. Mansfield called Trump “anti-conservative” and a “demagogue.”
Still, Mansfield maintained people who voted for Trump could still view him as the better choice.
“He’s not the worst person in the country,” Mansfield said, referencing Trump. “Worse than Trump are the left of the Democratic Party. So one could easily balance those two evils and come up with Trump as the lesser of them.”
Some students said they believe Trump’s presidency has changed HRC’s identity.
Ariyo said he witnessed a “pretty drastic” change in HRC from his freshman to sophomore year.
“I just felt like the party was a lot more encompassing of varying conservative ideologies and varying conservative stances,” he said. “The club on campus has departed from that and allied itself with the national Republican Party in just trying to justify anything and everything that Trump does.”
Some students said they believe Trump’s defeat presents a path for Republicans to return to “traditional conservative principles.”
“I believe conservatives will take this opportunity to do what they should have been doing all along,” Donhauser, HRC’s former president, wrote. “Preserving a historical intellectual tradition and not buying into the ideological class warfare that is currently in vogue.”
Despite Biden’s promise to unify the nation, Brown, HRC’s treasurer, said he is unconvinced that a Biden administration will ameliorate partisan polarization on Harvard’s campus.
“I think the last four years have basically instituted themselves in college life,” he said. “Even though Trump’s gone, I think people will still keep in mind the divisions in the last four years, which is somewhat unfortunate.”
Barclay said he believes the Trump presidency has worsened the political climate on campus, noting, however, that he believes shifts in both parties are to blame.
“I definitely feel like it’s negatively impacted the climate for everyone because when he does say such hateful things, it’s understandable that people get offended by anyone that could be associated with that,” he said. “While I don’t associate myself with him, it is a difficult distinction to make clear to people sometimes.”
Englander similarly said he feels Trump’s nature as such a polarizing figure has made it difficult to express one’s ideology as a conservative student on campus.
“I definitely haven’t been unabashed about the viewpoints I have, and I think a lot of that had to do with how polarizing a figure Trump as a president was,” he said. “I think that bled off into a generalized animosity towards conservatives.”
“Sometimes you don’t want to really reveal how you may fall along the spectrum because you don’t want to lose friends,” he said. “I hope that can change.”
Brown said he believes there will be a “lingering bias against conservative ideas and values in the classroom."
Mansfield echoed Brown, noting that his concern about a lack of discourse stems from the “intolerant” left rather than the “much more tolerant” liberal wing of the Democratic Party at Harvard.
“Harvard is the Democratic Party. And so it is divided between liberals and leftists. And the leftists are quite intolerant,” he said.
Englander, though, said he is optimistic that conservative viewpoints will be met with more receptiveness at Harvard going forward.
“I’m hoping that with Trump out of the picture and some of the animus that comes with him, that could maybe change and there could be more receptiveness to that point of view,” Englander said.
—Staff writer Natalie L. Kahn can be reached at natalie.kahn@thecrimson.com.
—Staff writer Taylor C. Peterman can be reached at taylor.peterman@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @taylorcpeterman.
Three days after President Donald J. Trump’s inauguration in 2017, around 100 Harvard student activists rallied in front of the John Harvard Statue, urging former University President Drew G. Faust to “inaugurate a new Harvard.”
The students, concerned about a spate of Trump administration policy proposals, urged the University to counter the new administration’s actions by divesting from fossil fuels, supporting Muslim and undocumented students, and creating an ethnic studies department, among other initiatives.
“Today we come together to inaugurate a new era of student action and solidarity on campus,” the demonstrators wrote in a letter addressed to University administrators. “We therefore call upon the Harvard administration to embark on a course of action that upholds our community values in the face of a new political reality.”
Throughout her tenure, Faust steadfastly opposed divestment from fossil fuels, maintaining that it would harm the University’s endowment, which was valued at $39.2 billion in fiscal year 2018, the last year of her presidency. Instead, she committed to combating climate change by emphasizing how Harvard could reduce its carbon footprint, launching a plan to make the University’s operations fossil fuel free by 2050.
Four years after the rally, the question of fossil fuel divestment continues to loom large in the minds of students, faculty, and alumni.
University President Lawrence S. Bacow has continued to argue that “divestment paints with too broad a brush” and alienates potential financial partners to the University.
However, years of sustained activism from Divest Harvard, a student activist group, have resulted in additional initiatives to reduce the University’s climate impact. After the Faculty of Arts and Sciences voted 179-20 in favor of legislation demanding the University divest from fossil fuels in February 2020, the Harvard Corporation committed in April 2020 to achieving net-zero greenhouse gas emissions in its investments by 2050.
President-elect Joe Biden, who will be inaugurated Wednesday, has advocated for dramatically more aggressive environmental policies than his predecessor.
The Trump administration loosened nearly 100 federal regulations designed to protect air quality and limit harmful emissions. In addition, the administration exited the Paris Climate Accords, an international agreement designed to combat global warming.
The White House Press Office did not respond to a request for comment.
Biden has pledged to rejoin the Paris Accords on his first day in office, as well as to undo many of the Trump administration’s changes to federal environmental policy.
Biden has also recruited Gina McCarthy, a former Environmental Protection Agency administrator and professor at the Harvard School of Public Health, to serve as senior White House advisor on climate change. McCarthy is a longtime supporter of Divest Harvard and has sharply criticized the University’s fossil fuel investments.
Biden’s focus on environmental issues and his selection of McCarthy for a senior position have heartened Harvard divestment activists; however, questions remain about whether a new occupant of the White House will sway decisions made in Massachusetts Hall.
Experts said that a Biden White House would lack the authority to directly influence the investment decisions of a private institution like Harvard.
Harvard professor James T. Engell ’73, who led the Harvard faculty vote to endorse divestment in February 2020 and advocated for all future endowment investments to be carbon-neutral, wrote in an email that he is unaware of any presidential administration actively involving itself in the decision-making process of an educational institution’s investments.
Heidi K. Heitkamp, a former Senator from North Dakota and a Biden campaign surrogate, said in an interview that investors maintain the sole right to select how they allocate funds, noting that the U.S. government “can’t force people” to divest.
Heitkamp, a former Harvard IOP fellow, also stressed that the push for campus divestment in recent years was a consequence of the Trump administration’s inaction on environmental issues.
“I think it's been exacerbated because the failure of the Trump administration to adequately address the challenges of climate have left state and local governments, and private companies with a sense of urgency of: ‘What can we do to solve the problem?’” Heitkamp said.
Daniel C. “Dan” Esty ’81, a professor of environmental law at Yale, likewise stated that the influence of politicians on the investments of educational institutions is limited.
Esty argued that school affiliates hold the greatest power in pushing for divestment.
“The real pressure on universities like Harvard and Yale comes — with regard to potential for divestment — from critical constituents like students, alumni, donors, faculty, and perhaps most importantly future students who they want to attract by appearing on the front lines of social movements and efforts,” Esty said.
Esty said that, while the Biden administration's ability to directly push for University divestment is limited, Biden could pursue alternative strategies to direct investors towards a greener path.
Esty suggested that requiring more thorough data from publicly-owned companies would better equip investment portfolio managers and environmental activists alike.
Investment managers who oversee more than $100 million are required to disclose public securities holdings to the Securities and Exchange Commission each quarter. As a result, information is only publicly available on 4.3 percent of Harvard’s investment holdings, as of the University’s last 13F form filing in the last quarter of 2020.
“It might well make sense for the Biden administration to push for expanded SEC disclosure rules that include sustainability factors that include climate change among other issues,” Esty said.
William E. “Bill” McKibben ’82, a former Crimson president and environmental activist, wrote in an email that he thinks the Biden administration will encourage financial regulators to play a larger role in solving the climate crisis.
“The Fed and the Treasury and the SEC will be looking closely at the banks that lend to the fossil fuel industry and so on — all of which makes Harvard's unwillingness to confront the oil companies the more embarrassing,” McKibben wrote.
Biden administration spokespeople Ned Price, Andrew Bates, Jamal Brown, and Sean D. Savett did not respond to a request for comment.
University spokesperson Jason A. Newton wrote in an email that the “University’s policy on divestment from fossil fuels… has not changed” despite the shift in presidential administrations.
“Harvard has been deeply engaged in climate change research and appreciates the federal research funding that is supporting that work,” Newton said.
Attempts to indirectly shift climate policy at universities would be consistent with the past two presidential administrations.
Former President Barack Obama explicitly embraced the efforts of divestment activists in a June 2013 climate policy speech at Georgetown University.
“Convince those in power to reduce our carbon pollution. Push your own communities to adopt smarter practices; Invest, Divest,” Obama said at the time. “Remind folks there's no contradiction between a sound environment and strong economic growth.”
In January 2020, during the final days of the Trump administration, the Treasury Department approved a rule that would prevent large banks from declining to do business with particular groups of companies. The move, largely seen as a blow to divestment activists, undermines efforts for industries looking to phase out their ties with companies with significant carbon emissions.
As the Biden administration prepares to take office, student and alumni environmental activists have looked to the University to take action that reflects the expected shift in federal environmental policy.
Fossil Fuel Divest Harvard organizer Ilana A. Cohen ’22 wrote in a statement that she hopes environmental policy will be a focus of the Biden administration.
“As the polling data show, climate voters were a crucial part of President-Elect Biden’s winning coalition,” Cohen wrote. “As such, he is entering office with a climate justice mandate, and young people around the country will be expecting and awaiting bold climate action.”
Cohen also noted that Divest Harvard has joined the “#BuildBackFossilFree coalition,” a group of activists working to push the incoming presidential administration “to bring about a just and stable future.”
Heitkamp likewise called on the University to promote research in carbon-neutral strategies and to “take a portion of that incredible endowment and reinvest it in the future technologies.”
McKibben wrote in an email that, if the White House is willing to confront the issue of climate change and examine lending to the fossil fuel industry, the University should be open to reexamining its own environmental impact.
“Joe Biden is clearly changing to reflect the realities of our planet — why not Harvard too?” McKibben wrote.
—Staff writer Kelsey J. Griffin can be reached at kelsey.griffin@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @kelseyjgriffin.
—Staff writer Kevin A. Simauchi can be reached at kevin.simauchi@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @Simauchi.
The Biden administration is set to include at least 63 Harvard-connected individuals as nominees or appointees, including 10 Cabinet-level officials.
Equipped with Harvard experience in a wide variety of ways — as alumni from the College, Law School, and Kennedy School, as Crimson editors, as professors or guest lecturers, or as fellows at the Institute of Politics — they will be tasked with helping Biden resolve a number of ongoing crises, most prominently the Covid-19 pandemic. Many will also be breaking new ground in their roles; if confirmed, the group will include the first openly gay Cabinet member, the first Black chair of the Council of Economic Advisors, and the first transgender official confirmed by the U.S. Senate.
Some of these individuals began their careers in politics under the Obama administration — notable for its extensive use of the President’s Harvard network — while others were brought on during the campaign itself, with members like incoming Chief of Staff Ronald A. Klain hiring former students onto the campaign.
“It’s no surprise that the kind of people who teach and attend Harvard would be involved in the Biden campaign: they are active, public-minded, and determined to change things for the better,” Klain wrote in an Oct. 28 email to The Crimson.
As of Jan. 19, here is a list of the Biden administration selections with Harvard ties:
Learn more about those tapped for Senate-confirmed positions and several senior administration officials:
Yohannes Abraham, who currently serves as the Executive Director of the Biden-Harris Transition Team, will be the Chief of Staff and Executive Secretary for the National Security Council. Abraham is currently an Adjunct Lecturer in Public Policy at the Harvard Kennedy School, where he was previously a Resident Fellow at the Institute of Politics. In the past, he served as Deputy Assistant to the President, Senior Advisor to the National Economic Council, and Senior Advisor at the Obama Foundation. As a Baker Scholar at Harvard Business School, Abraham received his M.B.A. with high distinction in 2019.
Under Biden, Antony J. Blinken ’84 will become the Secretary of State, pending Senate approval. He previously served as the Deputy Secretary of State and the Principal Deputy National Security Advisor during the Obama administration. Blinken concentrated in Social Studies and wrote for The Crimson before graduating magna cum laude from the College in 1984.
If the Senate confirms his nomination to be Secretary of Transportation, Peter P.M. “Pete” Buttigieg ’04 will become the first-ever openly gay Cabinet member. The former mayor of South Bend, Ind. gained national prominence as a 2020 Democratic presidential candidate. Before he held political office, Buttigieg completed a tour in Afghanistan as a naval intelligence officer. Living in Leverett House at the College, Buttigieg studied History and Literature, wrote a column for The Crimson, and was elected student president of the Institute of Politics. He graduated magna cum laude and was named a Rhodes Scholar.
Biden has tapped Jonathan G. Cedarbaum ’83 as Deputy Counsel to the President and legal advisor to the National Security Council. Cedarbaum previously worked as a partner at the law firm WilmerHale and as acting Assistant Attorney General for the Office of Legal Counsel under Obama. A Currier House resident, he concentrated in Philosophy and wrote for The Crimson before graduating magna cum laude from the College in 1983.
Rohit Chopra ’04 is Biden’s nominee to lead the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, with Senate consent. Having served in both the Trump and Obama administrations, he is currently a commissioner of the Federal Trade Commission, and served as the CFPB’s Assistant Director under Obama. While at the Bureau, he led reform efforts around student loans as its first student loan ombudsman. A 2004 College graduate with a concentration in Government, Chopra lived in Adams House and served as president of the Undergraduate Council in 2003.
Kristen Clarke ’97 has been named as the Assistant Attorney General for the Civil Rights Division under Biden, pending Senate approval. She is currently president and executive director of the National Lawyers’ Committee for Civil Rights Under Law. Clarke previously served in the Civil Rights Division of the Department of Justice and headed the Civil Rights Bureau for the New York State Attorney General’s Office. She attended Harvard College, concentrating in Government and serving as president of the Black Students Association before graduating cum laude in 1997.
Jonathan J. Finer ’98 will be the Principal Deputy National Security Advisor under Jacob J. Sullivan. He previously served as Middle East Advisor and Foreign Policy Speechwriter to then-Vice President Biden and Director of Policy Planning to Secretary of State John Kerry under the Obama administration. A Winthrop House resident, Finer graduated magna cum laude from Harvard College in 1998 and was awarded the Rhodes Scholarship. During his time at the College, Finer was a sportswriter for The Crimson and later worked as a national and foreign correspondent for the Washington Post.
Merrick B. Garland ’74 is the nominee for Attorney General, and if confirmed by the Senate, would lead a Justice Department deeply embroiled in prosecuting the rioters who stormed the U.S. Capitol. Appointed to the United States Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit by Bill Clinton in April 1997, Garland served as Chief Judge there from 2013 to 2020 and was nominated for the Supreme Court in 2016, only for Senate Republicans to refuse to hold a hearing on his nomination. A Social Studies concentrator living in Quincy House, Garland graduated summa cum laude from the College in 1974 and magna cum laude from Harvard Law School in 1977, writing news articles and theater reviews for The Crimson and editing the Harvard Law Review. He also worked as a freshman proctor and Quincy House tutor. He has since maintained close ties with the University, lecturing at the Law School in the 1980’s and serving on the Board of Overseers from 2003 to 2010, including as its president from 2009-2010, advocating for improvements to residential housing during that time.
Upon Senate approval, former two-term Michigan governor Jennifer M. Granholm will serve as Secretary of Energy under Biden. Granholm was Attorney General of Michigan prior to being the first woman to lead the state. During her tenure from 2003 to 2011, she worked to save the automobile industry amid the Great Recession and spearheaded efforts to grow the state’s clean energy sector. In 1987, she received her J.D. from Harvard Law School, where she was editor-in-chief of the Civil Rights–Civil Liberties Law Review.
Jessica R. Hertz ’03 is the incoming White House Staff Secretary, heading an office that controls all documents going in and out of the Oval Office. She currently serves as the general counsel for the Biden-Harris transition and was principal deputy counsel to Biden during the Obama presidency. As a Harvard undergraduate, Hertz lived in Leverett House, concentrated in History of Art and Architecture, and co-captained the women’s lightweight crew team.
David A. Kessler will be the Chief Science Officer of the White House Covid-19 Response Team. Currently, he serves as the co-chair of the Covid-19 Task Force in the Biden transition and is a professor of pediatrics and epidemiology and biostatistics at University of California, San Francisco. From 1990 to 1997, Kessler was the Commissioner of the Food and Drug Administration, where he led the development and approval of AIDS drugs, and later became dean of Yale University’s School of Medicine. He graduated from Harvard Medical School in 1977.
As the next White House Chief of Staff — a position which does not require Senate confirmation — Ronald A. Klain will control access to the President and be responsible for his schedule and staffing. A longtime Biden associate, having advised his 1988 and 2008 Presidential campaigns, Klain served as the “Ebola czar” to President Barack H. Obama and as chief of staff to two vice presidents, Biden and Al A. Gore ’69. He graduated magna cum laude from Harvard Law School in 1987, serving as a research assistant to renowned law professor Laurence H. Tribe ’62 and editor of the Harvard Law Review, as well as earning the highly-coveted Sears Prize for highest grade average in 1985. A former Law School lecturer, Klain wrote a 2015 op-ed for The Crimson on the lessons of defeat.
Upon Senate approval, Eric S. Lander will serve as director of Office of Science and Technology Policy and Presidential Science Advisor, a new Cabinet-level position. A career scientist, Lander was one of the principal architects of the Human Genome Project and has made foundational contributions to genomics. Lander is currently a Professor of Systems Biology at Harvard Medical School and president and founding director of the Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard. He plans to step down from his leadership position at the Broad Institute and take a leave of absence to join the Biden administration, according to the Harvard Gazette, a University-run publication.
Rachel L. Levine ’79 will serve as Assistant Secretary for Health, pending Senate approval. She currently leads Pennsylvania’s Covid-19 response as the state’s Secretary of Health and is also a Professor of Pediatrics and Psychiatry at the Penn State College of Medicine. An advocate for BGLTQ healthcare rights, Levine would become the first transgender federal official confirmed by the Senate. She graduated magna cum laude from the College in 1979, living in Mather House and concentrating in biology.
Biden has named Janet G. McCabe ’80 as Deputy Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, pending Senate confirmation. McCabe served in the EPA under Obama, working in the Office of Air and Radiation and helping to develop the Clean Power Plan. McCabe graduated magna cum laude from the College in 1980, concentrating in Classics and living in what is now Cabot House, before receiving her J.D. from Harvard Law School in 1983.
Gina McCarthy will coordinate the White House’s domestic climate policy as the Biden administration’s National Climate Advisor — a new position Biden created as he intends to pursue bold, swift climate action during his presidency. McCarthy was the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency during the Obama administration and currently helms the Natural Resources Defense Council. At Harvard, McCarthy was a professor of the practice at the School of Public Health and chair of the board of directors of the school’s Center for Climate, Health, and the Global Environment.
Jason S. Miller has been nominated by the Biden administration as the Deputy Director for Management for the Office of Management and Budget, pending Senate confirmation. Under Obama, Miller served as Deputy Assistant to the President and Deputy Director of the National Economic Council, where he led a number of initiatives on job creation. Miller attended the Kennedy School, where he graduated with a Master’s in Public Administration in 2006.
Lisa O. Monaco ’90 is the Biden administration’s nominee for Deputy Attorney General. During the Obama administration, Monaco served as the President’s Homeland Security Advisor, the chief advisor to the president on counterterrorism. Though she will only assume her new post upon confirmation by the U.S. Senate, Biden requested Monaco serve as temporary homeland security advisor to coordinate security efforts for the inauguration on Jan. 20. At the College, Monaco concentrated in History and Literature and lived in what is now Pforzheimer House. She returned to Cambridge after her tenure in the Obama administration as a senior fellow with the Belfer Center’s Homeland Security Project at the Kennedy School.
If he is again confirmed by the Senate, Vivek H. Murthy ’98 will serve as the U.S. Surgeon General under at least two presidents. As Biden’s surgeon general, Murthy will help lead the nation’s fight against the coronavirus crisis, which has entered its most dire stage yet. Murthy has experience coordinating the government’s response to viruses. During the Obama administration, he oversaw the nation’s containment of the Ebola and Zika outbreaks. At the College, Murthy studied Biochemical Sciences and lived in Quincy House. Since graduating magna cum laude in 1998, he has returned to Harvard to speak about various health care challenges facing the country.
Samantha J. Power is the nominee for Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development, and if confirmed by the Senate, would lead the agency’s efforts to promote democracy, combat poverty, and provide humanitarian aid around the world. She served as the U.S. Ambassador to the UN during the Obama administration. She helped to rally support to fight the Ebola epidemic and voted to ratify the Paris Climate Accord during her tenure. Power graduated cum laude from Harvard Law School in 1999, returning as a joint professor at the Law School and the Kennedy School in 2017. A Pulitzer Prize-winning journalist, Power was the founding executive director of the Kennedy School’s Carr Center for Human Rights Policy.
Rhode Island Governor Gina M. Raimondo ’93 has been named as the Biden administration’s Secretary of Commerce, pending Senate confirmation. Prior to her role as governor, Raimondo co-founded the first venture capital firm in Rhode Island, Point Judith Capital, and was the state’s General Treasurer for four years. Before graduating magna cum laude from the College in 1993 with a concentration in Economics, she lived in Quincy House and was part of the Crimson’s Business board as well as the Radcliffe Rugby Club.
Dana A. Remus ’97 has been named White House Counsel after serving as the top lawyer for the Biden-Harris presidential campaign and as the White House ethics lawyer during the Obama administration. At the College, Remus was captain of the women’s heavyweight crew team and received national and league distinctions. She lived in Leverett House, concentrated in East Asian Studies, and graduated summa cum laude.
Julissa Reynoso Pantaleón ’97 has been appointed Chief of Staff to First Lady Jill Biden. Prior to her appointment, Reynoso was a partner at a law firm in New York. During the Obama administration, she served as U.S. Ambassador to Uruguay from 2012 to 2014 and Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for the Western Hemisphere. Before graduating magna cum laude from the College in 1997 with a concentration in Government, Reynoso lived in Adams House and led Fuerza Quisqueyana, today called Fuerza Latina.
Susan E. Rice has been appointed as the Biden Administration's Director of the White House Domestic Policy Council, which does not require Senate approval. She previously served as National Security Advisor in the Obama Administration from 2013 to 2017 and U.S. Ambassador to the UN from 2009 to 2013. Rice is a non-resident senior fellow at the Harvard Kennedy School’s Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs.
U.S. Representative Cedric L. Richmond (D-La.) will join the new administration as the director of the White House Office of Public Engagement and as a senior advisor to the president. Richmond, who chaired the Congressional Black Caucus during the 115th Congress, is a graduate of the Harvard Kennedy School’s Executive Education Program.
Cecilia E. Rouse ’86 is the nominee for Chair of the Council of Economic Advisors, the President’s panel on economic policy, which is responsible for issuing recommendations on the basis of empirical research. If confirmed by the Senate, Rouse would be the first African American chair in the Council’s history. Since 2012, she has served as dean of the Princeton School of Public Affairs, with a research focus on labor economics, and was a member of the Council during the Obama administration. Rouse graduated magna cum laude from Harvard College in 1986 with a concentration in Economics, and went on to earn a Ph.D. in Economics from the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences in 1992.
Catherine M. Russell, former chief of staff for then-Second Lady Jill T. Biden, has been tapped to direct the White House Office of Presidential Personnel, which vets administration appointees. In the Obama administration, she served as United States Ambassador-at-Large for Global Women's Issues. Russell was a spring 2019 resident fellow at the Institute of Politics and Vice Chair of the Biden-Harris Campaign.
Symone D. Sanders will be the senior advisor and chief spokesperson for Vice President Kamala D. Harris, neither position requiring Senate confirmation. She served as the youngest presidential press secretary in history to then-presidential candidate Bernie Sanders in 2016 at age 25, before joining CNN as a political commentator. Her past advocacy work includes chairing the Coalition of Juvenile Justice Emerging Leaders Committee and serving on the Federal Advisory Committee on Juvenile Justice, crucial for a Biden administration that has made criminal justice reform a priority. Sanders was a Harvard Institute of Politics Fellow in spring 2018.
Upon Senate approval, Wendy R. Sherman, currently the Director of the Center for Public Leadership at the Harvard Kennedy School and Professor of the Practice of Public Leadership, will become Deputy Secretary of State. She is also presently a senior fellow at the Kennedy School’s Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs. In the past, Sherman served as Under Secretary of State for Political Affairs and was the lead negotiator of the Iranian nuclear deal in 2015. She would be the first woman to serve as Deputy Secretary of State.
Elizabeth D. Sherwood-Randall ’81 has been appointed Homeland Security Advisor and Deputy National Security Advisor. From 2014 to 2017, she served as Deputy Secretary at the U.S. Department of Energy, and during the Obama administration, she was the White House Coordinator for Defense Policy, Countering Weapons of Mass Destruction, and Arms Control. Sherwood-Randall is a non-resident senior fellow at the Harvard Kennedy School’s Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs and graduated magna cum laude from the College in 1981 with a concentration in Social Studies.
Katherine C. Tai is the nominee for United States Trade Representative, and if confirmed, would be the first Asian American and woman of color to serve in the position. Tai has served as Chief Trade Counsel for the U.S. House of Representatives Ways and Means Committee since 2017, handling negotiations in Congress on the United States–Mexico–Canada Agreement, and previously served as chief counsel for China trade enforcement, which will inform her work as the United States’ top trade negotiator in the wake of Trump’s “trade war” with China. Tai graduated from Harvard Law School in 2001.
Annie Tomasini, who worked as the Biden campaign’s traveling chief of staff, will become Director of Oval Office Operations. She served as Biden’s Deputy Press Secretary when he was Vice President, and Press Secretary when he was a senator and chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. From 2010 to 2019, Tomasini worked for Harvard Public Affairs and Communications, most recently as Senior Director of State, Local, and Community Relations and Strategic Outreach, which included handling communications around the University’s initiatives in Allston.
Polly E. Trottenberg has been nominated as Deputy Secretary of Transportation, pending Senate confirmation. Highly experienced in the field, she served as Assistant Secretary for Transportation Policy and Under Secretary for Policy in the Department of Transportation during the Obama administration. Since 2014, Trottenberg has been New York City’s Transportation Commissioner. She graduated from the Kennedy School with a Master’s in Public Policy in 1992.
Rochelle P. Walensky has been named as the Biden administration’s Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, which does not require Senate approval. Walensky currently serves as a professor of medicine at Harvard Medical School and Chief of the Infectious Disease division at Massachusetts General Hospital, conducting research on the frontline of the Covid-19 pandemic. She received her Master’s in Public Health from Harvard’s School of Public Health in 2001.
In the 1970’s, Janet L. Yellen taught Harvard students economics. In 2021, she will serve as Secretary of the Treasury, upon confirmation by the Senate. Yellen has served in the past two Democratic presidents’ administrations. She was the chair of the Federal Reserve during the Obama administration and chaired then-President Bill Clinton’s Council of Economic Advisors from 1977-1999.
Ali A. Zaidi ’08 will be the Deputy National Climate Advisor under Gina McCarthy, with both set to take an active role in shaping the newly formed White House Office of Domestic Climate Policy. Zaidi currently serves as New York’s Deputy Secretary for Energy and Environment, and, during the Obama administration, helped to draft and implement the Climate Action Plan and negotiate the Paris Climate Accords. Zaidi graduated from Harvard College in 2008, concentrating in Government and serving on the Undergraduate Council — at one point running for its presidency — and as president of the Harvard Islamic Society.
—Staff writer Tracy Jiang can be reached at tracy.jiang@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @_tracyjiang_.
—Staff writer Brandon L. Kingdollar can be reached at brandon.kingdollar@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter at @newskingdollar.
—Staff writer Alex Koller can be reached at alex.koller@thecrimson.com.
—Staff writer Hannah J. Martinez can be reached at hannah.martinez@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @martinezhannahj.
—Staff writer Leah J. Teichholtz can be reached at leah.teichholtz@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @LeahTeichholtz.
Since President Donald J. Trump entered the White House, his administration has sought to curtail immigration to the United States — a move that has threatened individuals and industries alike, including higher education.
That’s about to change.
President-elect Joseph R. Biden Jr. has vowed to roll out a far-reaching overhaul of federal immigration laws Wednesday, his Inauguration Day.
Though experts and advocates said they are hopeful that Biden’s reforms will ease legal restrictions on immigration, they noted that institutional change will require more time.
Harvard administrators, including University President Lawrence S. Bacow, have publicly challenged Trump’s immigration policy over the past four years through letters, lobbying, and lawsuits. Experts agree that higher education leaders, campuses, and advocacy groups must join the government in pushing for change.
Miriam Feldblum, the executive director of the The Presidents' Alliance on Higher Education and Immigration, emphasized the hurdles the new administration may face in rolling back the countless anti-immigration policies that came out of the Trump White House, which she called “an outrageous betrayal of the aspirations of the U.S.”
“The harms of the past four years can’t be undone overnight,” Feldblum said.
In 2017, Trump temporarily prohibited entry of travelers from seven Muslim-majority countries and announced a plan to phase out Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, a protection for undocumented immigrants who were brought to the U.S. as children. Both changes impacted Harvard affiliates: several were barred from entering the country for weeks and up to eight months, and dozens of undocumented students feared the end of DACA could lead to their deportation.
In 2018, Trump instated a family separation policy as part of a larger “zero tolerance policy” approach intended to toughen immigration policy at the United States’ southern border. In addition, he deployed troops to the border and made it increasingly more difficult for immigrants to seek asylum.
The Trump administration also announced plans to terminate Temporary Protected Status — a program that safeguards foreign nationals facing dangers in their home countries — for immigrants from El Salvador, Haiti, Nicaragua, and Sudan. In 2018, over 200 Harvard affiliates from El Salvador were TPS recipients.
In 2019, the administration continued to introduce more immigration restrictions, such as requiring visa applicants to disclose social media identifiers and collecting their biometric data.
In fact, when Ismail B. Ajjawi ’23 — a Palestinian resident of Tyre, Lebanon — first arrived at Boston Logan International Airport in August 2019, he underwent several hours of questioning and had his phone and computer searched by immigration officers before he was deported.
In 2020, as the coronavirus pandemic forced Harvard to transition to a virtual format, the Department of Homeland Security and the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement attempted to prohibit international students at online-only universities from remaining in the U.S.
Though reversed following a lawsuit by Harvard and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, the reversal did not apply to international freshmen in need of F-1 sponsorships, effectively barring international freshmen from coming to campus during the fall semester.
The administration also launched an effort to regulate Optional Practical Training of F-1 visas, which allows international students to apply to work temporarily in the U.S. post-graduation. The DHS also proposed the elimination of “duration of status,” threatening the ability of students on educational visas to complete their course of study.
Overall, throughout his term, Trump introduced a plethora of requirements that made immigration to the U.S. more challenging.
“It's going to take time to reverse the damage, and it’s going to take energy and commitment for us to move forward as a country,” Feldblum said.
Biden is expected to start implementing changes on his first day. He will sign a list of executive orders, including a reversal of the ban on individuals from Muslim-majority nations and sending Congress his proposal for an eight-year path to citizenship.
He has also promised to protect recipients of programs like DACA, TPS, and other asylum-seekers and refugees to uphold “our values as a nation of immigrants,” according to his website.
While Biden’s campaign website does not explicitly state proposed changes to accommodate international students, several experts expressed hopes that the administration will make changes to actively recruit and retain foreign students.
“What can be done in the first 100 days is send a clear message to international students. ‘You are welcome here,’ ‘We want to ensure that you have the ability to come and work and contribute in the U.S.,’” Feldblum said.
Eleanor Pelta — the former president of the American Immigration Lawyers Association and a graduate of Harvard Law school — also said that general policy shifts will help higher education institutions welcome international students, even in the absence of specific policies that support foreign students.
“We haven't seen a lot of very specific things in the announced platform that specifically relate to foreign students,” she said. “But I think that there is a recognition that foreign students, not only are extremely important members of the community for us institutions of higher education, but also that other immigration policies impact whether our institutions of higher education continue to be a draw for foreign students.”
Yasmine Omri ’24 and Tommaso Serafin ’24 — first-years from Tunisia and Italy, respectively — were unable to join their peers on campus in the fall due to federal visa restrictions.
Both expressed hopes that they will have more opportunities under Biden than Trump.
“I hope that the immigration policy will become more flexible and understanding in these times of crisis, allowing international students to have the same opportunities as the domestic ones,” Serafin wrote in an email to The Crimson. “More generally, I hope that the sense of mistrust towards immigrants will be repelled, allowing the US to be a welcoming place for everyone, no matter where they’re from.”
Omri said she recognized the importance of regulation, but also hopes immigration policies and visa requirements will be eased under the new administration.
“I understand that there will be some restrictions and regulations — that’s necessary for every country to have. I just hope that rejection would not be the norm,” she said.
Others questioned whether policies Biden has proposed will do enough to support immigrants and international students.
Jason Corral, a staff attorney for the Harvard Immigration and Refugee Clinical Program at Harvard Law School, wrote in an email to The Crimson that DACA and TPS recipients need more than “rhetorical promises” from the incoming administration.
“The rhetoric coming from the Biden administration is definitely more supportive of people with DACA and TPS. However, we need to push forward toward a more permanent solution for people with DACA and TPS that includes a pathway to citizenship,” Corral wrote.
“For this we will need more than the rhetorical promises of the Biden Administration. We will need Congress to make permanent protection for people with DACA and TPS a priority,” he added.
Heba H. Mohamed ’23, a member of the Harvard Islamic Society, emphasized that it is not enough for Biden to simply reverse policies, such as the ban on individuals from Muslim-majority nations, as he has vowed to do.
“We are happy about this promise, but the question of whether this action will reverse the ban's impact remains,” she wrote in an emailed statement. “Many refugees were stranded and denied critical healthcare. Many families were divided.”
“Our hope is that the Biden administration will not just stop at reversing Trump's ban, but that it will also be cognizant of the long-term consequences it left on many Muslims,” Mohamed added.
Sarah Spreitzer, director of Government Relations at the American Council on Education, said the Biden administration is likely to be more pro-immigrant.
“I think immigration policy under the Biden administration will be hopeful,” Spreitzer said. “There will be more regular order. And I’m hopeful that the Biden administration will also work with Congress to pass some comprehensive immigration legislation.”
“It's incumbent upon colleges and universities in the U.S. to think about how we can be part of the solution,” Feldblum said.
—Staff writer Dohyun Kim can be reached at dohyun.kim@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @dohyunkim__.
—Staff writer Maria G. Gonzalez can be reached at maria.gonzalez@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @mariaagrace1.
Sections
The Harvard life truly isn’t the same as it once was, so try bringing Harvard to you! Enjoy this list of movies and TV shows that drop the H-bomb, some more than others, to remind you of your home away from home while we’re all desperately ignoring Shopping Week.
Gilmore Girls
Need a feel-good show to escape the reality that classes are starting soon? Try Gilmore Girls! The mother-daughter duo, Lorelai and Rory, are witty, smart, and dangerously caffeinated, and their extremely fast talking will leave you in awe. In the first three seasons, Rory dedicates her life to doing well at her preppy private school, working diligently with the hopes of getting into her dream college, Harvard. Best of all, after you’ve finished all seven seasons, there are four extra episodes on Netflix filmed ten years later!
The Social Network
Sure, The Social Network made it seem like a breeze to create a billion-dollar website from the comfort of a dorm room, while you’re still sporting your favorite Christmas pajamas. Follow Mark Zuckerberg as he hacks every House’s information, interacts with classmates (in person!!! without masks!!!), and obsessively talks about the social scene on campus. You’ll feel your heart pang every time a character drops some familiar Harvard lingo.
The Bachelorette 
Drama. Comedy. Love. Bromance. The Bachelorette has it all! If you missed Tayshia’s season last month, watch it for free on the ABC app. You’ll laugh when Harvard alumnus Bennett was unable to spell “limousine” correctly or solve a basic subtraction problem, but you’ll also immediately take it back when you shamefully punch in “2 times 4” in a graphing calculator on your first spring semester pset. Indeed, the Bachelorette takes you on an emotional rollercoaster.
Friends From College
Friends From College is about a group of friends who met as college students at Harvard and are now entering their 40s. Together, they relive old memories, create new ones, and explore romantic relationships. At this point, there are very few differences between you and alumni: you also haven’t seen your companions in months and you all reminisce about the days on campus with nostalgic smiles.
The Kissing Booth 2
Who doesn’t love a Netflix teen movie with a predictable ending? The Kissing Booth 2 has the three key traits of a classic romcom: a love triangle, actors too old for their roles, and an ultimate obstacle that tests the main characters’ love for one another. You’ve probably already heard that this is a great movie to binge and cringe, but at the sight of the familiar Harvard brick walls, you’ll also feel some school pride. We recommend having some Veritaffles nearby to really help you feel like you’re living a normal life on campus.
Hopefully, you’ll get to see Harvard in person soon rather than through a screen — for now, binge on these shows and movies before a new semester begins.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
In early May 2020, former Secretary of Education Betsy D. DeVos released a controversial Title IX rule that drummed up controversy, criticism, and confusion at Harvard and beyond. How will the incoming Biden administration deal with the rule?
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
