News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Last week, Harvard’s ties to the Ku Klux Klan in the early 1900s were made public with the reveal of a not-so-shocking yet disturbing photo: Ten Harvard student KKK members donning white robes crowded the John Harvard statue on Class Day 1924. What struck me was not the underlying bigotry and white supremacy that seemed to fit so perfectly with an administration that accepted very few Black students at the time, but the anonymity of those ten white students. To this day, we have no evidence of who those students are.
A name that we do know is that of Black Harvard undergraduate, J. Max Bond Jr. ’55, who was admitted to Harvard College at the age of 16. In 1952, Bond witnessed a cross burning take place in Harvard Yard. Decades later, the perpetrators continue to live in the bliss of anonymity — while Bond was reportedly threatened with suspension from the University should he go to the media following the incident. Bond’s attempt to hold his white classmates accountable for such public displays of racism was futile, and the cross burning was dismissed as a simple prank.
Bond’s legacy has yet to be established on Harvard’s campus, but he deserves to be commemorated. So, this piece is for J. Max Bond Jr. The burden to unearth and protest racism should have never fallen on Bond in the first place.
As of now — and apparently, since the 1920s — this work has fallen on the backs of Black scholars, for free. Whether it's relaying stories of the Harvard branches of the Ku Klux Klan in the 1900s or calling out microaggressions in academia, Black people have been at the forefront of these efforts.
In my day to day, I find myself pushing back on the generalizations made in my government classes based on just one dataset (which was likely biased to begin with) and questioning the overwhelmingly white literature we read in my humanities classes. I’ve been the student that receives the seemingly sweet but truly unsettling “thank you” messages in the class GroupMe chats after speaking up when I noticed an oversight in lecture. I’ve been asked how this country can fix racism, as if I had anything to do with its creation. There is no doubt that navigating these experiences is unfair for Black students. Black students should not be expected to hold Harvard or any other institution accountable for its complacency toward discrimination, ever.
Harvard’s recent attempts to reconcile its history with its supposed goals for diversity and inclusion on campus must happen without increasing the burden on students of color. Black students’ outrage cannot always spark these discussions. Members of the Harvard administration must instigate these discussions among themselves. Combatting and dismantling racism requires collective action — so it’s time for everyone else to step up. Those who profit from racism, even unknowingly, must recognize it. Stop being shocked that racism has played a significant role in the infrastructure of our institution. Let’s start actively acknowledging it.
The Presidential Committee on Harvard and the Legacy of Slavery is working to examine Harvard’s ties to slavery. The goals of this new committee sound noble enough, but it needs to do more than just symbolic work on reckoning with Harvard’s current and former ties to slavery — and at the very least must publicly denounce them. The University’s objectives also need to extend beyond a performative and ambiguous umbrella goal of "diversity and inclusion," and instead take tangible actions to help Black students on campus feel fully supported by the administration.
Black students cannot be the designated race experts anymore. I have been one of those students. J. Max Bond Jr. was one of those students. It is not our job to educate the University and its affiliates on how to address its historic oppression of people of color.
If Harvard wants to strengthen their new initiative for more diversity and institutional accountability, Black students alone can’t fuel it.
Ebony M. Smith ’24 is a Crimson Editorial editor in Eliot House.
Have a suggestion, question, or concern for The Crimson Editorial Board? Click here.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
In witnessing a rise of anti-Asian violence due to the pandemic, I have found it difficult to process how quickly we have broken our promise to protect vulnerable communities before their lives are taken. Asian Americans have been discussing the ongoing violence, hatred, and racially motivated attacks they have experienced since the pandemic’s onset, yet the cycle of death creating “progress” happens once again.
On March 16, a series of mass shootings took place at three spas and massage parlors located in Atlanta, Ga. Eight were killed, two were wounded, and of the eight, six of them were Asian women.
This hate crime was not the result of mental illness, but a symptom of the growing virus of racism, misogyny, and xenophobia. We are witnessing the result of violences that Asian women have long endured — fetishization, infantilization, and hypersexualization.
Many news media and articles continue to discuss what the Black community can do to demonstrate solidarity. Sources such as NBC are calling on the Black community to remedy the relationship between Black and Asian Americans, but who is the real culprit? White supremacy has succeeded in pitting Black and Asian Americans against each other. Both are victims on the extreme ends of a spectrum: Asian Americans have to combat the “Model Minority Myth” while Black Americans are characterized as the villain of that tale.
There are conversations to be had, and issues to address, but the only way to build alliances and create long-term interracial solidarity is by uncovering the histories of both Black and Asian American women, and coming to understand how these histories helped construct their identities. As women of color, it is vital that we enter conversations with the understanding that we have all learned how to survive in our own ways. The manners that we resist may manifest differently but are rooted in the same desire to grow and disrupt spaces to create futures for ourselves and those to follow us.
Despite Black and Asian American women’s connectedness, there has been very little conversation between the two groups at Harvard and beyond, even when we are both facing brutality, violence, and can assist one another during these times. By redirecting discourse to these women’s crisscrossing rivers, our words and authentic mutual support can begin to flow.
Microaggressions such as the question “Where are you from?” are rooted in the histories of the Asian Americans and Black Americans whose labor has constructed our current society, largely through means of slavery and exploitation. Chinese Americans, for example, were forced to construct the Transcontinental Railroad at lower pay than their white counterparts, with many dying due to the lethality of mining. We can be used to make America and simultaneously be forced to justify our “Americanness” when it is both groups’ sweat and blood that form the ground on which we walk.
This question also specifically targets Asian American women by emphasizing the idea that they are foreign or exotic, which plays into their fetishization. Terms such as “china doll,” “baby face,” and “porcelain,” infantilize Asian women, stripping them of their agency and justifying their assault — and in the case of the Atlanta shootings, murder.
While Asian American women face infantilization, Black women face adultification. But ultimately, we are two sides of the same coin, prone to violence and assault. Based on a report by the Asian Pacific Institute on Gender-Based Violence, Asian American women report hate crimes 2.3 times more frequently than their male counterparts; 21 to 55 percent of Asian Women report experiencing intimate physical and/or sexual violence. Many reports reveal the homogenization of Asian Americans through ignorant racial slurs that ignore the immense diversity within the Asian diaspora — including East, Southeast, and South Asians, as well as Pacific Islanders — illustrating the misrepresentation and erasure of many AAPI women.
Many of us have heard of the Chinese Exclusion Act, which banned Chinese immigrants from entering the U.S. However, its congressional predecessor was the 1875 Page Act, which uniquely targeted Chinese women on the basis that they were possible sex -workers who would corrupt the nation.
The Page Act is symbolic of a recurring theme that all women of color experience: erasure and lack of protection by the law. The Page Act uniquely targeted and excluded Chinese women on the basis of both race and gender — similar to various laws that target Black women, including hair discrimination and lack of legal protection against sexual assault. Asian women were excluded from creating community and reuniting with their families due to these laws and additional forms of otherization, which run parallel to the systematic separation of families via police brutality, mass incarceration, school-to-prison pipeline, that continues to tear Black mothers from their children and family, and is likewise grounded in racialized and gendered violence and exclusion.
For us to heal wounds, we must turn to ourselves and recognize the ways that our narratives and experiences intersect. Alliances between Black and Asian women have been demonstrated through movements and organizations, including: the Conference of the Women of Asia 1949, which amplified the global anti-imperialist struggle; the Bandung Conference of 1955, at which Asian and African nations convened to discuss peace and politics in the Cold War era; the ongoing media effort, the Blasian Project; and conversations between several Black and Asian female leaders such as Audre Lorde, Angela Davis, Yuri Kochiyama, and Grace Lee Boggs.
The burden of Black and Asian women is to care, value, and cherish one another. Telling each other our stories, detailing our histories, is necessary for our rivers to bridge; for us to mobilize together.
This article is not about strategizing to combat the greater oppressive forces of white supremacy, which still must be done, but is about cultivating and embracing the women around us and the violence we collectively experience. Within this sharing can come laughter, beauty, and recognition of our stories, so that we can create spaces, worlds, and futures that embrace us and see us for all that we are and all that we can be.
Ogechukwu C. Ogbogu ’24 lives in Wigglesworth Hall. Her column appears on alternate Thursdays.
Have a suggestion, question, or concern for The Crimson Editorial Board? Click here.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Racism directed against Asian people in America is old and urgent. The recent murder spree carried out in Asian spas and massage parlors in Atlanta — in which eight people, including six Asian women, were shot and killed — is the latest horrific entry in the history of violence Asian American and Pacific Islanders have been subject to in the United States.
This violence sickens and shocks us, but perhaps our shock is a failure in and of itself. Asian Americans have been sounding the alarm on their lack of protection for over a year as attacks against Asian Americans have sharply risen. Covid-19, despicably dubbed “Kung Flu” and “the Chinese Virus” by former President Donald Trump, has triggered a wave of irrational violence against people of Asian descent. Between this piece’s publication and when our board first gathered to grapple with the Atlanta shooting, a woman of Filipino descent was brutally attacked in Times Square by a man spitting that she did not “belong here.” Yet even as the threat became more evident and pressing — even as New York reported a more than nine-fold increase in anti-Asian hate crimes, and an 84-year-old Thai man lost his life in San Francisco to a brutal attack his family describes as racially motivated — most of American society remained unfazed until Atlanta. It took a massacre for us to pay attention.
This is a pattern of behavior for America: Victims of racism that cry out for help are ridiculed, ignored, and accused of crying wolf. Then, when the unimaginable happens, we rediscover what entire communities already knew. The wolf wins the day, and those outside of the marginalized group are shocked and — briefly — sympathize.
Learning from Atlanta must mean learning to listen. To listen when we can still save lives and not just when they’re lost; to listen when we’re told that sustained antiracism that isn’t pushed or pulled by trends is crucial for the safety of our peers.
The deaths of Xiaojie Tan, Daoyou Feng, Delaina Ashley Yaun, Paul Andre Michels, Soon Chung Park, Hyun Jung Grant, Suncha Kim, and Yong Yue were not inevitable, and “learning” from them cannot possibly atone for the undeniable loss and horror their slaughter creates. Our inaction — our failure to combat the pervasive dehumanization of our Asian and Asian American peers — failed them. This failure sears and is irredeemable, but it doesn’t mean acting to combat further anti-Asian violence is futile.
So what does action look like? First, it means stating bluntly and unequivocally that the Atlanta tragedy was an act of virulent racism. Doing so is crucial for the sake of accuracy, as well as plain decency; mincing words on this is racist. It’s cruel that Asian Americans have to cope with the simultaneous traumatization this hate crime and its erasure present, and it is on everyone to set the record straight.
The suspect in the Atlanta shootings claims that he was not racially motivated; that his decision to shoot up three separate Asian-affiliated establishments was a reflection of his ‘“sex addiction” and desire to remove the “temptation” Asian spas presented. The sheriff in the county the crime took place seemingly sympathized, saying on the alleged perpetrator: “He was pretty much fed up and kind of at the end of his rope. Yesterday was a really bad day for him and this is what he did.”
This coddling and utterly absurd response underscore how racism and white supremacy shaped the course and fallout of the Atlanta shooting.
We are a country with a rich history of coddling white, male mass murderers. Authorities and the media extend undue sympathy even when their crimes demonstrate an extreme disregard for human life. It’s a privilege we rarely afford other demographics; one we only seem eager to extend when victims, unlike the perpetrator, belong to a minority group: Cops buying mass murderer Dylan Roof Burger King comes to mind. The dynamic is symptomatic of how racist biases and misconceptions can shape our response to crime, and of how failing to understand their pervasive influence can mean completely misinterpreting the root of tragedies born from racial hatred.
Police sympathy for this suspected murder doesn’t eliminate the fact that the fetishization of Asian women is inseparable from white supremacy — it has been for centuries. It was white supremacy that led to the passage of the 1875 Page Act, a prelude to the Chinese Exclusion Act which specifically barred Chinese women from entering the United States over concerns that they were sex workers. It was white supremacy that helped convince America that it had to establish itself as an imperial power in the Asia Pacific, where Asian women were subject to sexual violence and pornographic objectification, particularly in Vietnam and Korea. And it was white supremacy that allowed hypersexualized portrayals of Asian women to become culturally and pornographically commonplace, perpetuating stereotypes about sexual desirability, docility, and disempowerment.
Racist tropes kill. Atlanta’s six were victims of the same forces that regularly place Asian-related terms at the top of pornographic searches, of the same supremacist bedrock that influenced our foreign policy for decades. This racist past helps explain our murderous present. It might also offer a tentative path forward: solidarity.
Solidarity means focusing on our common societal goal of defeating white supremacy, whatever shape it takes. In doing so, we must avoid pitting urgently needed movements against each other; forcing them to prove their comparative validity. Oppression Olympics are counterproductive, particularly when the common, violent enemy looms as large as white supremacy. Stop Asian Hate must function as a rightful ally of its counterparts like Black Lives Matter; minority ethnic groups standing in solidarity against the lashes of white hatred and rage. As for white Americans: Start fighting white supremacy in your own communities.
Solidarity among marginalized groups counters white supremacy in and of itself by chipping at the model minority myth, used to pit Asian people against other minority groups and to promote the falsehood that anyone can succeed their way out of racism. The financial success of some Asian Americans has been weaponized to perpetuate the notion that other people of color could achieve the same success if only they worked hard enough. The model minority myth not only glosses over the huge income disparity that exists within the Asian American community but also ignores the historical injustices and systemic barriers that have been constructed to keep African Americans specifically in poverty. Expressions of unity are one way to dispel this insidious myth, alongside rejecting any stereotype that caricatures the incredibly diverse Asian American and Pacific Islander community as a monolith.
Harvard needs to play its role as well — ideally beyond telling our peers that they “may wish” they weren’t Asian. We appreciate the routine email stream administrators sent out following the Atlanta shooting. These acknowledgments are necessary. But much like this summer, the real work begins when the emails end; when public outcry and pain are no longer forcing a response out of the administration. Harvard needs to critically examine what it teaches and what it does not teach. In particular, creating an ethnic studies department and furthering curricular offerings in this area is long overdue, especially when it comes to communities subjected to the U.S. as a colonial power, such as the Philippines. The erasure of narratives of American imperial violence has and will continue to cause real-world violence.
Finally, to our Asian American peers: We see you, and understand that Atlanta is just the latest straw after a year-long onslaught of unjustified vilification and hatred. You deserve better than the response Harvard has given you, and more than what this editorial could ever offer. In the aftermath of Atlanta, we can offer no silver lining; only a reaffirmed commitment from this board to listen, learn, and use our voice to discuss and dismantle anti-Asian hate as best we know how.
This staff editorial solely represents the majority view of The Crimson Editorial Board. It is the product of discussions at regular Editorial Board meetings. In order to ensure the impartiality of our journalism, Crimson editors who choose to opine and vote at these meetings are not involved in the reporting of articles on similar topics.
Have a suggestion, question, or concern for The Crimson Editorial Board? Click here.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Harvard has been drawn into yet another expensive political dispute over a construction project in Allston — this time over a drainpipe that the University maintains is essential to prevent flooding in its new developments. Opponents contend the project has been advanced without transparency and engagement with stakeholders.
As the Boston Water and Sewer Commission and Harvard proceed with the North Allston Storm Drain Extension Project — an estimated $50 million endeavor the University has pledged to fully fund — local politicians, residents, and environmental groups have called for further investigation into its potential environmental impacts.
The BWSC, which will own and operate the drainpipe, wrote in its environmental notification form filed with the state in February that the project intends “to address longstanding deficiencies” in the existing system, which have resulted in “substantial surface ponding and flooding” in the vicinity.
According to the filing, the project will involve creating a new “trunk drain system,” more than doubling the diameter of the existing pipe in some locations, and re-routing it to a “new BWSC-owned outfall” that will empty into the Charles River next to the River Street Bridge. The BWSC will also add in two new hydrodynamic separators to filter out pollutants from the collected stormwater.
Altogether, the new infrastructure aims to decrease flood volume by more than 53 percent, per the filing from BWSC.
Construction of the drainpipe expansion will span 24 months and require the installation of a temporary crane on top of a 40-foot by 40-foot platform adjacent to the outfall site, according to form.
John Sullivan, chief engineer at the BWSC, said the University’s pledge to pay for the project means that the BWSC will not have to raise sewer rates for local residents as much as it would have otherwise.
Much of the Harvard-owned land in North Allston lies in a future flood zone. University spokesperson Brigid O’Rourke wrote in an email that the project would protect residents and property owners in approximately 160 acres of North Allston from flooding and property damage in the case of a substantial storm.
Before the drainpipe expansion proceeds, however, the BWSC and Harvard require approval from the Massachusetts legislature because the project will involve construction on a portion of state parkland, according to the Boston Globe.
Several legislators are already wary of the project, signaling the potential challenge of securing such approval.
In a March 4 letter to Massachusetts Secretary of Energy and Environmental Affairs Kathleen A. Theoharides, legislators representing North Allston, State Rep. Michael J. Moran and State Sen. Sal N. DiDomenico, wrote they had “not even begun to consider” granting the approval, citing the developers’ lack of outreach to the legislature and their constituents.
Article 97 of the Massachusetts Constitution was approved by voters in 1972 with the aim of conserving the state’s environment. It stipulates that development on state parkland requires the passage of legislation — known colloquially as ‘an Article 97’ — by a two-thirds vote of the state legislature and the signature of the governor.
Moran said in an interview he does not see any reason for why the pipe is necessary, nor “any rush” to start the project.
“They have to prove to my constituents and the abutters of this project that this is even necessary. And they have to prove that to me, as well,” Moran said. “I’m not entirely saying that this isn’t necessary, or couldn’t potentially happen.”
Moran added the BWSC had never previously reached out to him to speak about problems with the current pipe, and he wonders why nothing had been done to fix it.
“At no point in time has [Boston] Water and Sewer [Company] ever reached out to me and explained this problem to me,” Moran said. “If this was such a horrific problem, why have you done nothing to fix it?”
Sullivan, the chief engineer for BWSC, said the utility has met with representatives and disputed the contention that the project is not necessary.
“In 2006 we thought we needed it, and we still do — the climate is changing,” he said. “When the big storms are going to come, they’re going to come.”
Sullivan said he is “unaware of the specifics” of why Moran is objecting to the project, but said the BWSC will move forward with what it can on the project.
“Everyone’s got the right to object and he’s got his reasons, I’m not sure what they are, but he’s got his, so we’re moving forward, getting where we can,” he said. “But we can’t get into the river without the aid of the representative filing Article 97 — that’s simple, we understand that, and he’s going to have his right.”
In a written public comment responding to the filing by BWSC in February, local resident Jennifer Pieszak said she also believes outreach efforts by the developers have been inadequate.
Pieszak, a self-described “avid rower,” alleged the project seems to be moving ahead without any substantial input from stakeholders — a notable one being the Head of the Charles Regatta.
“Why is this project proceeding without consultation or engagement of the river community, as it impacts the safety of thousands of river users every day?” she wrote. “Why is there no mitigation plan in place so that the Head of the Charles Regatta cannot be impacted?”
Sullivan said, however, that the BWSC is “attempting to make a public meeting,” and he anticipates one will occur at the end of April.
Pieszak added in an interview she believes the drainpipe expansion plans devised by the BWSC are a “failure of imagination.” She said the expansion should have been coordinated with other local infrastructure projects — an idea she also mentioned in her public comments to the BWSC.
“I would suggest your office request that the [BWSC] reconsider resilient alternative options to be coordinated with the MassDOT Allston Multimodal projects to find a coordinated solution to resolving this complex engineering project,” she wrote, referring to the Allston Multimodal Project, a proposed project to realign the Massachusetts Turnpike that Harvard will partially fund.
Barbara M. Parmenter, a resident and member of the Harvard-Allston Task Force, said she wishes the BWSC would have explored more “green infrastructure” alternatives instead of the current “gray infrastructure” proposal.
“What I like to see is really beautifully designed green infrastructure, so there would be some water features that would help with the drainage in a way that that enhances ecological functions — not just puts it all into a pipe underground — treats the water using those functions, and creates beautiful, mentally-calming, and educational space for the community,” she said.
Green Cambridge, a local environmental group, and the Charles River Watershed Association have also expressed reservations about the project proceeding without more research into the environmental impacts of the drainpipe expansion.
Steven Nutter, the executive director of Green Cambridge, said he supports research into “green infrastructure” and that he believes all developments should focus on the “ecological history” of the site.
Nutter also said focusing on ecology goes hand-in-hand with outreach to local residents — not just environmental or engineering “experts.”
“I think that experts are the ones who can help facilitate and complete a community vision, and provide the kind of knowledge that we really need to have in terms of what steps are most recommended next,” he said. “But in general, I think it always has to start with the community and its relationship to the land.”
Janet Moonan, stormwater program director at the Charles River Watershed Association, said the organization has outstanding questions about how the expanded drainage system will preserve water quality.
“We wanted more information from them on how the project is going to comply with water quality requirements, how it will address phosphorus and pathogen pollution and reduce that, and understand how it will comply with some federal and state permits related to those pollution requirements,” she said.
The CRWA is also concerned with how construction will impact wildlife habitats, aquatic ecosystems, and local river users, per Moonan. Those concerns, she said, require “more information” and “more public education and engagement around the project.”
“Generally speaking, we want more thought and transparency from the project,” she added.
O’Rourke, the Harvard spokesperson, wrote that the project would “reduce the total amount of phosphorus-containing sediments” and remove more than 80 percent of suspended solids from the runoff, leading to a health improvement of the Charles River.
Sullivan also said the project will not cause any harm to the environment.
“We don’t see anything that is going to harm the existing environment. We see the benefits — we see us taking up more suspended solids. As we make people hook up to this pipe, they’re going to be required to take up the phosphorus,” Sullivan said. “We’re looking at putting green infrastructure up there, so I look at it as a win, win, win.”
— Staff writer James R. Jolin can be reached at james.jolin@thecrimson.com.
— Staff writer Maribel Cervantes can be reached at maribel.cervantes@thecrimson.com.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
UPDATED: April 5, 2021 at 5:25 p.m.
Harvard researchers announced Wednesday they will postpone a test flight for a controversial environmental engineering project — the Stratospheric Controlled Perturbation Experiment — after pushback from an Indigenous peoples’ group in Sweden.
Through the project, known as “SCoPEx,” School of Engineering and Applied Sciences engineering professor Frank N. Keutsch’s research group plans to release a small amount of particles into the stratosphere to test whether those particles could reflect sunlight back to space.
According to the Keutsch research group’s website, the project’s goal is to better understand solar geoengineering, a controversial strategy that could be used to curb global warming. The project is supported in part by philanthropist Bill Gates through SEAS’s Solar Geoengineering Research Program.
The Keutsch group planned its first test flight for June 2021, which would have launched a high-altitude balloon over Kiruna, Sweden, but would not have included the release of the particles. On Wednesday, however, the Swedish Space Corporation suspended the test under pressure from the Saami Council, which represents Indigenous Scandinavian peoples.
In a Wednesday statement, the SSC reaffirmed that the SCoPEx project “fits well” into its mission to advance climate change research, but wrote that it decided to suspend the test after conversations with geoengineering experts, stakeholders, and the SCoPEx Advisory Board.
“As a result of these dialogues and in agreement with Harvard, SSC has decided not to conduct the technical test flight planned for this summer,” the statement reads. “Whether or not research on geoengineering should be conducted is an important discussion that should continue within the scientific community, as well as with other stakeholders and the general public.”
In its Wednesday statement, the SCoPEx Advisory Committee noted it was “grateful for the vigorous input and feedback it has received,” and announced a review of the project’s impacts to strengthen “societal engagement."
“The Committee will conduct a listening-based engagement activity in Sweden in order to help the Committee understand Swedish and Indigenous perspectives and make an informed and responsive recommendation about the equipment test flights,” the Committee wrote.
The project will likely be postponed until 2022 to allow time for those reviews, according to the statement.
In a Feb. 21 letter, the president of the Saami Council criticized SCoPEx for its potential negative impacts on the area’s natural resources. The heads of three Swedish environmental advocacy groups — the Swedish Society for Nature Conservation, Friends of the Earth Sweden, and Greenpeace Sweden — cosigned the letter.
“We note that [releasing particles into the stratosphere] is a technology that entails risks of catastrophic consequences, including the impact of uncontrolled termination, and irreversible sociopolitical effects that could compromise the world’s necessary efforts to achieve zero-carbon societies,” the Council wrote in the letter. “There are therefore no acceptable reasons for allowing the SCoPEx project to be conducted either in Sweden or elsewhere.”
The Council went on to criticize the researchers’ failures to consult with those the test allegedly puts at risk.
“We find it remarkable that the project has gone so far as to establish an agreement with [the Swedish Space Corporation] on test flying without, as we understand, having applied for any permits or entered into any dialogue with either the Swedish government, its authorities, the Swedish research community, Swedish civil society, or the Saami people, despite the controversial nature of SCoPEx,” it wrote.
SEAS Applied Physics professor David W. Keith, one of the faculty spearheading SCoPEx, said he disagrees with the Saami Council’s conclusion that the project could put people at risk.
“It's totally legitimate for them to say that, but I think it’s important to say that that’s not consistent with what most climate scientists have said,” said Keith, who also holds an appointment as a Professor of Public Policy at the Kennedy School. “Three of the biggest U.S. environmental groups — none of them agree with that.”
He also disputed the Saami Council’s characterization of the researchers’ engagement with stakeholders in Sweden. Keith said the researchers did consult with Swedish researchers and the Swedish government, emphasizing that the SSC is affiliated with the Swedish government. The SSC is a wholly government-owned enterprise.
Keith added that the researchers wrote to the Saami Council offering a conversation to discuss the project after the Council expressed some concerns about its risks, but the Council turned him down.
In a Monday interview, Saami Council Vice President Åsa Larsson-Blind acknowledged that the initial SCoPEx test has limited risks, but said her organization is “very, very” against the testing of solar geoengineering projects “anywhere,” citing long-term risks.
“It was a test that was very clearly a piece of the puzzle for SCoPEx in their work to test out solar geoengineering technology, and that is what we are objecting,” she said.
Larsson-Blind acknowledged the SSC is a state-owned company, but drew the distinction between the SSC and the Swedish government at-large. She added that the Saami Council has also sent letters to the SSC and several Swedish ministries.
Larsson-Blind said she was disappointed the researchers did not inform the Saami Council of their testing plans prior to the Council’s open letter. However, she said, the Council turned down the invitation to meet because that would be akin to “negotiation.”
“It’s an experience that we share with many Indigenous peoples around the world: the notion of dialogue and consultations may be misused,” Larsson-Blind said. “A dialogue would be seen as a negotiation, that if they made some adjustments, the tests can go ahead, and we would be fine with the testing. But this is not that kind of issue.”
Selena F. Wallace, SEAS coordinator for environmental research, said in a Thursday interview that the June test flight would not have involved emitting any particles into the atmosphere.
“This test flight would not necessarily mean that the particle release flight would happen in Sweden,” she said. “It’s just to collect information about how the balloon — and how the equipment — travels in the stratosphere.”
Wallace also said the researchers understand the importance of receiving input from those potentially affected by the research.
“We want to ensure that we’re setting a positive precedent on how we are interacting with civil society and the public,” she said. “That’s a broader conversation in the long run.”
Keith told the New York Times that the researchers are considering moving their test to the United States.
Larsson-Blind said that no matter where the test moves, Indigenous peoples will speak out against it because it “goes to the core of our worldview.”
“This is something that so very clearly collides with what we believe in, that we should respect nature,” she said. “We should be the ones adapting to nature and to the environment, not the other way around.”
—Staff writer Natalie L. Kahn can be reached at natalie.kahn@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @natalielkahn.
—Staff writer Simon J. Levien can be reached at simon.levien@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @simonjlevien.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Eighty percent of surveyed members of the Harvard Faculty of Arts and Sciences said they think a remote semester is not as valuable as an in-person semester for students, with 43 percent of respondents indicating “strong” disagreement.
Simultaneously, nearly 73 percent of survey respondents said that the FAS and the University provided them with sufficient guidance and resources for remote instruction, and 71 percent felt the transition to remote instruction was managed well by FAS.
The Crimson distributed its faculty survey to more than 1,100 members of the FAS in late February, polling Harvard’s flagship faculty on key University policy decisions, challenges they face as academics, and pressing issues on campus — including the repercussions of the Covid-19 pandemic. Tenured, tenure-track, and non-tenure-track faculty all received the survey.
The 94-question survey obtained more than 300 responses, though not all respondents answered each question. The anonymous survey, a link to which was emailed to nearly every member of the FAS, was open from Feb. 26 to Mar. 5. The Crimson did not adjust the data for possible selection bias.
The first, second, and third installments of The Crimson’s 2021 faculty survey series explored faculty perspectives on the University’s tenure procedures, Harvard’s response to divestment movements on campus, and the FAS’s climate and culture, respectively. This fourth installment examines how faculty view Harvard’s response to the coronavirus pandemic.
University spokesperson Jonathan L. Swain and FAS spokesperson Anna G. Cowenhoven declined to comment for this story.
More than a year after Harvard first moved courses online and sent staff home due to the Covid-19 pandemic, a majority of faculty surveyed indicated satisfaction with Harvard’s transition to online learning.
Harvard’s Extension School had utilized Zoom as its primary platform for digital coursework since 2016. In the early discussions surrounding Covid-19 contingency plans, University administrators contacted the Extension School to determine instruction strategy and create resources for remote instruction.
Just weeks after the mass de-densification of Harvard’s campus, faculty and administrators alike began to earnestly prepare for the possibility of a virtual fall semester. Among other University resources, the Derek Bok Center for Teaching and Learning — the FAS’s teaching support center — offered support to about 300 faculty members through workshops and training modules.
Seventy-one percent of faculty respondents stated that they believe the FAS managed the transition to remote learning well, though 12 percent “somewhat” disagreed and 4 percent “strongly” disagreed.
Furthermore, 73 percent of faculty surveyed agreed that the FAS and the University provided enough resources and guidance for remote instruction, of which 40 percent agreed “strongly.” Just 16 percent of faculty said they felt underprepared for teaching online.
In July 2020, Harvard announced that first-years would be welcomed back to campus for the fall semester, with students in other class years receiving dorm accomodations on a petition basis. All instruction would remain virtual, and most laboratories and offices would remain closed.
Nearly 60 percent of faculty respondents indicated satisfaction with Harvard’s reopening plan, with 19 percent “strongly satisfied” with the plan. In contrast, 11 percent and 2 percent of faculty were “somewhat dissatisfied” or “strongly dissatisfied” with the plan, respectively.
As Harvard eyes a full return to campus in the fall with in-person instruction, 60 percent of surveyed faculty said they feel safe returning to in-person teaching in fall 2021.
Despite their appreciation of Harvard’s reopening plan and resources for virtual instruction, faculty strongly disputed the value of an online semester for students.
Eighty percent of faculty surveyed disagreed that a remote semester is as valuable than an in-person semester for students, with 43 percent disagreeing “strongly.”
At the same time, some faculty criticized the University for being “dishonest” toward students by promising them a “genuine academic experience” during the virtual school-year while discouraging undergraduates from taking time off. Ultimately, enrollment in both the fall and spring semesters was about 20 percent lower than in a normal semester.
“Most of all, I disapproved of the way the University, esp. at the outset, put unreasonable pressure on undergrads not to take a gap year (eg threatening they might not get housing when they returned),” one faculty member wrote. “That was so transparently economically motivated it was very discouraging.”
Harvard did not change its leave of absence policies this academic year, but noted that the College could not necessarily guarantee students housing upon their return from a leave.
Certain divisions felt more strongly about in-person learning, with 86 percent of Sciences faculty responding that remote learning was less valuable. The sentiment was shared by 80 percent of Arts and Humanities faculty, 76 percent of Social Sciences faculty, and 72 percent of School of Engineering and Applied Sciences faculty.
In the fall semester, international freshmen enrolling in online-only academic programs were barred from entering the United States under federal regulations. Many international first-years said that their first semester of college was marked by late-night classes, social isolation, and insufficient support from Harvard.
However, only 38 percent of faculty respondents felt that international students’ academic needs were not well-supported this academic year.
Graduate students, facing a tough appointment market and hiring freezes, called on Harvard in the early stages of the pandemic to provide assistance. In May 2020, the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences launched its Emergency Support Initiative to provide funding and fellowship opportunities for its students.
But just 15 percent of faculty surveyed “strongly” agreed that graduate students’ academic needs were well-supported this school year, with another 26 percent “somewhat” agreeing. In turn, 26 percent of respondents “somewhat” or “strongly” disagreed.
A majority of surveyed faculty — 70 percent — said they think a remote semester is not as meaningful as an in-person semester for faculty, including half of whom “strongly” disagreed.
Faculty opinions on a virtual semester did, however, vary based on discipline. Just 17 percent of respondents from the School of Engineering and Applied Sciences felt “strongly” that a remote semester is not as meaningful as an in-person semester for faculty, compared to 33 percent in the Arts and Humanities, 39 percent in the Social Sciences, and 42 percent in the Sciences.
Survey respondents were also invited to share what their largest stressors during the pandemic were. The survey found that family life, research, and teaching were the top three stressors during the pandemic for faculty. A quarter of survey respondents indicated that health and illness served as one of their top stressors due to the pandemic.
Additionally, a write-in option on the survey allowed respondents to identify other top stressors, apart from those previously mentioned, which included family life, research, teaching, and health.
The survey indicated that some faculty experienced chronic stress in the past year due to increased workload placed on them during the pandemic. Many faculty also expressed social isolation and loneliness as major stressors faced amid the pandemic.
Faculty have previously indicated that they do not believe a virtual semester can replace an in-person semester, pointing for example to decreased levels of socialization and student engagement via Zoom.
In an interview with The Crimson last month, FAS Dean Claudine Gay said she is “enormously proud” of the “incredible resilience” Harvard faculty, students, and staff alike have demonstrated when adapting to the pandemic. She applauded the FAS’s commitment “to restart scholarship,” including getting researchers back into their labs and welcoming some undergraduates back to campus during the 2020-21 academic year.
“None of this would have been possible without our faculty, staff, and students, who have leaned into the challenges of the pandemic, brought enormous energy and a willingness to find solutions, and a real commitment to — above all else — preserving our academic mission,” Gay said.
For its 2021 Faculty Survey, The Crimson collected electronic responses through Qualtrics, an online survey platform, from Feb. 26 to Mar. 5, 2021. A link to the anonymous survey was sent to 1,182 FAS and SEAS faculty members through emails sourced in February 2021 from Harvard directory information. The pool included individuals on Harvard’s Connections database with FAS affiliations, including tenured, tenure-track, and non-tenure-track faculty.
Of those faculty, 315 accessed the link to the survey. A total of 309 participants answered at least one question, while 235 participants completed every question in the survey.
To prevent participants from accidentally taking the survey more than once, The Crimson enabled Qualtrics’ browser cookie functionality to register unique survey sessions on each device. This device data is controlled by Qualtrics, and The Crimson does not retain information that could identify devices accessing the survey with anonymous responses.
In an effort to check for response bias, The Crimson compared respondent demographics with publicly available information on faculty demographics provided by the University — information regarding gender, minority background, SEAS affiliation, and ladder versus non-ladder status. Overall, respondent demographics tracked with faculty demographics.
Of survey respondents, 38 percent identified themselves as women and 19 percent identified themselves as minorities. Based on data in the 2020 FAS Dean’s Annual report, women and minorities make up 32 percent and 25 percent of FAS ladder faculty, respectively.
According to the report, 41 percent of the FAS were non-ladder faculty — a term synonymous with non-tenure-track faculty. Similarly, 39 percent of respondents to The Crimson’s survey identified themselves as non-ladder faculty.
Of faculty who were sent the link to the survey, 106 — or 9 percent — are affiliated with SEAS. In comparison, of respondents who indicated their divisional affiliation on the survey, 6 percent reported an affiliation with SEAS.
—Staff writer Meera S. Nair can be reached at meera.nair@thecrimson.com.
—Staff writer Andy Z. Wang can be reached at andy.wang@thecrimson.com.
This is the fourth installment in a six-part series analyzing the results of The Crimson’s survey of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences, Harvard’s flagship faculty. Read the first installment here, the second installment here, and the third installment here.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard Graduate Students Union-United Automobile Workers filed a Step One grievance against the University Friday over “unacceptable” complications and delays in pay for graduate student workers living abroad due to the pandemic.
To comply with international law, Harvard announced in December 2020 that it would move graduate students, staff, and faculty living abroad to a third-party payroll system after Jan. 1. Through the third-party payroll system, graduate students living abroad are employed and paid by local third-party entities as they continue to teach or research for the University.
HGSU-UAW filed the grievance on April 2 after approximately 40 graduate students reported delays in pay, lack of compensation, and additional processing fees under the third-party payroll system. Union leadership said they first noticed pay complications in February.
“Months-long pay delays for students living abroad, with essentially no warning, cannot continue and cannot happen again,” the union wrote in a statement. “Harvard should pay all student workers what they are due and commit to doing so in the future.”
Under the third-party payroll system, approximately 300 Harvard employees living abroad due to the pandemic now receive pay from local Harvard-affiliated offices or third-party payroll companies — four times the number of people in past years.
When an academic department is interested in hiring an employee living abroad, Harvard Global Support Services works with the department to find international pay options on a case-by-case basis. Global Support Services then helps the employee abroad access a third-party payroll company or a local Harvard-affiliated office based on their country of residence.
According to Maya I. Anjur-Dietrich, the co-chair of HGSU-UAW’s Contract Education and Enforcement Committee, department administrators have been working with their student workers to adjust to the University’s modified payroll policy.
“Many department administrators have been working very hard to get student workers in their departments paid,” Anjur-Dietrich wrote in an email. “We are hopeful that the administration will work with student workers and our union to make sure that everyone is compensated properly for their teaching and research labor while abroad.”
Filing a Step One grievance is only one part of the union’s efforts to ensure its members receive timely compensation, Anjur-Dietrich added. HGSU-UAW is also reaching out to its membership to increase awareness around the pay due complications and determine how many students might be affected on the third-party payroll system.
Harvard spokesperson Jason A. Newton declined to comment. The University has 10 business days to respond to the union’s grievance, per its contract with HGSU-UAW. If Harvard denies the grievance, the parties will proceed to Step Two, during which Provost Alan M. Garber ’76 will try to mediate a settlement.
“At this point, we will continue to advocate for student workers, and we are waiting for the University administration to respond to our step 1 grievance filing,” Anjur-Dietrich wrote.
—Staff writer Cara J. Chang can be reached at cara.chang@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @CaraChang20.
—Staff writer Meimei Xu can be reached at meimei.xu@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @meimeixu7.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
UPDATED: April 6, 2021 at 9:15 p.m.
In normal times, Environmental Engineering senior Elieen R. Egolf ’21 would have conducted most of her thesis research at the School of Engineering and Applied Sciences’ Active Learning Labs.
But with labs mostly closed due to the pandemic, she took an unusual approach to her research in an unusual location: she built a robot composter in the basement of her home in Montana.
Sourcing food waste from a local composting facility, Egolf amassed about 89 gallons of material to test her invention and woke up at 6:00 a.m. every other day for six weeks to conduct testing.
On Friday, she and other SEAS seniors celebrated the completion of their undergraduate theses and senior capstone projects, the culmination of a year of research conducted in spite of the logistical hurdles of an unconventional, largely-remote semester at SEAS.
With limited or no access to SEAS laboratory equipment, many seniors had to adapt to researching and writing their thesis projects remotely. Some relied more on computer-aided research, while others found inventive ways to still utilize in-person experimentation.
Robert Jomar S. Malate ’21 said he secured lab access to work on his Mechanical Engineering thesis by working for the Harvard Biology Design Lab, despite never having done research there before. In order to work in the lab, the University required him to live on campus in the fall semester.
Malate, who developed a buoyancy control unit for a robotic mermaid for his thesis, said one of the bigger challenges was a lack of access to the SEAS Active Learning Labs, which facilitate collaboration and provide access to equipment.
“Especially when you’re doing a project that’s very experimental-heavy or building-heavy, then this is something you want,” he said.
Malate added that not having access to the ALL meant it took “much more time to accomplish certain tasks” and that he wished the University would have been more flexible about allowing students access to the ALL on a “case-by-case basis.”
“There’s a way to achieve a compromise, [thesis writing is] already a huge challenge — jumping over extra obstacles doesn’t make the process much easier,” he said.
SEAS spokesperson Paul Karoff wrote in an emailed statement that the school wanted to focus on adhering to safety protocols ahead of all else while allowing students whatever lab use possible given restrictions.
“Everyone at SEAS would like nothing [m]ore than to have students back on campus – in the labs, classrooms and working on projects,” he wrote.
“During the past year, we’ve placed health and safety of students, staff and faculty above all other concerns. We look forward to gradually increasing access to campus, in accordance with public health guidance and university return-to-campus policies,” he added.
Linsey C. Moyer, associate director of undergraduate studies in Biomedical Engineering, said “almost everyone” writing theses in her department was able to get back into in-person labs in 2021.
“Because the labs also opened up in the spring, there was a large portion of the students who are working on theses who were able to go into labs,” Moyer said.
She added that the department shipped components like sensors and circuit boards to off-campus students for their theses, if necessary.
“It’s still not ideal, but that allowed them to do some physical prototyping without being physically on campus,” Moyer said.
Still, Moyer said she lamented the loss of access to the Active Learning Labs for students, noting that the “informal peer-to-peer learning” that happens at the ALL “just wasn’t present this year.”
Egolf said SEAS sent her a few pieces of testing equipment for her robot composter, but that her testing was “not as comprehensive” as it could have been pre-pandemic.
“There are a lot of other things that I was unable to do in testing and had to do proxy measurements to try to get more information,” Egolf said.
For some thesis projects, students had to conduct all their research remotely. Several SEAS advisors said many students designed or transitioned senior projects to center around computer-based models rather than bench experiments.
Elsie M. Sunderland, director of undergraduate studies in Environmental Science and Engineering, wrote in an emailed statement that students’ shift away from lab-based projects was “the biggest change” this year.
“I think this was unexpected and difficult for some but overall the students I worked with did a great job!” Sunderland wrote. “Everyone has made the best they can of the situation.”
Bioengineering concentrator Mark Theodore C. Meneses ’21, whose thesis explored preventing aggregation in drug formulation, was unable to test his research due to the lack of lab access.
Since no one at SEAS was working on antibody engineering — the focus of his project — Meneses had hoped to do lab work at Sanofi, a pharmaceutical company with labs in Cambridge. But Sanofi protocol did not permit him access to its lab.
Instead, he found himself learning modeling software to simulate his project virtually.
“I’m not a computer scientist, but I basically had to be that for my thesis,” he said. “I had to basically learn a bunch of modeling software to get it working and to test my material.”
Meneses said he did not believe his project was fully replicable in a virtual environment, so his resulting models were more of “an extremely good guess.”
“You really can’t do it on a computer — it might not be as accurate,” he said. “You really have to do it in the lab.”
Biomedical Engineering concentrator Nkaziewoh “Nkazi” Nchinda-Pungong ’21 said he “didn’t have as hard a transition” to remote thesis work because his project already had an emphasis on computer-aided research.
Still, Nchinda-Pungong said other students in his field have had to make sharp changes in order to computerize their work.
“You’re trying to do a 3-D model of the device that you would have built, and describe how fluids would flow across the surface of a device that you would have built,” he said. “So you’re trying to replicate this in-lab experience just by making a computational model of the same thing.”
Nchinda-Pungong’s own wet lab project, which would have included hundreds of testing samples, had to be axed without access to a lab.
It is only now, after he turned in his thesis, that Nchinda-Pungong has restarted laboratory research on campus in the spring. Still, he said, pandemic restrictions on the number of hours he can spend in the lab have limited his productivity.
Lecturer Christopher J. Lombardo, who co-teaches the Engineering Sciences 100: “Engineering Design Projects,” a project-based course for seniors, said he required students to come up with capstone projects that could be completed remotely.
“What that really meant for many students, is a much greater reliance on scientific computation, modeling, simulation, things of that sort,” Lombardo said.
He added that his primary concern in creating the requirement was making the project equitable for all students, whether they were living on or off campus.
Because not all students could easily run high-spec modeling software on their home computers, Lombardo and his teaching team employed a “remote tool” designed by Harvard affiliates that would allow students to remotely access the software they needed for their projects.
“It wasn’t perfect, but it got the job done,” he said.
Lombardo said the pandemic has tested engineering students’ ability to adapt, which will prove crucial to their post-graduation work.
“It was a really big preparation for students when they’re entering the workforce in the real world,” Lombardo said. “Not everything is going to go the way you want it to, so you need your Plan A and a contingency plan.”
CORRECTION: April 5, 2021
A previous version of this story incorrectly stated that the Engineering Sciences 100 teaching team created a tool with which to remotely access the software they needed for their projects. In fact, they employed a tool previously created by multiple teams across FAS and SEAS.
CORRECTION: April 6, 2021
A previous version of this story misstated the state in which Elieen R. Egolf ’21 built a composter in her basement. It was Montana, not Colorado.
—Staff writer Natalie L. Kahn can be reached at natalie.kahn@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @natalielkahn.
—Staff writer Simon J. Levien can be reached at simon.levien@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @simonjlevien.
Sections
If you’re missing Harvard and want to see some of its best (and worst) views, we decided to turn our photos into album covers and see if Harvard is actually photogenic, as the tourists may suggest. This compilation is proof that you can turn any photo into an album cover if you try hard enough.
*cue Kendrick Lamar’s “HiiiPoWeR”*
Yale Sucks 
Speaks for itself. Packed on a tree during one of Boston’s snowfalls, this album cover is the perfect blend of classy, boujee, and nasty.
Quadded 
This one represents how we’re all feeling at this point in the semester. A little bit confused and dazed ... but appreciative of the beauty of the Quad — or alternatively, this may be how you’re feeling about being Quadded.
Berg 
If you prefer the first-year aesthetic of high ceilings, stained glass, and chandelier-type lighting, this one’s for you. This album would have some organs in the background.
John Harvard
A spooky Halloween twist with a gorilla mask and spider webs that kind of look like toilet paper. This would be a cool album for sure, inverting expectations.
Caution 
Not sure how that sign got up there … but this is a nice throwback to being kicked off campus and living in chaos. No doubt, this album would be a fun time.
Free Hugs 
We need them now more than ever, and apparently, somewhere in Grays, someone will offer us free hugs…*
*but it’s probably best to decline their offer during the global pajamarama
The Square
Pretty sunsets and people bustling in the streets of Harvard Square make for a tranquil album cover.
Happy Birthday
Dining hall plates and scrounged brownies for a fun dorm birthday party … we’re missing those lately.
Educated
The Adams Library may be a fun place to study, but it’s also the sight of the newest album shoot. Just a fun lamp and a knight in shining armor.
Lights
Widener after hours. And blurry. Thesis photos have nothing on this.
Bostonia 
We may be in Cambridge, but Boston is a close friend. Nothing says old and grand like a good gate from 1822 — this album has a lot of potential.
There ya have it folks — apparently art is ~all around us~, even during Cambridge's less-than-picturesque moments.
Sections
March 11 marked one year since the WHO officially declared Covid-19 a global pandemic. In true human fashion, we found solace in baking various types of bread, rediscovering our New Year’s resolutions and eating blueberries with ice. If you aren’t living under a rock, then you probably tried one or more of these trends. We took a trip down memory lane and compiled a list of the best and worst of trends from the beginning of quarantine.
Banana Bread
I mean, this needs no explanation. Bananas and bread are both elite foods that go perfectly together. If made well, the moist, aromatic, spiced, yummy goodness of banana bread is perfect for every meal. Pro tip: add caramelized bananas and some flaky salt on top for an extra kick (it’s so good, kind of like salted banana caramel). If you’re on that health grind, substitute the flour for ground oats and use a natural sweetener. Is it bread? Cake? We don’t know, but banana bread gets the Flyby stamp of approval.
Dalgona Coffee
Dalgona Coffee is a popular drink made up of instant coffee, sugar and water whipped up to a foam and poured over your milk of choice. As a person who drinks coffee on a daily basis to feel anything, I like this trend by default. However, the amount of time it takes to whip the coffee to a foamy consistency is way too much effort to sustain daily, unless you count it as your arm workout, in which case more power to you.
Tie Dye
Tie dye brought all of our colorful childhood dreams back to life. The combination of bright colours and random patterns seems to induce some type of happiness juice that makes everyone go crazy for this hot fashion trend. Although not every piece is going to fit that perfect Instagram aesthetic, the best part of this trend is that beauty is truly in the eye of the beholder and the possibilities are truly limitless.
Chloe Ting
Quarantine forced each and every one of us to rethink the idea of exercise as our daily step counts dropped from the thousands to hundreds. Luckily, Chloe Ting has the answer. Chloe Ting posts free workout videos on YouTube and has garnered over 18.6 million subscribers. Her most popular video “Get Abs in 2 weeks” has over 320 million views (To give you some perspective, there are 331 million people in the United States). With gyms closed, her at-home workouts have provided the perfect way to work out within the comfort of one’s home, even attracting a huge beginner audience. If you’re looking for a way to add some movement in your day, take a Zoom break and try out one of Chloe’s workouts.
Nature’s Cereal
Please somebody explain why this is a trend at all. Nature’s cereal is a bowl of coconut water, strawberries, blueberries, blackberries and ice — so basically a bunch of fruit in cold water. This is a bowl of soggy fruit salad and you cannot convince me otherwise.
TikTok Dances
We’ve all had those moments of sitting on the couch, seeing a dance come up on your FYP and thinking, “That’s not that hard, I can probably do this.” And then you find yourself, three hours later, a sweaty mess with 50 horrible drafts and no satisfactory results. It was at that point you realized, “huh, maybe Charlie D’Amelio really is a good dancer.” Pretty much the only good thing about TikTok dances is that dancers get to show off their talents and make money — oh, and it’s fun (if you like that kind of thing). The darker side of TikTok dances, however, is a different story. We’ve seen waaaay too many junior high boys gyrating and rolling their sweatpant-clad shirtless bodies all over the internet, and they need to be stopped before we start washing our eyes with bleach. Anyway, if you’re bored in the house and in the house bored, go ahead and try to make it drop from the top like a wet….. you get the gist.
Tiger King
Carole Baskin killed her husband. Period. Honestly, “Tiger King” may have been the most uniting force in human history. The absurdity of Joe Exotic, his big cats, the murder plot, and the toxic relationships came together to create a saga that satisfied all our drama dreams. This show single-handedly kept many of us sane in the first month of quarantine and somehow connected the human race in the most isolating time. “Tiger King” definitely gets a five-star rating from the Blog.
Quarantine is the perfect time to pick up new hobbies like bread-making and rediscover old flames such as tie-dying. If you haven’t tried one of these quarantine trends, it's never too late to hop on and try out one of these for yourself. Who knows, you might be in the TikTok or Instagram algorithm gods’ favor and go viral!
