News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
In today’s political climate, the term “free speech” sometimes becomes an unscrupulous means to sneak unjustified or absurd arguments into otherwise meaningful discourse; a debater’s trojan horse built on a buzzword. From the panic over Dr. Seuss and his pulled books to the Mr. Potato debacle, concerns over “cancel culture” and “woke” intrusions on speech have become a staple of our three-minute long news cycles and never-ending culture wars.
Yet when the controversies reach academia, or when new players enter the field, it’s worthwhile to inspect and reaffirm our stance.
This board has long defended academic freedom. A professor has a right to critically investigate any topic of their choosing without institutional pressure of any kind — so long as their work adheres to the highest academic and ethical standards. The ability to do academic work that is counter to current societal forces is an essential and defining feature of academia and democracy, one that must be protected fiercely. This imperative can involve a difficult balancing act with the harms caused by certain uses of these freedoms — especially when conclusions lack strong factual or argumentative support. Yet we should always prioritize, or if necessary, even err on the side of, protecting free speech and academic freedom.
The newly-announced Academic Freedom Alliance seems like a promising way to protect the latter principle. A nonpartisan non-profit organization, the AFA aims to protect its member professors from any institutional encroachment on academic freedoms. By doing so, it could help secure an environment tolerant of rigorous but controversial research, furthering a noble and fundamental academic goal. For that alone, we give the eighteen Harvard faculty who joined AFA as founding members a vote of confidence at the outset.
But our support is no blank check.
Exactly who the AFA is meant to protect professors from is not entirely clear. The language of their mission statement specifically mentions defending members from suppression of academic freedom stemming from “institutions or officials”, and we hope they honor this commitment. Institutions and university officials often wield an ultimate, unilateral and opaque decision-making power, and they deserve the scrutiny of the AFA. When it comes to academics standing up to their institutional employer, our support for the group is firm.
We would, however, be truly disappointed to see the energy, brainpower, legal, and financial support of this group operate in opposition to the organizing of student or activist groups at universities instead. On this front, we find reason to be wary: Founding AFA member and Harvard Psychology professor Stephen A. Pinker has framed “noisy group[s] of activists” as the group’s target, arguing that university officials acquiesce to their demands because they “just don’t want trouble.”
The sad fact of the matter is that activists don’t run our school. Contrary to Professor Pinker’s belief, student groups are almost never the decision-makers at our institution, as evidenced by our lack of a multicultural center, our continued investment in fossil fuels, or many other instances in which administrators were deaf to students’ calls. Campus organizations like Divest Harvard might get to drive the news cycle every now and then, but they hardly set the agenda. Directing substantial resources at students voicing their concerns would not only prove unproductive but would undermine the very principle of free speech that AFA is created to uphold.
Targeting what might at worst be politically overzealous students presents an internal coherence issue. If AFA is truly committed to upholding free speech, it must do so even when it proves inconvenient. Activist critics of academia can be uncomfortable for professors, but their perspective isn’t any less worthy of protection — even if they sometimes voice opinions critical of AFA affiliates themselves. The AFA cannot quash student voices on its quest to contribute to a free academic environment.
The diverse composition of this group speaks to its faithfulness towards academic freedom, hopefully, a sign that Professor Pinker’s approach is unlikely to guide the group. The organization’s member professors are from all across the country, ideological spectrum, academic fields, and walks of life — crucial to the success of their mission — and thus at this early stage, we find enough reasons to support AFA.
But the final verdict will unfold as AFA begins its work; much of this organization’s story is still unwritten, its major battles unfought. The path they follow is theirs to chart, their errors theirs to make. We are optimistically curious to see where this group goes — who they choose to support and defend and for what reasons. They have our confidence, even if just for now.
This staff editorial solely represents the majority view of The Crimson Editorial Board. It is the product of discussions at regular Editorial Board meetings. In order to ensure the impartiality of our journalism, Crimson editors who choose to opine and vote at these meetings are not involved in the reporting of articles on similar topics.
Have a suggestion, question, or concern for The Crimson Editorial Board? Click here.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
I am the only white person in my friend group.
I cannot tell you how exactly this happened — a myriad of coincidences, a stroke of good faith, an omnipotent hand — but it did. I sit and laugh among friends that now feel like family, able to celebrate and cherish our distinctly beautiful differences.
My favorite thing about my friends is our conversations; they sound like a tuning orchestra. Layers of complex, dissonant notes from an array of instruments that somehow fold into each other to create extremely chaotic – yet mysteriously vibrant and otherworldly — music. No matter how juvenile or satirical they may appear, our conversations reveal profound truths about the world around us.
One evening, my friend group’s banter bounced off the brick buildings in Harvard Square like the marble in a pinball machine. Somehow we drifted into talk of childhood board game proficiency where we — unsurprisingly — managed to make fun of someone for their inability to play checkers. My heart was giddy with joy, and it was then I decided to utter the phrase that will live on in infamy: “You know what else is a fun game? Bananagrams.”
And with that, the jovial smile plastered on my face was met with shrieks of laughter. “Ellie, what the hell is Bananagrams?” asked one of my friends. Witty remarks of confusion danced about the air until one phrase topped them all:
“See, that’s how you know you’re white. You know what Bananagrams is.”
Bananagrams was a childhood staple for my family and me. Throw scrabble and dominoes through a portal to the modern era and out pops the yellow, banana-shaped bag filled to the brim with smooth alphabet tiles and hours of humorous competition. Growing up, all my neighbors knew how to play the game; I even played it in elementary school.
I assumed everyone knew how to play the game. I grew up playing it, so it must be a part of everyone’s childhood reality. Right?
I could not have been more wrong.
The majority of my friends at Harvard did not know what Bananagrams was, and those who did learned about the game from a white friend. And with that, Bananagrams became a metaphor for modern-day race relations, a metaphor for how white people so often superimpose their realities over people of color.
Just like I had assumed my friends all knew what Bananagrams was, white people often assume realities of white people are realities of all. We assume others can move on from the murder of Breonna Taylor as easily as we did and aren’t emotionally distraught by the lack of justice for her a year later. We assume others can easily disengage from Cornel West’s departure and its repercussions. We manage to find the gray area in the recent Bachelor franchise controversy. We turn a blind eye to the pleas made to return cultural objects by the Association of American Indian Affairs.
As I am writing this, the top four most read articles in the Crimson all illustrate people of color bringing forth their unjust experiences and narratives, yet being shut down rather than receiving justice and change. These events do not threaten my existence, but they threaten the existence of my friends.
We white people truly do not understand what it is not to be white. We do not have to think about race every day, and that is our privilege. We so often choose convenience over empathy. We play our Bananagrams and assume others know the game too. We assume others play it the exact same way, and we refuse to learn any other games.
I truly thought I was anti-racist before coming to Harvard. I had read “The New Jim Crow.” I had watched “13th.” I had gone to Black Lives Matter protests. I had worked at a social justice organization for three years. But it took being the only white person in my friend group to show me my shortcomings. To show me how, in a day-to-day way, my mindset still needed a lot of work. It took being uncomfortable with my whiteness: getting authentic chai from an Indian restaurant, observing racial dynamics around me each and every day, and listening to my friends as they talked about their experiences with racism. It took putting down the Bananagrams.
Facing blatant prejudice after 9/11. Being gaslit when discussing an issue that personally impacts them. Having to downplay their views on systemic racism to get an internship or job. Being called “exotic” or racially fetishized by men. Hearing the statement, “you’re so pretty for a Black girl.” These are the daily realities of my friends — realities I will never be able to understand fully.
A lot of us white people think we are doing a good job at being anti-racist. We love Michelle Obama! We have a Black friend! But when the time comes, do we actually defend and amplify the Black voices and narratives around us, internalizing them to deconstruct our own white-framed reality? Or do we remind ourselves that we don’t hate people of color and go about our day unchanged?
This inherent contradiction of listening to marginalized voices when it is beneficial to us and ignoring them when it makes us uncomfortable is not anti-racist. It’s engaging in the ignorant and ingrained societal habit of moral licensing — checking the box of being “not racist” in one category and then refusing to change your behavior in any other instance.
We white people can’t change the color of our skin. But right now, we are faced with a decision. We can equate reposting a Black Lives Matter infographic on Instagram to being anti-racist, watch others push for progress, and remain disengaged in our own little bubble; or we can actively amplify realities that are not our own. We can elevate the narratives of others that have gone silenced for too long, proactively change our behaviors and attitudes, and push the boundaries of our comfort.
We must learn how to be uncomfortable and put down the Bananagrams. We must be the ones to relearn reality from another point of view.
Ellie H. Ashby ’24 is a Crimson Editorial Editor.
Have a suggestion, question, or concern for The Crimson Editorial Board? Click here.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
There is a trend on Tik Tok where people present their bodies in an “ideal” manner, and then seconds later relax their bodies to demonstrate that it is natural to have rolls and folds and “imperfections.” One of the videos I landed on was Lizzo’s rendition, where for the entire video her body remains the same. This video made me realize that the trend, which I’d originally thought was empowering women, was falsely re-defining what it means to be fat and erasing the real stories of fat women who we need to hear and support.
To preface this article, I must state my positionality within this structure: My body is seen as “ideal” in the sense that my physical body, in both its appearance and function, has been privileged in the construction of all the spaces we occupy. Though I have followed, advocated for, and supported body positivity across time, it was not until quarantine that I realized that there was a problem in how I and others orient ourselves to the body positivity movement and fatphobia.
Historically, fatphobia has been strengthened by racism due to white supremacy. In her book “Fearing the Black Body,” Sabrina String discusses the conflation between fatness as “masculinity, aggression, failure and ugliness,” while thinness is associated with “whiteness, femininity, softness, success and purity.”
The prejudiced notion that the white body is the most ideal body has another layer: the white skinny body being the most optimal form. In contrast, caricatures such as “The Mammy” stereotype use fatness as a means of demoting the status and desirability of Black women. Fatness is continually used as a way of asexualizing people, especially Black women who have the converse struggle of being hypersexualized as well.
We have been taught to value Black women for their bodies and appearances, and the moment Black women cannot meet these impossible standards, they lose their protection. Black fat women face this on a daily basis.
We all have a warped understanding of what a fat body looks like, as demonstrated by the earlier TikTok trend. The trend became co-opted by skinnier and skinnier girls who are able to suck in their stomachs and later relax them. The current body positivity movement has not created space for fat bodies but has slightly increased the margins of what we should consider an “acceptable body” that is still dictated by ever-evolving Eurocentric beauty standards (think the Kardashians).
Within these trends, there is an erasure of women who are not able to maleate their bodies; women who cannot position their swimsuit to appear like they have an “hourglass” shape. The invisibility and co-opting of the experiences of fat women is one of the main issues with the body positivity movement. It also presumes that we can all forcibly love our body and that self-love can heal the issues of all fat and Black fat women when the reality is that there are many bodies who are still excluded from the sentiment of self-love because the world remains hostile to their physical form.
It can be tiring for fat women to just “love their bodies.” It is not the onus of fat individuals to forcibly change themselves and their views of themselves, but society’s responsibility to accommodate more bodies both in our construction of spaces and our interactions with one another.
Medical spaces are one such space constructed in a way that targets bigger bodies and perpetuates fatphobia. Samyra C. Miller ’21 — host of The Crimson’s Harvard Communitea podcast and the Class of 2021’s First Class Marshall — consistently creates conversation through social media highlighting the violence that fat and Black fat women face, and has been a needed force in sparking this conversation within the Harvard community. One of her main points of discussion is how medical racism and fatphobia compound to target bigger bodies, such as through the Body Mass Index.
BMI has been misused by many medical professionals. They treat BMI as being causal to many diseases when, in fact, the BMI has been highly criticized for its misevaluation of weight. This leads to misdiagnoses and patient-blaming. Doctors will tell their fat patients to “eat healthier” and “lose weight” — misdiagnoses that often lead to medical problems, such as eating disorders, body dysmorphia, depression, and lethal heart problems.
The BMI is rooted in Eurocentric ideals of body weight. It was developed based on the “ideal” white man and, since, our research on obesity and weight has been rooted in studies of white wealthy men. Not only do Black women, especially poor Black women, become erased from this research, but it erroneously assumes that all weight is equal. Black women have been found to be healthier at higher BMIs, demonstrating a flaw in our understanding of how health relates to fatness.
Just as there is violence towards Black fat bodies in the medical field, this violence is also seen in policing. We don’t talk enough about the fatphobia in Eric Garner’s 2014 case, where police justified the use of a chokehold that took Garner’s life because his size made him threatening. Fatphobia interacts with gender and race to also hyper-masculinize Black men, becoming another explicit instance where society is structured on the systematic erasure and mishandling of fat bodies.
When examining fatphobia, it is easy to dismiss these issues to others without evaluating the manners we perpetuate these violent tropes. When you're talking to your classmates about getting that “post-quarantine, summer body,” what are the implications of these statements? Who do you have in the group photo and who do you have taking the group photo? Did someone’s weight change how you valued them? There needs to be a dramatic shift in our relation to fat bodies and fatness, and that can only occur once we centralize, normalize and make visible fat women and Black fat women and recognize their fatness as normal and a part of their beauty.
Ogechukwu C. Ogbogu ’24 lives in Wigglesworth Hall. Her column appears on alternate Thursdays.
Have a suggestion, question, or concern for The Crimson Editorial Board? Click here.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
I am only half-surprised when a man spits in my face on the bus. What surprises me is my response, or lack thereof: In my periphery, I watch him gather mucus from somewhere deep and hideous in his gut, then hack it up dramatically for a prolonged 10 seconds before swishing it from cheek to cheek — right, left — and ejecting it onto my bare neck.
Thinking back, I don’t know why I didn’t duck. I sat there, stiff against the blue plastic seat, and felt the wet pool of hate hit me. I must not have expected him to actually do it. I must have assumed that he’d see me staring straight ahead, legs shaking, and change his mind, swallow it back down and turn away. Or maybe I made a mental calculation that it was somehow more dignified to just take it.
Somehow less surprising were the words that followed the impact, hurled at me with far more menace than the saliva: “Fucking Asians.”
****
I consider myself extremely lucky to have been shielded from the ugliest impacts of racism for most of my life. The reasons are twofold: First, I am only part Asian — my grandmother immigrated to Hawaii from Japan in her mid-twenties. She instilled an appreciation for Japanese culture in me and my sister through seasonal activities like Obon, a yearly ancestral honoring, and MSG-laced boxed curries. I think she felt a responsibility to commemorate our Japanese heritage given that her daughter — my mother — married a white man.
Second, Hawaii is diverse to the point of inversion — you’re more likely to be playfully name-called for being white than for being anything else. Cultural uniqueness is the baseline. With the exception of Native Hawaiians, everyone who lives in Hawaii is an immigrant of some kind, of some generation, and most are eager to tell you exactly how they got there. The majority of people looked similar to me — a wonderfully ambiguous mix of Asian, Pacific Islander, and the occasional European missionary. I could be Japanese at home without sacrificing my sense of belonging or adopting a mindset of “otherness.” I am grateful to have grown up like this; I have a feeling it’s rare.
When I moved to Massachusetts in my freshman fall, I confronted a fabled challenge among Hawaii youth: adjusting to mainland racial dynamics. A friend who had newly relocated to Connecticut declared to me over the phone, “I’ve never been surrounded by so many white people!” This rang true for me, too — although Harvard has a substantial Asian and mixed-race population, I was thrust into the position of minority for the first time. While adjusting to both college life and my new hyper-awareness of race, I questioned whether I even wanted the Japanese part of myself to follow me here. I rationalized this feeling with the argument that it was unnecessary to declare any specific racial identity — I never had to before, so I wouldn’t now. I wouldn’t stoop to the level of self-definition simply because the mainland seemed to demand it.
But an inner part of me was ashamed by my hesitation to display my Asianness. Was it my attempt to assimilate into Harvard, an institution with such an Anglo-Saxon history? I was certainly proud of my ethnicity (at least to the extent you can be proud of something you can’t really control), but I didn’t feel an urge to announce it. During the activities fair, I hovered near the Half Asian People’s Association table, indecisive. In the end, I didn’t join.
****
Personally, I’m hardly connected to Japan at all — I’ve only visited the country a few times to see family. Amidst the intense homogeneity there, I feel more out of place than I do in the U.S. I’ve never been particularly fond of Japanese art, or music, or what I saw as horrifyingly sexist and capitalist maid-outfit fashion trends. My grandmother was the only reason I even learned Japanese, so separated from her, my adequate language skills are reduced to a party trick.
I don’t know if this is common among mixed-race Asians, but I’ve always felt conflicted about picking and choosing my moments of cultural expression, of otherness. I know my Japanese fluency feeds into Western fantasies of exoticism, but I can’t deny that the validation is nice. “That’s so cool!” friends exclaim when I casually converse with my grandmother or translate the dialogue of a Japanese film without subtitles. There’s something twisted about the performative nature of this — alongside the warm glimmer of acceptance, I also feel dirty.
But in college, being Asian was cool in a way I hadn’t experienced before. Everyone seemed to be listening to BTS, or watching Japanese horror, or wearing dubiously appropriated Chinese-inspired garments. I vividly remember when “Parasite” won awards at the Oscars — my roommates and I streamed the entire ceremony on a laptop in our fourth-floor common room, howling with delight when Bong Joon-Ho took the stage again and again. When “Minari” debuted, critics erupted in praise for its heart-wrenching depiction of a Korean immigrant family struggling to make ends meet in rural Arkansas. It felt like Asian and Asian American narratives were being somewhat romanticized, but also deservingly celebrated. And I thought, Isn’t that better than negative attention? Isn’t that progress?
****
While I was quarantining back home in July, an Asian friend sent me a link to an ABC7NY article, her accompanying text reading, “Another.” I opened it apprehensively. It was about an elderly woman in New York City who had been attacked and set on fire by teenage boys. I was aware of the wave of anti-Asian sentiment caused by Covid-19, but was too distracted to feel anxious. I had been busy lapping up the love — the interest in Asia I perceived in pop culture and from peers. The image of this woman crushed my budding hope. There was a picture of her blouse, hanging empty, the back of it slashed, bloodstained, charred by flames. Her hair was wispy and gray. She was small and cheerful, with clear, round glasses and a black walking cane. She could be anyone’s grandmother; she could be anyone.
I felt deceived, but also stupid. Of course the West had been invested in the Asian aesthetic, but not Asian people. I always felt guilty for “using” my heritage to my own benefit, but maybe Asia-obsessed Americans had been doing exactly the same thing. Maybe just like me, they wanted to be hip, to be immersed in the foreign. But when it came down to it, their appreciation was for fictional characters, too hollow to guarantee the welfare of real individuals. The applause for “Minari” had been surface-level, superficial. It was the embrace of a story, not its protagonists.
I struggled with whether to proclaim my Asian heritage in a move of solidarity or to reject it for my own safety. But as panic in Asian communities mounted, I felt more Japanese than ever before. I was threatened beyond what I could register, what I could explain. Perhaps it was some survival instinct that drew me toward those who could relate to my fear. In the current context, it doesn’t matter that I am only part-Asian, or that I question how well I treat that aspect of my identity. My internal conflict is invisible and irrelevant to those who wish to harm or witness harm; to them, I am just another fucking Asian.
****
That day on the bus, I flicked my gaze around me, eyes silently seeking help. This was last March, and there were at least 20 of us crowded together. It was 5 p.m., rush hour, and everyone was so bundled in winter coats and hats that they became indistinct fuzzy shapes. A pregnant lady attempted to wedge a stroller with her kid in it next to the doors. Another slender woman rushed to her aid. I felt invisible. I knew the man’s remark had been loud enough to hear, but no one would look at me.
At the next stop, which wasn’t even mine, I steeled myself and rose calmly. I got off, stumbling past the stroller; behind me, the doors beeped, closed. The two red taillights of the bus disappeared into a flurry of snow. I took a gulping breath and consoled myself for a second, crouched over, hands on my knees. Then I rummaged in my backpack for a tissue to wipe the spit off my neck before it crystalized in the cold. I didn’t want it to solidify on my skin.
Sections
Rice, milk, vanilla, and cinnamon. To most people, these four ingredients seem commonplace, but to Fernando Urbina ’22, they symbolize a fusion of his career ambitions and personal identity. Together, they make horchata, a highly popular traditional Mexican beverage. Urbina, who was immersed in Mexican culture throughout his childhood, recalls that horchata was a staple in his household but was nowhere to be found in the grocery store.

“As a child, my mom would make it all the time, and I absolutely loved it,” Urbina says. “But I noticed that there was no horchata being sold in the fridges of stores.”

As a result, Urbina, along with a friend, developed the idea for a business that would bottle horchata and transport it to grocery store shelves, providing the general public with a taste of this sweet and spiced rice milk drink. He underscores the significance of bringing horchata to a mass audience, saying he not only wants it to be “a beverage that people can enjoy, but also an experience for them as well.”

“I want them to be able to experience Mexican culture and to be in touch with what Mexican-American cuisine can be like,” Urbina says. Hoping to share with others the drink he so fondly associates with his childhood and culture, he launched MixChata in January 2021. MixChata’s mission is to make the taste of this traditional Mexican beverage more accessible than ever.

MixChata is still in the early stages of development. “Right now,” Urbina says, “I’m still working on getting more investors, and I’m in the process of having the beverages actually be developed in collaboration with another company.” Unfortunately, doing so has proven difficult during the pandemic, as phone calls and Zoom meetings are not ideal ways to meet with interested stores and investors. “It is a lot more challenging, because you can’t meet with them in person,” Urbina says. “This definitely creates barriers.”

Yet the pandemic has not prevented Urbina from making significant strides in his business. In fact, MixChata recently became a limited liability company, a major step forward for an entrepreneur who only started a couple of months ago.

Urbina’s goal right now is to secure several investors and finish up the beverage development process. After that, he can begin local distribution: “In a few months, the goal will be to reach out to lots of Mexican supermarkets and restaurants in order to try and get our product into these places, so that they can be sold to the general audience,” he says. Eventually, Urbina wants to go national, “slowly introducing MixChata into more and more stores so that more people across the country can have access to the product.”

MixChata has served as fuel for Urbina’s professional ambitions, as becoming an entrepreneur has shifted his attention to the prospect of attending business school. He has already learned a lot since January, acquiring skills such as negotiating with investors, advocating for his product, and collaborating with other companies. For Urbina, the Mexican beverage that he grew up drinking has sparked his passion for entrepreneurship, and he envisions creating MixChata as only the beginning of his business career.

At the root of it all, MixChata is a representation of Urbina’s cultural identity. “I would love to see MixChata in the hands of as many people as possible because of how important my Mexican-American identity is to me,” he says. “I want other people to be able to appreciate that part of me as well.”

Moreover, Urbina has found Harvard to be an empowering environment in which to express this aspect of his identity. Though he was raised in a very traditional Mexican household, his hometown in southwest Michigan was predominantly white. He found “unity within the Latinx community at Harvard,” making his transition and experience “refreshing and really positive.” This community has provided him with an encouraging and open way to learn and forge connections while exploring what it means to be Mexican-American.

“I’ve gotten a lot of support from friends within the community,” he says, “which has motivated me to continue working on this product.” He recognizes that horchata holds a shared value within the Mexican-American community, as both a source of comfort and a symbol of tradition. “I know that it’s not just a beverage,” he says, “but it’s something meaningful to so many people.”

Rice, milk, vanilla, cinnamon. To Urbina, they make a concoction that is both the gateway to his dreams of entrepreneurship and the unique expression of his personal identity.

“It’s a way that I connect to my heritage,” he says. “Hopefully, MixChata will succeed and then continue for years to come.”
Sections
With a splash that flecks sparkling water droplets across the screen, Gyarados plunges into the deep. Plump, cotton candy-colored Jellicents levitate over a shimmering coral reef as Sharpedos charge past, gaping mouths full of sharp teeth. In the midst of the underwater scene, enclosed in a giant bubble and rapping his heart out, is Post Malone — that is, the Sims virtual version of him, wearing a sleek black tracksuit emblazoned with Pikachu’s tail, every last tattoo inked to perfection.
Last Friday night I and 2.6 million others hopped onto YouTube for Pokémon Day, kicking off a year-long celebration of 25 years of Pokémon. I looked around my sky blue childhood bedroom: A stack of Pokémon trading cards, some dog-eared and others still shiny, was nestled in the corner of a bookshelf alongside Jolteon and Pikachu plushies. Among these familiar relics of a younger Felicia, I settled into my chair to watch the concert, just a little surprised by the headliner artist.
And yet, it would prove to be an ideal mix of past and present: the pixelated Pokémon of my childhood years blown up into beautiful 3D models swimming alongside one of the “hippest” artists of our time.
◓ ◓ ◓ ◓ ◓
Even after a quarter century, Nintendo’s Pokémon video games continue to capture the attention of aspiring trainers around the world. In the electronic gaming series, players act as Pokémon trainers. Each player trains a team of Pokémon in hopes of defeating other trainers with their own teams; these opponents include members of the Pokémon League known as Gym Leaders and the Elite Four. Meanwhile, players also work to complete the Pokédex by collecting all available Pokémon in a specific region. Being a trainer in the Pokémon universe requires the use of a fair bit of vernacular, most of which is centered around themes of training, battling, and capturing Pokémon.
In many ways, I am still living the Pokémon dream, which caught me at a formative time in my life and shaped a significant part of my childhood. To say that I empathized with the characters in the TV show and the video games would be an understatement: I aimed to embody what it meant to be a Pokémon trainer.
“I will never not love Pokémon,” I proudly declared from the backseat of our rental van to my older cousin.
“Anisha, there will come a day when you are not attached to your DS. Don’t worry, it happens to everyone,” she replied while rolling her eyes.
My eyes darted from the screen to meet hers. “No, there will never be a day that I don’t love Pokémon,” I said adamantly.
My gaze returned to the screen, re-focusing on the task at hand. I had poured hours upon hours into training for this battle; it would feel like a sunk cost if my lineup didn’t pull through. I had strategically stocked up on Hyper Potions and Full Restores — my healing items of choice — during a recent trip to the Poké Mart.
Despite comments from my front-seat family members to look out the window and take in the sights of the great outdoors, I remained engrossed in what was about to be the biggest moment of my career as a Pokémon trainer. I was certain that the scenery would be there the next time we drove home from the airport, but battling against the Johto Elite Four was a rare opportunity. The stakes were high, and I could not afford to lose.
In this world, I was the main character. As the character in the game ran through the Safari Zone grass and surfed around Whirl Islands, I felt as though it was me fulfilling my own desire for adventure. I fell in love all at once with the journey, the story, and the chance to immerse myself in a world that quickly became second-nature. The rush when you’re running through Ilex Forest and encounter a Pokémon you thought you’d never see is like going down a roller coaster constantly.
In Pokémon, there is no screen that says “You Win.” Unlike other games that have a concrete, achievable goal of “beating the game,” Pokémon relies on incremental targets that are constantly moving. After defeating all the Gym Leaders, Elite Four, the game Champion, and even completing the Pokédex, there are practically infinite ways to continue to train and battle — my journey never ended. Despite how much I had accomplished, I was always left wanting more.
◓ ◓ ◓ ◓ ◓
Although console games are the beating heart of Pokémon, the spirit of being a Pokémon trainer extends beyond throwing Pokéballs and beating gyms on your own. In 1996, the first collectible trading cards, introduced as the Pokémon Trading Card Game, hit the shelves and brought Pokémon to cafeteria lunch tables, dinner tables, and school cubbies around the world. Soon after followed the Pokémon anime television series, first broadcast in 1997, featuring the indomitable, inspiring Ash Ketchum with his trusty partner-in-crime, Pikachu.
“It’s always hard, when the journey begins…”
“Hard to find your way—”
“Hard to make new friends.”
My little brother and I belted out the theme song at the top of our lungs as Pokémon flew across the screen. It was 8:30 a.m. on a Saturday, which meant we were glued to the TV and watching Pokémon Black and White over breakfast. Twelve-year-old Felicia always looked forward to running side-by-side with Ash as he met new friends and said goodbye to the old from series to series. But now with my little brother in tow, waving his hands on his high chair expressing just how pumped he was, it became more than just a show.
It was an entire universe waiting in the spark of a Pokéball.
At Christmastime, we would make the drive up to New York City and burst through the doors of Nintendo New York, clamoring up the spiral red stairs to the second floor. There, we found our annual present always waiting: a gallery of Pokémon memorabilia. At home, we doodled and scribbled our dream Pokémon teams on yellow notepads, crying out moves as we acted out battles. Years later, keychains and figurines hang next to old pictures, these new items brought home from Tokyo’s Pokémon Center thousands of miles away.
This overload of merchandise is just a fraction of the ever-expanding Pokémon universe, which boasts everything from toothbrushes to Pop-Tarts. In all its forms, the message of Pokémon remains the same: Always keep training to be the very best you can be.
It’s true that the open-world concept introduced in the new Pokémon game may be heavily borrowed from the highly successful video game “The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild.” Yes, the art style may become more cartoonish and shift from series to series. Yes, one plot may be less developed than the others.
The Pokémon fandom, a universe as expansive as the franchise’s own, has ranted, commented, and spoken at length about these concerns online. And while these conversations should be had, it may also come at the cost of failing to recognize that, just like kids, Pokémon evolves.
The game might not be the pixelated and twinkling soundtrack we remember it to be, nor may the gimmicky throw-and-capture system of the later games without the battles satisfy our inner trainers. But to survive, Pokémon must adapt and compete with a shifting base and increasingly competitive market vying for the limited attention span of 5 to 10-year-olds.
◓ ◓ ◓ ◓ ◓
We are often guilty of turning away from the past and shunning childhood for fear of “embarrassment” as we grow older. It took us a couple extra late-night conversations in the dorm to figure out that we were both Pokémon trainers at heart. We both related to feeling outdated, cracking up at the sight of a chubby Gigantamax Pikachu or hairflipping Dugtrio and realizing we’d never used a Fairy type Pokémon in battle before.
After 25 years, Pokémon has remained relevant.. Even as the ever-evolving brand collaborates with mainstream artists like Post Malone, the memories of picking a starter Pokémon or desperately hoping to avoid encountering another Zubat are enough to foster close friendships like our own.
Because at the end of the day, it’s just you and your team, ready to catch ’em all and become the greatest Pokémon Master of all time.
— Staff writer Felicia Y. Ho can be reached at felicia.ho@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @HoPanda007. 
Sections
Just after 8:00 a.m. on Feb. 24, a truck reversed into two utility workers at a construction site on High Street in downtown Boston, knocking them into a 20-foot-deep trench. Jordan Romero, 27, and Juan Carlos Figueroa Gutierrez, 33, were pronounced dead shortly thereafter. The men, who were employed by Atlantic Coast Utilities, had been repairing the sewer line connecting to Boston Water and Sewer Commission’s main sewer.
Massachusetts Coalition for Occupational Safety and Health Executive Director Jodi E. Sugerman-Brozan says the accident was “eerily similar” to another tragedy in 2016, in which two men employed by Atlantic Drain drowned on a job in the South End when a hydrant line collapsed and filled the trench they were working in with water. The owner of Atlantic Drain Service Co., Kevin Otto, failed to provide adequate support and safety materials for the workers, according to the Occupational Safety and Health Administration. Suffolk County Superior Court found Otto guilty of two counts of manslaughter.
Sugerman-Brozan calls these workplace deaths and injuries “preventable tragedies.” According to Sugerman-Brozan, the steps required to ensure worker safety are already apparent. For example, OSHA and the OSH Act provide regulations meant to prevent workers from being harmed by vehicles on site.
But it’s clear that despite comprehensive legislation, companies such as ACU and Atlantic Drain are slipping through the cracks. The recent tragedy prompted swift action: In a statement on Twitter, Boston mayor Martin J. Walsh announced the suspension of Atlantic Coast Utilities’ other worksite in Boston and barred the company from working in the city until the investigations launched by the Suffolk County District Attorney’s Office and OSHA have concluded. The effect of the suspension on ACU’s employees who were working in Boston is unclear.
“The purpose of an OSHA inspection is to determine which workplace safety or health standards apply in this situation and whether or not the employer complied with those standards,” OSHA wrote in an emailed statement.
The Crimson attempted to contact ACU multiple times for comment on this story, but could not reach a representative due to a full voicemail box.
Soon after the investigation began, more information about contributing factors to the accident arose. ACU’s owner Laurence M. Moloney did not report any OSHA citations in contractor affidavits in 2019 and 2020, even though the company had allegedly incurred five safety violations. According to the OSHA inspection detail, OSHA alleges one willful and four serious safety violations against the company.
An OSHA spokesperson added in the emailed statement that the administration cannot disclose specific information about ongoing inspections.
Officials are still trying to determine how the tragedy occured. “How do you get a permit in the city of Boston? That is the $1,000 question right now,” Sugerman-Brozan says. For Boston City Councilor Ed M. Flynn of District 2, investigating the vetting process and ensuring that construction companies are providing “accurate, updated information” and “value the safety of their workers” is a priority. On March 3, Flynn and other city councilors called for a hearing on construction site safety in the city and existing vetting procedures.
After the 2016 Atlantic Drain Service tragedy, Walsh filed an ordinance that requires companies applying for work permits to swear by their workplace safety history and gives the city the power to revoke permits based on past safety violations or concerns. Named for the two employees who died, the Mattocks-Higgins affidavit is now one of many required forms for companies applying for a construction permit.
In an emailed comment, a city spokesperson wrote that companies are also required to produce a Covid-19 safety plan and Covid-19 safety affidavits for a construction permit as of May 2020.
Nonetheless, Boston City Councilor At-Large Michael F. Flaherty calls the existing ordinance “lax.” The main shortcoming of the ordinance, according to Flaherty, is its lack of punitive power for companies that lie about their workplace safety histories. “In a way, we’re relying on companies to be forthcoming with no prescribed penalty code,” he says.
During a WBUR segment on March 4, Flynn said “there should be zero excuses for a company such as Atlantic [Coast Utilities] getting any type of project in the city of Boston.”
Another issue lies in the current certification process for companies bidding for contracts on state building projects, Sugerman-Brozan says. The Division of Capital Asset Management and Maintenance — an agency that oversees Massachusetts capital projects — approves contractors to receive a permit for construction. Per state courts, public bidding laws aim to “obtain the lowest cost that fair competition can achieve to protect and preserve taxpayers dollars.”
According to Sugerman-Brozan, companies successfully bid for contracts because they can offer the lowest bids.
“They cut corners, so they’re the lowest bid,” Sugerman-Brozan says. “It really is an unfair process by which those who are doing right by workers and health and safety are not on a level playing field.”
Sugerman-Brozan says Massachusetts Coalition for Occupational Safety and Health currently wants to find out which contractors approved by DCAMM have OSHA and wage and hour violations.
A DCAMM spokesperson did not respond to questions about the bidding process.
Prior to the certification of Atlantic Coast Utilities, Moloney, in 2008 — who at the time owned construction company Shannon Construction — pleaded guilty to not paying workers a prevailing wage and overtime, as well as failing to provide accurate payroll records. Boston Municipal Court forced Moloney to pay wages totaling $210,000 to 70 workers, in addition to $90,000 in fines.
Moloney could not be reached for comment.
Flynn says that issues like unsafe work conditions and wage theft go hand-in-hand.
He discusses the ways in which workers — particularly undocumented workers — are vulnerable to mistreatment and exploitation at construction sites.
“It's not a separate issue,” Flynn adds. “When you cut one corner to make things easier for you, you often try to continue cutting corners.”
In addition to undocumented workers, Sugerman-Brozan says workers not represented by a union are more vulnerable to exploitation and may not have access to information about their rights.
“We know that union workers are safer workers, and that workers with a voice are safer workers,” Sugerman-Brozan said. ACU workers are not unionized.
According to Sugerman-Brozan, worker safety issues have also been exacerbated by insufficient safety regulations preventing airborne transmission of Covid-19. She cites a study published in the American Journal of Industrial Medicine this month of Covid-19 death certificates, which concluded that workers in 11 specific occupations — including construction and extraction — died from Covid-19 at higher frequencies than workers in other fields.
“Covid-19 has created an occupational health and safety nightmare of epic proportions,” Sugerman-Brozan says. “It’s an occupational disease.”
According to Flynn and Flaherty, the City Council will announce the date of the hearing soon. In the hearing order, Flynn called for representatives from the Massachusetts Coalition of Occupational Safety and Health, as well as the Inspectional Services Department and the Boston Police, to testify.
Action is also being taken at the state level: Representative Michelle M. Dubois, a Democrat of Plymouth, and Senator Paul R. Feeney, a Democrat of Bristol and Norfolk, introduced a bill to require companies looking to contract with Massachusetts to disclose safety violations, which would effectively extend the Mattocks-Higgins affidavit process beyond Boston. Sugerman-Brozan says she is hoping the bill will pass.
She is also hopeful that Moloney will be charged criminally to “set an example” for other companies.
— Magazine writer Meimei Xu can be reached at meimei.xu@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @meimeixu7.
Sections
When Ted J. Kaptchuk was recruited by Harvard in 1995, he was considered anything but orthodox. He had training in traditional Chinese medicine — a field Kaptchuk says is often written off as “forbidden” and “non-scientific” in Western academic circles. His first task was studying the extent to which the healing properties of alternative medicine might be due to the placebo effect, a phenomenon new to Kaptchuk at the time. One of his colleagues defined it as the “effect of an inert substance.”
When Kaptchuk heard this, he thought, “Oh boy, this is an oxymoron.”
Feeling that much of the debate over whether alternative medicine was “just” a placebo “had all kinds of hidden biases,” Kaptchuk immersed himself in studying the placebo effect — a topic “no one cared about” at the time — not just as it related to alternative medicine, but in general. Now a full professor, he’s one of the few faculty members at Harvard Medical School with neither an M.D. nor a Ph.D., and a leading scholar in the field of placebo studies. He’s proud of his status as a self-proclaimed “black sheep” at Harvard — he says that being “different in socialization has really made [his] career what it is.”
As a total history buff, Kaptchuk does not want to study anything without understanding its historical context. When he began researching the placebo effect, he discovered that its history was much longer than many people at the Medical School thought, and “unsavory on lots of levels.”
According to Kaptchuk, countless studies utilize placebo controls, but those only provide information about the placebo response compared to the actual treatment. There are very few studies on the placebo effect, which compares the results of those treated with the placebo with those who received neither treatment nor a placebo.
To address the need for more knowledge on the placebo effect, Kaptchuk began studying whether this phenomenon exists at all, and if it can be manipulated. He was particularly interested in  whether it was possible to control the level of placebo effect induced in a subject.
He looked at specific patient populations — people with asthma, for example — to determine whether or not placebos can cause objective changes in health and physiology. Kaptchuk says this study marked a first, as other research in the field had focused on the perceived effects of a placebo, rather than objective changes.
Still, Kaptchuk is also interested in less quantitative research. In another study, he collaborated with an expert in Tibetan medicine and analyzed patient interviews. “As I read the transcripts,” he says, wide-eyed, “These people are totally different from what my mentors told me, that they think it’s the drug and that’s why they get better.” In fact, the patients all worried they were on the placebo.
“They were petrified that their improvement was because of what was going on inside their heads,” he says.
In an interview for the study, Kaptchuk recalled one of the patients responding, “I’ve been to four specialists with this disease. I came into this study because I’m desperate. Why would I think I’d get better? I’m hopeful that I’ll get better. If I didn’t have hope I wouldn’t be able to get out of bed.”
For Kaptchuk, hearing this changed everything. Perhaps, too, it signalled some form of change, however small, within the larger field of placebo studies. Kaptchuck says this study — his favorite of the projects he’s led — was the first in the field where patients were interviewed about their placebo experiences.
“Placebos, in my feeling, are a marginalized entity in medicine,” Kaptchuk says. “Placebo research, really until recently, has been based on deception, tricking people by giving them placebos and telling them it’s a real, powerful drug.”
“My work is taking the placebo out of the closet — taking it out of the marginalized,” Kaptchuk says. He hopes to do away with the saying “Oh, it’s only a placebo!” and start reinforcing the belief that “No, there’s something here, and you don’t have to be dishonest.”
Sections
My uncle has only two years to live.
When I wrote those words at the top of this page, I realized that at this point, he has only a few months left.
This is the second time I’ve written about my uncle’s cancer diagnosis. A year-and-a-half stand between this piece and my first, dated Aug. 26, 2019, but I got used to thinking that he had more time.
“It was one of those moments when news is being broken to you, and you can’t say how it’s being broken, or in what order,” I had written in my first piece. As I open the page and revisit my account, the level of detail surprises me. Without the help of my old journals and Word docs, I can only recall a smattering of moments from that night. I remember my parents only speaking about my uncle in Mandarin, and I remember only asking about him in Mandarin.
“The tumor switched — chang zi,” my mother had said.
“Colon?” I had asked.
“Yes, colon.”
“It switched to colon?”
“No, it switched to gan,” she said, to which I asked, “Gan?”
Liver, she said. Gan meant liver.
These overlapping, confused lines of dialogue continue for another page and a half in my year-old account of that night as my parents discussed the potential causes: my uncle’s job as a school principal, his obligation to abide by China’s social drinking culture, his love of red meat, his high levels of stress. No distinction between speakers. Just words repeating, ricocheting, stalling for time. Stalling — until I scroll down on the document and read how I described the sound of my mother’s cries, which I had not remembered at all. This version of myself looks up and sees my mom’s shoulders heave up and down. I’m looking at my father’s back, and I don’t need to see his face to know that it is tearless, like mine. Only when I read these words does the memory float back to me. I described it as half-grief. Stuck in the wrong places, like sweat.
This was a tragedy relegated to my mother’s side of the family. My uncle was my uncle by marriage only, and the few family meals we shared every two or three years when I visited China did not do much to strengthen our bonds. I hear updates about his condition from my mother, who hears them from her sister, his wife. In our kitchen, he lives as the occasional subject of the quieter conversations between my mother and father. Their tone tells me, it doesn’t matter if you understand. Only sometimes do I think to ask to translate the unknown vocabulary.
It is a privilege to not know how to write about grief. The act of piecing together my uncle’s story from these fragmented dialogues resembles fiction-writing more than journalism. Although I record and report on other people’s lives, I cannot do the same for my own — but how much of it remains my own? I do not know if I have the right to compose a grief story. I don’t even know if I have the right to call this grief. On a physical level, I cannot mourn an uncle who has not passed away. On every other level, he is not mine to grieve.
My limited perspective has freed up my mind considerably. Other people inherit their families’ maladies. I can stop caring the minute I shut my door. If a tree collapses, its sparrows can fly away.
As an outsider to my uncle’s life, I don’t know if I have a right to publicize his story, even if I am his family. Do I have an inheritance to grief?
I have two reasons for writing this new account, one selfish, one less so. Selfishly, I envy the writers who can conjure their genealogies on command. I’m envious of the first chapter of every American memoir. I’m envious of your grandpa’s war memorabilia, your great-grandma’s pictures, your great-great-grandparents’ college stories. I want to feel familial destiny. I want to be part of a dynasty, even the modest kind that only carries on through love.
But beyond myself, I know how my uncle’s death will shake the tree. My grandparents have no son to take care of them. Their son-in-law has been a pillar of support for them in their twilight years. From the few family dinners we’ve had, I’ve known my uncle as the grounding presence in the room, the sonorous voice that delivers a few sage words during a toast. If a tree collapses, its sparrow can fly away, but perhaps the bird will continue flying its whole life, trying to find another tree just like the one it knew.
Back when we still considered the pandemic a “them” thing and an “over there” problem, my parents bought and shipped boxes of N95 masks to my uncle and my other relatives in Shanghai, Yancheng, and Hangzhou. Since the day we found out about his cancer, I haven’t heard much from my uncle — which is to say, I haven’t heard my parents talk much about my uncle. What I do know from this past year, I’ve dug out from their gristles of conversation. Today, he’s at the Beijing hospital. The next day, he’s home in Yancheng. Then, he’s in Beijing again, waiting in the hotel for the station to reopen, praying the train arrives before the virus does. I go away for college, and only when I come back do I find out he made it on the train.
— Magazine writer Meimei Xu can be reached at meimei.xu@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @meimeixu7.
Sections
Content warning: This article contains detailed descriptions of physical violence perpetrated against Black individuals.
Tamara K. Lanier picked up the phone mid-conversation. She was talking to a voice on the other line about an upcoming hearing on H.R. 40, a bill which, if passed, would introduce a commission to “study and consider” reparations for American slavery.
Two days later, on Feb. 17, Lanier spoke before the House Judiciary Subcommittee on the Constitution, Civil Rights, and Civil Liberties. She presented her testimony alongside her attorney, Benjamin L. Crump — the distinguished civil rights lawyer representing the families of Trayvon Martin, George Floyd, and Breonna Taylor in their civil suits. Lanier’s testimony outlined the decade-long battle she has waged with Harvard over the legal ownership of daguerreotypes picturing her ancestor, Renty.
“In our family, there are five generations of Renty,” Lanier says. From childhood through adulthood, Lanier’s mother shared stories of Papa Renty, Lanier’s great-great-great-grandfather who was enslaved in South Carolina. It was her mother’s dying wish for Lanier to research and record her family tree — a feat that is often impossible for the descendants of those who were enslaved in America. “I started to feel the guilt and remorse about promising her that I would write this down,” Lanier says.
Ultimately, she was able to live up to her promise. She did what many other Black Americans are unable to do: identify the plantation where her ancestors were enslaved, speak to the descendants of the owners of that plantation, and verify the family lore that she had heard since childhood with a genealogist.
Near the beginning of her search, Lanier stumbled upon an unexpected finding — photographs of Papa Renty and his daughter, Delia, in the archive of the Peabody Museum of Archaeology and Ethnology at Harvard University. Her reaction, Lanier recalls, was immediate: “I saw in him family resemblance. The stories seemed to all come to life again when looking at that picture.”
For the past 10 years, Lanier has wrestled with Harvard for ownership of the photographs. Some have disputed whether her genealogical research is 100 percent certain, and The University has said it seeks to “steward” the fragile objects — which are some of the earliest photographs of enslaved people — and make the images publicly accessible. In an attempt to resolve this dispute, Lanier sued Harvard in March 2019 for ownership of the daguerreotypes.
In Oct. 2020, Lanier and her legal team argued their case in front of Massachusetts Superior Court Justice Camille F. Sarrouf, Jr., responding to Harvard’s motion to dismiss the case. The University argued that Lanier has no standing to sue for the photographs because her request exceeds the statute of limitations and because they say she has no legal claim to ownership over the photographs. Earlier this month, Sarrouf ruled in Harvard’s favor and dismissed Lanier’s claim. Lanier and her team have 30 days to submit an appeal, and they plan to do so.
The implications of Lanier v. Harvard do not end with the daguerreotypes in the Peabody Museum. Crump believes that this case could dictate the future of reparations in the United States, saying, “Like Brown v. Board set a precedent, it will set a precedent now.”
“This will become a legal mandate for all of those Black people,” Crump says, “to be able to recover whatever artifacts, relics, artwork — anything of significance or value that was seized from them during slavery.” Such a precedent would bring rising calls for racial justice across America into museums, questioning the very possibility of ethical stewardship.
In January, University President Lawrence S. Bacow announced that the Peabody Museum holds the remains of at least 15 people of African descent who were likely enslaved. Lanier v. Harvard also raises questions over the legal and moral basis for Harvard’s ownership of these remains, as well as the thousands of uncatalogued artifacts that sit in the Peabody.
“This begins with not only my childhood, but my mother’s childhood,” Lanier says. “She would refer to it as growing up in the Jim Crow South. She was the daughter of sharecropper parents.” Lanier’s mother, Mattye Pearl Thompson, shared stories about Papa Renty that had been passed down through the generations.
Lanier’s daughter, Shonrael P.G. Lanier, vividly remembers these stories as well. “The way that some people do with ‘Berenstain Bears,’ those were the stories of my childhood,” she recalls. “We learned about how hard he worked and how he put that work ethic into his children, and how they went from slaves to sharecroppers to teachers and nurses. Our grandmother was always very proud, and telling us those stories and keeping us grounded.”
Both Tamara and Shonrael Lanier remember the story Mattye Pearl told most often: Papa Renty acquiring a Webster’s Blue Back Speller and teaching first himself, and then others, to read, even though it was illegal.
For Tamara Lanier, Renty’s desire to read and teach other enslaved people was “not just physically emancipating themselves from bondage, but intellectually. That part of our story about Renty’s literacy is so, so very important to the discussions and the issues that I’ve had with Harvard.”
The University received the daguerreotypes of Renty and Delia with a different backstory — one that Harvard biologist Louis Agassiz narrated. In March of 1850, Agassiz commissioned Joseph Zealy to photograph enslaved people for medical research justified by racist pseudoscience. Agassiz was an adherent of Polygenism — a false scientific ideology that argues that different races come from different origins — and he sought out enslaved people in the American South to study as “pure” Africans.
“Renty had to strip naked. And have his features, his lips, his arms, chest, his male organs, buttocks, everything measured to prove some racist beliefs,” Crump says. “Delia even had it worse in some ways. This young woman standing there in front of all those strange men groping on her breasts and measuring her buttocks.”
Agassiz violated Renty and Delia with the intent to prove that the Black race was inferior to the white race, “and they just had to stand there,” Crump says. Agassiz ultimately gifted his supposed evidence to Harvard.
In her continued efforts to fulfill her mother’s wish of documenting her family history, Lanier was able to identify the man in the daguerreotype as her Papa Renty. She traced her ancestry through old family names that had been passed down through the generations. She then cross-referenced her own research with a genealogist and compared the records and stories she had accrued from the descendents of the family who enslaved Renty.
Lanier says the Peabody Museum initially turned away her genealogical research. The museum’s director of external relations at the time, Pamela Gerardi, told the Norwich Bulletin in 2014 that Lanier gave the Peabody “nothing that directly connects her ancestor to the person in our photograph.” After finding no interest in her research at the Peabody, Lanier says she reached out to then-University President Drew G. Faust saying, “I’m confused.”
“I sent a letter to her that basically gave her a little of the backstory, and I told her that I believe that I am this man’s [descendant], and that I would want someone from Harvard to look at my research and confirm,” she says. Lanier alleges that Faust was repeatedly dismissive of her. Lanier was confused why Harvard, an institution whose very motto proclaims its commitment to history and truth, would be so uninterested in hearing her story.
Harvard spokesperson Rachael Dane, on behalf of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences and the Peabody, wrote in an emailed statement, “These highly sensitive objects foreground the dignity and humanity of enslaved Black American and African born men and women, who were photographed against their will. We are hopeful the Court’s ruling will allow Harvard to explore an appropriate home for the daguerreotypes moving forward that allows them to be more accessible to a broader segment of the public and to tell the stories of the enslaved people that they depict.”
Dane declined to comment on behalf of Faust, pointing instead to the University’s statement on the recent ruling in Lanier’s lawsuit.
Lanier’s story flew under the radar for several years as she was directed to different University administrators for answers to her questions. However, things changed in 2017 when she attended a Radcliffe Institute for Advanced Study event with her daughter. She walked into the room and immediately recognized the huge image of Renty staring at her. Lanier remembers, “My daughter and I both stopped in our tracks, and I’ll never forget her words. She said, ‘Mom, Papa Renty looks mad.’”
The Laniers took seats in the back. Already offended by the unceremonious display of Renty, the rest of the conference continued to disturb them. Although Lanier had already spent years trying to tell Harvard she knew who Renty was, she remembers the speakers claiming he was “invisible.”
Shonrael started tweeting. She noticed the speakers were telling audience members to respond to the conference with a hashtag, so she started sharing all the research her mother had collected over the years using that hashtag. She says she was attempting to “put out as much information, just trying to beat the false narrative by spreading the truth.” The Twitter thread quickly gained traction, and audience members even started engaging with them. “And that’s kind of how we grassrooted some true information about my grandfather at a conference that was parading his image around,” Shonrael says.
The Radcliffe Institute did not directly respond to the Laniers’ criticisms in multiple requests for comment, but did point to videos of the event, “Universities and Slavery: Bound by History,” publicly available on their website.
After months of organizing and filing a lawsuit against Harvard, Lanier’s story became national news with a New York Times profile. The battle against Harvard’s stewardship of the photographs — one that, Lanier says, centers Agassiz in the narrative and perpetuates his scientific racism by erasing Renty — became mainstream.
Marian S. Moore, the great-great-great granddaughter of Louis Agassiz, grew up hearing stories about how her ancestor discovered that glaciers move. It wasn’t until the Times profile that Moore understood the true implications and racist legacy of Agassiz. After reading the article, she felt compelled to Facebook message Lanier. Ultimately, 43 descendants of Agassiz penned a letter to Harvard imploring the University to hand over the daguerreotypes to Lanier.
Moore says the overarching message of the letter was, “We ignored this for way too long. And now we see how wrong that was. And what we’d like to do is come on this side of the table with Tammy. And can you [Harvard] come over to this side of the table, too?”
“We have the possibility,” Moore says, “and Tammy and I have talked about this, of ancestral healing.”
There is no legal mandate requiring anthropological museums, like the Peabody, to return artifacts relating to American slavery to the descendants of the enslaved.
By contrast, the Native American Graves Protection and Repatriation Act (NAGPRA), passed in 1990, requires institutions to return Native American remains and burial items that have an identifiable cultural or geographic affiliation to their original owners and descendents. The Association of American Indian Affairs recently penned a letter to the University alleging that Harvard is in violation of NAGPRA. The letter accuses Harvard of failing to consult Native American tribal nations during collection inventories, as well as the mishandling of other artifacts.
The Holocaust Expropriated Art Recovery Act of 2016 (HEAR), extends the statute of limitations for descendents of Jewish people whose possessions were stolen by the Nazis during the Holocaust, providing descendents the opportunity to sue for their ancestors’ belongings if they can prove ownership.
No legal equivalent has been enacted for remains of or possessions that were taken from enslaved Black Americans.
The Peabody Museum’s Faculty Executive Committee was organized in 2019 to assess and evaluate the museum’s stewardship practices and relationships with descendent stakeholders of their collection. Professor Matthew J. Liebmann chairs the committee and studies North American archaeology and American colonialism.
In Bacow’s announcement of the discovery of the human remains that belonged to people of African descent who were likely enslaved, he also announced the formation of a steering committee to survey and recommend policies on “the ethical stewardship of human remains in the University’s museum collections.”
Liebmann says, “President Bacow’s announcement was so significant because there’s no law that’s mandating Harvard to” repatriate, bury, or study the remains of enslaved people in the Peabody. Similarly, Harvard is not currently required to return the daguerreotypes in question to Lanier — a fact the March 1 court decision allowing Harvard’s motion to dismiss relied on.
Despite the lack of legal obligation, “lots of museums are taking a step back and examining their previous collecting practices, their current guidelines around stewardship, and their obligations to society at large,” Liebmann says. The Peabody’s internal review process helped lead to the discovery that its collections hold remains of individuals who were likely enslaved.
A Peabody panel earlier this month on how museums can decolonize themselves explicitly discussed repatriation of Native American artifacts. There was a similar panel last November. Bacow has also requested the recently-formed steering committee on human remains release a public update on its activities in the fall.
Throughout all of this discussion, Harvard has continued to maintains it has a rightful claim to the daguerreotypes of Renty and Delia.
“African Americans have cultural property,” Lanier says, “There’s cultural property that is in museums and the narratives are completely told from the perspective of those who have exploited.”
Crump adds, “And that’s where Ms. Lanier and us African Americans, as descendants of African slaves, are saying, ‘Why aren’t you doing a HEAR Act for us?’”
Crump thinks that Lanier v. Harvard is the most significant case for racial justice since Brown v. Board.
“We have to remember that Brown v. Board of Education was transcending,” he explains, “because it allowed generations upon generations of people who have been marginalized and denied basic opportunity and equal justice as it relates to what the Constitution guaranteed all its citizens: life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness.”
Crump believes Lanier’s case would lead to a very similar outcome: “This landmark case against Harvard would be the first case of reparations for an African American family to recover anything from slavery from an American institution.”
The legal basis of Crump’s argument revolves around three central pillars, none of which were central to the March 1 ruling by the Massachusetts State Superior Court. Rather, the court allowed Harvard’s motion to dismiss the case on the grounds that the statute of limitations had passed and that Lanier did “not have a property interest in the photographs.”
Crump’s first legal argument involves equitable restitution. Crump believes that Harvard has acquired unjust enrichment through its use of the daguerreotypes because Harvard has profited off of the violation of Renty and Delia. For instance, in 2017 Renty’s image was put on the cover of a $40 textbook distributed by the Harvard University Press. Bacow has said the University does not profit from the images and only charges a “nominal fee” for reproductions.
For equitable restitution to be applied, there must be a form of unjust enrichment, meaning that profit was made from a crime. “Because of the nature of the pictures’ creation, the images were taken under duress,” Crump says. “This was not just simple duress — this was the most extreme of duress.” He believes that given the severe circumstances, consent could not have been given to the photographer, meaning equitable restitution is applicable.
“If they challenged their slave masters and refused to obey their masters’ will,” Crump adds, “What would have happened to Renty and Delia? They would have been beaten, they would have been starved, they would have been tortured to death. Put simply, it is clear beyond any doubt that Renty and Delia would have never been given any option to refuse to take these photographs.”
The court ruled that regardless of whether or not the photographs were taken under duress, Renty and Delia never had any legal claim to them. The ruling cited several state and federal precedents establishing that “any photographs are the property of the photographer.” Thus, as a descendant of the photographs’ subjects, Lanier has no claim to them.
The second pillar of Crump’s argument hinges on a constitutional law claim. He explains that “by refusing to relinquish the images to Ms. Lanier, Harvard continues to unconstitutionally deprive Ms. Lanier of her rightful property.”
In addition, Crump claims that the Massachusetts Civil Rights Act allows Lanier to sue to get the daguerreotypes back, because by accepting the images from Agassiz and keeping them, Harvard promoted slavery after its abolition in Massachusetts, thus violating the act. “Slavery in Massachusetts ended in 1783. And these daguerreotypes were produced in March of 1850. The 13th Amendment abolished slavery in 1865,” Crump explains. “We believed that we were free, that we had the right to our own person, our own image, but Harvard said, ‘No Renty, no Delia. You do not have the right to your images.’”
The court dismissed this argument due to the three-year statute of limitations embedded in the Massachusetts Civil Rights Act. Furthermore, Sarrouf wrote, the bill states that “a person can assert a civil rights claim ‘only in his own name’” and that Lanier herself lacks a “plausible claim for relief.”
The final premise Crump uses is a ‘prima facie’ tort claim, in short, alleging that one party intentionally caused loss to another without justification. Crump asks, “So did Harvard commit these crimes against Renty and Delia with a malicious purpose? We all know they did.”
“They were engaged in scientific racism to advance the cause of white supremacy,” Crump says, “and reinforced racist notions of Black inferiority as a way to perpetuate the institution of slavery.”
Again, the court dismissed this argument due to Lanier’s lack of property standing.
Crump alleges that Harvard’s defense “relies on technicalities.” In the October hearing, Crump pleaded with the court “not to participate in Harvard’s enterprise of profiting from crimes against humanity.” The suit has yet to reach trial phase, meaning that no one other than Sarrouf has heard each side's exact argument. “Let them prove it to a jury of our peers,” he says, so that Harvard can prove “that they should be unjustly enriched by their participation in white supremacy.”
In an interview after the court decision was released, Lanier says that she and her legal team anticipated the dismissal since the October hearing. “There was very little confidence that the judge would rule in our favor,” she explains. “We had at that point talked about plans for moving forward in the event of something like this.”
“There will definitely be an appeal,” she adds. “That is for certain.”
Although she expected the decision, she was still disappointed. She felt as if the court disregarded her main arguments and acted as “a repetition of Harvard’s complaint.”
She had long been under the impression that this case was destined for a higher court. “The question is,” she says, “How high a court?”
Joshua D. Koskoff, another one of Lanier’s attorneys, says, “What we’re going to be doing is filing an appeal. We will try to get this case directly up to the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, where it has always belonged, in my view.”
“Current legal principles” were used by Sarrouf to deny Lanier property standing in the case — legal precedents that themselves derive from the very legal system that denies that descendants of enslaved Black Americans have cultural property. Sarrouf wrote that “the Legislature or Massachusetts Appellate Court” would be better suited to “provide the redress Lanier now seeks.”
If they win the appeal, Crump says that this precedent would have tangible outcomes on the descendents of enslaved people living today. “If Black people can prove their lineal descendancy,” he explains, “they can have a legal claim as to what was seized from them or wrongfully taken from them as a consequence of slavery.”
Nonetheless, Crump does not think such a precedent would lead to an overwhelming number of individuals using the court to acquire property they believe was stolen from their ancestors. “I don’t think there will be a floodgate,” he says. “Because we’ve got to remember, slavery was designed to make sure Black people can never trace their roots.”
Lanier and Crump have already used their unique position and the importance of the suit to push for reparations outside of the judiciary. On Feb. 17 the pair testified before Congress during the hearing on H.R. 40, calling for a commission that studies reparations for American slavery.
Lanier says that their statement to Congress was “not only [about] reparations, but decolonization, repatriation, sexual exploitation, cultural appropriation. This is what this case represents — all of these things in one, and then beyond that.”
During Lanier’s legal endeavors, grassroots organizers and activists have rallied behind her. Samantha C. W. O’Sullivan ’22, the president of the Harvard Generational African American Students Association (GAASA), has played a key role in student activism around the daguerreotypes. After GAASA hosted a few panels with both Lanier and Crump to raise awareness about the lawsuit, a student wing of the Harvard Coalition to Free Renty was born. The activist organization has hosted meetings as a platform for Lanier to appeal to the Harvard student body and has circulated petitions demanding the Peabody release the images.
Although O’Sullivan has been a key organizer in this grassroots campaign, she remains pessimistic. “We would hope they would return them, but I don’t see them doing it,” she says.
She feels that Harvard’s actions toward Lanier send a larger message to Harvard’s Black student body. “It feels very hurtful and very alienating in the sense that it’s almost like the College is telling me, as a Black student descended from enslaved people, that ‘we don’t care about your ancestry,’” she says.
Despite O’Sullivan’s admitted cynicism, she still believes that “the most that any of us can do as students is to use our voices.”
A number of Harvard institutions are attempting to reckon with the racist scholarship conducted in their past. Liebmann says the Faculty Executive Committee of the Peabody, for instance, is working to create policy recommendations to “prioritize ethical stewardship as part of the fundamental mission of the museum.” He adds that the committee is most recently focused on “how we can use the Harvard collections to reflect on Harvard’s history.”
In a 2019 email to the Faculty Executive Committee of the Peabody Museum, Jane Pickering, the museum’s director, wrote, “Ms. Lanier’s complaint raises important questions regarding, among other things, what it means for the Peabody to serve as an ethical steward of highly sensitive objects like the Zealy daguerreotypes.” That year, Pickering wrote in a statement to The Crimson that the Peabody aims to make the images publicly accessible “to tell the stories of the enslaved people that they depict.”
Crump, however, dismisses such claims of ethical stewardship. “One hundred sixty-nine years later, Harvard is telling Ms. Lanier and all the world that ‘No, Black people, you still don’t have the right to your own person,’” he says.
“You’re going to let the wrongdoers, the people who were perpetuating racism, now come and teach the world about racism?” Crump believes that Harvard is “not in a better position to be able to educate us on racism, especially when [Harvard was] so engaged in it for so long.”
When asked what she would do with the daguerreotypes if she gains ownership of them, Lanier says, “I just don’t want Harvard to have them, because they have never been the ethical stewards of these images.” On the contrary, Lanier likes to refer to Harvard as “the unethical stewards” of the images “because for the last 10 or 11 years of my journey, and my battle with Harvard, they lied every step of the way.”
“What I plan to do with them is secondary to having the right to decide what to do,” Lanier says. “The issue is: Why does Harvard have them?”
— Magazine writer Maya H. McDougall can be reached at maya.mcdougall@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @mayahmcdougall.
— Magazine writer Garrett W. O’Brien can be reached at garrett.o’brien@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @GarrettObrien17.
Sections
“If there’s someone out there, just show me a sign of what I’m meant to do.” This was the plea to the universe that Peter W. Kerre made 5 years ago, on the floor of his Midtown apartment, in a moment of crisis. He had recently left a stable corporate job to pursue a career as a music producer in New York. After a long stretch of searching for work, he received an unexpected call from Sony Records. When they told him Alicia Keys wanted to work with him, he hung up, thinking it was a prank.
Kerre creates music “the way someone smokes a cigarette,” he says. Over 10 years, he has accumulated thousands of tracks on his computer, remnants of daily moments when he was seeking a certain pick-me-up. Music is his “release,” a major part of the balancing act that is his fast-paced life.
In addition to making music, Kerre is an activist, community organizer, cybersecurity expert, and student at the Harvard Extension School. Soon after he was born in the U.S., Kerre moved back to Nairobi, Kenya with his parents and spent his childhood there. At 17, he returned to Minneapolis.
A self-described “party person,” Kerre wanted to connect with others around him who were also from the Kenyan diaspora. As an adult, he began throwing his own parties, which attracted many immigrants, for whom there was no existing party scene. His “underground parties” eventually grew into nightclubs. He says he was “too broke” to afford a DJ at parties, so he manned the music himself. What began as as the product of unfortunate circumstances would, in no short time, become a career in music.
It happened like this: DJing for diverse crowds, Kerre ventured into many different kinds of music. “As a DJ,” he explains, “you have to please everybody and play music everyone likes.” However, during his parties, he began to notice people were “dancing in shifts.” The demographics of the dance floor would change as he switched genres, from hip hop to reggae. In order to resolve this issue, Kerre began remixing popular music over “Afro sort-of vibes,” which eliminated the shifts and bridged people together.
Kerre became well-known as a DJ in his Minneapolis community, particularly among other foreign students. He says that when someone needed a hand but did not have many friends or family in the U.S., people would tell them, “Call Peter, Peter’s the DJ. Peter knows everyone.” As he started to create connections between people, Kerre felt a growing sense of responsibility that he eagerly took on and built into the way he lives his life. “I just felt like I had to look out for people. So it just became something ingrained in everything I do.”
His magnetic quality lent itself to co-founding and organizing Street Riders NYC this past summer. In May 2020, Kerre was unable to return home to Minneapolis due to the Covid-19 pandemic, so he plugged into local protests in New York following the murder of George Floyd. Around that time, for safety reasons, he had stopped taking the subway and invested in an electric scooter that looked like it came “out of a Mad Max film.” He quickly realized that the headlights on his scooter could protect the marchers from oncoming vehicles, especially as it became darker outside, so he found himself at the heads of crowds, using his lights to lead the way.
DJs, he says, “are the most influential grassroots connection to the people, only rivaled by preachers and pastors. Even politicians have nothing on us. DJs know everyone on the streets.”
As fellow protesters with bicycles began riding with him, he began to bring more and more riders along, calling people-in-passing to join as well as utilizing social media and mobilizing his own networks. Before he knew it, he was leading over 10,000 bike-riders on a protest through the streets of New York City.
Though he describes them as “opposite worlds,” Kerre believes his work as a creator and activist was, in some ways, actually informed by his work in the structured world of cybersecurity. “There is structure and discipline behind the wildest thing we’re doing,” he says, whether it’s cycling on the freeway or walking strangers home from the subway.
Most recently, Kerre founded Safe Walks NYC, a network of verified volunteers across Brooklyn and Manhattan ready to escort people, women in particular, to or from the subway. Kerre was able to tap into a resource he had been developing throughout his time in New York: people. When describing why he started the initiative in January, Kerre explains, “I live right by this area, and it’s hurting me that someone is attacking more and more women.”
Safe Walks has since expanded to also protect Asian Americans against violent hate crimes during the pandemic, with a program in Chinatown Manhattan. Since January, there has been so much demand for this community-based service that Kerre is now in the process of upgrading from an Instagram page to an official Safe Walks app.
To everything he does, Kerre brings a radiant warmth and a staunch “desire to make life better for people.” He describes his upbringing as rough, one in which he and his family experienced many troubles and hardships. He recalls one night in particular when, as a child, he heard his mother crying in her bedroom at night and praying to God. “I’ll never forget that day,” he says, “I felt so helpless.”
Reflecting on that feeling, Kerre no longer considers himself helpless. He now holds the fundamental belief that “no one should have to suffer while I, an able-bodied human being, can step up for them.” He continues, “So that’s how I live my life. I step up for anyone.”
But Kerre also believes that anyone can step up for others. “My goal is that everyone can take what they learn and go out in the world and create and multiply similar efforts with the same zeal and wildness.”
Even as he continues his own zealous, wild efforts to advocate for justice, Kerre still manages to find time to escape into his music.
Behind every piece of music Kerre makes is a visual. This became even more clear to him when he took a digital photography class at Harvard Extension School. Walking the streets of New York with his camera, aiming to capture what might strike him, or incite a certain feeling in him, he began noticing sunsets. The oranges, yellows and reds rejuvenated him, fascinated him. Together, they presented a “warm escape,” like the safe spaces that Kerre creates, or as he describes it, “like summer.”
— Staff writer Dannie C. Bell can be reached at dannie.bell@thecrimson.com
Sections
For Allanah R. J. Rolph ’23-’24, a soon-to-be published author, coming to Harvard was a no-brainer. In her eyes, no other university could offer her the same semblance of escape from her rural home community.
“I needed to think of the most opposite place I could possibly go,” says Rolph. “For me, Harvard sounded like that place.”
Rolph was born and raised in South Dakota, moving around a few times between rural towns before her family settled in the far northwest corner of the state, just a short drive away from both North Dakota and Montana.
“There’s just land for miles,” laughs Rolph. It was there, in a town of around 300 people and a county of only 1,000, that she attended high school.
For Rolph, moving into such a small community at the beginning of high school was difficult; while some of her peers enjoyed the small community, it was not easy to be a late arrival in a graduating class of only 19. Nor was it simple to be “different, in so many ways” in what Rolph describes as an “extremely conservative” and isolated setting.
“Most people across the board are pretty conservative and religious,” she says. “Most people also don’t really ever leave. They grow up, they graduate high school, maybe they go to college, maybe not — but then they always kind of come back. So it’s a very insular community.”
Last spring, after students were removed from Harvard’s campus due to Covid-19, Rolph found herself with a lot more time to think, reflect, and write more critically about the communities to which she belongs.
“My family is very conservative and it causes a lot of frustration in my life, but it’s still part of who I am. There’s a lot of things that I learned from the community,” she says. “I guess that’s why all of the reflection has been really helpful.”
As she was finishing up her semester remotely, Rolph received an email about the Portfolio Expansion Project Fellowship, a program aimed at students interested in pursuing creative projects under the mentorship of Georgetown entrepreneurship professor Eric Koester.
At first, Rolph disregarded the opportunity. “I deleted the email,” she says. “I really loved reading and I’d wanted to become a writer for a long time, but I was just like, ‘I have nothing to write about.’ I wasn’t going to write a book.”
But when a friend of hers later brought up the same opportunity and suggested that Rolph apply, she changed her mind. Since then, Rolph hasn’t looked back.
As a PEP fellow, Rolph received guidance on her writing process through lessons on book structure from the program’s mentors, along with direct support from a developmental editor. She also received financial support and a community from the newly established Rural Leadership Initiative, a stipend program for rural undergraduate students pursuing projects related to their home communities.
Rolph has since secured a publishing opportunity with New Degree Press and is in the revision stages for a book focusing on the conflict between her progressive politics and the more conservative aspects of her upbringing. She says the book’s title, “Radical Redneck,” appropriately captures the “weird position” she finds herself in.
“I think ‘radical’ captures this movement that our generation is becoming a part of and the way that I am increasingly viewing the world. ‘Redneck’ is my background — there’s parts of that I can’t get rid of even if I want to,” she says.
Rolph initially thought of Harvard as an escape from her conservative hometown, but once she arrived, she quickly discovered she was mistaken.
“Once I got to Harvard, then I started to realize, ‘Oh, it’s really not as perfect as I thought,’” Rolph explains.
“People are more polite about things, but a lot of the structural issues just replicate themselves,” she adds. “That has helped me realize how a lot of these solutions aren’t going to come from being a more liberal institution. A lot of [the issues] are much deeper than that.”
These observations are an important piece of her project, which is the result of a lot of personal reflection during a tumultuous year. Rolph has taken the academic year off and has lived away from home during the pandemic, and this has had an impact on her writing process.
“Having the space and time away from Harvard and away from home, I’ve been able to ground myself and see what’s really important to me and think about things more freely than I have ever in either of those places,” she says.
Now, almost a year into this endeavor, with several discarded drafts under her belt, Rolph still isn’t quite sure how to describe her book. It’s not exactly a memoir, she says, although so much of it is based on personal experience that writing it has felt almost “cleansing.”
“A lot of the topics that I’m writing about are related,” she explains. “Some of them are really personal — they’re all tied to different communities that I’m proud of. Once I started writing about it, I was able to process it.”
However, Rolph’s book is not just excerpts from her journal. Over the course of the last year, she has conducted in-depth interviews with more than 27 individuals, leaving her with plenty of transcripts to sift through. Initially, she interviewed fellow South Dakotans who had also left home to attend elite universities, like Harvard. She quickly refocused to include those who shared her experience of growing up in a conservative family and finding progressive politics on their own. Since then, her scope has only continued to grow.
“I became more interested in expanding what I was talking about,” she says, “and thinking more about the way that people's experiences have shaped their views and the newer politics of our generation.”
Rolph says that although her methods have changed slightly over time, the central idea has remained the same. “It’s always been very related to my upbringing, where I grew up in rural South Dakota, and then coming to Harvard,” she adds, “and how both of those different aspects of my identity have shaped my understanding of the world and my politics.”
Rolph’s greatest wish is for “Radical Redneck” to both encapsulate and begin to break down the stark divisions between rural and non-rural America.
“The thing about rural communities that people don’t see is the potential that they have for a lot of really great change,” says Rolph. Her book aims to make that potential more visible, transforming negative cross-regional perceptions into opportunities for productive discussion.
Rolph also sees this book as an opportunity to reach an entire community of young people who have navigated the tension between developing their sense of self and ideological beliefs in these two very different spaces.
“I hope that, when all is said and done, people who read this are able to see themselves reflected in a lot of the interviews and in a lot of the observations that I write about,” she says.
As for Rolph’s future career in writing, “Radical Redneck” is only the beginning.
“I’ve never really had a concrete idea of what I want to do,” she ponders. “But writing this book has made me think, ‘What if I wrote?’ I’ve come to the conclusion that I think I’ll always write in some capacity, even if it ends up just being a blog that I only read myself.”
CORRECTION: March 21, 2021
A previous version of this article misstated the name of the Rural Leadership Initiative.
— Staff writer Gabrielle J. Pesantez can be reached at gabrielle.pesantez@thecrimson.com.
Sections
Content warning: Vivid description of racist language and actions.
In 1847, the crowd for a lecture given by the famous Louis R. Agassiz would have been extensive — in Charleston, South Carolina, it was feverish.
The local naturalists at The Literary Club of Charleston were preoccupied with a question they suspected only Agassiz, a newly initiated professor of zoology at Harvard, could answer: were Black and white men indeed separate species? Before he relocated to the United States, Agassiz had accepted the scientific consensus of the time, that all men belonged to the same species. But in the lectures he delivered in Cambridge, he began to hint at the more fringe theory of polygenism.
In Charleston, Agassiz took his first steps towards publicizing his theory — a decision which would forever alter his legacy as a scientist. He declared that Black people were, in profound ways, anatomically distinct from white people. He presented racist speculation after racist speculation, saying even that “the brain of the Negro is that of the imperfect brain of a seven month’s infant in the womb of a White.”
Following the lecture, fueled in part by the enthusiasm of the crowd, Agassiz became a more avid scientific racist and is largely remembered as such today. During his life, however, the public generally overlooked Agassiz’s views on race for other aspects of his larger-than-life persona — a persona he actively sought to construct.
In his long, prolific scientific career, Agassiz had scaled the Alps to track the movement of glaciers, dredged up deep sea creatures, and canoed up the length of Lake Superior. In his writings, he was conscious of leaving the public with a particular image of himself: that of a scientist working at breakneck speed, willing to sacrifice his well-being to discover the truth about the world.
He succeeded at mythologizing himself, if only for the time being.
Weeks after Agassiz died in 1873, the Boston Society of Natural History held a memorial service for him. The former president of the group, George B. Emerson, lamented his short-lived relationship with Agassiz, blaming it in part on insecurity. “I did not deem myself worthy to occupy so much of his time, concensecrated, as it was, to science and the good of mankind,” he explained.
Like many scientists in his generation, Agassiz was a devout creationist: He believed that the world was fixed exactly as God had created it and thus merited especially careful observation. He approached his work with a reverence the public could not help but admire, at least at first.
As the decades passed, however, the scientific community began to perceive his religious beliefs as more of a hindrance than an asset. Agassiz lived long enough to see the community renounce creationism for Darwin’s theory of evolution, but vehemently resisted the shift himself — to embrace evolution would be to overturn many of the conclusions of his own work.
But the largest stain on Agassiz’s reputation comes from one of the corollaries of his belief in creationism: his belief in polygenism. Agassiz not only supported efforts to rank and segregate people of different races, but propagated the unfounded theory that different races were different species altogether. His fans occasionally used his ideas in defense of slavery, making him one of America’s leading scientific racists.
Though some historians argue it is difficult to reconcile these two visions of Louis Agassiz — one gentle and reverential, the other rigid and bigoted —, they may simply be two sides of the same coin. Agassiz prided himself on his ability to distinguish and characterize species. With his theory of polygenism, he created taxonomies not only of turtles and jellyfish but also of human beings.
I first learned of Agassiz while reporting on a local effort to rename the Agassiz neighborhood in Cambridge. I imagine most Harvard students know of him from Tamara K. Lanier’s high-profile lawsuit against the Peabody Museum. For the past 10 years, Lanier has argued that Harvard unlawfully possesses and profits from daguerreotypes taken of two of her enslaved ancestors, Delia and Renty — daguerreotypes Agassiz commissioned to support his theory of Black inferiority.
Her fight with Harvard has brought attention to the school’s additional ties to the controversial scientist, which include numerous on-campus buildings that bear the Agassiz name as well as the origins of the Museum of Comparative Zoology (often called the MCZ), an institution Agassiz founded in 1859.
Harvard maintains that several of these buildings honor members of Agassiz’s family, rather than Agassiz himself. Agassiz’s wife, Elizabeth C. Cary Agassiz, served as the first president of Radcliffe College. His son, Alexander E. Agassiz, worked as the director of the MCZ until his death in 1910. The University argues that it is only fair to treat his family members as distinct individuals, untainted by their association with him.
The MCZ has adopted a similar approach, condemning Louis Agassiz while celebrating Alexander. Last spring, the museum published a brief statement rejecting Agassiz’s role in “fostering ideas of racial disparity and inequality” and removed most traces of the scientist from its website, letterhead, and exhibits. It has yet, however, to publicly clarify why it’s done so or how exactly it sees Agassiz today.
How to positively engage with Agassiz’s legacy evidently remains an unresolved question at Harvard. The students behind the Harvard Coalition to Free Renty have advocated for a specific fix: returning the daguerreotypes of Renty and Delia to the Lanier family. But when it comes to Agassiz’s mark on campus, few have answers. Agassiz’s great-great-great granddaughter Marian S. Moore, who supports Lanier’s lawsuit, suggests that it’s up to local communities to make their own value judgments.
Ultimately, the question of how to reckon with Agassiz’s past only raises more questions: Who was Louis Agassiz, behind the smokes and mirrors, and what exactly is his legacy? And just what information do we need to address it?
Agassiz was born in the Swiss village of Môtier, which is situated between a lake and the Bernese Alps. As a boy he liked to observe the local fish he collected in the water basin behind his house. He came from a long line of Protestant ministers and was expected to become one himself, but decided to honor God in a different way: by examining His creations.
Agassiz studied under some of Europe’s leading naturalists, Georges Cuvier and Alexander von Humboldt, before becoming a professor himself at the University of Neuchâtel. He achieved success in the field at a young age. In addition to publishing a well-received book on the anatomy of Brazilian freshwater fish, he was one of the first scientists to provide compelling evidence for a theory that was highly controversial at the time: the premise of periodic ice ages.
His work tracking the movement of glaciers over time won him international acclaim, but little income. To publish his scientific reports, he had, according to his grandson’s early 20th century writings, “exhausted the resources of his relatives, friends, and indeed, the entire little community of [Môtier].”
In 1846, he received an invitation to deliver a set of 12 paid lectures for the Lowell Institute in Boston on the different orders of animals. He couldn’t leave for America quickly enough.
This lecture series, titled “The Plan of the Creation, Especially in the Animal Kingdom,” was an immediate hit, and the following fall, Agassiz brought it to New York. Agassiz had managed to make zoology accessible and thrilling to the public. He demonstrated with starfish and oysters he pulled out of his back pocket and covered whole whiteboards with his notes and drawings. He tied every point he made to a larger message: he believed that the careful study of animal specimens could reveal God’s plan for the Earth. When he flaunted his extensive scientific knowledge — say, by making a show of how to reconstruct a fish fossil from a single scale — he appeared prophetic.
Agassiz’s vision of science prized meticulous observation of the world above textbook knowledge. In the middle of one of his scientific articles for the Atlantic, Agassiz explained his fervent belief that every small detail could shed light on the principles governing the planet: “Nature is so good a teacher that, the moment we touch one set of facts, we are instinctively, and almost unconsciously, led to connect them with other phenomena, and so to find their true relations.” He wanted to be known as a clear-eyed and objective observer — and for most of his career, he was.
At the start of his lectures, Agassiz often apologized for his poor English and quipped that natural history was, thankfully, fascinating enough all on its own. Yet it was clear from his provocative scientific claims and poetic analogies that he set out to charm his audience. By the end of the winter, he built up so much support among the Boston elite that the president of Harvard created a new professorship solely for him.
Agassiz wanted to make the most of his time at Harvard. The summer after he officially became a Harvard professor, his home on Oxford Street had begun to resemble that of a mad scientist’s. His household included not only an eccentric mix of artists and naturalists but numerous live animals he was studying, not limited to snakes, eagles, and fish. His tables were littered with specimens.
In April of 1850, Agassiz married a woman he had courted for years: Elizabeth C. Cary. Cary came from one of Boston’s oldest and wealthiest families; she could trace her family’s origins in the area back to the 1600s with the Puritans. She had first heard of Agassiz from her mother, who was so impressed with his Lowell lectures that she recommended Elizabeth marry a man like him. Later on, when she met Agassiz at a dinner party held by the wife of a fellow Harvard professor, she was smitten. Her biographer described them as a strong match: “His eager, buoyant personality was balanced by the quiet steadiness of her own.”
The relationship opened up new possibilities for the both of them. Agassiz acquainted himself with the Boston Brahmin; Cary found herself not only a partner for life but a new intellectual passion: zoology.
Cary provided the necessary structure for Agassiz’s career, though sometimes at her own expense. When Agassiz was still adjusting to speaking in English, she attended and took notes on his lectures so that he could polish and standardize them. And when his scientific ventures inevitably demanded more money than they had on hand, she gladly cut corners at home, serving as his personal secretary and asking her relatives for loans. To help keep their family out of poverty, she even opened a private school for girls in their home which inspired the precursor to Radcliffe College, the Harvard Annex.
In the process she gained her own scientific expertise. She regularly joined her husband on scientific expeditions, even donning men’s trousers and boots to explore the terrains with the rest of the crew. Her detailed accounts of their trips played a vital role in his publications and towards the end of his life, they often co-wrote their scientific monographs. Despite this, Cary continuously downplayed her own skills and contributions to science.
In most early biographies of Agassiz, they went unacknowledged, too.
In his very first year in Boston, Agassiz met someone else who would transform the trajectory of his career: a sickly physician named Samuel G. Morton.
By 1846, Morton had acquired over 700 human skulls — many as gifts mailed to his doorstep. Morton, then one of America’s most famous scientists, was on a mission to rank the human races by skull size and shape. In his 1839 paper, “Crania Americana,” he presented a hierarchy of human intelligence as follows: Caucasian, Mongolian, Malay, Native American, and Negro.
In the decade to come, he sought to prove that these differences were constant and innate — to prove, against both scientific consensus and biblical doctrine, that men of different races belonged to different species. Soon after arriving in Boston, Agassiz set out on a professional tour of the Northeast. He ended up spending the majority of it in Philadelphia, keeping the company of one man: Morton. He was hooked.
In a letter to his mother, Agassiz expressed his astonishment at the vastness of Morton’s collection and at what it represented: an attempt to empirically study the differences between men. He implied that he embraced polygenism for its scientific rigor. “Nothing like this exists anywhere else,” he wrote. “This collection, by itself is worth a trip to America.”
It makes sense that Agassiz took easily to Morton’s theories; they were a natural extension of his own. A devout but peculiar creationist, Agassiz believed God designed each animal species to inhabit a specific location in specific numbers for all of eternity; in his work, he divided species by “center of creation.”
But the letter reveals he had another reason to support Morton, one that was less logical, less objective.
Agassiz had never seen an Black person at home in Switzerland. During his stay in Philadelphia, he noticed that all the servants at his hotel were Black men. When he looked at them, he saw a “degraded and degenerate race.” Entrenched in the Western ideals of his home country, he experienced great horror and disgust. “It is impossible for me to repress the feeling that they [the men] are not of the same blood as us,” he confessed to his mother. “In seeing their black faces with their thick lips and grimacing teeth, the wool on their head, their bent knees, their elongated hands, their large curved nails, and especially the livid color of the palms of their hands, I could not take my eyes off their face in order to tell them to stay away.”
That winter, when Agassiz delivered his very first lecture in America, he hinted at his belief in polygenism: he suggested that Black people may have descended from different ancestors as white people. As the months passed, he became less discreet. At an 1847 lecture at the Charleston Literary Club in South Carolina, he told a rapt crowd of naturalists that Black people were physiologically and anatomically distinct from white people. In 1850, after spending several winters in South Carolina, he decided to throw his full weight behind polygenism, defending the theory to the public in the Christian Examiner.
To some Christians, the idea of polygenism was blasphemous — not because of its racist implications but because of its revisionist ones. Advocates of slavery often pointed to the Bible to argue that as the descendants of Noah’s cursed son, Ham, Black people were inherently inferior to white people. Still, even that claim was less radical than Agassiz’s. Agassiz maintained that Black people could not be descendants of Adam and Eve because the Bible only described one act of creation: that of white people.
In his essay for the Christian Examiner, Agassiz attempted to reconcile the two by arguing that all men, regardless of origin, were equal in the eyes of God, but emphasized that neither religious dogma nor politics was relevant to what he deemed a purely scientific inquiry. “Here we only have to do with the question of the origin of men; let the politicians, let those who feel themselves called upon to regulate society, see what they can do with the results,” he implored. Yet, pages later, he prescribed his own plan: that men of different races occupy their distinct positions in society.
It was impossible to separate the racist science from its political environment. Though Agassiz considered himself an opponent of slavery, he maintained that there were profound differences between the races which made them unequal. In his ideal world, the groups would not mix at all but live segregated from one another in areas similar to their “centers of creation.” His most fervent supporters, however, marshalled his theories in defense of slavery. One of the most vocal, a doctor by the name of Josiah C. Nott, penned racist pamphlets like “Types of Mankind” and “Two Lectures on the Natural History of the Caucasian and Negro Races.” He wrote to Morton: “With Agassiz in the war the battle is ours.”
It is hard to understand how Agassiz could have expected that his arguments could be used otherwise. One of his biographers, Edward Lurie, suggested in 1954 that as a foreigner, Agassiz could not understand the full significance of his actions but was nonetheless drawn to the flame of public attention.
Another answer may lie in Agassiz’s vision of science. To Agassiz, the natural world was a window into the mind of God. He was so focused on the philosophical and the divine that he often overlooked the material implications of his research. But while his work on fish fossils and glaciers had few political stakes, his theory on the origins of men had countless ones. For Agassiz to argue that he was simply concerned with matters of science, he had to insist that he saw Black people strictly as specimens and nothing more — an inherently false position.
In March of 1850, Agassiz commissioned J.T. Zealy, a local daguerreotypist, to photograph seven enslaved people from plantations in Columbia, S.C. He had just traveled to Charleston to attend a scientific meeting on the polygenism debate when he received an invitation to examine African-born enslaved people in Columbia. Delighted, Agassiz cancelled several paid lectures to make the trip. In 1808, Congress had banned the further importation of enslaved people to the United States, making it a rare opportunity to observe a “pure” African person.
Agassiz was interested in the effects new environments could have on “types'' of bodies — namely those of enslaved people — and sought to first establish a standard “African body” for comparison. He toured at least four plantations, inspecting the enslaved people present before selecting seven for study. Their names were Alfred, Fassena, Jack, Jem, Renty, Delia, and Drana. Though the majority of the captives were born in African countries, Delia and Drana were born in the United States. Delia was Renty’s daughter. Drana was Jack’s.
At some point after Agassiz left for Cambridge, the seven enslaved people were brought to Zealy’s studio. First, they were instructed to sit for traditional portraits. Then they were commanded to strip naked and stand before the camera, likely for long stretches at a time. Agassiz had requested photographs of their bodies from the front, side, and rear views. A religious believer in the power of observation, he hoped the collection of images would identify the unique phrenological and physiognomic features which distinguished the enslaved people as members of a separate species.
In the haunting images, the enslaved people look directly at the camera as they undress. Some, notably Delia, have tears in their eyes. Others stare straight ahead, seemingly unemotional or resigned.
These are believed to be the earliest known photographs of enslaved peoples to date.
It is unclear what Agassiz intended to make of them. A newspaper report from the Boston Daily Evening Traveler indicates that soon after he received the photos, he put the daguerreotypes on display during a meeting of the Cambridge Scientific Club. But the report focuses less on the conclusions he drew from the images than on the blasphemy of his beliefs. He may have gestured to the daguerreotypes to complicate — but not refute — his previous ideas about the “African type.” At the end of his essay in the Christian Examiner, he wrote: “We generally consider the Africans as one, because they are chiefly black. But if we take the trouble to compare their different tribes, we shall observe that there are as great differences between them as between the inhabitants of Asia.”
He bragged about his ability to discern between the groups, to see what others could not: “The writer of late has devoted special attention to this subject, and has examined closely many native Africans belonging to different tribes, and has learned readily to distinguish their nations, without being told whence they came; and even when they attempted to deceive him, he could determine the origin from their physical features.”
Curiously, Agassiz made no further mention of the daguerreotypes in his future writings. He neither studied the photographs nor published them; he may not have even displayed them after that initial year. It is possible he may simply have moved onto other projects. After all, he largely left it to Morton to formally study and validate polygenism. It is also possible that the photographs may not have shown him what he wanted to see: they may not have been the clear-cut evidence he had hoped they would be.
The next time the photographs were made public was after 1976, when a staff member at Harvard’s Peabody Museum of Archaeology and Ethnology discovered them in an unused, dusty storage cabinet. They initially appeared innocuous. They were contained in small, red velvet-lined leather cases and framed with gold borders, just like most daguerreotypes from that period. Compact and delicate, you could hold them in your palm or slip them into your pocket — say, to employ during talks and lectures.
Eventually, Agassiz began running out of space for his specimens.
When he first settled in Cambridge, he decided to store a portion of his precious items in the basement of Harvard Hall and another in a shack by the Charles River. By 1850, both locations proved insufficient and Agassiz was forced to transfer the collection to a larger building on the grounds of Harvard Stadium. Yet the move couldn’t solve his true problem: a limitless desire for specimens. Agassiz’s collection kept growing and growing. He felt compelled to create a museum to store and showcase it.
Most museums at the time aimed to highlight the wide diversity of plants and animals found on the planet. But Agassiz wanted to call attention to the striking similarities between creatures in shape, development, and geographic distribution — what he saw as signs of Creation. He hoped to set up a room which could serve as “the epitome of the whole animal kingdom.” It would be filled to the brim with so many skins, skeletons, and alcohol-preserved samples of species that it would compel even a lay person to recognize the “direct proof of the existence of a thinking God.” He imagined a museum that could rival even the greatest institutions in Europe, a museum which would serve as the first of its kind in the world.
In 1854, Agassiz began working furiously to raise funds for a museum of comparative zoology. Within the span of four years, he coaxed the Harvard Corporation to grant him an allowance for the care of his collection, obtained $100,000 in support from the state legislature, and charmed individual philanthropists out of over $70,000.
Once he secured the adequate funding, Agassiz turned his eye to the collection he wished to build. He arranged for new specimens to arrive every day of the week by mail, train, and personal messenger, and enjoyed watching his students characterize them.
He was driven by more than just his typical ambition. Towards the end of the 1850s, Agassiz got his first taste of scientific pushback. Put on the defensive by Darwin and his supporters, he seemed to have yearned for the public support of his theories. The same year that Darwin published “On the Origins of Species,” the MCZ — then known simply as “the Agassiz Museum” — opened its doors.
Agassiz never accomplished his broader goal of overturning evolution — in fact, his focus on comparative anatomy unwittingly made the case for the theory stronger — nor his local one of creating a “synoptic room” as his first exhibit. Instead, the majority of the specimens he collected piled up in boxes at the museum. The selection on display was hard to interpret, arguably incoherent.
Agassiz ultimately left the museum in a poor state for his son, Alexander, to inherit. While Alexander largely viewed the MCZ as a burden, as director from 1873 to 1910, he managed to oversee its two-fold expansion.
The museum’s current director, James Hanken, feels comfortable with his title as an Alexander Agassiz Professor of Zoology. In his mind, Alexander is more responsible for the MCZ’s long-term development than Louis is. Hanken also suspects Alexander did not share his father’s views on race, though that suspicion is based in part on an absence of evidence otherwise — while Alexander never publicly decried his father’s beliefs, he accepted evolution, a theory which was fundamentally incompatible with polygenism.
Hanken surmises that were Louis Agassiz to see the museum today, he would be “spinning in his grave.” Although Agassiz intended for the museum to disprove Darwin, it has since become one of the most preeminent centers for the study of evolutionary biology.
Since last spring, the MCZ has implemented a slew of “cosmetic but meaningful changes” in response to Agassiz’s racist legacy, removing portraits and busts of Agassiz from public spaces in the museum and striking his name from its website, letterheads, and main conference room. According to Hanken, the resurgence of the Black Lives Matter movement prompted the staff to realize that the Agassiz name might deter students from engaging with the museum. “If our failing to publicly and prominently depict Louis Agassiz’s scientific racism was making [students] feel that they didn't belong, we didn't realize it,” he explains. “And that was a mistake.”
Hanken says more substantial initiatives like formal statements and educational exhibits will come soon, as staff members return to campus. Due to several staff vacancies as well as the effects of the pandemic, the organization the MCZ typically relies on to develop its programs — the Harvard Museums of Science and Culture — has been especially short-staffed, delaying progress on the MCZ’s potential projects. Beyond the MCZ, he emphasizes that the research of the Harvard and the Legacy of Slavery Initiative will “inform the discussion” on Agassiz’s complex legacy.
Ultimately, polygenists like Agassiz and Nott lost the battle of ideas. As evidence built for Darwin’s theory of evolution in the 1860s, scientists had no choice but to reject polygenism as fundamentally unsound. The public, too, had little use for the theory. Racists and slaveowners could rely on a plethora of other arguments to justify racial inequality and slavery, ones that did not directly contradict the Bible.
But while Agassiz failed to convince the public of polygenism, his support for the theory had a long-lasting impact on one group of people: the enslaved people he examined to test his hypotheses and their descendants. The existence of the Lanier lawsuit — as well as the student activism around it — suggests the harm he inflicted reverberates to this day.
— Staff writer Saima S. Iqbal can be reached at saima.iqbal@thecrimson.com.
Sections
Each year the Economics department sends out shirts to the freshmen who have just declared. Those shirts carry banal slogans like “Too big to fail” and “To Beta or not to Beta, that is the regression,” which is as pretentious as it is boring.
We thought we could come up with some slogans that are both more exciting and more faithful to the spirit of the Harvard Department of Economics.
1. “Looking for a causal relationship.”
2. “This is the only shirt I own that's not business casual.”
3. “No drip, hella liquidity.”
4. “Like the Keystone Pipeline, but to Goldman Sachs.”
5. “In the long run, we’re all dead.”
Harvard’s employees are an essential part of the University, yet the dynamics and structure of employment at Harvard are not well-understood. During the 2019-2020 academic year, roughly 13,000 staff supported more than 23,000 students studying at Harvard.
Staff who work on Harvard’s campuses are not solely employed by Harvard. Many of the University’s schools hire employees from outside contractors. Of the ten unions representing Harvard’s workers, two unions — one representing custodians and security guards, and another representing dining services workers — include both directly-employed and contracted employees.
The Crimson set out to make a series of maps that show the span of staff across the University’s campuses and answer three questions:
• Where are workers based?
• Who employs them?
• What employment protections do they have during the pandemic?
Data was collected from unions and the University’s Office of Labor and Employee Relations. These maps are not a complete catalog of all workers at the University; for example, they exclude non-unionized employees, such as faculty, and counts may vary slightly over time.
When specific locations were unable to be determined, staff are mapped at the central office of their administrative unit. Within labels on the maps, “Direct” indicates the number of workers directly employed by Harvard at a certain location within that union; contractor names are included when available. The Faculty of Arts and Sciences includes both the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences and the School of Engineering and Applied Sciences.
These maps will be periodically updated.
***
The Harvard Union of Clerical and Technical Workers — a branch of the national American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees union — covers a plethora of positions in libraries, museums, offices, and labs. With more than 5,000 members, it is the largest union at Harvard. All members are directly hired by the University and are receiving 70 percent pay if involuntarily idled by the pandemic, per the excused emergency absence policy.
Harvard Graduate Students Union-United Automobile Workers — which represents over 4,500 students — ratified its first contract on July 1, 2020. Their contract defines student workers as all students employed by the University who provide instructional services and graduate students who are employed as research assistants.
The United Automobile Workers is the parent union of HGSU-UAW and represents more than 70,000 academic workers at universities in the U.S., in addition to more than 330,000 workers in other industries in the U.S., Puerto Rico, and Canada.
A local branch of the Service Employees International Union — a national union representing roughly 2.7 million workers — 32BJ represents custodians and contracted security guards at Harvard. 32BJ SEIU represents 700 custodial staff directly hired by Harvard’s Facilities Maintenance Operations or contracted through six outside custodial companies, as well as 300 security guards contracted under Securitas North America, a division of a multinational Swedish company with 370,000 employees worldwide. The union also represents roughly 20 employees at Harvard’s arboretum.
32BJ recently ratified two year-long extensions of its contracts, one for directly-hired custodians and one for guards contracted under Securitas.
Local 26 is a branch of UNITE HERE representing Harvard’s approximately 750 dining workers. The union covers workers directly employed by Harvard University Dining Services and those contracted under Restaurant Associates, a national dining services firm. UNITE HERE represents roughly 300,000 workers in the U.S. and Canada, mostly in hospitality services.
The Area Trades Council encompasses four unions representing approximately 270 operating electricians, plumbers and gasfitters, carpenters, and operating engineers — respectively, the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers Local 103, Plumbers and Gasfitters Local Union No. 12, New England Regional Council of Carpenters Local 51, and Local Union 877 International Union of Operating Engineers. All members are directly hired by the University and receive 70 percent pay if involuntarily idled by the pandemic, per the emergency excused absence policy.
The Harvard University Security, Parking, and Museum Guards Union represents approximately 70 parking monitors and museum attendants. In recent years, it has pushed for a merger with HUCTW. All members are directly hired by the University and receive 70 percent pay if involuntarily idled by the pandemic, per the emergency excused absence policy.
HUSPMGU recently ratified a year-long extension of its contract.
The Harvard University Police Association represents 50 patrol officers on the University’s police force. HUPA’s last contract expired in November 2020.
—Staff writer Cara J. Chang can be reached at cara.chang@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @CaraChang20.
—Staff writer Meimei Xu can be reached at meimei.xu@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @meimeixu7.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
State health officials and experts discussed Covid-19 vaccine prioritization and distribution at the state level during a Harvard School of Public Health forum Tuesday.
The event, entitled “The Vaccine Rollout: Perspectives from the States,” featured five health policy experts and state health commissioners who shared insights to more than 200 viewers on the current state of vaccine distribution. The conversation was moderated by Reuters health and pharma correspondent Caroline Humer.
Howard K. Koh, a School of Public Health professor, kicked off the conversation explaining the current position of the United States in the Covid-19 pandemic.
“We are at a critical inflection point in the pandemic response. And it’s a time filled with great emotion,” Koh said. “Images of relief and even jubilation are everywhere, people [are] overcome with tears of joy when receiving their shot.”
The state officials on the panel discussed how their states have responded to the newly developed vaccines. Indiana State Health Commissioner Kristina M. Box described how Indiana is prioritizing by age, giving the elderly population top priority. To make vaccine distribution as accessible as possible, Indiana health officials are working with local organizations, like libraries, to help residents register for their vaccines.
Ayne Amjad, commissioner and state health officer at the West Virginia Bureau for Public Health, focused on the importance of “messaging.” For example, instead of “mass clinics,” health officials opted to use “community clinics” because research revealed that the term “mass clinics” was not as effective in encouraging people to get vaccinated.
“Words do matter when you want to get trust built up,” she added.
Despite current progress with vaccine distribution, the panelists expressed some concerns.
Koh said now is not the time for complacency, as there is still work to be done.
“We are still running a public health marathon, and we can’t stop with the finish line in sight,” Koh said.
The recent authorization of the Johnson & Johnson vaccine has increased vaccine supply, and the Biden administration has promised there will be enough vaccine for every adult by the end of May. Currently, 22.2 percent of Americans have received at least one dose of the vaccine.
A remaining challenge is vaccine hesitancy, according to Nirav D. Shah, director of the Maine Center for Disease Control and Prevention. Shah said he thinks this issue could be best grappled with through some combination of national and state-level campaigns that would instill confidence in the vaccines.
Box pointed to another key challenge regarding the vaccine: inequities in rollout among different ethnic groups. Black communities get vaccinated at about half the rate of white populations, Box said.
“Communities of color that have suffered the most are often the least vaccinated, and that’s simply unacceptable,” Koh agreed.
Michael Fraser, CEO of the Association of State and Territorial Health Officials, also spoke regarding the need for data modernization in the public health infrastructure.
“We could have saved a lot of lives, and certainly a lot of dollars, if we had a robust public health infrastructure, and shame on us if we don’t use this opportunity to really build that for the future,” Fraser said.
The debate over Covid-19 vaccine rollout has highlighted several gaps in the United States public health system, the panelists said. Several panelists said they hope that, looking forward, the pandemic will act as a catalyst for much-needed changes.
“For the past year — year and a half, almost — the American people have seen what state public health does in action, and what we can do when the chips are down and when we are called upon by our constituents to help out. This is what we do,” Shah said. “And now, given the funding that’s been made available, we have before us the task of thinking about what the next phase of public health looks like in this country.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Cambridge Planning Board unanimously approved a special permit for cannabis store Cookies on Tuesday, allowing it to open in Harvard Square in the near future.
Despite the opposition of some local organizations and Cambridge residents who had concerns that the adult use retail marijuana dispensary would be located in an extremely prominent and desirable retail corner in the Square — the former Staples store space at 57 JFK St. — Cookies is moving ahead in its opening with this latest approval.
Cookies and its partner Blue Enterprises — a majority equity owner for the application — are both minority-owned businesses and qualify as “economic empowerment applicants” for a license to sell recreational marijuana. Economic empowerment applicants are businesses that receive marijuana licenses from the state through a program aimed at helping groups disproportionately impacted by past drug policies.
Very few businesses have successfully opened in Massachusetts under the program.
Damond Hughes, co-owner and operator of Blue Enterprises, said opening Cookies in Harvard Square would be a “dream come true” for him and his team. Hughes has owned and run his family’s liquor store in Boston for 10 years.
Malaika Moses, another co-owner of Blue Enterprises, said Cookies would engage with and highlight local, minority artists, become “stewards” of the nearby Winthrop Park, and provide “seed funding” for philanthropic programs.
“What we can do — because we care about the community and we want to lift as we climb — is use that facade space on JFK to help artists display their work,” Moses said.
Because Cookies is not allowed to have any of its products or paraphernalia in public view, a gallery space featuring local artists will run along the side of the dispensary on JFK Street, according to project manager William Chalfant.
Many Cambridge residents and business owners spoke out in support of the proposal at Tuesday’s meeting.
Kathleen O. Reed, senior pastor of University Lutheran Church in Harvard Square, said she “look[s] forward” to the completion of the project. She also referenced a Feb. 27 op-ed in CommonWealth Magazine authored by four Cambridge City Councilors arguing in support of the proposed dispensary.
“The title of the op-ed sums it up: ‘Support black-owned cannabis shop in Harvard Square.’ Opportunity exists to counter decades of injustice,” Reed said. “And to that, University Lutheran Church says amen.”
Grant S. Ellis, a Cambridge resident and president of the Massachusetts Cannabis Reform Coalition, said he was in “vehement support” of the proposed dispensary.
“Without question, this has been the best proposal I’ve seen from any applicant at any point over the past 18 months,” he said.
Raj Punjabi, owner of The Maharaja — which is located directly above the space eyed by Blue Enterprises — said Cookies Cambridge would attract “much-needed” foot traffic and new customers to Harvard Square. Chalfant estimated that Cookies would serve 350 customers a day.
“We’re excited to see the old Staples storefront be used in a way that will draw more interest and more customers to the Galeria and hopefully to our business,” Punjabi said. “As a neighbor and a fellow business owner, they have our full support.”
Harvard Professor of the Practice of Public Philosophy Cornel R. West ’74 also called into the meeting to speak “strongly and wholeheartedly in support” of the proposal.
“I would want to accent the historical significance of this, in addition to the quality, and the ways in which a commitment to diversity go hand-in-hand with a commitment to quality,” he said. “By historical significance, I’m thinking of the Moses family [of civil rights activists]. They constitute spiritual nobility and a moral royalty in the history of this nation.”
“I stand here with great, great passion. I stand here with humility,” he added. “But I stand here with an openness to the collective judgment that you all will in fact support this project.”
Some Cambridge residents, however, called into question the legality of the application.
Patrick Hanley, an attorney and former chief of gaming enforcement for the state of Massachusetts, said Cookies “has chosen not to play by the rules,” and accused it of sidestepping the economic empowerment application guidelines.
“I’m opposed because Cookies, a national marijuana powerhouse, is unlawfully using the economic empowerment process to get around the Cambridge zoning code,” he said. “The entity applying for the special permit is not an economic empowerment applicant.”
Philip A. Borden — a Cambridge resident — also opposed the proposal, though he said generally speaking, he supports cannabis in Harvard Square.
“I cannot support putting a large marijuana shop at 57 JFK St.,” he said. “There is a reason that state and local laws around the country prohibit locating pot shops directly on public parks. Those laws are trying to maintain the wide range of uses, the openness, and the vibrancy of our public parks.”
City Councilor Marc C. McGovern, who co-authored the op-ed in support of the proposal, said during the meeting the proposal in fact “fully complies” with zoning regulations. In the op-ed, McGovern and other councilors argued zoning objections to cannabis stores in the Square are a veil for deeper objections.
“They are opposed to a business that runs counter to their vision of an ‘acceptable’ business for Harvard Square,” they wrote. “This is visible when opponents imply that the proposed establishment would necessitate an increased police presence in Harvard Square or that it belongs in a basement location instead of on a prominent corner.”
—Staff writer David R. Shaw can be reached at david.shaw@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @davidrwshaw.
—Staff writer Davin W. Shi can be reached at davin.shi@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The entire faculty of Harvard’s Government department issued a public apology March 9 to the women who were harassed by former Government professor Jorge I. Domínguez, who rose in departmental and University leadership despite accusations of sexual misconduct spanning four decades.
In February, an external committee tasked with reviewing sexual harassment at Harvard found that “pronounced power disparities” and “inadequate reporting mechanisms” at the University resulted in insufficient action against Domínguez, even as his misconduct was “common knowledge” throughout the Government department.
In the apology, the full faculty of the department expressed their “sorrow and shame” at the sexual harassment the women faced, and apologized that the department — along with the University — “did not respond with the effective measures to which [the women] were entitled.”
“The Department also failed to raise objections when the University promoted Dominguez to positions of power and public status,” they wrote. “For all this, we apologize unreservedly.”
Furthermore, the faculty wrote that the department did not provide the women with “an environment in which [they] felt sufficiently confident to share [their] experiences” and committed the department to further progress in improving its climate.
“We are humbled by the recognition that much work remains to be done in order to ensure that our Department becomes a place where all students, faculty, and staff feel welcome, valued, and secure,” they wrote. “And we commit ourselves to that work.”
Charna E. Sherman ’80, a former Government concentrator to whom the letter was addressed, wrote in an emailed statement that she was “touched” by the “unprecedented” apology.
“This is an apology that is transformational because it came from them, and was unanimous, unequivocal and unconditional,” Sherman wrote.
Government concentrator Nienke C. Grossman ’99, another recipient of the apology, wrote in an emailed statement that she “particularly appreciated” the department’s acknowledgement of past inadequacies in its responses to reported harassment.
“I particularly appreciated that the faculty of the Government Department took responsibility for failing to make objections when Dominguez went up for promotion and for failing to respond effectively, along with the University, when they knew or should have known about the predator in their midst,” Grossman wrote.
In early February — alongside the release of the external review committee’s findings to Harvard affiliates — University President Lawrence S. Bacow issued the first-ever public apology on behalf of the Harvard administration to the women harassed by Domínguez. In his apology, Bacow specifically addressed Stanford professor emerita Terry L. Karl, writing that “Harvard failed her.”
Karl was an assistant professor at Harvard when she accused Domínguez of harassment in 1983; the University sanctioned Domínguez, but did not fully enforce those sanctions and allowed Domínguez to continue to climb the ranks.
In an emailed statement, Karl wrote that she appreciated that both the Government department and Bacow recognized “saying ‘sorry’ is not enough” and called on Harvard to continue to address past shortcomings.
“The damage caused by discrimination, particularly sexual harassment and hostile environment, will not be alleviated until the truth is fully told and understood,” she wrote. “The illumination of the failures of past practices is necessary to reveal the long-term extent of harm, both to individuals and institutions.”
Grossman added that she awaits to see the “concrete steps” the Government Department faculty — alongside the University — will take following the apology “to ensure students, faculty and staff are taken seriously when they raise concerns about faculty misconduct in the future.”
Suzanna E. Challen, a Government Ph.D. graduate who also received the department apology, wrote in an emailed statement that “it is never too late to do the right thing.”
“I appreciate the apology personally, and also on behalf of women who remain anonymous because they could not take the risks involved in coming forward,” she wrote. “Our story is just one of many stories about predatory faculty, which remains an ongoing issue at Harvard.”
“I encourage students to continue to advocate for themselves in departments across campus, and demand transparency and accountability,” she added.
Karl also called upon the University to continue to work to address issues of equity and inclusion on campus.
“Moreover, where sexual violence or degradation is at issue, coming forward is especially difficult,” she wrote. “It will always be easier with the support of leaders in the University, thus what is especially meaningful to me is the clear public commitment to address these issues in order to build a Harvard community based on equality and inclusion.”
In their statement, the Government faculty closed by thanking the women for their work in fighting for a safer campus.
“You have our sincere gratitude and admiration for your courageous campaign to see that justice is done,” they wrote.
—Staff writer Meera S. Nair can be reached at meera.nair@thecrimson.com.
—Staff writer Andy Z. Wang can be reached at andy.wang@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Most Harvard affiliates will be eligible to receive the Covid-19 vaccine next month, following an announcement Wednesday by Massachusetts governor Charlie D. Baker ’79 that all residents over the age of 16 will become eligible April 19.
In the announcement, Baker unveiled an updated vaccine eligibility timeline for Massachusetts residents who had not been previously eligible to receive the vaccine under Phase 1 or Phase 2 Groups 1 and 2 of the state’s vaccination timeline.
According to the timeline, residents over the age of 60 and essential workers — including those in the sanitation, agricultural, utility, and transit sectors — will become eligible for the vaccine March 22. Individuals with one qualifying medical condition and residents over the age of 55 will follow on April 5.
Phase 3 — slated to begin April 19 — will extend vaccine eligibility to all residents over the age of 16.
Harvard University Health Services is planning for broader distribution of the vaccine in accordance with the state’s distribution plan, Director Giang T. Nguyen wrote in an email to students Wednesday. The clinic has administered over 1,100 doses to Harvard affiliates as of March 16 and is currently vaccinating patients 65 years and older and patients with at least two comorbidities.
Nguyen wrote that HUHS will update students on whether they can receive the vaccine through HUHS when the general public becomes eligible on April 19. Still, he urged affiliates to get the vaccine from all available sources as soon as they become eligible.
Harvard Law School student and first-year proctor Jake H. Hummer ’17, who said he pre-registered for his vaccination appointment after today’s announcement, said he anticipates the feeling of relief that will come from receiving the vaccine.
“For me, getting vaccinated will at least feel like for me, the pandemic is over,” Hummer said. “I’ll still be wearing a mask until we don’t have to anymore, but it’ll just feel good to not be as worried about catching coronavirus.”
He added that he looks forward to spending time with his aunt after his vaccination.
“Getting the vaccine, the big thing that it will do, is allow me to see my aunt in person, who [has] been vaccinated,” he said. “We spent St. Patrick’s Day together, but we were sitting outside, socially distanced, masks on between bites and everything. It’ll be nice to actually just really sit down with her and chat.”
As an international student, Matej Cerman ’23 said receiving the vaccine before he returns to his family in Slovakia would provide him with an extra sense of security.
“Across the E.U., the vaccine rollout has been slower than the U.S.,” Cerman said. “I think back at home, I would be eligible for a vaccine perhaps sometimes in late summer, maybe in the fall.”
“Flying, going through multiple airports, and then immediately staying at home where I do have family, it’s just going to feel a lot more secure if I get the vaccine before that,” he added.
Even after getting the vaccine, Jason W. Wang ’24 said he plans to adhere to safety guidelines.
“We don’t know about community spread, even with the vaccine,” Wang said. “I’ll definitely still be taking precautions, wearing a mask, trying to social distance as much as I can. Just being responsible, I guess — until we’ve reached an acceptable point of herd immunity, then maybe we could go back to the old normal.”
“Sometimes I go into CVS, and there’s a bunch of people and you’re like, ‘Whoa,’” Wang added. “When my parents come, when we get off campus to go home, I’ll feel safer knowing that my parents have gotten vaccinated, that I’m vaccinated, and everyone’s gonna be okay.”
While Harvard affiliates await their vaccinations, Nguyen wrote in the message that it is “critical” to continue adhering to public health guidelines.
“Whether or not you are fully vaccinated, it is critical that you remain vigilant,” he said. “The risk of transmission remains high, and that risk is heightened by the continued prevalence of new strains of the virus. The practices and protocols that have helped us limit the transmission of COVID-19 on campus are just as important in the weeks and months ahead.”
—Staff writer Claire H. Guo can be reached at claire.guo@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @clairehguo.
—Staff writer Christine Mui can be reached at christine.mui@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @MuiChristine.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
It’s the little interactions that Neuroscience concentrator Alex A. B. Chaumette ’22 misses the most.
As he gears up to work on his senior thesis remotely, the most concerning aspect is the challenge that comes with not being “immediately immersed” in a lab environment, he said.
“Even if we are able to conduct work, it’s not having that lab environment where we can have the spontaneous interactions in the same way that we walk past people in school,” Chaumette said. “Not just to have more structured conversations about the work that we’re doing, but also just to check in with supervisors and develop those relationships that are incredibly important for our research growth, professional growth, depending on the student.”
“I think that’s primarily the thing that students like me are losing the most out of,” he added.
Laboratories affiliated with the Faculty of Arts and Sciences have scaled-down operations since March of last year due to the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic.
Against this backdrop, science concentrators in the Class of 2022 have been planning and adapting their senior theses with these restrictions in mind. In interviews, juniors reported that the remote environment has affected every aspect of their thesis planning — from topic to execution — with some remaining uncertain what their pandemic-era thesis research is going to look like.
At the beginning of this year, Human Evolutionary Biology concentrator Kathryn Tian ’22 decided to switch from a lab-based to literature-based thesis.
“At that point, it was still the peak of Covid, and everything seemed like it was going downhill,” Tian said.
Tian said her new literature-based thesis aligned more closely with her concentration and presented a “safer route” in case the Covid-19 situation took a turn for the worse.
Selena Zhang ’22, a joint concentrator in Chemistry and Environmental Science and Engineering, recalled her concentration advisors telling her about the wide range of research possibilities beyond in-person work.
“When I was concerned about not being able to go into lab, like over J-term or even earlier, I had spoken to both of them and they said that, really, to not worry about not being able to get into labs, and you can still do a lot of things that aren’t experimental, necessarily, like literature reviews, sort of make up really rigorous plan of what you would do,” Zhang said.
Chemical and Physical Biology concentrator Angelina V. “Angie” Shoemaker ’22 was unable to be on campus this semester to access her lab, but she found new ways to conduct research by focusing on data analysis instead of collection.
“My mentor, she’s doing all of the wet lab stuff, and then she’ll send me the data. And I'll just analyze it,” Shoemaker said. “I guess it was nice on the part that if I was in the lab, I wouldn’t have gone into such detail about what the results mean — I guess it would more so just be a lot of data.”
Still, Shoemaker said she has been unable to conduct in-person research for a year now, and her plans for the future remain uncertain.
“I hope this summer, I’ll have time to go in-person and research, but I really don’t know how this is going to turn out,” she said.
Beyond the research itself, Chaumette said the pandemic has had an influence on the topics he considered for his thesis in the first place. Covid-19 interrupted his original plans to do community health work internationally during the summer of 2020, which he said reduced his “exposure” to possible inspirations for thesis topics.
“I might have had the ability to travel internationally this past summer, or do other things that might have changed my lab interest, so I think definitely my exposure to other types of projects has been limited by the pandemic,” Chaumette said. “That’s not to say that I’m not incredibly excited about the work that I’m doing, but more that I’ve just settled for a product that I already was excited about.”
However, Zehan Zhou ’22 — who is currently working on a thesis in Chemical and Physical Biology — pointed out that the pandemic and Zoom’s subsequent rise in popularity have actually “reduced the barriers” to accessing research.
“It’s easier to go to conferences, it’s easier to go to meetings, it’s easier to hear great people talk about wonderful scientific ideas that you can use to think about your research,” Zhou said.
Zhou went on to say that any difficulties brought on by lab restrictions could be overcome through meticulous planning and time management. In his opinion, research “isn’t different in comparison to other years.”
Jennifer Y. “Jenny” Wang ’22, a joint concentrator in Music and Neuroscience, said the ease of meeting via Zoom has been beneficial for connecting with her principal investigator and postdocs, although virtual meetings are unable to replicate mentorship in the lab completely.
“It will be a little bit more difficult when I go into the lab, because it won’t be as easy for somebody to stand over me and help, which — since I have not been to the lab for a year — might have been helpful, but we can at least have video calls while I’m in there,” Wang said.
Even for those students who have been able to access labs in-person this semester, scheduling lab time in accordance with pandemic restrictions has presented an entirely new challenge.
Wang said that lab capacity restrictions have resulted in the “arduous process” of coordinating with other lab members to schedule times to work.
“We can’t all be there at the same time — you have to register where you’re going to be working and make sure that that’s not in the same space as other people, for safety,” Wang said.
Zhang said she has also struggled with scheduling lab time amid the pandemic.
“The hours aren’t ideal all the time, to be spending my evenings or late afternoons in lab, because I don’t have the freedom to go in if I have a free morning,” Zhang said. “And trying to figure out scheduling my schoolwork between them, having to attend section or office hours while I’m in lab.”
Charles T. Morris ’22, a joint concentrator in Molecular and Cellular Biology and Linguistics, said he was “forced” to live off-campus this semester because the College’s Covid-19 restrictions would have precluded him from accessing his off-campus lab.
“I know levels red and orange, or like the lower levels, you can’t travel more than a 30-minute walk off-campus, which my lab is definitely more than a 30-minute walk off-campus,” Morris said, referring to Harvard’s color-coded reopening levels. “It’s understandable that they can’t predict what percent of the time will be red or orange or purple or whatever.”
“But it’s also a little frustrating in the sense that, knowing that there’s a bit of uncertainty if I live on campus, like ‘Will I be able to do research?’”
—Staff writer Justin Lee can be reached at justin.lee@thecrimson.com.
—Staff writer Lauren L. Zhang can be reached at lauren.zhang@thecrimson.com.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard’s new Science and Engineering Complex in Allston has received two top environmental distinctions — Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design platinum status, the highest distinction offered by LEED, and the Living Building Challenge Petal certification, according to a Wednesday press release.
The 544,000-square-foot SEC — the new School of Engineering and Applied Sciences headquarters scheduled to fully open for students in fall 2021 — is certified LEED platinum as part of Harvard’s ongoing Sustainability Plan to be fossil-fuel neutral by 2026 and fossil-fuel free by 2050.
LEED is a “globally recognized symbol of sustainability achievement and leadership,” according to the United States Green Building Council, which spearheads LEED certification. The SEC received LEED’s highest rating, platinum, measured by various metrics of sustainability and resource efficiency.
The SEC is also the largest building in the United States to receive Petal certification from the Living Building Challenge, according to Vivien Loftness, the former head of the School of Architecture at Carnegie Mellon University who works for the program. To receive Petal certification, the SEC had to pass three sustainability performance areas, or “petals,” monitored over the course of a year.
Loftness noted the Materials petal — one of the three received by the SEC — is the “hardest petal to earn.” The SEC also received the equity and beauty petals.
“The goal is to actually create the greenest buildings possible for a healthy world, and in a sustainable climate, and this is a great example,” Loftness said.
Heather A. Henriksen, managing director of the Harvard Office of Sustainability, noted at a Tuesday press briefing that the certification was facilitated through the Public Building Academy — a partnership among the Sustainability Office, SEAS, and the School of Public Health started in 2016 — which now also advises external projects.
“The idea was to have our faculty advise us on how do we address these toxic chemicals of concern,” Henriksen said. “How does Harvard actually use our purchasing power to start to do something?”
Henriksen explained that the Building Academy subsequently partnered with companies like Google and Kaiser Permanente to represent over 3 million square feet of real estate in an effort to attain healthier products for the buildings in lieu of toxic or environmentally damaging chemicals.
Loftness said the University involved a coalition of faculty in selecting and evaluating materials.
“Such an incredibly positive thing to do is to tie together your facilities group with your education and research faculty and students, and so this is truly an impressive project,” she said.
She added that she believes the process has the potential to “transform practice” in other educational institutions and manufacturers.
Henriksen said she also believes the scale of the building required rethinking the whole design process, which she referred to as “radically different.”
“Aligning your project team, from architect to engineer to contractors, subcontractors – it’s just really changing the way that people work,” she said.
Harvard evaluated and tested 6,033 different building materials during the SEC construction, according to the press release. During the process of material selection, many manufacturers reformulated their materials to remove harmful components. The final selection of building materials the University designers settled on excludes toxic building materials catalogued on the Living Building Challenge Red List.
University Executive Vice President Katherine N. Lapp said in the press release that the SEC epitomizes the University’s efforts to move toward sustainability.
“The SEC is a centerpiece of the University’s mission to create a healthier, more sustainable campus,” Lapp said. She added that “our shared vision” on sustainability has led to changes in the “broader supply chain” to support green buildings internationally.
University President Lawrence S. Bacow said in the press release that he lauded the SEC’s design and looks forward to its fall 2021 debut.
“It brings beauty, practicality, and sustainability into harmony, a symbol of the University’s commitment to making the world better as we undertake our best work,” Bacow said. “Celebrating its opening—and heralding the arrival of our SEAS faculty and students—cannot come soon enough.”
—Staff writer Natalie L. Kahn can be reached at natalie.kahn@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @natalielkahn.
—Staff writer Simon J. Levien can be reached at simon.levien@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @simonjlevien.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
We got a chance to sit down with Claire J. Saffitz ’09, YouTube sensation and author of the cookbook “Dessert Person,” to talk desserts, cats, and everything you would want to know about her experience at Harvard.
ESD/KZ: What House were you in, what did you study at Harvard, and what made you decide to become a pastry chef?
CJS: Pennypacker, and then I was in Adams House. I concentrated in History and Literature in the America field, but did a lot of interdisciplinary courses in Art History and Film Studies. Actually, I comped the [Crimson] Arts board. It wasn’t until I graduated that I decided to pursue cooking as a professional pursuit. I was living in New York and feeling kind of lost. I had an internship and all I wanted to do was to finish my work, go home and cook for me and my roommate.
KZ: We’d love to know about your time in Paris [for culinary school] and what that was like for you.
CJS: I did lots of travel [at Harvard] but I avoided France because I wanted to live there and really immerse myself in the culture. I was a Francophile without knowing anything about French culture. But I loved it. Loved living in Paris and never wanted to leave. In an alternate universe, I never left and I’m still living there. I moved to Montreal for a year to go to McGill, because I had this notion that I was going togoing to be an academic. I thought this is a way to combine my love of cooking and culinary knowledge with academic studies, but I ultimately missed cooking and that’s what I wanted to do.
ESD: Do you think all of your study abroad experiences informed your inspiration for cooking now?
CJS: I mean, I was always adventurous when it came to food. Food is something to be celebrated and is one of life’s pleasures and culturally significant. I think yes, because I learned other cultures through food. It became a priority to have traditional dishes from the place and going to markets. There’s very few foods I am not willing to try because if they are appreciated in another culture, then I imagine I’ll appreciate it as well.
KZ: Soooo, we were looking at the Crimson at some of your past articles...
CJS: [laughs] Oh no.
ESD: There was one entitled “Top Five Movies the Title Tricked You Into Seeing.”
KZ: Our favorite part of this was the, “She has even less purpose than Josh.” We were wondering who Josh was.
CJS: [laughs] I am confident I did not write that and that was a prank pulled on me in the publication of the article. There was a guy named Josh on the Arts board and I’m sure that was a reference to him but I have no idea what they’re talking about.
ESD: What would you say is your favorite Harvard tradition?
CJS: I don’t know if I have a favorite, but I do remember as a senior jumping off the [Weeks] Footbridge. It should definitely be discouraged… like, I was so dumb. Why did I do that? I would not call that my favorite. It was the most foolish one I did. I told my mom later and she was so mad at me.
ESD: Would you rather do River Run or temper chocolate?
CJS: Oh, I would rather temper chocolate, absolutely. I had literally no taste level in college. You know, we would drink André Champagne.
Not that this is the (un)official drink of Flyby or anything...
KZ: Was there any dessert in particular that you really liked at Harvard?
CJS: Umm, [laughs] I would do the froyo machines a lot. I also remember really enjoying an occasional bubble tea from the Science Center [rip random bubble tea shop]... Within the dining hall, I would eat their brownies and cookies stuff, and they weren’t the best but I just am someone, as the title of my book [“Dessert Person”] would imply, who doesn’t care if it’s bad if I get dessert. I’ll take a subpar brownie because they’re still pretty good.
ESD: Going off of that, what was your favorite dessert place in the Square or Boston in general?
CJS: Ice cream is not my number one dessert, but Boston and Cambridge have incredible ice cream. I don’t know how that became a thing; it’s clearly not related to the weather. Toscanini’s in Central, Lizzie’s which was in Inman. We would go to Berryline a lot, living in Adams. I think we thought it was healthy…. That was an illusion. Certainly enjoyed all sorts of ice cream and frozen yogurt from all over Cambridge.
KZ: If you had to describe Harvard as one HUDS dish, what would it be and why?
CJS: I guess this is more emotional rather than metaphorical but when I think of HUDS, I think of the waffles on Sunday with the waffle irons with the Harvard insignia. I just associate that dish so hard with Harvard dining. But to clarify! I’ve never actually made myself a waffle because I like savory breakfasts!
This obviously was a shock to us. The Veritaffles are iconic, but Claire Saffitz not enjoying a dessert-y breakfast when she’s labeled herself as a Dessert Person is surprising, yet understandable. 
CJS: Well, I want dessert to follow a savory meal.
ESD: Do you think dessert has a time of the day? Because some people eat cake for breakfast and are 100 percent happy.
CJS: I feel like there is no particular time of the day for dessert, like you can have breakfast dessert, you can have lunch dessert, but it has to follow something savory. That’s why when I go out to breakfast, I’ll get usually eggs, but we’ll have a pancake for the table and I’ll have a couple bites as something sweet. It just can’t be the only thing that I eat. But I don’t think there is any wrong or right time of the day to have something sweet.
That, we agree with. 
KZ: If you were a pastry, what pastry could you be?
CJS: Ooh, this is a fun one! I hope that I would be a flaky buttery pastry of some kind. Something like a... Cherry Cheese Danish, or something flaky and not too sweet that has a combination of sweet and savory ingredients. Something with fruit. Mostly describing the kinds of pastries I like to eat most. There are tons of versions of not good Cherry Cheese Danishes, but a good one is unbelievably good.
ESD: Another fun question! We wanted to ask about your cats because they’re so cute!! Felix and Maya?
CJS: Oh my god… How much time do you have?
KZ: You said that Felix is your right hand man, right?
CJS: If I spend 30 minutes talking about the cats, please stop me. Growing up, I never had pets… or at least not mammals — mammal pets...The cats were my husband’s cats and I became, over time, a cat person, and I didn’t really realize how much of a cat person I am until I had them. Especially during Covid, I appreciate pets so much because they are a source of comfort and joy. About three months ago, we found a little stray kitten on the side of the road and adopted him. His name is Archie. And he’s got some health issues, and he’s mostly blind but he’s, like, the happiest, sweetest cat and now I’m just obsessed with him and spend all my time playing with him.
KZ: We at Flyby love Trader Joe’s, and we were wondering if you do too, and if so, do you have a favorite Trader Joe’s snack?
CJS: I am not a Trader Joe’s devotee because I usually cannot deal with a line. In New York...on average the line to get into a Trader Joe’s is about one block long. There’s one near me and I walk past it and I just think ‘not dealing with that,’ you know? On the rare occasion that I do find myself inside, I usually stock up on a lot of the dried fruits and nuts which are roughly inexpensive. I know that for a while Trader Joe’s was the only place you could find Cookie Butter, which was sort of special. In general, it’s not an objection to Trader Joe’s itself, it’s an objection to the line to get in.
ESD: Have you tried their Soft and Juicy Mango™, which are a select Flyby snack?
CJS: Dried mango is like my favorite snack ever. Throughout the pandemic I’ve been placing orders at Nuts.com...cause I need the ingredients for recipe testing and it’s a lot cheaper. I had purchased multiple 5-pound bags of dried mango and I’ve basically eaten the entire thing. Now I might have to wait in the line.
ESD: What is your nut of choice?
CJS: I love walnuts; I love pecans; I love almond flavored things, but as far as the nut to eat, I don’t go for almonds first. As a snacky nut, I do love cashews that are really well toasted. And, pistachios for baking. In general, I’d say it’s pecans.
And FYI: Claire Saffitz, queen of dessert, does indeed say pe-cahn.
ESD: Going back to the photoshoot [and] cookbooks and development, what was the weirdest behind-the-scenes fun fact that no one would ever guess?
CJS: Food styling is an entire area of the industry that I was unfamiliar with. I think that’s something that’s sort of a hidden part of food media, all the food styling that happens, for magazines and cookbooks. A very good friend of mine [Sue Li] is a food stylist and she did styling in my cookbook.
CJS: One thing people may be surprised to hear on a cookbook set — like the set for “Dessert Person” — is that the food is all the real food. Of course there’s styling tricks and maybe a certain brand of heavy cream makes the best-looking whipped cream, but the food on set generally is exactly the recipe as written, and we eat it afterwards. Food that tastes good also looks good, which I’m proud of.
KZ: To wrap it up — thank you again, so much — what advice would you give to your college self?
CJS: If my future self could speak to my college self, I would encourage myself to trust myself more and not put pressure on myself to have everything figured out. There’s a weird misconception that when you graduate from college you are an adult, and I did not feel like an adult at 22. I didn’t feel like an adult, I don’t know, until I turned 30. I think that the 20s are a life period in and of itself that doesn’t get recognized enough, and I think it’s completely acceptable to be confused or lost. There’s a pressure to, straight out of college, enter an industry that you want to spend the rest of your life in, and that is not the case and you don’t have to do that… It’s ok to get experiences and decide that something isn’t for you. So, that’s what I mean when I say I would tell myself to relax.
CJS: As someone in my early to mid twenties, there was such a gap between the life I wanted to be living and the life that I was living. And it’s okay to embrace yourself where you are and to not feel like — I kept feeling like I have to be an adult, and do what adults are doing — you don’t have to be anyone else. Especially at a place like Harvard where there’s this pressure to succeed, which is crazy and unrealistic. So you have to try to balance it out with reasonable expectations for yourself.
Hearing Claire’s worries mirroring our own troubles is a bit reassuring. At a time of such uncertainty, we can all afford to be a bit more confident in our curiosity and realize that we don’t actually need to have everything figured out right now, contrary to all the LinkedIn posts we see!
We can’t be more grateful to Claire for taking the time to talk to us and answer all our baking questions (thank you for diagnosing our enriched dough issues) and giving us a glimpse into her time at Harvard. (Now, we need to get back to watching her latest Claire Saffitz x Dessert Person video.)
