Sections
The woolly mammoth is typically relegated to paleontological reconstructions and depictions in childhood movies. But according to the team at Revive & Restore, a Bay Area nonprofit focused on the intersection between biotechnology and conservation, in partnership with Professor George M. Church of Harvard Medical School, a genetically-engineered woolly mammoth could be coming back soon to a tundra near you.
After a recent wave of funding, Revive & Restore is offering a postdoctoral fellowship to scientists who want to harness the power of biotechnology and genetic engineering for ecological conservation via de-extinction. De-extinction — the process of resurrecting species that have gone extinct — has significant potential for changing how we conserve species’ natural habitats. Revive & Restore’s Woolly Mammoth Revival project, which is inspired and supported by Church’s laboratory, aims to bring the woolly mammoth back to life and would allow scientists to reintroduce the woolly mammoth into its native habitat of the Eurasian and North American tundra.
When Church met Stewart Brand and Ryan Phelan, co-founders of Revive & Restore, in the early 2000s, the three hit it off. At the time, Brand and Phelan were interested in strategies for the de-extinction of the passenger pigeon, a bird that once occupied an important ecological niche in forests across North America. Meanwhile, Church’s focus was trained on the woolly mammoth, a similarly ecologically-angled project in which stem cell and genetic engineering tech could play a central role. After a series of meetings hosted at Harvard, National Geographic, and TEDx, the partnership between Revive & Restore and Church was solidified, and the Woolly Mammoth Revival project was underway.
Animating their nascent project is the potential for a revived mammoth to prevent the worsening of climate change. This work was inspired by Sergei A. Zimov, a Russian scientist who discovered that repopulating the tundra can help preemptively limit greenhouse gas emissions by preserving Siberian permafrost. Permafrost is a layer of soil that remains frozen beneath the tundra’s surface year round, trapping enormous amounts of greenhouse gases underground. Church refers to it as the Arctic’s “unique carbon sequestration method.” As the Earth warms and permafrost melts, that soil will release gas into the atmosphere, accelerating global warming.
Zimov’s solution to this impending disaster is the repopulation of the tundra with horses, oxen, and ice age beasts. Through grazing and ecosystem restoration, he argues, the frozen forest will be transformed into icy grassland with a healthy root system that can preserve permafrost and trap greenhouse gases. Church concurs; he says “the combination of saving the Asian elephants and restoring the Arctic is a very potent one,” and has decided to take one decidedly ambitious step further — actively pursuing de-extinction.
Church believes the woolly mammoth makes for a good candidate for this bioengineering and de-extinction project because the mammoths and their repopulation of the tundra pose an interesting “ecosystem approach” — a strategy that emphasizes thinking about ecological problems on a systems-level rather than focusing on an individual species — to addressing climate change.
Church’s team has a straightforward methodology for restoring the mammoth’s tundra prominence. By using induced pluripotent stem cells, cells that can be programmed into any cell type, scientists can insert mammoth-like traits, from increased fat production to thick fur, into the genetic code of cells from the Asian elephant, its closest living relative.
From there, scientists can engineer woolly mammoth embryos and introduce them into artificial uteruses — what Church hopes will be the first time a mammal is gestated entirely out-of-womb. Although using elephant surrogates for these experiments would be ideal, Church recognizes that this could be difficult since Asian elephants are themselves an endangered species. Scientists do not want to “use up reproductive cycles on experiments that may fail,” he says. After the birth of the baby mammoths from the artificial wombs, they will be raised alongside their Asian elephant cousins in zoos before their eventual release into the Siberian woodlands.
These woolly mammoths will be engineered with automatic disease immunity, making them much more likely to survive a rampant virus than the woolly mammoths of the past. The Asian elephant population has been devastated by Elephant endotheliotropic herpesvirus (EEHV), a deadly form of herpes that Church likens in severity to “the Black Plague for humans.” Church’s lab doesn’t just aim to reconstruct the woolly mammoth — they hope to genetically engineer immunity to EEHV within this new generation and give it an automatic advantage over its elephant cousins in the wild.
An active criticism of similar projects is uncertainty about the ethics of CRISPR and other genetic engineering technologies. Due to the widely publicized and experimental nature of CRISPR, which allows researchers to modify DNA sequences and alter gene functioning, many scientists using it for genome editing have faced public scrutiny of their work.
There’s also the cost-benefit analysis of diverting scientific resources to resurrecting already-extinct species. In a 2014 article in Yale Environment 360, for example, Stanford biology professor Paul R. Ehrlich wrote that “spending millions trying to de-extinct a few species will not compensate for the thousands of species lost to human activity.”
Church says that he and his team attempt to anticipate various negative scenarios and aim to address these issues, but must contend with “critics that are sometimes more creative than we are.”
From the logistics of birthing mammoths in laboratories to their eventual reintroduction into their once-native habitat, Church’s work with Revive & Restore poses numerous scientific challenges. It also opens an infinite number of biological, environmental, and ethical questions. Yet, for Church and the other scientists at Revive & Restore, one thing is certain: it is necessary that this ice age creature makes its comeback.
Sections
On May 26, 2020, Harvard Law School alumna Kelly Yang published “Parachutes.” The young adult novel tells the story of a girl named Claire, from Shanghai, China, whose parents send her to study at a high school in California, and her American host student, Dani. In the book, both girls experience sexual harassment.
Now a New York Times-bestselling author, Yang’s numerous “about me” blurbs online simply say she gave up law to pursue writing, but they don’t tell the whole story. Yang herself experienced sexual assault when she was a first-year student at HLS. She lost faith in the legal system after the Law School, which she had viewed as a symbol of justice, declared her assaulter not guilty and investigated her instead. “Parachutes” is the culmination of the 17 years she spent rebuilding her identity and courage after the assault, she says.
Yang was only 18 years old at the time of the assault, having graduated from University of California, Berkeley at 17. She had never been to Boston before arriving at HLS, and from afar, she says she saw the school as a place that promoted justice and safety. “I wanted so badly to go because of what Harvard represented, and I thought that it was going to provide me the best possible education,” Yang says. “As my mom said, ‘Nothing bad can happen to her there. It’s literally Harvard Law School, the safest place in the world right here in the pursuit of justice.’”
Never “in a million years” did Yang expect to experience sexual assault at an institution she had so highly revered, she says. But what made her faith in the Law School crumble was the aftermath.
Before she formally filed a complaint, the two-and-a-half years following the assault were “torture and terror,” she says. She visited a University nurse to test for rape. She filed an anonymous police report. She moved to a different on-campus building. While she was trying to keep up academically, she felt as if she were “tiptoeing” around campus and “looking over [her] shoulder all the time.” After her first interview for a position at a law firm, she left feeling confident about her performance, only to see the man who assaulted her next in line.
When Yang finally filed a formal complaint in 20o5, she says the trial and cross-examination process was “complicated and very intimidating.” Overseeing the trial was the Harvard Law School Administrative Board, a group of administrators and faculty members that investigated sexual assault complaints at the time.
According to Yang, the board required her to sign a form saying she would not bring the case to the police.
After the board found the man who assaulted her not guilty, Yang says it started to investigate her for malicious prosecution, telling her that she would not be able to graduate if found guilty. The board said it would drop its investigation into her if she stopped pursuing her complaint, according to Yang.
The whole process felt deeply misogynistic to her, she says. After the board found her not guilty of malicious prosecution, she says one member on the board told her to “Move on.”
“What I realized very quickly was, there was much more priority of protecting the brand and trying to not really get to the bottom of what happened,” Yang says.
Yang says the community’s reverent attitude toward the School contributed to the culture of silence around sexual harassment and the unwillingness of survivors to come forward with their experiences. “I really thought that part of the problem with law school at Harvard was how intimidating it was and how hard it was to speak up, because everyone had this complete, almost worship attitude towards the institution,” Yang says.
Her mental image of the school “disintegrated” after her experience with the Ad Board. “I could not in good conscience really believe strongly in the legal system after that,” Yang says. “Going to the most revered legal institution in the world, having been treated this way, how can you hang on to that belief that the legal system works and is supposed to protect the vulnerable?”
After her graduation from HLS, she began to move away from law entirely and pursue writing instead. She moved to Hong Kong and founded the Kelly Yang Project to teach writing to students in Asia. Over the course of the 15 years she spent there, Yang says she had to “reinvent” her identity in the wake of her experience at HLS. “I spent a lot of time sort of putting my life back together,” she says.
In Hong Kong, she was finally able to feel safe and distance herself from the assault. “It was the most amazing experience,” she says. “You really get away from feeling that you're unsafe.”
Unaware of the extent of the problem at HLS, she mostly stayed silent about the assault until 2014, during investigations launched by the U.S. Department of Education’s Office for Civil Rights into potential Title IX policy violations at HLS and Harvard College.
In 2010, New England School of Law Professor Wendy Murphy had filed a Title IX complaint against HLS for violations pertaining to the school’s handling of sexual assault cases, prompting an investigation into HLS’s Title IX policies and procedures by the OCR.
In March 2014, two undergraduate students filed a similar complaint with the OCR against Harvard College, alleging that the College violated Title IX policies. Among other stipulations, the complaint requested the College Ad Board to lower its burden of proof to the “preponderance of the evidence” standard, which requires only more than 50 percent certainty to determine the guilt of an alleged perpetrator. The existing policy had required the Ad Board to be “sufficiently persuaded” before disciplining a student accused of assault.
Four months later, Harvard announced new University-wide Title IX regulations and a new Office for Dispute Resolution, and lowered the burden of proof to the “preponderance of the evidence” standard. In October of that year, however, 28 HLS professors penned an open letter to the University criticizing what they saw as the “failure to ensure adequate representation for the accused,” claiming the University’s new definition of sexual harassment “goes significantly beyond Title IX and Title VII law.”
Law School faculty voted that December in favor of a set of Title IX procedures that would break from University-wide policies, but at the end of the month, the OCR found the Law School in violation of federal Title IX regulations for sexual harassment policies in two student cases of sexual assault.
In a 2020 Medium article, Yang recounted crying while she read the Department of Justice’s report, having felt alone in her experience for the past decade. “Reading the report was like turning on a light in a dark cave; I had no idea there were others,” she wrote.
The federal government provided feedback and approved the Law School’s separate Title IX procedures; unlike the University-wide policy, the HLS policy stipulated that complaints would go through a separate, Law School-specific process, rather than the University’s Office for Dispute Resolution. Law students would also have access to an attorney paid by HLS, and an adjudiary panel of people not affiliated with Harvard would determine the verdict.
HLS spokesperson Jeff Neal wrote in a statement Monday that the Law School works to promote a safe environment at the school, but that HLS does not comment on individual cases.
“We take allegations of sexual harassment seriously, and in partnership with the University, we’ve worked hard to develop robust Title IX policies and procedures, as well as a series of educational programs and supportive mechanisms for community members, both to deter sexual misconduct and to respond appropriately when it happens,” Neal wrote. “In accordance with federal law and longstanding HLS policy, we cannot discuss matters pertaining to individual students.”
Empowered by the knowledge that she was not alone, Yang says she finally felt ready to share her story of sexual assault — but through fiction, instead of memoir. According to Yang, fiction was a “liberating” medium because it allowed her to separate herself from the trauma of the experience while still telling the story.
“If I were to write a memoir of what happened to me, I think it would be a lot harder for me to do because I would have to really put myself back in that room,” Yang says. “But something about fiction, the fact that it is not me, but this girl Claire and this girl Dani, it actually frees me up to write really truthfully.”
In the novel, Claire and Dani both speak out about their experiences with sexual harassment, but people around them don’t believe them. Nonetheless, they are able to find solidarity in each other. Yang says a particular line from the book — “your voice is your armor” — is an idea that helped her endure her own experience, especially during her ad board hearing at HLS.
“Being in that room, being able to speak my truth, and look the person who did this in the eye and tell him, ‘this is not okay,’ tell the administration that is not okay, was a big game changer for me,” Yang says.
Though Yang has still not received any formal acknowledgement from HLS, Yang encourages other survivors to come forward with their experiences in order to change the culture around sexual harassment.
“I think it really takes all of us speaking up. And I know it’s really daunting, but that courage — let me tell you — it is so worth it,” Yang says. “I believe that your voice is your armor, and when you use it, it’s almost like a superpower.”
— Magazine writer Meimei Xu can be reached at meimei.xu@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @meimeixu7.
Sections
Somewhere on the Red Line between Harvard Square and South Station, heading home after one and a half semesters of college, I decide to indulge a morbid curiosity.
I pull up Google Maps to the city of Wuhan and zoom in to trace the route that connects a children’s hospital to a seafood market. The distance is even shorter than I’d expected — severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 and I, Sophia Sizhe Liang, were born less than three miles apart.
It’s silly, feeling linked to a pandemic through a shared hometown both of us have already left. But the intimacy of our affiliation, precisely quantified and mapped, weighs on me. From here on out, my answer to the question Where are you from? will conjure images of screeching bats and sterile suits and global plague.
The other passengers on the subway sit farther apart from each other than usual, gingerly avoiding the handrails and slipping mini bottles of Purell out of their pockets.
I get the inexplicable urge to offer them an apology.
Earlier that morning, I’d gazed around my stripped-bare dorm room and paused on the N95 mask sitting on top of the dresser. The mask, which a friend’s mom had been kind enough to provide me, would protect against airborne droplets on the train and plane rides home.
I wondered, though, if it might render me more vulnerable to another type of danger. I’d been reading a growing number of stories in the news about Covid-induced racism. Asian Americans were getting spat on, screamed at, and beaten in the street, and face masks, still relatively uncommon at the time, seemed to carry a greater risk of drawing unwanted attention. A few weeks prior, an Asian woman wearing a mask on the New York City subway had been physically assaulted. Her attacker called her a “diseased bitch.”
Eventually, I chose to wear the mask to shield myself from the virus — along with a Harvard t-shirt to shield myself from the mask. It was a pathetic kind of defense mechanism, I admit, but it was the loudest one I knew.
I realize now, as I wait for the Silver Line bus to take me to the airport, that either I made the wrong call or the decision never made a difference in the first place. There’s a man walking up to me, too closely, too intensely, and I wince because I know what he’s about to say before he says it: “Coronavirus chink.”
***
Early this March, I pitched the first version of this article to my fellow magazine editors. “Interview Asian American and Pacific Islander advocacy groups on campus about the recent wave of hate crimes,” I wrote. “How are they responding?”
It was supposed to be an article about activism: petitions, protests, and the organizing that goes into them. I interviewed Ryan D. Nguyen ’25, who led a Stop Asian Hate rally in Boston on March 13, one year to the day since I stood paralyzed at the bus stop. He beamed as he told me about the 800 people who gathered on the Boston Common, including musicians, teachers, politicians, business owners, and a Chinatown elder who passed out cha siu bao to the children.
“It was a rainbow,” Ryan said. “It was a multicultural, multicolored mass of love and support, and it was really beautiful to see.”
Prior to our call, I’d browsed the coverage of the rally in other news outlets. I saw photos of Ryan, red and gold áo dài flowing as he marched down the street with his fist clenched and megaphone raised, and I felt the pressure in my chest soften for the first time in a long time. It was supposed to be an article about the different ways that people were working toward a common goal.
On March 16, six Asian women were murdered in Atlanta. This did not surprise me; I saw the man approaching. I studied for my midterms. I put the article on hold. I wrote numb in my journal and closed the page before the ink dried.
When I resumed my interviews the following week, my original angle felt hollow and callous. What is the organizing of a Zoom vigil supposed to look like? What kind of advocacy work are we expected to perform while we grieve? How do we protect bodies so tempting they seduce bullets?
So instead, this is an article about my conversations with a handful of other Asian students at Harvard. It’s about how they have been feeling recently and also not-so-recently, and how their experiences contradict and reframe and enrich my own. It’s raised more questions than it’s answered, including questions of whether this should all be in a single article to begin with and whether I should be the one who writes it. Nonetheless, it’s my attempt to dig through a fractured racial identity and locate some of the corner pieces — to assign words to the type of Asianness that tenses up before a national tragedy, and the one that settles in its dust.
***
If there’s anything that Asian people seem to have in common, it’s a tendency to separate themselves from one another.
Each time my ninth grade English teacher mixed up the names of all the Asian girls in the class (including the one with bright green hair), part of me was disappointed that so many of us Asian girls were assigned to the same class, that we exist in too large numbers in too small of a space.
Even within Harvard, there are about 25 Asian affinity groups split across a litany of acronyms that share a vowel — AAA, AAWA, CSA, SAA, HKA, HVA, AAB, OAASIS, SAMC, SAWC, TAPAS, and more. A Pan-Asian Council was founded in 2017 to bridge the gaps between these various organizations, but it’s no longer active.
Angie Shin ’23, director of outreach for the Asian American Womxn's Association, was recently contacted by a member of another Asian organization to collaborate on a Visitas event for incoming freshmen. “We just want to show everybody that we have a united Asian community on campus,” they said to her.
“Uh, we kind of don’t have that,” she replied.
“There is so much self-segregation on campus,” Angie tells me — segregation between those Asians who are “whitewashed” (she puts this in air quotes) and those who resist it, between the politically engaged and the too-busy or neutral, between those whose “socioeconomically very privileged” families exchange inside information in the Harvard Chinese parents’ WeChat group and those, like Angie, who are first-generation low-income students.
“I do wish that we had a more unified Asian campus,” she says. “I do wish we had a more explicit voice.”
In Hollywood and the business world and college admissions lawsuits, Asian people are adamant that they are not a monolith. This is completely true, of course. There are huge cultural and socioeconomic differences between Asian nationalities and generations and diasporas — and individual people — that ought to be recognized.
But the flip side to this mantra is that it’s hard to come together in times of crisis, to choose causes to unite around and pithy messaging to agree on. Our disparate responses to the shootings in Atlanta bring this double edge into focus.
Some Asian Americans are pushing for the acts of violence to be labeled as hate crimes by prosecutors. Others want to abolish prisons and the police. Some read the news and saw themselves and their loved ones in it. Others sense little, if any, personal connection to the victims and do not want to be spoken for in the name of solidarity.
Alexandria T.Q. Ho ’24 is furious that the Atlanta shooter’s “sex addiction” justification went unquestioned by law enforcement. But she also notices her family members, who immigrated to the U.S. from Vietnam in 2016, participating in the victim blaming.
“Some people in my family would be like, ‘As long as you don’t engage with them, you’ll be fine. Just stay out of the way.’ Somehow it’s like you deserve the bad things that happen to you,” says Alexandria, a Crimson Blog editor. The “them” she’s referring to is unnamed yet unmistakable — sex workers, massage businesses in strip malls, anything that falls outside the peripheries of the model minority standard.
Efforts to find shared histories and common ground after a tragedy often swing too far in the other direction, coming off as clunky and, ironically, monolithic. In the wake of Atlanta, I read article after article using the incident as a springboard to discuss the Chinese Exclusion Act, Trump’s “kung flu” rhetoric, and the embarrassment that comes with being an Asian kid in a mostly white school.
I guess these are all related insofar as nothing happens in a vacuum, and what has historically affected one Asian person affects us all — hell, our faces might be indistinguishable to our assailants. They’re some of the same threads I’m trying to weave in writing this article, compiling dozens of moving parts from multiple people. And when I saw the headlines about the shootings, my mind immediately went to that day at the bus stop last March. I felt enveloped in a collective vulnerability.
But I’m still wrestling with whether this broad outlook is useful, or even appropriate. After all, Soon Chung Park, Hyun Jung Grant, Suncha Kim, Yong Ae Yue, Xiaojie Tan, and Daoyou Feng almost certainly did not share my anxiety about hyper-assimilation in a middle-class suburb. They didn’t have a Veritas crest to hide behind, however briefly.
At what point does coalition-building become oversimplifying? When does empathy turn into projection? Who is the “AAPI community” to whom all the sympathy emails have been addressed, and what are we supposed to do next?
***
Even through Zoom, Nick Y. Gu ’24 exudes an enviable degree of confidence. He tells me about the time last spring that a high school classmate yelled at him as he was walking to his car after tennis practice: “Bat eater, China virus, that kind of shit.”
“Being me, I didn’t really care,” he continues. “That person has no relevance in my life, you know? This guy has no impact on me in the future.”
He’s worried for his sister, parents, and friends — he’s been outspoken about anti-Asian racism since the beginning of the pandemic — but when it comes to himself, Nick sounds more exasperated than anything.
I’m impressed by his ability to not let it get to him. When I tell him this, he laughs.
“I think it’s a problem that it doesn’t,” he says. “It’s become so normal for me, I just don't really care anymore … It’s tough skin from years of hearing ‘Jeremy Lin’ whenever I play basketball.”
If Nick’s skin has scarred over from a lifetime of pinpricks, mine must have been punctured, a porous sponge.
In third grade, a classmate told me to open my eyes as big as I could. “Just do it,” she insisted when I asked why. Trustingly, blindly, I opened my eyes wide, and when she asked if that was really as big as they could get, I stretched them even wider, until they burned and welled with tears.
“They’re so small,” she gawked. “You have squinty eyes.” Then I blinked and she ran off, giggling, to report her findings to the other girls. I still think about it every so often, when I make eye contact with myself in the mirror.
I’d assumed that this sort of complex had been battered into all Asian American kids: paranoia from being at once a foreign threat and an easy target, overlooked and singled out, wanting in on the joke that everyone else is laughing at. Memories of other people scrunching up their noses at your lunch playing on loop. Almost like a rite of passage.
However, as Nick demonstrates, another result of racism is a self-preserving myopia. Certain uncomfortable truths are best kept unacknowledged or unexamined. (What’s the opposite of a double consciousness? A double eyelid? Ha.)
Sometimes, other people keep them hidden from us. Before I found out I had “squinty eyes,” I was happily chanting a playground rhyme that contained a racial slur.
I went to a Chinese restaurant to buy a loaf of bread, bread, bread
The waiter asked me what my name was, and this is what I said, said, said:
My name’s Charlie, I know karate, punch you in the body, oops I’m not sorry
Chinese, Japanese, American, freeze!
Only much later did I learn that in Vietnamese War slang, “Viet Cong” was shortened to “VC,” which, in the NATO phonetic alphabet, became “Victor Charlie” or just “Charlie.” All this was accompanied by hand-clapping, karate chops, and pulling up the corners of our eyes at the corresponding lines. I’d recited the lyrics unthinkingly, unknowingly. Not a single adult ever bothered to disillusion me.
Other times, we do the burying ourselves. Despite the culture shocks she experienced moving to the U.S. and attending a Christian private school, Alexandria says, “I have always been proud of the fact that I’m Vietnamese and that I’m an immigrant.”
But later in our conversation, she reconsiders. “Okay, in a way I kind of lied when I said I’ve always been proud,” she confesses. “I really, really hated it when people pointed out I have an accent when I speak English. I tried to appear like I didn’t have an accent, like there was virtually nothing that would distinguish me from the rest of my peers.”
Angie is from Koreatown in Los Angeles and attended a predominantly Black and Latinx high school. When she came to Harvard, she recognized that unfairly high academic expectations had been placed on her because of her race, but she still felt pressured to live up to them and blamed herself when she didn’t.
“I didn’t think I was a rightful victim of racism,” she says. “I just dismissed it as something that was lacking on my own part.”
This might be the most insidious feature of internalized racism — you can never fully shake off the self-destructive instinct, no matter how aware of it you are. My own mother, born and raised in Wuhan, switched her grocery shopping from Chinatown to Whole Foods the day after the first Covid-19 cases were reported in the United States. By the time we learn that the virus likely did not actually originate from that seafood market, the idea has already infected me.
I’ve written research papers about the history of anti-Asian violence in the U.S., read think pieces about the harmful effects of the model minority stereotype, and thoroughly marked up my copy of “Minor Feelings.” I’ve snapped at anyone who dared to say anything about my parents’ accents or my friends’ appearances. But I can’t seem to do the same for myself. In the gap between reason and emotion, my foot keeps getting stuck, until I find myself wanting to apologize to a subway full of strangers for something I know is not my fucking fault.
“It’s weird because it doesn’t mean anything, supposedly,” Angie says. “Right? Like the color of your skin or what languages you speak or what food aromas don’t upset you. You wouldn’t think they’re important, and they shouldn’t be weighed in the way that [they are]. But the truth is that happens all the time, and the exacerbation of every little action,” she continues, “it hurts every single time.”
I nod. It hurts every single time and then some.
***
“I’m curious [about] how far it will go, how long these conversations are going to last,” Alexandria said to me a few days ago. “Because if there’s something I know of America, it’s that we have a very short-term memory.”
I write too slowly to combat the forgetting. Already, the outpouring of social media activism is slowing to a trickle. And here I am, still wording and rewording last week’s news. Too little, too late, too quiet.
“There’s always this lull where you just hope to God that nothing more happens,” Angie says. “And then it does, and then you go through your processing all over again. There is hope that it won’t happen again and knowledge that it will happen again and anticipation of when and fear of not being able to prevent it.”
It’s March again. One year ago, when the plane touched down in Philadelphia, I rushed toward my parents parked outside the terminal. My mom had covered the seats of the station wagon in plastic, and she sprayed me down with isopropyl alcohol before letting me get in.
I counted the mile markers on the drive home and wondered if I was still outpacing SARS-CoV-2. I imagined the blue line that bound us together stretching across the interstate like a piece of gum. It no longer felt so close.
Here, in my backseat cocoon, I let myself rest. I took off my mask, inhaled the mid-morning breeze, and hoped that nothing more would happen.
— Magazine writer Sophia S. Liang can be reached at sophia.liang@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @totalPHIAsco.
Sections
Midterms season, that dark time that I have learned stretches well beyond the actual middle of the term. It was the Ides of March, both the anniversary of Brutus totally stabbing Caesar and of spring semester totally dying. The 15th of the month is also the day when ancient Roman law demanded that every debt be settled — and I was still deep in sleep debt. It had gotten to the point where I was closing my eyes while I brushed my teeth just for a moment of peace.
But when I opened my eyes, I saw Wednesday, March 16 on my Google Calendar, events cleared. She was stripped down to her skivvies, wearing only “Wellness Day,” while the days around her watched, fully clothed in Google Calendar events: FM interviews, class, and panic hour (an hour each day to panic).
Ah, yes. College-sanctioned Relaxation Time. Nothing promotes Wellness more than gaslighting yourself into believing that you don’t need to panic over your Gov 20 essay when you definitely do. Luckily, a year with my high school ex had prepared me well.
But as I studied my calendar, all of the Unwellness Days stared back at me voyeuristically, as Wednesday and I vibed, unburdened by clothes or a constant state of panic. I knew that after my day of Wellness, I’d end up winging another Canvas quiz at 11:58 PM and then, as is my habit, hitting myself in the nose with my door on my way to get a late night snack, my coordination fatally degraded from exhaustion.
My nose was two more door-smacks away from needing medical attention. Fuck it, I decided. I’m going to embrace the grind.
That Wellness Day, I breezed through assignments, blissfully frolicking through hours of comparative government readings, au naturel, just the way God intended. I saw technicolor flowers and sparkles in my periphery all the while. And it was beautiful.
After the euphoria of 12 hours of pure productivity faded, I realized, embarrassed, that someone from across the hall had seen me accidentally overfilling my Brita filter and then almost dropping it when I lost a flip flop at the water fountain.
Was I more “well” than I had been 12 hours prior? Absolutely not. But I had been productive.
Back in front of my Google Calendar, my eyes slid to Saturday and Sunday. I started wondering: can I cultivate the forbidden-fruit feeling of a naked Wednesday over the weekend, and eliminate two days I always waste and finally curb my self-loathing once and for all?
Daylight Savings Time had recently reminded me that time is a construct anyways. Thus, I expunged Saturday and Sunday from the canon of the work week and replaced them with Friday Extension and Monday Precursor. Get that post-productivity glow any night, with two free extra weekdays you already spend working anyway! Now available 24/7, 365 days a year, because you never had a work-life balance in the first place.
Sections
For Eboni R. Nash, a first-generation, low-income student at the Harvard Divinity School, Tuesdays on campus were special. She and her friends would attend Community Tea gatherings, where they got to both eat lunch and pack up some of the leftover food for dinner.
Scanning the school’s calendar for events she could attend with Tupperware in hand was as routine as waiting for the Office of Student Life to refill its two food pantries each Tuesday.
Nash, who is now in her second year at HDS, first heard about the pantries during her orientation week. She notes that she and her classmates utilized them “more than [she] would have ever expected.” In her experience, the food was often gone within a day.
“They don’t get cheap things,” she explains. “They get nice things for people to have actually healthy balanced diets.” But if she were to go on a Thursday, it’s unlikely she’d find anything except some spare eggs and non-perishables.
Although Nash says she only spent money when necessary and received both financial aid and a housing stipend from Harvard, she struggled to pay her basic expenses. Her last fall on campus, she didn’t go grocery shopping for almost three months.
“It was just the way of life for me,” she says. “I can’t afford to go grocery shopping right now, because rent comes out tomorrow.”
Having returned home to Denver, Colo. last spring, she now balances “two lives,” one as an “Ivy League scholar” and the other as a financial provider for her family. Her formerly 45-hour work weeks have increased to 70 hours.
Nash’s experience is not an anomaly. While many view Harvard graduate students as members of the privileged elite, studying in Cambridge often requires students to endure precarious material conditions. A backdrop of high rent, low pay, and expensive groceries becomes acutely visible in their daily struggles to find their next meal.
Graduate students are in many ways charges of Harvard, but they are also often residents of Cambridge. The question of who should address their experiences of food insecurity, and how, remains ambiguous. Currently, forms of support both at Harvard and in Cambridge consist of short-term solutions like food pantries, which fail to address — and can even reinforce — the structures which produce food insecurity in the first place.
When Nash first learned she was accepted to HDS, she was afraid to tell her mother. She knew her mother would worry about how their family could afford graduate school, so she waited to share the news until she received her financial aid package. She reassured her mother that she was “financially taken care of.”
But as her first semester began, Nash, who studies Black liberation theology, found that the costs to simply travel to and live in Cambridge were extensive. “It was kind of a slap in the face,” she says.
Although Nash suspects she comes from a more challenging financial background than most students, she states that her experience is not uncommon. Several of her classmates have had to ask their parents for financial help, take out further student loans, or solicit the HDS Office of Financial Aid for advancements on refunds just to get by.
The reality that both food pantries at HDS — the dry pantry in Rockefeller Hall and the refrigerated one in Divinity Hall — regularly ran out of supplies soon after being refilled suggests that this financial instability sometimes manifests in food insecurity, as well.
While the Office of Student Life does not keep track of pantry visitors, Nash estimates that the two pantries served around 80 people a week — both those who were food insecure and those who simply needed a snack.
Nash does not blame HDS for her experience of food insecurity. Rather, she sees it as a product of the high price of rent in Cambridge. Because HDS is non-residential, the school offers eligible students housing stipends so they can afford to live nearby. Nash’s stipend covered just over half of her rent. To make up the additional $700 a month, she got a full-time minimum wage job, working a regular shift from 3 a.m. to noon during the week. She would attend her first class an hour after her shift ended, exhausted and fighting to focus.
“I struggled really hard the first semester there,” she remembers. “I would go to class and I would be so distant from everyone else.”
Now that HDS has shifted to remote learning, some students no longer shoulder the burden of paying for rent in Massachusetts. However, they may still experience food insecurity, in part due to other financial stressors.
To fulfill her own monetary obligations at home, Nash currently works even longer hours than she did before. She works the night shift at one job seven days a week, from 5 p.m. to 5:30 a.m., and works a second job three days a week. She says she is thankful that her professors are understanding when she seems less engaged in class.
In her position as social justice chair of the HDS Student Association, Nash acknowledges that it is difficult to reach students struggling with food insecurity during the pandemic. Both the HDS administration and student government have sought to ease the general financial burden on students, instead. The OSL has created emergency grants for those affected by the pandemic, with no questions asked, and the HDSSA has reduced its student activity fee.
Nash and her colleagues still worry about the students living in Cambridge who no longer have access to the inoperative HDS food pantries.
In 2017, students from the now-defunct Low Income Student Advocates group at HDS petitioned the OSL to create a food pantry for students. The group marked out a space in a lounge area for students to take what they needed and give what they could. This mutual aid network expanded when the burden of stocking the pantry shifted from students to a group of administrators. Following a generous anonymous donation, the OSL purchased a cabinet and a refrigerator, which they replenished with dry goods and produce items.
Lóre M. Stevens, a second-year master’s student at HDS studying to become a Unitarian Universalist Minister, rarely used resources like the food pantries on campus — at least until the arrival of the pandemic.
When the school transitioned to remote learning, Stevens lost her second job, a work-study position at the Andover-Harvard Theological Library. While her first job covered her rent and most of her living expenses, she depended on this second job for her weekly food budget. HDS continued to pay her for the position throughout the end of the spring 2020 semester but not in the summer, when she usually continues to work. Stevens had planned to accept an additional work-study position conducting field education, but the program was cancelled due to the pandemic. Without these two sources of income, she says, she struggled to afford food.
On top of her financial stress, Stevens was afraid to visit grocery stores in person at the beginning of the pandemic. To limit her exposure to the virus, she elected to make bulk purchases of pantry staples once a month. She spent most of her time alone in her apartment in Arlington, Mass., trying to stretch out her limited supplies.
“I felt like I was in a post-apocalyptic disaster,” she says. “I lived in a bunker and I had to make this food last.”
She made it through this period by taking out additional student loans and winning money from academic competitions. Her landlord also lowered her rent.
But what most relieved the stress surrounding her meals was receiving help from a food pantry, Arlington Eats, run by a local church. Through the pantry’s services she received weekly deliveries of groceries which “took so much weight off [her] mind.”
“When I got [the first] lovely, big delivery of packaged food [and] fresh produce — I mean they had stuff like bok choy, apples, all sorts of good stuff — it was like freakin’ Christmas,” she remembers. “I was so excited to get fresh food, free food.”
Now that she has received a $1,400 stimulus check from the government, she has less of a need for the food pantry’s services. Still, she feels grateful for Arlington Eats. When its staff asked her to feature in a promotional video for the service to prove that people of all backgrounds, including seemingly well-supported Harvard students, can experience food insecurity, she agreed immediately.
Although she was aware of some of Harvard’s resources, such as HDS’s emergency grants, she never used them because her needs were met by her local community.
Still, she believes that if other Harvard graduate schools created mutual aid systems like those present at HDS and Arlington Eats, students could reach greater heights in their work and develop a closer relationship with the University.
“We often say that HDS is like the soul of Harvard,” she says. “If all of Harvard worked the way HDS does, they would center the needs of the students and have resources for food insecurity.”
As they pass by 52 Church St., pedestrians see a pair of dark brown hands with pink nailpolish reaching up into the words, “‘Please Take What You Need And Leave What You Can’ -Your Community.” Painted by Boston-based artist Mithsuca Berry, the hands are part of a mural adorning the door of The Fridge in the Square.
The Fridge in the Square, located in front of The Sinclair nightclub, consists of a shed with both a fridge and a dry-good pantry accessible to those seeking meals at any hour, any day of the week. Long-time Cambridge residents, unhoused people, and students like Stevens alike often turn to mutual aid networks and resources, like the Fridge in the Square or churches, which provide free or inexpensive food.
One in eight residents in Massachusetts faces food insecurity, according to the Greater Boston Food Bank. Since March 2020, there’s been a 59 percent increase in food insecurity — the largest increase of any state, according to Feeding America — and the beginning of the pandemic saw a 400 percent increase in applications for the state’s public food assistance programs. As government aid falls short, community fridges step in.
“Mutual aid comes from a place of anti-capitalism,” says Sara M. Brande, one of the Fridge in the Square’s volunteers. “[We] are doing this work for ourselves and for our neighbors and members of the community. The work that we do is not charity, it’s solidarity.”
The Harvard Square Business Association helped the team secure the Church St. venue, but it is volunteers who take shifts to sanitize the fridge handle between visits, clean spills, and restock inventory. The shelves empty and fill like clockwork, sometimes multiple times a day. And if a volunteer posts a wishlist to the fridge’s Instagram, which has nearly 2,200 followers, the drawers might be filled with colorful fruits and boxed meals within a few hours.
Although most of the fridge is filled with uncooked ingredients, the most requested items are pre-made meals, according to Brande — though locals and students can pick up fresh ingredients, they might not have the appliances or the time to transform them into a meal. But premade meal donations are more difficult to acquire, because they need to come from a commercial kitchen and have ingredients, allergens, and packaging and expiration dates all listed.
A T-stop away, in the outskirts of Central Square, Qian Mei, a Cambridge resident and climate change activist, volunteers with the Coast Community Fridge. The fridge was established last December by the Cambridge City Growers. The group seeks to enable people to connect with local land and the food that comes from it — to establish “food sovereignty.”
According to Mei, the principle of food sovereignty states that people should be anchored to the land that supports them. “We should have agency over the food that we eat, the food that we grow,” she explains. Mei’s team of planters believes there is a simple limiting factor for agriculture, and by extension produce, in Cambridge: land. Since its inception in April 2020, the Cambridge City Growers group has been encouraging people to grow food in their homes, parks, and parking lots.
Though the Coast Community Fridge began as a space for planters to store excess onions, tomatoes, peppers, and any other vegetables, it soon became a well-staffed community resource for the 13 percent of Cambridge residents who the Greater Boston Food Bank estimates are food insecure.
Mei argues that the quick rise of the community fridge movement reflects the growing need for this resource, adding that she knows of four new fridges that are in the works in the Boston area. “They’re popping up all over the place.”
Still, community fridges, Mei points out, are at best a “surface level” solution. “The deeper rooted issue is lack of social infrastructure that’s put in place by policymakers,” she says.
She explains that the problem stems from a “bootstrap idea, neoliberal idea” that people simply need to work hard, adapt, and “get through it with grit.” But without the proper social support, people often have to choose between buying food and paying rent, insurance, or student debts. “Making trade-offs means you have food or you don’t have food,” Mei says.
Graduate students face a particular set of disadvantages when making these trade-offs. They are generally excluded from social security programs like Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP), and their financial aid packages don’t always include housing or meal plans like those for undergraduate students.
While food pantries can be immensely helpful to individuals who are food-insecure, some argue that they can have pernicious effects on the food system at large, at least when treated as the sole approach to fighting food insecurity.
Tomaso Ferrando — a former Harvard Law School fellow and professor at the University of Antwerp whose work addresses the concept of the right to food — argues that in redistributing surplus food, food pantries sometimes obscure the dysfunction in local food markets, which results in the high market price and inaccessibility of food.
Ferrando maintains that the dominant approach in many cities, which is to rely heavily on food pantries, is “extremely problematic” because it creates a “false impression that we are actually tackling the issue.”
Still, the factors which contribute to food insecurity — like high rent or food deserts — are hard to unravel, making food pantries necessary, if insufficient.
For instance, the price of rent has skyrocketed in Cambridge for decades. Both Harvard and MIT’s presence in the city, as well as the booming biotech industry, have caused demand for housing units to greatly outstrip supply. While the solution seems simple — just build more units — existing efforts to construct affordable housing often face pushback from a vocal minority of community members.
Moreover, were affordable housing efforts to succeed, they still may not make Cambridge affordable for low-income families again. Alexander von Hoffman, a senior research fellow at Harvard’s Joint Center for Housing Studies, predicts that the number of new units needed to make a dent in the price of housing would be “so astronomical” as to be nearly impossible.
But so long as housing prices remain high, so will the cost of everything they affect.
For Nupur Gurjar, a student in her last year of Harvard’s Master in Design Engineering program, grocery shopping is anything but quick and easy. Instead, the simple act of obtaining food for the week is one which demands strategic planning.
When she first arrived in Cambridge, the steep price of food in local supermarkets and bodegas shocked her. Gurjar had expected the cost of living to be higher than it was at home in Bengaluru, India, but was nevertheless surprised by how difficult it was to make ends meet as a Harvard graduate student, especially one with a scrupulous vegetarian diet.
In order to maintain her traditional way of eating, Gurjar chose to opt-out of GSAS’s meal and housing plans. She suspected she could make little use of the meal plan’s limited vegetarian offerings, and preferred to live in an apartment with more amenities, one where she could regularly prepare meals herself. Since the price of Harvard’s units is similar to market price, Gurjar, like many of her classmates, looked elsewhere. But despite frugal spending habits, she quickly began to struggle to afford weekly groceries — the added strain of rent and student loan payments was burdensome.
At the end of her first year at Harvard, when the lease to her first apartment expired, she decided to relocate to a new place based solely on its proximity to affordable grocery stores. She scoped out store after store, recording the different produce options and prices in a notebook, and found exactly one in her budget range: a chain supermarket named Market Basket, which also happened to be located near Little India, a rare Indian specialty store. She moved a bike ride away from the two stores.
She felt as if she had no other choice. “It’s Market Basket or nothing for me,” she says.
Yet even with this affordable option, her situation remains precarious.
The high price of rent often forces her to compromise on her diet’s quality and quantity. “Rent is expensive, which makes me want to spend very cautiously on food,” she explains. “It’s the only thing I can control — once I choose where I live, I have to pay [my rent] no matter what.”
At the store, she faces tough decisions on what items to spend on. Some weeks, she can afford to buy pricier products like cheese and pre-washed spinach; other weeks, she needs to pick cheaper, less processed foods, which can take longer to prepare. She counts granola bars and ice cream pints as indulgences out of her budget.
And while it helps to live closer by, Gurjar still finds it difficult to make it to the store due to her busy student schedule. Her trips to Market Basket typically take around two hours, sometimes more if she needs to bike through snow. During the shorter winter days, she can only block out the chunk of time to go grocery shopping around dawn, when it is “biting cold” outside. It is especially hard to muster the motivation to travel to the store during exam periods — times when she most needs nutritious food.
Because she depends on one store for most of her groceries, she is left stranded when the store closes due to extreme weather events or other extenuating circumstances. At the start of the pandemic, the supermarket remained open, but Gurjar felt unsafe shopping in person; she switched to using the store’s grocery delivery service, which was more convenient but also more expensive.
When she and her friends discuss their experiences at Harvard, they often promise each other that they will inform prospective students of the harsh conditions of everyday life in Cambridge, as well as the tips and tricks which make it easier to bear.
Gurjar believes that neither of the schools responsible for her degree have acknowledged the experience of food insecurity among some of their students. In her mind, the closest either the Graduate School of Design or the School Of Engineering and Applied Sciences has come to helping food insecure students is by sending email blasts about leftover food from events.
“If I have to speak for food-related accommodations from school, there really [aren’t] any,” she adds.
SEAS spokesperson Paul Karoff wrote in an email that the school is “not aware of the issue of food insecurity having been raised by any SEAS students (until your query),” but has maintained an emergency support fund for graduate students experiencing financial hardship.
GSD spokesperson Travis Dagenais declined to comment on the matter.
Gurjar supposes that food insecurity must either be a minor issue for most of the student body or, given how frequently her classmates lament the price of food, a deeply-entrenched problem without a clear solution.
“I think we are all just resigned to the situation,” she says. “This place has a higher cost of living [and] there’s nothing I can do about it.” Although Gurjar and her friends often entertain the idea of Harvard opening up a subsidized food market as a solution to food insecurity, they have not brought it up to student government.
Responding to anecdotal evidence of widespread food insecurity, the student association at the Harvard School of Public Health spoke to graduate students to learn more about their experiences. A survey issued in February 2019 found that one-third of 198 student respondents ate smaller quantities of food for financial concern; 30 percent struggled to purchase food at all.
At its annual spring 2019 meeting with HSPH administration, the School of Public Health Student Association (HCSA) sought to put a face to these numbers. Robin T. Glover, who had become the Associate Dean for Student Services at HSPH that January and currently serves in the role, vividly remembers the students who came forward and motivated the administration to take action.
“One particular story was a student who also had to support a family back home,” Glover recalls. She says that learning about students’ experiences with food insecurity was “surprising but [also] not,” given the cost of rent, tuition, textbooks, and other expenses that graduate students incur.
Lucas Buyon, president of HCSA in the 2019-2020 school year, attributes food insecurity to Boston’s high cost of living. He says anecdotally, students have met with unexpected housing expenses; when they need to cut down on spending, food is “the thing that falls away from that budget.”
Food and housing insecurity are also unevenly distributed. They “disproportionately affect Master’s students, doctoral students in partially funded programs, international students, and students of color among other groups,” says Emily M. Wright, a third-year Ph.D. candidate at HPSH and organizer for the Harvard Graduate Students Union-United Automobile Workers (HGSU-UAW).
Wright explains these skewed effects: international students on an F-1 visa are limited to 20-hour work weeks, students with families to support face unique burdens, and many Master’s students lack comprehensive institutional funding for their programs. Critical of the administration’s handling of the situation, she believes that since food insecurity takes a greater toll on those with challenging financial circumstances, it cannot be addressed without generating additional sources of income.
Following the spring 2019 meeting with the HCSA, Glover convened an ad hoc food insecurity committee, composed of students and administrators. Among other initiatives, the committee held discussions at student orientation to reduce the stigma surrounding food insecurity, organized more financial counseling workshops, and hosted events instructing students on how to cook on a budget.
“If someone has food insecurity, regardless of what the reasons are, we are there as a resource to help them,” Glover says. “[Their] situation is assessed. What kind of help do you need? What resources that we have will work for you?”
One of the biggest programs the Dean’s office sponsored beginning January 2020 was the Daily Dollar Deal program, which provided breakfast and lunch at the Kresge Cafeteria to students for $1 each. For help with dinners and weekend meals, Glover’s office suggested purchasing a $10 meal kit from EatWell, a startup created by HSPH alumnus Daniel Wexler to make healthy eating more accessible.
When school was still in-person, students could also visit the snack cabinet outside of the Office of Student Services or email the Food Network listserv to see if there was leftover food from catered events.
Graduate students beyond HSPH, too, often rely on lunch or dinner events for free meals. Brandon J. Mancilla, president of HGSU-UAW, notes that it’s a “running joke, but actually quite sad.” But with the shift to virtual learning, the snack cabinet, listserv, and events are no longer options.
The pandemic has delayed other initiatives, including a grant for a food bank. Last spring, Glover reached out to the Medical School’s Countway Library, proposing a food pantry that could serve the larger Longwood campus community, including students at the medical and dental schools. Glover imagines that students could staff the pantry and benefit from the additional work opportunity.
Glover maintains that the pandemic has not impacted how students’ needs are met by the school, thanks to the school’s hardship funds. Even prior to the pandemic, HSPH administrators had solicited alumni donations for a general Student Emergency Fund to which students could apply for financial assistance.
Many of the initiatives focus on students’ acute needs or lifestyles. Wright maintains that these food pantries, workshops, and forms of one-time financial assistance are band-aids that do not address the underlying issues.
“I, and a lot of other folks that I work with at HGSU, see a primary driver of folks’ experiences of food insecurity at HSPH [as] the fact that graduate student stipends and pay at Harvard are just inadequate and inequitable,” she says.
Indeed, the student survey results point to financial hardship as the main cause of food insecurity. Wright believes that students’ persistent needs will only be met by robust financial assistance.
Graduate students receive two primary sources of compensation from Harvard: stipends for coursework and a salary for teaching. Their specific wages vary widely, subject to the whims of different programs of study and complex University policies.
She notes anecdotally that several teaching assistants at HSPH are paid less than their peers at other Harvard graduate schools, and claims that in private negotiations with HGSU-UAW, the HPSH administration requested a provision allowing a differential of up to 33 percent less pay for its graduate students.
To Wright, this is “a clear sign of the administration’s disregard for crucial public health work.”
Todd Datz, spokesperson for HSPH, wrote in an emailed statement that “increasing student financial aid is one of the Dean’s highest priorities,” citing how from 2017 to 2020, tuition aid from the Dean’s unrestricted funds grew from $3.87 million to $5.98 million and student stipends on the Dean’s unrestricted funds rose from $1.12 million to $4.61 million. Datz declined to comment on negotiations over graduate student pay rates.
“We have a rich university who acknowledges that there’s an issue with certain students’ livelihoods and sets up these mutual aid food banks, which is good on paper,” Mancilla adds. To him, though these resources provide short-term solace, the structural issues of insufficient salaries and onerous student debt persist.
The brunt of labor, he highlights, both to bring attention to these issues and to sustain solutions, often falls onto students’ shoulders.
“Grad school is already an incredibly alienating, isolating, and lonely time for lots of people,” Mancilla shares, pointing to mental health strains that are only exacerbated by the pandemic.
He says that the demanding workload of establishing and maintaining a pantry, for instance, “should not be on students,” who are overworked, underpaid, and only on campus for a few years at a time.
For Gurjar, who herself spends hours each week just trying to stay fed, Harvard could take a larger role. “Harvard feels like a government in itself, capable of that policy and that power to make things happen,” she says. “A place like Harvard can set a good example of really caring for students who are living on a scholarship or living on student loans who are talented enough to be here, but find it really hard to just get through those two years.”
— Staff writer Akila V. Muthukumar can be reached at akila.muthukumar@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @akila29m.
— Staff writer Saima S. Iqbal can be reached at saima.iqbal@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @siqbal839.
Sections
Presidents, they’re just like us! Chester A. Arthur, a New Yorker who served as the 21st president of the United States, had no business being where he was and was wildly unpopular and unqualified for his job. We all have a little Chester in us. This one goes out to you, Chet:

T’was one-ish on a Wednesday, and all through my car
The speakers was bumping, though not with sick bars

My podcast on presidents had reached a non-starter
A 40-minute segment on Chester A. Arthur.

“Who the fuck even is that”? I thought pretty quickly
“Some sideburned randeezie from the 1860s?”

I was off with my timing, he ruled two decades later
But during the 60s, he’s a master debater 

An energetic lawyer, he argued cases swiftly
He won the case that desegregated streetcars in New York City

But he soon grows different, the idealism doesn’t stick
And he enters the corruption of New York politics.

Appointed port collector, he cheats those he taxes
He’s rich beyond belief, but hated by the masses

Connected in politics, a valuable ally to cement
He’s chosen as James A. Garfield’s vice president

“Oh, fuck it,” said the party, going along,
“Garfield can’t die — he’s too healthy and strong.”

Well, let’s take a pause: can you guess what happens?
James Garfield is shot, killed by an assassin.

The country hates Chester, it’s in disbelief
That a man so slimy is their commander-in-chief.

“This is a joke,” said they, and without hesitation
“There is no one less qualified to run this great nation.”

Sucks to suck, public, Arthur takes the oath of office
But receives a letter from a stranger so brutally honest:

“Listen here Chester, you’re way out of pocket,
You weren’t elected, no one wants you in office

They think you’re evil, and they’d prefer you dead,
No one believes in you — check, go ahead!

But Chester,” she said, as if speaking from his conscience
“Whether you like it or not, a big moment is upon us

Schoolboys will recite your name when listing the presidents,
How will you stack up with past White House residents?

I believe in you, Chester, remember desegregation
You can change for the better, do good for our nation.”

That was it — he only needed one person’s support to transform,
He centered domestic policy around civil service reform

He returned to idealism, and waged his own war
and killed the very systems he was the poster child for

Tears welled in my eyes as I put the car in park
“Holy shit,” I thought “What a redemption arc.”

“Are you okay?!” asked my friend, when she saw my tear-stained face
“Chester Arthur, my god,” I said, and told her his case

Chester, if you’re listening, I’ve gotta say it’s a shame
That they never made a Disney movie about your rise to fame

A tear hits my keyboard as I write you with ardor
“Am I really…” I say to myself “still crying over Chester Arthur?”
— Staff writer Sarah W. Faber can be reached at sarah.faber@thecrimson.com.
Sections
Leah Y. Samura is now one step closer to opening a sex-positive, women-focused cannabis boutique at 33 Church St. — a 1,300 square ft. space in Harvard Square that was once a police headquarters. Last month, she reached the final checkpoint in the convoluted bureaucratic process behind opening a recreational cannabis store in Massachusetts. She envisions her small shop, Yamba Boutique, as a warm, welcoming space that offers local products specifically geared toward women.
Samura has already begun to contribute to this niche within the growing cannabis cannabis industry: Alongside her husband, fellow entrepreneur Sieh E. Samura, she developed and distributes a THC-infused bedroom lubricant with the aim of foregrouding women’s needs during sex. Her goal of sourcing products created by women might be a lofty one, she admits, since the market for cannabis cultivation and distribution is dominated by white men, but Samura has high hopes for her majority women-owned, 100 percent Black-owned business.
Opening Yamba Boutique will already be a kind of poetic justice. “It’s like bringing it full circle, right?” Leah Samura says, “Selling weed out of a police station that used to lock us up and keep us in there forever.”
“In the shadow of one of the most elite white institutions,” her husband adds.
A few months ago, Sieh Samura, like Leah, also reached the final hurdle at the local cannabis licensing process: the host community agreement. This agreement requires that the business will pay a percentage of their profits to the city, including a “community impact fee” of up to 3 percent total revenue. He looks forward to opening Yamba Market, a large cannabis shop in Central Square.
Sieh’s Yamba Market and Leah’s Yamba Boutique are independent businesses, but will function like a “his-and-hers.” The word ‘Yamba’ is a colloquial term for cannabis used in parts of West Africa, Sieh Samura which he says is linguistically related to the root word of ‘marijuana.’
With their host community agreements secured, the Samuras’ approval process at the state level should move quickly, in large part due to a Massachusetts program that aims to support entrepreneurs whose cannabis businesses will benefit communities disproportionately affected by the War on Drugs. In 2018, after Massachusetts legalized recreational cannabis, the state-wide Cannabis Control Commission identified 122 groups of entrepreneurs as “Economic Empowerment Applicants'' to receive priority Massachusetts licensure. Among them were the Samuras.
A year later, Cambridge made national headlines for a progressive measure to supplement this state-wide program: a two-year exclusivity period for Economic Empowerment Applicants to complete the arduous local approval process. The existing, predominantly white-owned medical dispensaries wouldn’t be able to expand their facilities to recreational until the two-year window came to a close.
This policy was seen as a win for equity advocates in Cambridge, but the Samuras dispute this. Despite relief about having received their host community agreements, they maintain that this two-year exclusivity period was actually a hindrance — one that cost them and other Economic Empowerment Applicants millions of dollars.
***
If all goes well, Leah Samura’s shop will open in the next few months, maybe in time for the influx of newly-vaccinated Harvard students and faculty in the fall. And a few blocks away, across the street from Amorino Gelato and Kirkland House, she might have a new neighbor: Cookies Cambridge.
Cookies is a global, vertically-integrated, $500 million corporation, founded by rapper-turned-mogul Berner, whose famed Girl Scout Cookies “remains one of the most sought after cannabis strains in the world,” according to its website. The growing business already has locations across the country, mostly on the West Coast, and even a dispensary in Tel Aviv. They hold partnerships with Rick Ross and Killer Mike, as well as public cannabis companies Green Thumb Industries and SLANG Worldwide. Two weeks ago, the Cambridge planning board unanimously approved a special permit for a Cookies location at 57 JFK St. They haven’t yet obtained their host community agreement, but like the Samuras, the entrepreneurs behind Cookies Cambridge are one step closer to opening in Harvard Square.
Damond Hughes, whose group, Blue Enterprises, will own a majority stake in this Cookies branch, formerly ran his family’s liquor store in Boston. “I pinched myself a few times,” Hughes says, “but it’s genuine and it’s real.” He attributes much of his success in the cannabis space to business partners Richard N. Harding and Tabasuri Moses, who originally connected him to Cookies.
Hughes met Moses about 15 years ago in the real estate business. Years later, Hughes applied to the Economic Empowerment Program with his group, Moses with his. Ultimately, they decided they’d be “more powerful together as one.” Speaking of Hughes, Harding says, “I don’t wanna call him our little brother, but that’s our brother.”
Harding and Moses are among the most well-connected and experienced businessmen in the Cambridge cannabis space. They were the first minority business owners to get a host community agreement for cannabis cultivation in Massachusetts. The two childhood friends, Cambridge Rindge and Latin graduates, and current business partners jumped into the cannabis industry early, quickly realizing it was unwelcoming to people from marginalized backgrounds. They noticed that the same government officials — such as former speaker of the House John A. Boehner — who perpetrated the War on Drugs were also preventing Black and brown entrepreneurs from gaining a foothold in the industry.
“Even if they got in the door, those who were closest to the pain around the War on Drugs were so far from the profit and prosperity of the emerging cannabis business,” Harding says.
So Harding and Moses did something about it. They set up a dual company, Green Soul Organics, LLC., and non-profit, Green Soul Foundation, that support equity in the cannabis industry through workforce training, job development, and technical assistance. “Anybody who is like-minded and conscious and willing to give back to the community, we’re going to help them at Green Soul,” Harding says. “That’s what we do.”
Their influence doesn’t just reach rising entrepreneurs — Green Soul shapes policy. Before the Cambridge moratorium, there were other proposals on the table — measures that would not have postponed existing medical dispensaries from becoming recreational. Harding, Moses, and their group pushed hard, some would argue too hard, for the two-year exclusivity period, a window now coming to a close.
***
As cities across Massachusetts came under fire for potentially undercutting state-wide social equity measures, Cambridge hoped to support Economic Empowerment Applicants within the municipality.
“At the local level, there was really very little guidance from the state other than that we could provide some kind of preference [to the Economic Empowerment Applicants],” City Councilor Quinton Y. Zondervan says. “So we had to sort that out at home.” At first, the councilors thought this would just mean creating new zoning policies for recreational cannabis — changing the districts such businesses can operate in and the minimum distances from other shops and medical dispensaries.
Zondervan passed a proposal in late 2018 that decreased the default 1,800-foot distance required between cannabis shops. Economic empowerment applicants could now seek locations closer to the registered medical dispensaries already in operation, many of which had secured prime real estate. The city council also removed a cap on the total number of dispensaries.
Even after the zoning measure went through, he heard from Economic Empowerment Applicants that it wasn’t enough. Green Soul, Zondervan, and now-Cambridge Mayor Sumbul Siddiqui led the push for the two-year moratorium that ultimately passed.
But this wasn’t the only policy on the table. A different proposal, one backed by the Samuras, Councilor E. Denise Simmons, and the registered medical dispensaries in Cambridge was fiercely debated for months.
The crux of the issue: time versus money. Harding and other advocates of the two-year moratorium argued that an exclusivity period would give Economic Empowerment Applicants time to catch up to the pre-existing registered medical dispensaries, which could not expand to recreational-use until the window closed. Prior to the legalization of recreational marijuana, the (white-owned) registered medical dispensaries were the only cannabis retailers in the city. They already had economic power: Sira Naturals, for instance, is on the Canadian Stock exchange. And they were self-sufficient, growing their own product: All the recreational medical dispensaries had cultivation licenses in addition to their physical locations.
“You allow [the registered medical dispensaries] — they’re already operating — basically just to file new paperwork and then in two weeks they open,” Harding says. “And then you have Economic Empowerment. It takes some people three, four years to open a dispensary. That’s ridiculous.”
If registered medical dispensaries expanded to recreational use, “the little guys” wouldn’t stand a chance, advocates for the moratorium argued. “How could that ever be equity?” Harding says.
The Samuras and Simmons, on the other hand, wanted to negotiate with the registered medical dispensaries — in their plan, businesses like Revolutionary Clinics and Sira Naturals could go recreational if they contributed to a fund to support Economic Empowerment Applicants. Registered medical dispensaries representatives, Economic Empowerment Applicants, and city councilors met for a series of negotiations. The amount hasn’t been publicized, but according to the Samuras, they came to an agreement: $7.5 million overall in “free money.”
“It would have been totally unprecedented support for Economic Empowerment Applicants in Massachusetts or equity businesses anywhere else,” Sieh Samura says.
For both sides, the debate between time and money wasn’t just about efficacy — each side became highly suspicious of the other’s economic interests. The Samuras believed Green Soul was motivated exclusively by their connections to multi-state operators, some of the largest cannabis brands in the country: MedMen, which gave the Green Soul Foundation a $1 million cash advance on a long-term agreement, and Cookies, of which Moses is a partner.
As the Samuras see it, the multi-state operators wanted a leg up in the Cambridge market “under the guise” of equity participants. Sieh says that proponents of the moratorium (he declined to name exactly who) “were effectively misinforming the Cambridge City Council so that they could carve out a place for themselves and the multi-state operators that they were working with, and they successfully co-opted the social equity movement here in Massachusetts, which is really about a lot of lip service and virtue signaling and not really about real action.” (Real Action for Cannabis Equity is a coalition of elected officials, entrepreneurs, and other stakeholders, of which Harding and Moses are leaders.)
This is where the moratorium fits in: the longer it takes to open up shop, the more in rent and fees the owner pays in the interim. Richer groups will last longer; those with less will eventually drop out. In the Samuras’ view, the compensation from the registered medical dispensaries would have given Economic Empowerment Applicants the capital to be stronger players in the game. The moratorium was just a means of delay. “As long as they can drag the process out, they know without a doubt that they can stay there longer, withstand [the wait], and that they’ll eventually be able to get more market share,” Sieh Samura says.
But Green Soul maintains that the suggested deals with the registered medical dispensaries were wholly unfavorable to Economic Empowerment Applicants. Zondervan, too, claims that these funds would not function as the “free money” the Samuras described. Rather, he says that they would be in the form of supply loans, “not unrestricted cash that could be used to set up a business.”
“The little bit of money that they were going to put on the table for them, whether it be in loans, or hard cash, in my estimation, was a pittance as it related to the industry and the profits that they were making on their back,” Harding says. Moreover, he says proponents of direct payments would have accepted as little as $250,000 per group, much lower than the estimated $1 million needed to open an independent cannabis shop. “They would’ve taken a nickel and a ham sandwich.” he says.
Harding adds that the only Economic Empowerment Applicants to favor such a deal, including the Samuras, were already “in bed with the devil” — that is, the registered medical dispensaries.
And the Samuras did have existing relationships with the medical dispensaries. Sira Naturals, acquired in 2018 by Cannabis Strategies Acquisition Corp., helped the couple develop and distribute their cannabis lube product through the company’s “business accelerator program.” The Samuras say they see nothing insidious in that business relationship.
The ensuing series of hearings and surrounding lobbying campaign were cutthroat at best, straining city councilors and dividing Economic Empowerment Applicants. Leah Samura described the process as rife with “yelling and bullying,” and recounts those with opposing views screaming lies about her in the middle of public meetings, which the couple speculates may have delayed their HCA approval.
Simmons, a longtime city council member and the nation’s first Black openly lesbian mayor, published an op-ed in the Cambridge Chronicle recalling how “those with deep pockets sent out mailers all across the city attempting to influence public sentiment, playing on peoples’ passions, fears, and prejudices, and ultimately pitting neighbor against neighbor.” The most egregious mailing read: “The Simmons Amendment = the Slave Amendment,” implying Economic Empowerment Applicants would be “enslaved” to the registered medical dispensaries.
“Those who were behind this unconscionable tactic — some of whom I’ve known, grown up with, worked with, supported, and socialized with for decades — should be absolutely ashamed of themselves,” she wrote in the piece. Simmons did not respond to multiple attempts for an interview. Zondervan declined to comment on the vitriolic tone of the debate.
The way Harding saw it, he needed to go hard against the registered medical dispensaries. “They were multi-national companies where these people would not jump in and help Economic Empowerment groups to get a leg up, and that was the reason why I started this fight,” Harding explains. “They were doing just what white corporate entities do all the time — they were taking advantage of the situation. None of their people were affected by The War on Drugs, but they were going to make all of the profit. I was not going to let that happen.”
He didn’t. In a 7-to-0 vote, the moratorium passed. Simmons abstained. The existing medical dispensaries would have to wait to go recreational. There would be no fund from the registered medical dispensaries to benefit Economic Empowerment Applicants. If all goes as planned, Cookies will open in the near future.
It’s strange to think that a win for Economic Empowerment would mean the opening of a half-billion dollar brand. But Economic Empowerment Applicants can “partner” with larger multi-state operators and registered medical dispensaries. As long as the Economic Empowerment group has at least 51 percent ownership, this is compliant with the state policy — like how Hughes’ group, Blue Enterprises, will have majority ownership of Cookies Cambridge even though Cookies itself is a national chain.
To the Samuras, this policy quirk muddies the water of who should really benefit from Economic Empowerment. “I can make a company where we have 51 percent — no individuals really in control — the company is actually a white organization,” Sieh says. “And I just wrangled some Black people, and put them there at five to 10 percentage points apiece, and now I’m calling it a Black company in Cambridge, and it’s actually Cookies or it’s actually MedMen.” (MedMen is the multi-state operator who granted Green Soul a $1 million advance.)
Sieh Samura believes multi-state operators are cognizant of this loophole and hungry for gains in new markets. And to that end, Hughes recalls having conversations with a variety of other multi-state operators — “most of the key players” — before settling on the deal with Cookies. In conversations with company representatives, he noticed vague language and big promises. But when the group actually pored over the paperwork, they found “it was nothing like” what they were discussing.
That’s why Blue Enterprises took the Cookies deal — it felt genuine. Moreover, the group admired the company’s values. “The fact that they’re a minority-owned company, and to be able to partner with another minority-owned company, I mean, that’s special,” Hughes says. “That happens very rarely in any industry, so for it to be able to happen in this space is incredible.”
Still, even though Blue Enterprises’ partnership with Cookies aligns with the rules of the Economic Empowerment Program, to some, Cookies’ opening doesn’t feel in the spirit of the Cambridge equity policy. But neither does encouraging Economic Empowerment Applicants into potentially low-ball deals with registered medical dispensaries that held monopolies in the pre-recreational Cambridge cannabis space. At the end of the day, all Economic Empowerment Applicants had ties to either multi-million dollar, white-owned registered medical dispensaries or similarly multi-million dollar, PoC-owned registered medical dispensaries.
But what choice did they have? With cannabis as a criminalized substance on the federal level, banks won’t lend and investors won’t invest in the kinds of mom-and-pop stores Economic Empowerment Applicants are assumed to be. Economic empowerment applicants are put in a bind — the financial risks of independent operation risk jeopardizing the possibility of generational wealth. Before any group applied for Economic Empowerment status, they were prospective business owners — profit is, understandably, a key consideration.
Moreover, the highly fraught nature of the campaign points to the broader issue of a lack of state oversight. Crafting a strong cannabis equity policy on a municipal level was dire for Economic Empowerment Applicants because Massachusetts offers so few guidelines.
***
The Cannabis Control Commission, a state-level cohort of government appointees and cannabis legal experts, has two programs that aim to rectify the racist policies of the War on Drugs: Economic Empowerment and Social Equity. Economic Empowerment is a lowercase “social equity” program, but the two initiatives are entirely different. The Social Equity program is for cannabis entrepreneurs who have been directly harmed by the War on Drugs, defined by the location of one’s home and whether or not they have a drug conviction. The initiative is an ongoing, free training program — not a license.
Economic Empowerment, however — the program benefiting Hughes and the Samuras alike — is intended for groups whose businesses will promote positive change for areas adversely affected by the War on Drugs. The qualifications for Economic Empowerment were broader than for Social Equity, which centers around the specific identity of an individual.
“I do think it’s important to understand that you can promote Economic Empowerment in disproportionately harmed communities, without necessarily meeting the other demographic requirements, I guess,” former CCC Commissioner Shaleen A. Title says — meaning white-owned businesses can still meet the Economic Empowerment qualifications. Both Cookies and Yamba are not only minority-owned, but have plans to support Black and brown communities in Cambridge and Boston.
The CCC selected 122 groups in 2018 to receive “priority status” on their path toward state licensure. In other words, after completing the complicated process at the local level, their application will be pushed to the top of the larger pool for state-wide review. If they don’t meet state requirements, their priority status is essentially null, but if they do, the Economic Empowerment designation is supposed to slash months of waiting time and rent payments.
Zondervan doesn’t think this approach really addresses equity. “They created a system to give priority considerations to [Economic Empowerment applicants] at the state licensing level, but it’s not really an equity program in the sense that the [Economic Empowerment applicants] are still on their own in terms of financing,” he wrote in an email.
Still, many progressives lauded these social equity programs as innovative, first-in-the-nation measures at the intersection of equity and cannabis legalization. Harding is grateful for his designation as an Economic Empowerment Applicant, but also finds flaws in the implications of the policy. “When you close the door behind you, it just basically means you’ve got a lottery ticket,” Harding says. He had business connections and acumen, but also luck and good timing. “I just don’t think that’s fair, quite frankly, and I’m one of the people who got a lottery ticket.”
When the commission does approve the final state license — a step in the process that very few Economic Empowerment Applicants have actually reached — they are entitled to three dispensary licenses, three cultivation licenses, and three manufacturing licenses. They have the potential for substantial growth and multiple properties. But Harding muses, “Why wouldn’t you have given more people the opportunity to get one store?”
Because of Economic Empowerment’s one-off nature — you were either selected or you weren’t — the program perpetuates scarcity, as well as competition: Once you’ve been “empowered,” you’re on your own. “I understand that I’m lucky, but I’d rather set up a system where you don’t have to be, right?” Harding says. He views the policy, in part, as a function of American capitalism “as American as apple pie.”
***
But it’s hardly smooth sailing for the “lucky few” Economic Empowerment Applicants, particularly when it comes to securing their host community agreements — the pivotal step at the local level (and the one that the Samuras recently received) that solidifies a group to apply for a state license.
Before a prospective business owner is eligible to receive a host community agreement, they must secure their property, as well as complete an arduous process of zoning clearances and planning board approvals — they also must pay rent.
In the potentially years-long interim between securing a business location and securing a host community agreement, the cash loss of monthly payments is massive. When Leah Samura got her host community agreement last month, she’d already been paying $20,000 in rent per month on her JFK St. property for the last two years. Sieh, who got his host community agreement a few months prior, is paying just below that figure.
Despite the measures — albeit flawed — at the state level, “when it comes to the municipality, they’re totally independent,” Sieh explains. For Black and brown entrepreneurs in this Wild West of an industry, their success is in the hands of their local governments.
“Everybody knows the host community agreement and the local control option [have] been the most corrupting and anti-equitable aspects of our cannabis legalization policy, because it requires you to get property in a municipality,” Sieh says. “That means you're begging the municipality, and if they have friends that they like, you will sit, you will wait, and there is no accountability.”
If the “friends” of the municipality aren’t the Black-owned, Economic Empowerment Applicants, the state’s legitimate efforts to promote equity can’t function. The unnecessary hurdles and complications Economic Empowerment Applicants face showcase an insidious reality. Racism perseveres at a granular level — through convoluted regulations, un-sexy local ordinances, policy that doesn’t seem race-related at all.
Difficulty securing locations and withstanding the costs of rent not only precedes the host community agreement — in many cases in Massachusetts, cannabis entrepreneurs, industry legal experts, and journalists have called the agreement itself unfair.
Host community agreements are a five-year contract between the community and cannabis business owners that require up to three percent of the company’s annual gross income for a “community impact fee.” The nature of these fees vary widely from city to city — from buying the municipality a snow plow to an annual donation to a youth sports league. In a review of 500 community agreements, WGBH reported that two-thirds violated the limits set by the state. Exorbitant fees inevitably favor business owners with deep pockets.
But the Cannabis Control Commision doesn't have the authority to review, approve, or deny the details of the host community agreements. In 2019, the commission sent the state legislature a 727-page report seeking authority to regulate host community agreements. “The commission did not receive any further clarification over the last legislative session,” CCC Director of Communications Maryalice G. Curley wrote in an email.
In a recent case out of Salem, Mass., a prospective cannabis operator sued the city for denying them a host community agreement. They argued that the only businesses granted a host community agreement promised illegally large fees — sums of money exceeding the three percent cap. The group also named the CCC as a defendant, contending that the commission should have denied the other groups state licenses because of their unfair host community agreements. In mid-March, a Superior Court judge dismissed the commission as a defendant.
Title — a former CCC commissioner described as “the people’s weed watchdog” in Boston Magazine — however, thinks the commission should have power to review HCAs “to make sure that they are compliant with the law,” adding, “Towns have been, in my opinion, exerting unlawful control, based on what they’re asking for from the applicant in exchange for that host community agreement.”
The CCC has published a “Guidance for Municipalities” and a “Guidance on host community agreements” for cities, but those documents are just that — guidance. For now, Title says, “the cities and towns have to cooperate.”
This need for cooperation includes even the smallest business associations and neighborhood groups. Cookies’ ability to serve Boston and Cambridge communities harmed by the War on Drugs is yet to be seen — it’s a half-billion dollar corporation and it’s just not open yet — but the obstacles it experienced while securing its Harvard Square location showcases a kind of NIMBY-ism, “not in my backyard.” Last September, Cambridge locals and business associations sent a letter to city officials opposing Cookies’ location in the Square, citing concern for “families with young children, individuals with respiratory illnesses, the elderly, and many others” who frequent nearby Winthrop Park.
Cambridgians might have voted for cannabis legalization and favored policies like Economic Empowerment, but their rhetoric is hollow without genuine support. To Hughes and Harding, opposition to Cookies from residents and members of various organizations — such as the Harvard Square Business Association and Harvard Square Neighborhood Association — epitomized this contradiction.
In the back-and-forth meetings about Cookies’ opening, Harding recalled a comment from a resident that the new business belonged in a basement. “Why would you say that to a Black-owned business?” he asks. “It’s that Jim Crow thinking, right? Separate but unequal.”
***
Even after the two-year moratorium ends this fall, eligibility for a Cambridge cannabis business permit will only expand to include majority women, minority, or veteran owned businesses — indefinitely. The statute reads that an applicant must certify that “it will hire at least 51% of minority, women and/or veterans as employees” and its Board of Directors “be at least 51% minority, women and/or veterans.” Zondervan explains that if Bill Gates wanted to open a dispensary, the city would turn him down. (That is, unless he wrangled together a group of Black people.)
With the end of the Cambridge moratorium approaching, city officials and Economic Empowerment groups are considering its extension. Zondervan and Harding still favor the policy. Because the moratorium went into effect in late 2019, Covid forestalled much of its potential. Even if recreational-use stores open in the fall, they will have essentially no operating time protected by the moratorium.
The Samuras maintain their opposition to the moratorium and think others within Cambridge do, too, even if they’re not speaking up. “I think people are a little embarrassed now realizing that we could have really funded some Economic Empowerment Applicants,” Sieh says. “Instead, we got a [multi-state operator].”
In the coming years, progressive cities and towns across the country will be testing various iterations of cannabis equity measures. Title thinks it will soon become clear which policies are the most effective. “There’s something unusual about trying to use a law and an industry and business licensing to repair harm that was done to a community,” she says. “It’s not necessarily clear exactly what the right way to do that is.”
Even if the Samuras are right — which is difficult to determine — the proposal they favored still centers businesses as vehicles of transformative social equity. But, almost by definition, this is not the role of business; it is the role of government.
“Ultimately, it’s not private businesses that created the harms of the War on Drugs. It’s the government, and the government is also the one with the resources to fix it,” Title says. “So I don’t see businesses as saviors.”
The statutes, the op-eds, and the public statements all directly link the necessity of Economic Empowerment within the cannabis industry to the devastation of the War on Drugs. This is not about diversity for the sake of multiculturalism, but specifically correcting for a racist history of unjust harm. Reparations are at the heart of both the CCC’s social equity programs and the policies Cambridge has enacted.
Which perhaps is why cities and states are faltering, or even stuck: we’re in uncharted, heartbreakingly overdue, terrain.
— Staff writer Josie F. Abugov can be reached at josie.abugov@thecrimson.com.
Sections
A 2020 study from the United Nations predicted that the coronavirus pandemic would set gender equality back by decades given how strongly time constraints have been felt by mothers across the world. Harvard Associate Professor of Philosophy Regina L.“Gina” Schouten says she isn’t surprised: In fact, according to Schouten, academic submissions from male scholars have increased in the past year, whereas submissions from women have not.
Schouten attended college at Ball State University and majored in both social work and Spanish, initially planning to be a social worker for non-English speaking communities. However, during her undergrad years, she also took courses in philosophy, which she eventually found to be more fulfilling because she was intrigued by the broader implications and topics that the discipline challenged her to explore.
This experience of asking “very big, soaring structural questions,” she says, made her particularly interested in the field. In philosophy, Schouten adds, “I was thinking of social work, our obligations to others, and circumstances of injustice, in a fine-grained way. And I think that’s really important work.”
As a result, Schouten returned to education after graduating college and taught kindergarten for one year. She decided to pursue a Ph.D. at the University of Wisconsin-Madison, where she further honed her interest in philosophy.
“I started to write about education. And I started to write about gender, but all through the lens of thinking structurally about social justice issues,” Schouten recalls. Following graduate school, she taught for three years at Illinois State University and ultimately ended up coming to Harvard as a professor, teaching feminist political philosophy and educational justice.
Outside of the classroom, one of Schouten’s primary research focuses is combating the gendered division of labor: the allocation of specific jobs or types of work to either women or men depending on societally-enforced gender roles or social norms. In 2019, she published a book with Oxford University Press, titled “Liberalism, Neutrality, and the Gendered Division of Labor.” Her book argues that political interventions are necessary to dismantle the gendered division of labor.
She also argues in her book that such interventions can be successfully incorporated into a system of political liberalism, which places a high emphasis on achieving the consent of the governed before implementing prescriptive legislation. Schouten’s book hinges on the questions of how a society committed to political liberalism may reconcile the public’s differences in opinion over whether a gendered division of labor is a problem. Further, she addresses to what extent we ought to devote our resources to ameliorate that division.
“In two-parent households, even if both parents are working, one parent’s career is the one that gets subordinated when there are caregiving needs that arise,” Schouten says. According to Schouten, 33 percent of unemployed women say childcare is a major factor in their employment arrangements, compared to only 12 percent of unemployed men.
“Most of what sustains the gendered division of labor right now are the choices that men and women make when they become parents, and the fact that women favor flexibility and family-friendly amenities over earnings and other kinds of pecuniary rewards,” Schouten explains. “But that way of describing the problem obscures something important: that we don’t make these choices in a vacuum. Our preferences are informed by all of the gendered elements in the air that we breathe.”
Schouten argues that it is the formation of these preferences that ought to be the point of attack in social policy: “The empirical literature supports the view that, to meaningfully dislodge the gendered division of labor as a set of social norms, we need to act on those patterns of choice,” she says.
For Schouten, reforming family support policies in the workplace is key to dismantling the social norms that often dictate which parent’s career is deemed a greater priority in opposite-sex partnerships.
“We need a family support policy that encourages men to care for children and to care for their aging relatives, and that encourages women to retain attachment to work even when they are doing caregiving outside of the home,” Schouten says. “We need to offer support that includes incentives for gender-norm-transgressive uptakes of that caregiving support.”
Schouten proposes a system in which parental leave is allocated to individuals rather than to a domestic unit, thereby forcing each partner to either accept or completely forfeit their designated leave period.
“The effect of this in an opposite-sex partnership is that there’s a very strong incentive for both partners to engage reciprocally in caregiving and to stay attached to their work outside of the home,” Schouten explains.
Further, she suggests that work time regulations, in addition to leave policy reforms, can help address the disparity in women’s disproportionate election of part-time work over full-time work.
“Limiting the number of hours that employers can demand of their workers will have the effect of limiting the disparity between the hours that women work, when they need to be home to make dinner, and the hours that men work, even when they’re unconstrained by those domestic needs,” Schouten argues.
Some of Schouten’s other research focuses on reproductive and educational justice, two other areas that she believes are tantamount to eradicating the gendered division of labor. She believes there is a pertinent connection between these ideas.
“Having access to effective contraception, having the right to terminate an unwanted pregnancy,” she says, “are things that are clearly important for women’s full equality in society.”
On the issue of women’s educational equality, Schouten notes that “we increasingly see women growing their achievements in higher education and graduate education.” Despite this trend, she says that higher-educated women have continued to face underrepresentation in the professions for which they are qualified.
Schouten’s overarching philosophical lens on these issues asks whether or not such policies are of legitimate interest to government actors.
“In my research, the philosophy comes in when we ask whether that’s the legitimate policy aim, whether this is the kind of thing that the state can legitimately be in the business of caring about,” Schouten reflects. “To build a case for that policy element that’s compliant with the norms of liberal neutrality that we have reason to abide by, that’s a distinct kind of philosophical project that needs to be done.”
Schouten stresses that the Covid-19 pandemic has further set back progress on gender equality by both personally and academically straining women who work in education and research. “On the personal front,” she says, women face “increased caregiving responsibilities, either because they have more sick relatives or children who are out of school or daycare.”
Schouten estimates that, as a result of the pandemic, women have lost several hours per week for either work or leisure. She speculates that these lost hours have drastically affected female researchers’ scholarly productivity in their respective fields.
Given this disparity, Schouten underscores the importance of inclusivity and diversity in the field of philosophy, as early philosophy was a particularly male-dominated area of thinking. She acknowledges that progress is being made, albeit slowly.
“There’s still a lot of conversation in the discipline about how to make it a more hospitable place for a wider variety of people,” she says. “It’s an experience that more people should be able to have.”
In addition to ensuring that individuals are able to learn and interact with philosophical concepts, Schouten also believes that individual diverse experiences are necessary for her field to thrive. Specifically, she says that a multitude of perspectives and backgrounds lend to a richer discipline that better answers the complex questions that philosophy poses. As a result, embracing differences across gender, socioeconomic status, and race, among other social identifiers, is essential to progress in the philosophy discipline.
The Covid-19 pandemic, according to Schouten, therefore poses a threat to the continuance of the philosophical progress that she has witnessed thus far.
Though the pandemic has been a major setback in the advancement of gender equality, Schouten explains that there are certainly ways to expedite the process toward more equal divisions of labor. Specifically, she says that adding work time regulations, providing wages for caregiving, and drawing more men into this kind of work are all important ways to do so.
Ultimately, Schouten says that we, as a society, need to fully understand what the goal of this work should be. “We need to figure out what we care about here. And insofar as we object to gender inequality, what’s the precise, appropriate target of our objection?” she says. “That’s going to make a big difference in this really practical space of what our policy configuration should be.”
— Staff writer Gabrielle J. Pesantez can be reached at gabrielle.pesantez@thecrimson.com.
