Sections
For Amanda S. Gonzalez-Piloto ’21, taking a leave from the College one semester shy of graduation was a “last resort” after failing three classes and dropping one of her concentrations.
When the College shifted to remote learning in response to the Covid-19 pandemic, Gonzalez-Piloto — who has academic accommodations for ADHD — said she had difficulty focusing in her Zoom classes and experienced panic attacks while finishing her final assessments.
Citing minimal support from campus mental health resources in the past, Gonzalez-Piloto said she did not have an established mental health support system in place when the pandemic forced students off campus last March, which exacerbated the challenges to come.
Gonzalez-Piloto is one of many young adults, including some students at the College, who reported declining mental health during the pandemic.
According to June survey data from a U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention report, 62.9 percent of adults aged 18 to 24 have reported symptoms of anxiety or depression — more than any other adult age group — and 25.5 percent said they had seriously considered suicide.
In the year since the College transitioned to remote instruction, some undergraduates said they have grappled with mental health crises while struggling to succeed in virtual classes and navigating unsupportive learning environments. Some students said Harvard has not done enough to support them.
After Harvard sent undergraduates home last March, Gonzalez-Piloto said she lost her only source of income, a work-study job. In addition, once the College canceled theater shows and extracurriculars were rendered virtual, she said she felt the “crushing belief” that she was “rushing towards nothing.”
“Not everybody in the theater community responded to [the pandemic] by shutting down like I did and like a lot of people who have prior [health] conditions,” Gonzalez-Piloto said, pointing to classmates who continued to write screenplays or participate in Zoom theater.
Gonzalez-Piloto added that her difficulty in meeting final deadlines and absorbing material from online courses during the fall semester resulted in her failing three classes.
Ryen A. Diaz ’21 said she was “doing pretty well” at the start of the pandemic, but writing her Social Studies thesis took a significant toll on her mental health in the fall. The Social Studies department, which requires a senior thesis, elected not to extend thesis deadlines this year.
Diaz — who has previously been diagnosed with and hospitalized for severe mental health issues — said she woke up “overwhelmingly anxious” every day while writing her thesis.
“I ended up actually in the hospital in the fall because I was just non-functional. I was having a really, really, really difficult time for several weeks — couldn’t eat, had lost a lot of weight,” Diaz said.
Ilana A. Cohen ’22-’23 — who has dealt with anxiety, panic, and depression for years — said mental health played a large role in her decision to take a year off from school.
“I couldn’t fathom the concept of being in remote class. For me personally, that is truly torture,” she said. “My own anxieties are exacerbated by being stuck behind a screen when it comes to doing things that are going to be formally evaluated.”
She said moving in with friends upstate last fall and having access to Zoom therapy helped to improve her mental health during quarantine.
“It’s been a difficult experience, but it’s also been an incredible growth opportunity for me personally,” Cohen said.
Kathryn S. “Kat” Boit ’22-’23 said her decision to take a gap year was primarily influenced by her mental health and the absence of in-person learning opportunities offered by the College.
“There is truly nothing that Harvard could’ve done that would’ve brought me back to school for a virtual semester,” she said.
Some students reported a return to unwelcoming home environments during the pandemic also spelled a downturn in their mental health.
Though she went home to an “extremely supportive” family last March, Boit said hometown trauma made living and taking classes there distressing. Away from her campus support network, she said she also experienced fear of abandonment, a key symptom of her borderline personality disorder.
“It made it really difficult for me to focus on my schoolwork when I was experiencing flashbacks and very unstable mood swings,” Boit said.
After College students vacated their dorms last year, Jaden D. “JD” Deal ’23 said some BGLTQ and first-generation and low-income students did not have safe households awaiting them — with some experiencing homelessness.
Though Deal said his family is supportive of his identity, he said his home state of Iowa is less accepting.
“I know that this is a state that I’m not safe in, where it’s not as safe to be open about my own queer identity,” he said. “It’s not safe to be queer in some of the places that we’re returning home to, which is really scary.”
Providing confidential resources for students in unsupportive homes is a chief concern for Contact, a peer counseling group geared toward BGLTQ undergraduates, according to co-directors Artea Brahaj ’23 and Shafi Rubbani ’22.
“The biggest thing that we’ve been considering is how to be as accessible as possible during an online semester,” said Brahaj, a former Crimson News editor. “We’ve had situations in which people had to go back in the closet during this time because they’re living with family.”
Brahaj said Harvard’s Counseling and Mental Health Services permitted Contact and other peer counseling groups to reintroduce individual counseling this semester — in a reversal of its policy for those groups last fall — provided that one on-campus counselor is present during the virtual session.
Still, Rubbani said the online format of counseling this year dissuades some students from seeking support.
“In practice, I don’t think we see as many people come in to Contact,” he said. “It’s hard to seek help — it’s hard to talk about difficult emotional subjects, and anything that makes that harder is just going to discourage people from coming.”
Associate Dean of Students for Inclusion and Belonging Alta Mauro, who also staffs the Office of BGLTQ Student Life, said the Dean of Students Office approved on-campus housing requests for all undergraduates who indicated they felt unsafe at home, including for reasons related to gender expression and sexual orientation.
“When students said that there were significant barriers to their learning or there were threats to their sense of psychological safety, we took students at their word,” Mauro said. “Many of the students for whom that was true are now on campus, and they would likely report that they’re safer.”
In a late February interview, Dean of the College Rakesh Khurana said students can “fully express” themselves at the College and feel “celebrated and accepted” for their identities.
Khurana acknowledged, though, that “many students” reside in hostile settings outside Harvard’s gates.
While seeking mental health resources from CAMHS, some students said they encountered privacy concerns, minimal transparency, and scheduling delays.
Boit said she felt she could not find a private space in her home to attend her virtual therapy and psychiatry appointments.
“I personally became very uncomfortable with virtual therapy and psych appointments and group therapy because I felt like I didn’t have a space to express myself anymore without being overheard,” Boit said. “And this is in a family that knows about my diagnoses and my issues.”
On the other hand, Gonzalez-Piloto said she faced transparency issues while undergoing CAMHS treatment.
In January, she said she stopped seeing her CAMHS psychiatrist in part because she discovered he was involved in a wrongful death lawsuit alleging negligence in care for Harvard undergraduate Luke Z. Tang ’18, who died by suicide in September 2015. The psychiatrist said he could not disclose his involvement with the lawsuit, per Gonzalez-Piloto.
Spokespeople from the University and Harvard University Health Services did not respond to questions about whether CAMHS clinicians are prohibited from disclosing their involvement in the lawsuit to patients.
Gonzalez-Piloto said she had previously suspended her CAMHS therapy visits after finding them unhelpful and having her appointment time shortened due to capacity issues. She said when she went through CAMHS’s out-of-network referral process, she was dropped by a therapist over text during the pandemic and did not receive a call back from other therapists she was referred to.
“I feel like Harvard does a great amount of work to push all this onto student community care,” Gonzalez-Piloto said, adding that she thinks CAMHS is “severely understaffed.”
University spokesperson Jason A. Newton did not respond to questions about CAMHS’s staffing.
Diaz said she believes the “mental health system at Harvard rests on the idea of liability,” citing her compulsory CAMHS therapy appointments due to past mental health-related hospitalizations in comparison to her friends’ months-long wait times to schedule therapy appointments.
“You should not be waiting for mental health interventions until people are in suicidal episodes,” Diaz said.
Deal said the “bureaucratic” process of scheduling CAMHS appointments deterred him from utilizing the resource.
“Tell me that I can go online right now and schedule a meeting five to 10 days down the line that’s an actual therapy session, and I will go,” he said. “I don’t want to draw out the process of having to schedule a meeting for therapy over the course of a month. It’s just ridiculous.”
In response to criticisms concerning scheduling delays, Newton wrote in an email that the estimated wait time for CAMHS therapy appointments is roughly 10 to 12 days.
Reflecting on her search for mental health support at Harvard, Gonzalez-Piloto said she has tried almost every resource available to no avail.
“Everything that could have possibly gone wrong with my experience with CAMHS has gone wrong,” she said. “If I don’t think of it as being so chaotically funny, then it would be so crushing that I would never seek help.”
—Staff writer Alex Koller can be reached at alex.koller@thecrimson.com.
—Staff writer Christine Mui can be reached at christine.mui@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @MuiChristine.
If you or someone you know needs help at Harvard, contact Counseling and Mental Health Services at (617) 495-5711 or the Harvard University Police Department at (617) 495-1212. Several peer counseling groups are offering virtual confidential peer conversations during the pandemic; learn more here.
You can also call the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline at 800-273-TALK (8255) or text the Crisis Text Line at 741741.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Cradling the iron ball between his shoulder and neck, his hand white with chalk, sophomore shot-putter Alexander Kolesnikoff slowly rotated to his right before rapidly uncoiling his body, completing a 540° spin, and launching the sphere into the field in front of him. In this five-second feat of strength, Kolesnikoff hurled the 16-pound (7.26-kilogram) shot 64 feet (19.51 meters) — the farthest distance ever thrown by a Harvard athlete (the previous record, 62’1”, was also set by Kolesnikoff last August) and the fourth-farthest distance in Ivy League history. With this performance, the sophomore also placed first in the shot put event at the Mingara Interclub Meet and set a new record for all of New South Wales, Australia.
“It’s a big start to the season,” said Kolesnikoff from his home in Strathfield, Australia. “I’ve been throwing better than that in training and practice, so for me, it’s a good start.”
After being sent home last March, the sophomore has spent his time training and taking classes in Australia, as well as coaching at his old high school and other clubs in the area. Despite the 16-hour time difference between Cambridge and Sydney, which would ultimately lead to attending lectures until 2:30 a.m., the decision to enroll in online classes prevailed.
“A lot of my friends decided to take online classes, and we all wanted to graduate at the same time,” Kolesnikoff said. “Another [reason] was we’re graduating in May 2023, and...the Paris Olympics are in 2024. I’m going to spend some time after I graduate to train [to] qualify for the Olympics, which I’m very confident I’ll be able to do.”
The Ivy League’s cancellation of sports due to the pandemic also did not deter the shot-putter from continuing his Harvard education.
“In terms of missing out on the athletic season, I also have the opportunity to pursue postgraduate degrees and use my eligibility at other universities in America, so I’ll definitely be pursuing that route later,” Kolesnikoff said.
Drawing silver linings from the pandemic, the Australian noted that his country’s lack of restrictions allowed him to train and progress as if he were still on campus.
“We’ve needed to individualize our training approach even more than we already had,” said Harvard head Track & Field coach Jason Saretsky, reflecting on the unique circumstances that student-athletes face while spread across the globe.
“I've been following my program to the greatest extent I can,” said Kolesnikoff, mentioning his access to facilities such as Sydney Olympic Park and local gyms. “I'm definitely not limited in my resources here. Particularly, I've got other friends who've definitely struggled through these times, so I'm definitely fortunate in that regard.”
Kolesnikoff also scheduled his semester in such a way that emulates his daily routine on campus, with classes in the morning, training in the afternoon, and work and rest in the evening.
Moving forward from his performance at the Mingara Interclub Meet, Kolesnikoff has much planned for the rest of the season, his Harvard career, and beyond. In other competitions this February, the former World Junior Championship Finalist has thrown 63’9” (19.44 meters) and 63’7” (19.39 meters).
“In terms of immediately, I’m just more focused on the season at hand,” Kolesnikoff said. “Hopefully in a few months, I've got the [Australian Track and Field National Championships] and the Olympic trials...For me to make it, I have to improve another meter to be in good shape with a chance of making it — no guarantees even when I throw an extra meter. But I never count myself out. In terms of long-term goals, I’ve hopefully got the World University Games in August… Next year, there’s the Commonwealth Games, and then there’s the World Championships next year as well... But the 2024 Olympics is the big next goal, and by that stage, I’m sure I should be qualifying for that.”
There’s also much Kolesnikoff is looking forward to with the resumption of Ivy League and intercollegiate competition.
“Two weeks before we [left] last year, we had the Ivy League indoors, and I finished third there,” Kolesnikoff said. “I remember [head coach Saretsky], he told me, ‘Ah, this is the only Ivy League I’m going to let you lose.’ So I’m looking forward to the [Ivy League Championships]. I also really miss the whole team vibe and training with the team... I’d definitely like to qualify for the [NCAA Track and Field Championships] as well, in my next opportunity to do so. A top-five finish there would be nice, and then, maybe, who knows, by the time I’m a senior, maybe I’m close to winning it.”
In addition to reaching distances that would make him competitive against other potential Olympians, Kolesnikoff hopes to set a new Ivy League Indoor Record by eclipsing Cornell alum Stephen Mozia’s 2014 shot put of 68’2” (20.79 meters). Fortunately for him and assistant throws coach Darcy Wilson, the path to reaching this last meter is clear.
“Alex has currently been practicing with a large training load,” Wilson said. For instance, the throws coach had Kolesnikoff “[practicing] in the morning prior to competition... at his last meet.”
Coach Wilson also plans to have the shot-putter “freshen up with a speed [and] acceleration cycle” that promises “big throws to come.”
“I think my biggest improvement will come in the weight room,” Kolesnikoff mused. “Compared to all the throwers, whether it’s in Australia or in America, I’m probably one of the weakest ones.”
The sophomore compared the maximum weight he could bench press, 330 pounds, to what NCAA champions could move: over 450 pounds.
“I only started lifting in my final year of high school, whereas I know my old training partner and other throwers in Australia have been lifting years in advance of that,” Kolesnikoff said. “So that’s somewhere I really need to improve, as well as in speed work. When I’m benching 440 pounds… that’s definitely when the big improvement comes, and that’s when I’ll be throwing the shot put over 21, 22 meters.”
With this understanding of the path forward, the sophomore is excited to progress in his throws — not only shot put but also discus and hammer — and to participate in various collegiate, national, and international competitions in the years to come.
“For me, it's like moving up,” Kolesnikoff said optimistically. “I’m still very young, so moving forward, I just have to get better than [where I am now].”
— Staff writer Noah Jun can be reached at noah.jun@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
One year into a raging viral pandemic that has claimed over 525,000 American lives, Harvard’s affiliated hospitals have been equipped with arguably one of the most significant medical accomplishments of the 21st century: the Moderna, Pfizer, and Johnson & Johnson Covid-19 vaccines.
Receiving the vaccine supply is just the first step, however, and Harvard’s hospitals have run into another challenge getting shots into arms: overcoming pervasive inequities that have left individuals of color with less access to and trust in the health care system. Even among the hospitals’ own staff, communication difficulties and mistrust have led to unequal rates of vaccination.
As of Mar. 8, more than 2 million doses of vaccines have been administered in Massachusetts, with more than 715,000 people fully vaccinated. So far, the majority of fully-vaccinated individuals are white, followed by Black, Hispanic, and Asian.
In distributing the coronavirus vaccines to healthcare workers, patients, and the public, Harvard’s hospitals and researchers have looked for new ways to counter those inequities, particularly among members of marginalized communities who may be more hesitant to receive the vaccine.
The solutions they come up with could be key to ending the coronavirus pandemic — in Massachusetts and around the world.
When the first Covid-19 vaccines became available for use in December, Mass General Brigham, an integrated hospital system that includes several Harvard teaching hospitals — including Brigham and Women’s Hospital and Massachusetts General Hospital — rolled out staff vaccination in three phases, in accordance with state recommendations.
The first vaccinated employees were directly Covid-facing staff, including those working in inpatient services and outpatient respiratory clinics. The second group vaccinated were those working in general patient care, followed by non-patient-facing staff.
Paul D. Biddinger, the Chief of MGB’s Division of Emergency Preparedness who led the organization’s vaccine rollout, said the hospital system prioritized equal access and distribution to the vaccine.
“From the beginning, we certainly committed to the state’s principle — which is everyone working in a similar clinical setting, no matter what their role is, receives equal priority, equal access to the vaccine,” Biddinger said.
Per Biddinger, just under 75 percent of MGB’s more than 81,000 employees had been vaccinated as of Mar. 4.
At Beth Israel Lahey Health, another hospital system that includes Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, staff vaccinations likewise occurred in phases depending on contact with patients. As of Mar. 4, 76 percent of the more than 32,000 BILH employees had been vaccinated, according to Jennifer L. Kritz, BILH’s Vice President of Communications.
Despite efforts to distribute vaccines equitably, internal medicine specialist and BILH Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Task Force member Leonor Fernandez noted that BIDMC has had lower rates of vaccination among Black and Latinx employees.
Fernandez said that these patterns have served as a “wake up call” to focus the hospital’s vaccination efforts on including “diverse narratives” into the dialogue.
Biddinger acknowledged that MGB has not had equal rates of vaccination among employee groups — initially, under 50 percent of Black employees in the hospital system were vaccinated.
The first step MGB took to address inequities was to look at its communication strategies within the hospital system.
Joseph R. Betancourt, Massachusetts General Hospital’s chief equity and inclusion officer, said “trusted vaccine messengers” held over 30 question-and-answer sessions to address questions about the vaccine in numerous languages, including Spanish, Haitian, Portuguese, and Creole. These individuals also provided assistance in scheduling appointments.
Adeline A. Boatin ’04, a Harvard Medical School professor and physician at MGH, volunteered to host informational sessions with staff who may have less access to information about the vaccine. She said she answered questions about how the vaccine was approved, why it was approved so quickly, potential side effects, and eligibility.
“Just knowing that the employees that did come to those sessions — the type of questions that they asked me, the fact that they had a lot of questions — shows that it was helpful for them, whether they ultimately then chose to do it or not,” Boatin said.
MGB also sent out a series of videos to all hospital staff in both English and Spanish about the rapidly-developed vaccine, assuring employees that proper care had been being taken to thoroughly review the vaccine’s effects prior to mass distribution.
After initial email invitations to schedule vaccine appointments were insufficient for some staff, Beth Israel Lahey Health supplemented email invitations with peer leaders and information through supervisors. The hospital also encouraged physicians to share pictures of themselves getting the vaccine, BIDMC internal medicine specialist Daniele D. Olvecszky said.
Biddinger said MGB reserved 20 percent of vaccine appointments for workers living in high-risk areas or with language or technology barriers that make it challenging to access treatment and information. Many employees who were initially hesitant about getting vaccinated are now less hesitant after seeing their colleagues get vaccinated, he added.
MGB has seen a steady growth in the number of Black and Latinx workers receiving the vaccine, according to Betancourt.
Fernandez similarly noted the importance of showing leaders and peers getting vaccinated.
She said she “felt better” knowing her peers had gone to be vaccinated. Once people she trusted — like her colleague in infectious diseases who had looked through the literature “backwards and forwards” — had gotten the vaccine, she felt more comfortable getting it for herself.
With vaccine appointments currently available for all individuals age 65 and older in Massachusetts, hospitals have worked to deliberately allocate doses in the state’s hard-hit communities.
Biddinger — who also chairs Massachusetts’s Covid-19 vaccine advisory group — said the group called for using virus prevalence and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention social vulnerability index, which measures negative external stresses on human health, to determine which communities have been most impacted by the pandemic.
Peter M. Shorett, Chief Integration Officer at Beth Israel Lahey Health, said the hospital system invited patients to be vaccinated in three waves based on their neighborhood’s risk level.
The first wave included patients at BILH health centers in Dorchester and Chelsea, two communities that have been devastated by the virus. The second wave included patients in 11 towns and neighborhoods heavily impacted by Covid-19. The 11 communities all have high social vulnerability scores, as well as high populations of Black, Latinx, and immigrant residents. The third wave of invitations was sent to the rest of eligible patients.
MGB likewise prioritized sending out invitations for scheduling vaccine appointments to patients in 13 communities that were the hardest hit.
Despite these prioritization systems, the hospitals struggled to reach patients who lack reliable access to technology.
MGB employed multiple methods to reach out to patients to schedule vaccine appointments, including using call centers to place phone calls and sending text messages with a call-back number.
The hospital’s most successful strategy, according to Biddinger, involved using community health centers to deliver calls to eligible patients inviting them to schedule vaccine appointments. Biddinger said that these centers often already have a “good relationship” with patients, contributing to the success of the program.
BILH focused on reaching out through “computer assisted dial messaging to people on landlines,” Shorett said. For patients in highly impacted communities, a BILH healthcare provider or staff member called them directly. The hospital system plans to also deliver postcards to patients who lack any other forms of contact.
Among patients age 75 and over associated with BILH’s healthcare centers in Dorchester and Chelsea, 53 percent of patients who have been successfully reached by one of these methods have booked an appointment at one of BILH’s vaccination sites, according to Shorett.
As the vaccine rollout transitions to the general public, MGB has partnered with multicultural media organizations and the Black Boston Covid-19 Coalition, and has deployed 140 caregivers of color to serve as “vaccine messengers.” These volunteers hold biweekly Facebook Live Q&As and town halls designed to answer questions about the vaccine rollout.
MGB has also worked with local stakeholders to deploy Covid-19 testing and question-and-answer vans to highly affected areas in Massachusetts. Hospital staff who work in these vans are often multilingual, reducing potential language barriers to receiving reliable vaccine information.
Bisola O. Ojikutu — a Medical School professor and physician at Brigham and Women’s and Massachusetts General Hospital — has been part of efforts at MGB to connect with surrounding neighborhoods. She highlighted the importance of employing vaccine messengers of color as well as understanding social contexts.
“When you have initiatives that are community-centered and that involve people of color, what I see is that there’s more engagement and that people are more willing to be involved,” Ojikutu said.
Researchers at the Harvard School of Public Health have likewise sought to ensure that marginalized communities are prioritized in vaccine distribution.
Natalia Linos, the executive director of Harvard’s FXB Center for Health and Human Rights, said her group observed that BIPOC populations have experienced significantly more deaths from Covid-19 among the younger generation than their white counterparts.
“Among our communities of color, we had much younger people dying,” Linos said. “So if you create an age criteria and you say ‘75 and above,’ then you’re automatically making it available more to white communities.”
Vaccine inequities pervade not only a state level, but also extend to a national and global scale, according to Caroline O. Buckee, a professor of epidemiology at HSPH.
Buckee said wealthier countries have been “hoarding” vaccines for their own populations through bilateral partnerships, while developing countries have been relying heavily on Covid-19 Vaccines Global Access, a global initiative co-led by the WHO aimed at equitable vaccine distribution.
To continue ensuring international vaccine equity, Buckee said that reported Covid-19 data should be stratified by race, ethnicity, and socioeconomic status in order to guide vaccination efforts and “disentangle” the inequitable burden of disease among countries.
“For an infectious disease that does not respect the borders between poor and rich neighborhoods and the borders between countries, we have to start thinking in a more inclusive way for everybody’s sake,” Buckee said.
CORRECTION: March 11, 2021
A previous version of this article incorrectly stated that 53 percent of patients successfully reached by Beth Israel Lahey Health through computer assisted dial messaging or direct phone calls have booked an appointment at one of BILH’s vaccination sites. In fact, this figure applies only to patients age 75 and over associated with BILH’s healthcare centers in Dorchester and Chelsea.
—Staff writer Ariel H. Kim can be reached at ariel.kim@thecrimson.com.
—Staff writer Anjeli R. Macaranas can be reached at anjeli.macaranas@thecrimson.com.
Sections
Over the course of this week a year ago, life on Harvard’s campus drastically changed. Here’s a look back — in animation form — at what each day that week had in store for Harvard students.
March 10: In response to the growing coronavirus outbreak, University President Lawrence S. Bacow announces in an email on the morning of March 10 that Harvard will switch all courses to remote instruction. Students are also asked to not return to campus after spring break.
March 11: Harvard provides students with move-out resources, and boxes are delivered to campus. Students have the option to ship items home or to store items through Olympia Moving and Storage.
March 12: Housing Day — originally slated for March 12 — is indefinitely postponed because of the coronavirus outbreak. The annual tradition does not occur until April 10, when housing assignments are delivered to freshmen through Zoom.
March 13: In a University-wide email, Bacow announces that the first Harvard affiliate has tested ‘presumptive positive’ for the coronavirus. This Harvard affiliate is one of two individuals who received coronavirus tests.
March 14/15: The majority of students vacate campus by 5 p.m. on Sunday, March 15. A few remaining students are approved by the College to stay until May 17, the end of spring finals period.
—Descriptions by Yuen Ting Chow and Meera S. Nair
Sections
When Harvard University announced one year ago it would evacuate its campus, the news set off a frenzy among its students and peer institutions alike.
At the time of the announcement, the severity of Covid-19 was hardly understood. Spring breakers were planning to carry on with travel plans, sports arenas were filled, and masks were a rarity.
“We were all heavily criticized at that time for acting prematurely,” University President Lawrence S. Bacow said in an interview last month, reflecting on the decision.
But within two weeks, nearly every university in the country followed suit, shuttering campuses and sending students packing in order to curtail the spread of a virus that was just beginning to wreak havoc on the Western world.
In the year since, the consensus that emptied almost every institution in America has given way to a vast array of approaches to reopening each sector of society — including higher education.
Backed by deep pockets and a slew of in-house resources and expertise, Harvard has opted for a conservative approach to reopening that has kept on-campus case rates consistently low but left students scattered across the globe.
Today, the empty grab-and-go dining halls and vacant classrooms that line Harvard’s campus stand in stark contrast to the scenes at many other schools across the country.
Harvard administrators acknowledge they have shied away from taking the same risks that other educational institutions did in deciding their reopening plans.
“All along the way, we have been conservative, in part because, as I’ve said many, many times, the cost of being wrong in making these choices is asymmetrical,” Bacow explained.
“If it turns out that we were overly conservative, we will have inconvenienced a lot of people,” he said. “However, if we are wrong in that we were not conservative enough, we will put human life at risk.”
When colleges began preparing for the fall 2020 semester, they had a data problem.
With students dispersed at homes around the world and dorm rooms almost empty, Harvard’s leaders had limited information about how the coronavirus might spread on campus.
“At each step of the process, we try to make judgements based upon the best scientific evidence that we have at that moment in time,” Bacow said.
In the early stages of its fall planning, the University consulted with several public health modeling experts, including Harvard School of Public Health professor Marc Lipsitch, then-Harvard Medical School professor Rochelle P. Walensky — who was tapped to lead the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in December — and Yale professor A. David Paltiel.
Walensky and Paltiel put together a series of “model-based and economic evaluations” that suggested reopening would be possible if it included high-frequency surveillance testing and strict adherence to other public health measures, Paltiel said in an interview.
Still, Harvard faced an additional challenge as it planned its reopening: the density of the surrounding Cambridge area.
“Unlike many other sister schools that did choose to open, Harvard finds itself in the middle of a very crowded place,” Paltiel said. “It’s one thing to reopen Vassar College, when you know that if anything goes wrong, thank goodness, you’re out in the middle of a cow pasture.”
The College was also challenged by its high-density campus housing arrangement, according to administrators. When Harvard is operating fully, 98 percent of its undergraduates live in dorms, more than most other Ivy League schools.
“We needed to ensure that we would have adequate quarantine capacity and the capacity to isolate students who have had infections,” University Provost Alan M. Garber ’76 said in an interview last week.
The College ultimately opted to bring only the freshmen class back to campus for the fall semester, along with students with extenuating circumstances at home. In the spring 2021 semester, the College offered on-campus housing to seniors and most of the junior class.
Harvard’s reopening plans had significant financial costs that the University decided would be worth bearing: the College likely will not take in much of its room and board revenue this academic year, and Bacow told The Crimson in September that the University had incurred tens of millions of dollars in costs for testing alone.
Administrators have said that distributions from the University’s $41.9 billion endowment helped support some of those increased expenses, a crutch other universities grappling with the same reopening decisions lacked.
“It’s hard not to imagine that if the financial constraints were as manageable elsewhere as it was on the Harvard and Yale campuses that more colleges wouldn’t have enacted their approach,” Paltiel said.
Garber said Harvard possessed additional advantages over other universities beyond its financial backing, namely its location in Boston, a hub for life science research institutions, many of which the University owns.
Harvard and MIT are home to the Broad Institute, which developed the capacity for large-scale Covid-19 testing within a matter of days early in the pandemic. Harvard, along with more than 100 other colleges around the Northeast, relies on the Broad Institute to process coronavirus tests for its on-campus population.
“For a long time, that simply was not an option in many parts of the country,” Garber said of Harvard's robust testing capacity.
Garber said the University “put a lot of effort” into ensuring it would be able to conduct frequent testing in order to detect infections early and avoid widespread transmission of the virus.
“The strategy we pursued was designed in particular to avoid large outbreaks, superspreader events, the kinds of disruptive events that might actually set us very far back,” he said.
While Harvard vacillated on the number of students it planned to bring back to campus, its neighbor on the other side of the Charles River — Boston University — was already making plans for how to bring back all of its students to campus and offer in-person fall classes.
A scaled-back reopening similar to Harvard’s was discussed only “briefly in the early spring,” before BU President Robert A. Brown quickly took the idea of an all-virtual experience off the table, according to Davidson H. Hamer, a public health professor at the school who was involved with organizing its reopening.
BU — which reopened its campus to all students in the fall with twice-weekly surveillance testing — is one of a number of Boston-area colleges that opted for a significantly less restrictive reopening approach than Harvard.
Most other area schools — including Northeastern and Boston College — have also opted to reopen campus to a greater degree, bringing undergraduates back and hosting hybrid courses that feature options for both in-person and online learning.
Even MIT, the University’s counterpart in Cambridge, opted to bring three full cohorts of students back to campus in the spring, and said it would offer some opportunities for in-person learning.
Data shows that Harvard’s caution has helped to keep its positivity rate miniscule, with one of the lowest overall positivity rates in the Ivy League, 0.18 percent. But with the exception of Boston College — which notably does not disclose its surveillance testing frequency — most local schools have made it through the academic year unscathed by a major outbreak.
“I think that both Tufts and BU showed that you can still have a fair amount of students on campus and operate safely,” Hamer said.
Garber — a public health expert himself, with training as a physician — said he has no regrets about any of the University’s reopening decisions.
“How would you feel if you spent a lot of money on auto insurance and you go a couple years and don’t have any accidents or claims on the auto insurance,” he said. “Do you regret buying the auto insurance?”
Within the Ivy League, Harvard’s cautious plan is less distinctive. Many of the University’s conference peers opted to reopen with similar conservatism in the fall, bringing back limited cohorts of undergraduates.
Numerous schools — including Princeton, the University of Pennsylvania, and Columbia — were forced to reverse course late in the summer after initially announcing they would bring back larger cohorts than they ultimately determined to be feasible.
No Ivy except Cornell — which fully reopened its Ithaca campus in the fall — has brought back all students for both semesters.
Harvard also tests students at a higher frequency than any other Ivy except Cornell. Gerri Taylor, who co-chairs the American College Health Association’s Covid-19 task force, said the University’s testing strategy has been a model.
“You can’t be harmful by being conservative,” Taylor said. “I think being conservative is being very cautious and relying on scientific data, and I think that’s what schools have to do. And my personal opinion from watching — and I’ve been watching a lot of schools — is that Harvard’s done a really good job.”
With remote learning guaranteed through the summer and Commencement Exercises for the Class of 2021 postponed, the fall 2021 semester offers the first ray of hope for a complete reopening of Harvard’s campus.
Faculty of Arts and Sciences Dean Claudine Gay said in an interview Friday that the University’s fall planning is focused around an “overriding goal” for the “full return” to campus for students, faculty, and staff. But University leadership has yet to issue official fall plans.
Garber noted Harvard does not use “fixed numerical benchmarks” such as test positivity rate goals for deciding when to move forward with reopening.
“The test positivity rate is informative, but what you really care about is not so much what percent of tests is positive, but what is the frequency or prevalence of infection in the community,” he said.
Students gathering and hosting events upon returning to campus can quickly spike a university’s positivity rate, said Harvard Medical School professor Elena Losina.
“Students are socially active individuals, and the whole idea of being on campus is socializing and being with others,” she said.
Reopening plans also hinge on epidemiological developments in the progression of the pandemic, according to Garber. The emergence of Covid-19 variants — which may be more transmissible and induce a longer period of infectivity — currently pose a large concern.
“As they grow in prevalence, which is what’s happening right now, it suggests that we will need to be a bit more cautious about how we approach the summer and fall,” Garber said. “That doesn’t mean that we have to turn the clock back, but it does mean that the likelihood that, for example, we might still need to be wearing masks in various situations in the fall has gone up.”
The World Health Organization expects the coronavirus vaccines currently available to provide at least some protection against these variants. Bacow said in an interview in February that the University had not decided whether to require vaccinations for on-campus residence in the fall.
Harvard Medical School professor Edward A. Nardell, who also holds an appointment in immunology and infectious diseases at the Harvard School of Public Health, said Harvard should set a minimum threshold for the percent of the on-campus population that is immunized.
“If you achieve 60, 70 percent vaccination rates by the fall, then what that means is there may be occasional Covid cases in the student body or the faculty, but there won't be outbreaks,” he said.
Despite the challenges of planning a full reopening amid uncertainty around case prevalence and vaccine distribution, Garber said students’ adherence to on-campus restrictions will help the school reopen more quickly.
Reflecting on the past year, Garber stated he has no qualms about the University’s conservative approach to reopening.
“We adopted an approach that was designed to be able to handle many kinds of eventualities that just didn’t occur,” he said. “You could say, ‘had we taken more risks, would we probably have been okay?’ and the answer is, yeah, that’s probably true. But that does not mean that, had I been able to do things over again, we would have made different decisions.”
—Staff writer Kelsey J. Griffin can be reached at kelsey.griffin@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @kelseyjgriffin.
—Staff writer Jasper G. Goodman can be reached at jasper.goodman@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @Jasper_Goodman.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Editor’s Note:
On March 10, 2020, a string of confusing emails informed undergraduates that they had five days to evacuate Harvard’s campus in the wake of Covid-19. The Crimson Editorial Board has spilled much ink, during those days and in this year after, on the reverberations of this seismic decision. On its anniversary, we decided to invite every student who experienced this day as a Harvard undergraduate into our paper. Historic days leave everyone with a story: where you were when you heard the news, how you reacted, and where you went from there. Below is a selection of stories from the day the pandemic began to upend our college lives, including reflections on what this day means a year later, when life as we once knew it has yet to resume. We hope you enjoy this testament from our peers.
— Hana M. Kiros ’22, Editorial Chair
— Chloe A. Shawah ’22, Editorial Chair 

​On March 10, I still had hope I would get to reunite with the Harvard communities I loved before my May 2021 graduation. I didn’t think that week would be the last to say goodbye. I wonder, if I had been more pessimistic then, would I have more closure now?
— Abigail Joseph ’21
At 8:20 a.m., I sat down in my concentration advisor's office in the Science Center to talk about plans for the rest of the semester and the summer. My phone on the table buzzed at 8:29 a.m. with President Bacow's email. We saw the first few words and said "never mind...”
— Leigh M. Wilson ’22
My boyfriend cried in my lap and then broke up with me.
— Lavanya Singh ’22
It may be a little dramatic, but the world just stopped moving. At the time, my world was school, friends, sports. With the swiftness of one email, it was all gone. It made me realize how my world is pretty meaningless; there’s bigger things to worry about, and that’s okay.
— Alexandrea G. Harriott ’22
March 10, 2020 was the last day that I lived Harvard as a scary, elitist place. No one in my family has gone to a college like Harvard, and my first two years were distraught and dissatisfying. When I returned to campus on August 23, 2020, I saw how lucky I am to be here. Harvard was the reason I could live a semi-normal life amid a historic pandemic. I'm extremely lucky to say this: I have been infinitely happier during Covid-era Harvard than pre-Covid Harvard. March 10, 2020 is when my stressful, snobby Harvard died.
— Michael Y. Cheng ’22
I woke up hearing tears over FaceTime and a lot of questions. My mom heard about it before I did and already knew what I was calling about. March 9 holds more meaning now instead, as a day of ignorant bliss and a lot of sunshine.
— Janna E. Ramadan ’23
It was my birthday. While it was probably one of the worst days of the year, it was also super memorable because, despite the terrible news and chaos, my friends still were thoughtful enough to surprise me with a cake, which I’ll always be tremendously grateful for.
— Mark Xu, ’22, a Crimson Associate Business manager
It was the morning of my birthday when they told us! It was a bit hard to celebrate after that. But hey, it got me out of a test for that day.
— Joshua M. Conde ’22, a Crimson Editorial editor
It was my 21st birthday. Now, one year later, it is my 22nd birthday.
— Julia H. Riew ’22
My a cappella group, the Opportunes, has tons of traditions we do spring term — on March 10, we had to plan as many as possible for the few days we had left. Albeit rushed, those end-of-year rituals were really important: not knowing whether to say our goodbyes, so singing them instead.
— Ben J. Dreier ’22
I woke up to a harrowing reality of shock, disbelief, and despair. Almost reflexively I call my mom: I will be back in Nepal within a week. A year later, the emancipation I experienced that day still lingers in my memory. The world was ending and nothing mattered anymore.
— Tarun Timalsina ’22
I canceled my birthday trip ticket, sketched a friend atop Annenberg, bought pencil lead from Bob Slate's that still hasn't run out, and for the first time, actually gazed at the Yard.
— Vanessa Hu ’24
Got the news while working the morning shift at Lamont Café
Girl in Canada Goose stole all the muffins from the pastry display
Guess I should have told her off, or tried to make her pay
But what the hell does anything matter anymore, anyway?
— Emilee A. Hackney ’20
I didn’t laugh, cry, or say goodbye. Instead, I spent March 10 hard at work for the newspaper I loved. Twelve months later, I have fallen out of love with that newspaper, and fallen in love with someone else. Both have changed me for the better. If it happened today, I’d laugh and cry. I’d say goodbye.
— Camille G. Caldera ’22, a Crimson News editor
I had never felt more lost in my life. I began meandering, holding onto trauma, new and old, from pre- and mid- Covid-19, as I tried to navigate an entirely new reality. A year later, I'm still sitting with the trauma, but I know where I'm going. My body is lighter.
— Anusha Zaman ’23
Mopping the floor of the Harvard Square Homeless Shelter in the morning, groggy from lack of sleep, I remember hearing one of my fellow volunteers gasp. Trying to toggle between a guest on the phone and the email that would shape our college experience for the next year and beyond, I recall utter disbelief. I called my mom, bewildered.
— Henry N. Lear ’24, a Crimson Magazine comper
March 10, 2020 began with me stressing over how to fly home during my 9 a.m. class. Afterwards, I got a call from HUHS saying I tested positive for the flu. I immediately went back to my dorm, put on a surgical face mask, and began packing to leave campus.
— Julia C. Welsh ’23
I was studying abroad at Oxford. I was in the library working on an essay that was due later that day. Then I got the email. I was the only blockmate who was awake, so I just waited for my friends to wake up, for the panic, for the tears.
— Paulina Piwowarczyk ’21
On 3/10/2020, my world broke. My friends and I spent that whole week together. Looking back, I am grateful we did not know it was our last week of Harvard. Going forward, 3/10 will be a day of appreciating what I have, because I know how quickly everything can change.
— Jenna D. Lang ’21, a Crimson Business associate

Have a suggestion, question, or concern for The Crimson Editorial Board? Click here.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
March 10, 2021 marks one year since Harvard students received the news they would have to vacate campus. That same week the Ivy League and eventually the entire NCAA halted competition. While many conferences have resumed athletic play, the Ivy League remains one of just a handful of conferences that have still not resumed athletic competition, recently announcing the cancellation of the spring sports season. The Crimson sat down and spoke with three student-athletes to hear their reflections on the past year.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
One year ago on March 10, 2020, Harvard students received notice they would have to vacate campus as the threat of Covid-19 grew. One year later, we spoke with some of these students to hear their reflections and stories about that week of move-out, the pandemic, and now.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
To define graduate students’ time during Covid-19 solely through the lens of academics would be to overlook the numerous details that humanize and differentiate each of their experiences.
The following individuals are not merely Harvard students — they are also bakers and entrepreneurs, fathers and daughters, volunteers and Olympic-hopeful rowers. Eight students across five graduate schools sat down virtually with The Crimson to share their stories from an unprecedented year.
Daniel A. Arias wishes his scholarship weren’t so relevant to the current moment.
A second-year Ph.D. student in Population Health Sciences, Arias studies the intersection of mental health and epidemiology, as well as health economics — a practice he calls “quantifying the burden of disease.”
Though the relevance of his scholarship is affirming, he also said it has been “unsettling” to see previously abstract concepts — like cultural distrust around vaccines and the “structural violence” that undergirds the healthcare system — spill over into real-world harm.
Outside of coursework, Arias serves as the co-president of LGBTQ@GSAS and a member of the FAS Committee to Review Conduct Policies and Procedures. During the pandemic, he has taken up exercising, knitting and baking. He recently baked a croquembouche, a French confection he describes as a “puff pastry tower that’s massive.”
The flexibility of online school allowed Arias to move in with his partner and relocate to Washington D.C., near family. Over the past months, Arias has established norms — like avoiding scheduling meetings over weekends or after conventional work hours — to strike a balance between work and relaxation.
“I think that’s overall something I’ve been trying to encourage other folks to do — to try to defend their time,” Arias said.
During the early months of the pandemic, Brigham and Women’s Hospital established stringent visitation rules to mitigate the spread of Covid-19. The policies resulted in heart-wrenching decisions — some of which Peter Choi had to initiate.
Choi, a first-year student in the Masters of Bioethics program at Harvard Medical School and a volunteer at Brigham, has had to relay the difficult news that only two individuals can visit a loved one in their last moments.
“That’s been challenging — not only to deliver that news but also to deal with both the sad and the angry,” Choi said. “It’s hard to put on a straight face and say, ‘We’re sorry. This is a pandemic and these are our policies, and that’s all we can do.’”
Outside of volunteering at the hospital, Choi serves as the vice chair of governance for the Harvard Graduate Council, an industry relationship project manager at Massachusetts General Hospital, and a member of the University’s Title IX and Gender Equity Education Student Advisory Committee.
Choi is also an Olympic-hopeful rower. Though he has had few opportunities to be in a boat since the start of the pandemic, he trains regularly at the USRowing Para Training Center in Brighton, Mass. He hopes to compete as a coxswain at the 2021 Tokyo Olympics.
“I’m not in — a lot of people like to jump to that conclusion,” Choi said. “I am one of three that is trying out for one seat. So 33 percent chance.”
Brandon J. Mancilla was supposed to conduct archival research in Guatemala for his dissertation this past summer. Then Covid-19 hit.
Mancilla, a fourth-year Ph.D. student in History, is not alone in his predicament. Many graduate students at the University conduct travel-based archival research and fieldwork during their fourth year, according to Mancilla.
“I think all of us are in a position of, ‘Well, when exactly are we going to be able to do that? When are we actually going to be able to get on the ground and do the things that we need to do in order to produce scholarship on what we care about?’” he said.
“I’m sure a lot of dissertations will look pretty different two to three years from now, because of this period,” Mancilla added.
Mancilla also currently serves as president of the Harvard Graduate Students Union-United Automobile Workers.
HGSU-UAW swiftly transitioned to Zoom last March amid negotiations over its first-ever contract. Though the union reached an agreement with the University in June 2020, Mancilla said he still wonders how an unrealized second strike — squandered by the onset of Covid-19 — could have shaped negotiations.
“It’s kind of an open question of, ‘What would that strike have meant for our campaign?’ We don’t know,” he said. “Covid happened. We had to deal with that reality.”
For Mancilla, who lost loved ones during the pandemic, the union has served as an essential source of inspiration and support.
“Community matters. But what kind of community you’re a part of also matters,” he said. “Care and sustainability and justice, above everything else, have mattered a lot to me.”
Amreen Poonawala, who is currently pursuing a Master’s in Technology, Innovation, and Education at the Graduate School of Education, was far from thrilled when she learned her one-year program would be completely remote.
Despite her initial disappointment, however, Poonawala said Covid-19 challenged her and other students to devise creative ways of fostering fellowship remotely. Her cohort utilized Slack, Facebook, and clubs as means to build relationships, even before the start of classes.
The challenges Covid-19 has presented for educational models have also amplified the relevance of her program’s central questions.
“A lot of my professors have been researching for years, even decades, how we can use technology and software and potentially even video conferencing and other immersive forums to improve education and make it more scalable,” she said. “So they’re already doing this work — and now they actually get to apply it.”
For Poonawala, too, the pandemic has crystallized her academic interests into tangible initiatives. She is currently co-creating a product, ChalkEd, that provides educators with data and recommendations on student engagement in online classes.
“I honestly think none of that would have been possible — that vision wouldn’t have been possible — if it weren’t for me facing some of those challenges during the pandemic myself,” she said.
Angela Han fell in love with Harvard well before moving to Cambridge to study government at the Harvard Extension School.
In 2015, Han enrolled in Harvard Summer School while still an undergraduate student in Canada. She recalled an atmosphere of support and camaraderie at the University. One day, when she was lost, a professor even helped her find a way to class.
“She actually just walked me there, in front of my classroom – this is just one of the stories,” Han said.
Now, Han works to pay that atmosphere of support forward by serving as the chair of student life for the Harvard Graduate Council. The Council’s shift to Zoom has helped representatives coordinate activities, involve internationally-based students in meetings, and recruit guest speakers, according to Han.
She hopes to craft more opportunities for graduate student socialization before her tenure at the Council is over.
“A lot of students, they stay in their dorm alone. And some of them stay in their very small apartment, disconnected with the rest of the world, except for their online classes,” she said. “It’s very important to have that connection, to create that platform to make sure people can feel connected during this difficult time.”
For Juan Pablo Ugarte, adapting to life during Covid-19 has been “extremely challenging” — not just as a doctoral student, but also as a husband and a father. A fifth-year student at the Graduate School of Design, Ugarte recently returned to Cambridge from Chile with his wife and daughters, ages two and four.
At the start of the pandemic, his wife, a psychologist, transitioned from home visitations to sessions on Zoom. Early in March 2020, their daycare also closed. Those shifts temporarily forced Ugarte to pause work on his thesis, though he has since resumed work — a new normal.
“We sort of divided the days — maybe one morning I would be with them, and then in the afternoon, she would be with them, and then we would switch,” he said.
He traveled with his family to Santiago, Chile, during the winter of 2020, later visiting Pucón for vacation. Traveling to Chile and reconnecting with family rekindled his appreciation for in-person connection, according to Ugarte.
Ugarte, who said this past year will be “ingrained” in his family’s collective memory, hopes the trip to Chile provided a much-needed reset before resuming life in Cambridge.
“We recharged our batteries,” he said. “And hopefully, it’s going to be easier this year.”
Himaja Nagireddy is no stranger to celebrating milestones virtually. She graduated remotely from the University of Connecticut and soon after, entered her first year of her Master’s in the Department of Environmental Health at the School of Public Health on Zoom.
Though Nagireddy initially felt stressed “being constantly surrounded by Covid” both in her daily life and her scholarship, she ultimately decided to “lean into” the crisis.
“I started studying it more, just trying to absorb it — not only for myself but for my parents as well, for my sister, my brother, the people in my life,” she said. “Oftentimes as public health people, you have a public health crisis going on, and people look to you for answers. And you’re like, ‘I’m just a first-year, I don’t know anything!’”
To counteract feelings of enclosure, Nagireddy — who currently lives with family in Acton, Mass. — has been experimenting with nature photography, a passion she first developed during her undergraduate years. She often uses her photos as Zoom backgrounds to transport vicariously to new places.
Advocacy — particularly for gender-based issues — has been a vital way for Nagireddy to feel connected during the quarantine. Through her work with the United Nations Association of the USA, she helps coordinate conferences on gender equity.
“It’s been so cool getting to connect with people and learn about them, and try to broach this topic of gender advocacy, which is oftentimes so misunderstood,” she said.
After briefly relocating to Virginia from Cambridge, Mass., Moulshree Mittal moved back to Delhi, India, to live with her parents during the Covid-19 pandemic.
Mittal, who is pursuing a Master in Design Studies at the Graduate School of Design, is currently working on her thesis. Amid coursework and extracurriculars, she tries to squeeze in activities with her family — watching movies, cooking, playing card games — when time permits.
Though Mittal and her parents visit local grocery stores, they try to avoid excessive activity outside the house, particularly because of their dense metropolitan surroundings. Time with family has been one of the greatest boons of the past year, according to Mittal.
“I am grateful for that because it would have been terrible to live by myself and not meet anybody,” she says. “It has been such a mental relief and emotional connection for me.”
For Mittal, understated interactions with family — what she calls the “day-to-day things” — have often been the most poignant moments of life during Covid-19.
“There’s this vivid memory where my father and I were working together, and my mom was resting in the other room. That was so calming and relaxing for me mentally. It felt like, ‘I’m complete at the moment, I don’t need anybody else — this is it,’” she said. “That is one memory I’ll cherish forever.”
—Staff writer Isabella B. Cho can be reached at isabella.cho@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @izbcho.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
To our readers:
Here we are. It has already been one year. At this time last year, the sports world, along with society at large, came to a halt. College athletic conferences and pro leagues alike faced the ramifications of the Covid-19 pandemic, suspending or canceling play altogether. Some leagues have since resumed play, but the Ivy League has not.
In the past 365 days, however, Ivy League student-athletes have not been idle. Some have participated in non-Harvard competitions, others have designed new and different training techniques, and some have picked up new activities and leadership opportunities. Programs and coaches have adapted their recruiting and sought to maintain a sense of community in the virtual world we find ourselves in today. And student-athletes have juggled eligibility decisions unprecedented in the Ancient Eight, sifting through options such as deferring semesters to maintain eligibility, foregoing seasons to graduate on time, exploring the possibility of playing as graduate students (at Harvard or elsewhere), or embarking on professional careers early.
What unites all of the featured student-athletes and coaches, however, is a willingness to transform the trials and tribulations of this past year into the silver linings of improvements made, adversity overcome, and resilience built. And of course, they all look forward to the return of Ivy League sports, knowing that integrating people’s vastly different experiences and rebuilding team chemistry will be challenging yet exhilarating goals to look forward to. Indeed, the work is already beginning as some Crimson student-athletes have returned to campus for some limited, socially-distanced team workouts and activities.
While Harvard Athletics was inactive on the intercollegiate level, the individuals that make up its teams certainly were not. The 2020-21 Ivy League sports seasons may have been canceled, but they were not lost.
Sincerely,
William C. Boggs ’22 | Sports Chair
A.J. Dilts ’23 | Sports Chair
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
For almost all of Harvard’s athletes, the past year has been full of unexpected trials and tribulations. The Ivy League canceled all three seasons of athletics for the 2020-21 academic year, leaving many student-athletes with no opportunity to compete in the sports they have been training for their whole lives.
One athlete in particular who has felt the toll of the pandemic is Noah Kirkwood. The Ottawa, Ont., native is a junior forward on the men’s basketball team. He is undeniably one of the team’s most talented players, having earned All-Ivy League first-team distinctions for the 2019-20 season. He led the team in scoring 10 times and in assists 13 times during his sophomore campaign. Hoping to continue his impressive career, Kirkwood has been struggling to find adequate resources for training and playing basketball during the pandemic.
“It's been really tough for a lot of the guys, and it's been really tough for me,” Kirkwood said. “This summer, everything was closed. I had no gym access from March until September, and I was in an indoor court for maybe three or four hours total during that time. But the thing that kept me moving was every time I was working, I was always working for the end goal.”
The lack of resources at Noah’s disposal did not inhibit him from trying to train his hardest and be prepared for whenever the next time he would be out on the court. In recent months, he has been living in his hometown of Ottawa but has finally been able to get access to a gym. He has a demanding schedule that includes court time, lifts, and the workload of taking five classes.
Not only has Noah struggled with getting the requisite physical training, but it has also been difficult engaging with the rest of his team during the pandemic. He has not shared a court with his teammates in about a year, but the coaches have tried to continue to foster a culture of unity and collaboration.
“I'd say our coaches have done a pretty good job in terms of doing team Zoom meetings,” Kirkwood said. “But it's really tough. Since we aren’t in the same place, it’s difficult for a coach to try to keep everyone together in a way that makes sense. However, Coach Amaker does a good job of pulling us together in meetings and having talks and updates of what we're doing.”
The last time the junior forward stepped on a court, he was an underclassman surrounded by veterans who had the experience and leadership to guide the team through a long, arduous season. Now, Kirkwood stands as one of the most experienced players, tasked with the larger responsibility of bringing together a team that has never been with one another.
“It's funny you say I’m the veteran because it feels like I was a freshman/sophomore not too long ago,” Kirkwood said. “Now, you're right, I am kind of the veteran that's had maybe the most experience playing-wise. One thing I tried to do is just check in on a lot of our guys and see how they're doing and just say I'm a voice or an ear for you whenever you need it.”
Even though the team has not played together for such a long time, the goals for Harvard Men’s Basketball have not changed for Noah. He hopes to still lead his team to an Ivy League Championship and NCAA tournament berth. The Crimson has not appeared in the big dance since 2015.
“For the team, the goal doesn't change,” Kirkwood said. “Win the Ivy League and go to the tournament, I think is what we try to do every year, no matter what. We always have a chance even if there are new challenges this year. And personally, right now, I'm just going to take the same approach which I did every other season, which is taking it day by day.”
Just as his aspirations for an NCAA tournament berth have not wavered, neither have Noah’s individual goals. Playing basketball at the highest level in the NBA is a pursuit that is still realistic for the Canadian native.
“My aspirations have still been to play [in the] NBA one day, and I still believe in what I can do, and that's why I'm working really hard right now to keep that goal alive,” Kirkwood said. “But right now, I'm just worried about how our team is going to play this season and how I can help the team win. So I'm not too worried about my post-college career. If it happens, it happens, and if it doesn't, then I didn't work hard enough.”
For Kirkwood, as much as he has missed playing on the court and competing for a championship, the inability to spend time with his team, some of his closest friends, has been the greatest hardship to not having a season this year.
“What I miss is the team meals and the chats in the locker room before practice,” Kirkwood said. “It's the bus rides and it's seeing fans. The stuff that I missed the most, especially just being at home, is not being able to see my closest friends lately.”
— Staff writer Mahtab Shihab can be reached at mahtab.shihab@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Before the coronavirus pandemic, Harvard Square was a center of activity, bustling with people shopping, eating, and admiring the historic buildings of Harvard’s campus. When the pandemic began, the Square took a hit — the stream of tourists slowed, and almost all students departed campus by March 15, 2020. Besides the loss of customers, non-essential businesses, such as salons, shut down to comply with state orders from the Massachusetts government. Now, a year after students initially departed from campus, the Square is still weathering the effects of the ongoing pandemic.
Previously, the area in front of Harvard’s Smith Campus Center served as a gathering space for local chess players. With the onset of Harvard’s coronavirus protocols, chess players deserted the built-in tables; now, a masked man reads a book alone.
A man stands outside Clover Food Lab on the corner of Massachusetts Avenue and Holyoke Street. Clover’s various locations are open for just delivery and takeout.
Pinocchio's Pizza & Subs continues to serve customers in Harvard Square, following more than 50 years of business. The restaurant is currently open for limited indoor seating during the day, but switches to a take-out only model after 9:30 p.m.
Despite the many changes the pandemic has brought, MBTA buses continue to navigate their routes through Harvard Square. The Harvard Square T Station also remains open, with all passengers required to wear face masks by federal and state law.
Although many Square businesses have faced significant challenges during the pandemic with maintaining a steady customer base, Felipe’s Taqueria has avoided any significant decrease in patronage. With the loosening of coronavirus restrictions in Massachusetts, Felipes allows for socially distanced indoor dining, along with outdoor dining.
Although students are not strolling through Harvard’s Science Center Plaza after class or on the way to eat with friends in Annenberg, a rotating cast of food trucks continues to operate in the outdoor common space. Students and other patrons can still order food from Plaza staples like Bon Me, Chicken & Rice Guys, and Zaaki.
The Harvard Book Store, open since 1932, has withstood the challenges imposed by the coronavirus pandemic. Other long-established businesses, like the Wellbridge Athletic Club and Dickson Bros, a decades-old hardware store, closed in 2020.
Border Cafe is another business in Harvard Square that will not reopen, officially announcing its permanent closure in 2021. The business suffered a fire in December 2019, and was unable to reopen after the economic challenges brought by the coronavirus pandemic. Before the pandemic, Harvard students frequented this Square staple for Tex-Mex food and lively music. Café Pamplona, which opened in 1958, also closed.
Despite the economic impact of the coronavirus pandemic for many businesses, the Harvard Cooperative Society is currently completing renovations at its flagship Harvard Square store. One goal of the renovations is to improve the store’s capacity for social distancing, as businesses continue to navigate ways to operate safely.
Despite the wave of closures and challenges for local businesses, Source, a farm-to-table pizzeria, opened in Harvard Square towards the end of 2020. Source is not the only restaurant to open during the coronavirus pandemic; Spyce, a restaurant with an automated kitchen, opened a location in Harvard Square in 2021.
Harvard Square is a hub of local culture and history, supported by Cambridge residents and Harvard students alike. In March 2020, many businesses were not expecting the significant impact the pandemic would have on their shops. Businesses in the area withstood economic challenges, a sharp decrease in patrons, and many other unexpected challenges. As the impact of the pandemic carries on, the landscape of the Square is constantly changing and prioritizing safety, but slowly approaching its level of activity from before.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
In the year since the beginning of their covid-induced exile from campus, many Harvard students have passed the time by learning new skills; some have picked up baking, others a new form of exercise, and still others knitting or painting. For Elizabeth Miclau ’23-’24, quarantine has meant learning to grow comfortable throwing herself off the equivalent of a three-story building.
Though Miclau, a member of Harvard’s Swimming and Diving Team, has been competing for over a decade, the transition to consistently jumping from a 10-meter platform was still a daunting one.
“It’s hard to convince yourself to go up there and basically override every single one of your instincts to not jump,” Miclau said. “You have to rewire your brain to think that something that’s not okay is suddenly okay.”
Evidently, she is a quick study. While most students’ quarantine projects mercifully face no tests beyond their own homes, Miclau’s will take her to Tokyo, Japan, where she will meet the world’s best in the 10m event (along with her more established domain, the three-meter springboard) in the 2021 FINA Diving World Cup. With a good enough performance there, the San Francisco, Calif., native could secure a spot in this summer’s Olympics.
Rewinding one year, on March 10, 2020, as students stuffed their belongings into cardboard boxes and gave Cambridge their final goodbyes, Miclau was in Morgantown, W. Va., competing in the NCAA Zone A Championships. Despite having focused almost exclusively on the springboard all season, the first-year captured second place in the platform event (practiced primarily at 7.5m at the collegiate level), punching her ticket to the NCAA National Championships.
A day later, the NCAA called off the national meet. Miclau’s performance at West Virginia would be the last of a rookie year in which she made the finals of both diving events (1m and 3m springboard) at the Ivy League Championships, finishing fourth in the 3m, and qualified for NCAA Zones in the 3m and on the platform. With NCAAs canceled, Miclau’s silver medal at the Zone meet earned her All-American honors, the first freshman diver in Harvard history to collect the accolade.
The sudden nationwide lockdowns that ensued left Miclau, for the first time since she started diving, with an extended period away from the pool. Never having taken off more than weeks from diving since 2009, Miclau found the next four months to be a refreshing change of pace.
“Doing your sport is amazing, but after you have a little bit of time off, you kind of realize how many other fun things are out there, like hiking, or other hobbies, like cooking, which may not be physical,” Miclau reflects.
After getting back in the water in June, it took almost two months to regain the rhythm she had in March. By the time she did, however, she had set her sights much higher than the NCAA Championships. Taking advantage of year-long postponements, Miclau began training to compete in a string of Olympic qualifiers held by FINA, diving’s international body. The first meet will take her to Buenos Aires, Argentina, for the South American Swimming and Diving Championships from March 21-28. Come April 12, she will be in Tokyo, preparing for the World Cup.
When Miclau does toe the springboard in Argentina and Japan, she will be doing so as a member of the Puerto Rican National Team. Miclau, whose father is Puerto Rican, first competed for the island nation in early 2019, after the Puerto Rican Swimming Federation approached USA Diving looking for eligible athletes. For now, however, the team has only five people, so Miclau has been training individually in Mission Viejo, Calif. Having taken the year off from school academically, she has been able to fully commit to a schedule that involves two hours of diving followed by 90 minutes of high-intensity strength training, six days a week. Just as much effort is put into maintenance, with meditation each morning and stretching, icing, and foam rolling at night.
Despite these grueling hours, or perhaps because of them, Miclau says the most important thing she has learned is to pace herself, especially from the 10m height.
“You hit the water at 33 miles per hour, so that can get you pretty sore pretty quickly.”
For Miclau, pacing means 10-15 reps from the high dive on two or three days per week, preceded by 30-40 dives from 5m. On each rep, Miclau focuses on minute technical details, making small corrections that, compounded over 10 meters through the air, spell the difference between slapping the water and slipping underneath the surface.
From Covid-19 protocols to the rigors of international travel, a lot about Miclau’s upcoming meets will be different than anything she has done before. Diving is a sport where standardization and routine are especially important, where slight differences in the platform or the layout of the pool can alter timing and trajectory, so Miclau hopes to use the Argentina meet as a tune-up, to learn to maintain consistency in her performance when all else is inconsistent. In Tokyo, the goal is more concrete: a top-24 finish in either of the two events (out of 40 or 50 divers) would likely send Miclau to this year’s Summer Olympic Games.
While the Olympics will certainly be on her mind, however, Miclau is determined to not look past the significance of the meet itself.
“At Worlds, I want to lay it all out,” she said. “I want to be as confident as I can and just take in the opportunity, be grateful for it, and try and live in it.”
And while the competition will be steep, just by making the World Cup, Miclau can say about her Olympic chances what only a handful of people on Earth can: “It’s not super likely, but it’s also not impossible.”
— Staff writer Nicholas Daley can be reached at nicholas.daley@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
When she lived on campus, Julia Welsh ’23 spent most of her time focusing on classes and hanging out with friends.
Once the coronavirus upended her collegiate life, Welsh, who has lived at home in Philadelphia this past year, took on a slew of responsibilities outside of her coursework, including supporting her family financially, buying groceries, and completing household chores.
Overwhelmed, Welsh said she was forced to prioritize her obligations to her family over her academics, prompting her to drop one of her fall courses.
“I remember being really disappointed in myself,” Welsh said. “If I was on campus, I’d probably be able to focus more and I would have more time to not deal with family responsibilities and to focus on this class that I ended up dropping.”
Though she had the option to live on Harvard’s campus this year, Welsh — a first-generation, low-income student — felt pressure to live at home. By staying in Philadelphia, Welsh qualified for the $5,000 per semester stipend Harvard provided off-campus students and was able to stay nearby her mother, a healthcare worker who is immunocompromised.
“That $5,000 is like, you can help your mom with the rent with this, pay a couple of bills with this, you could buy groceries,” Welsh said. “It was a deal I couldn’t pass up, being able to help my family. So I was like, ‘You know what, I’ll take the hit academically, I’ll take the hit socially, and then at least I’ll have this money that can alleviate the stress that my family is feeling.’”
FGLI students like Welsh have faced an onslaught of challenges in the year since Harvard sent students home because of the coronavirus crisis.
When students were scrambling to rapidly move out of Harvard’s dorms in March 2020, FGLI students were disproportionately impacted. Those inequities have spilled over into academics, according to FGLI students, who said unreliable internet, family responsibilities, and strained mental health have deleteriously affected their academic performance this past year.
While Harvard students study in the same libraries and learn in the same lecture halls during normal times, the coronavirus pandemic has done away with those shared academic resources, highlighting inequalities that previously existed within the student body.
Jordan H. Barton ’23 has had to relocate three times since the College’s bombshell announcement that students should not return to campus after spring break 2020.
Uncertain where to go, Barton said he initially stayed with extended family in Texas, where he and three other students took virtual classes using the same unstable internet connection.
“I just had no use of the internet. I had no ability to participate in section,” Barton said. “My camera was off constantly. I was always breaking out. It became literally impossible to really participate.”
Barton said he had to move two more times before he found a place with stable internet — a requirement for online classes but a luxury for some FGLI students, who reported living in environments inadequate for virtual learning.
In some cases, Harvard helped students who lacked basic resources.
Will Dey ’23, who has spent the last year at home in Texas, said he lives in a town where he is “fortunate just to have a printer at home.” Without a reliable internet connection to attend class, Dey said he asked for assistance from Harvard’s IT department, which provided him with a hotspot that enabled him to partake in online classes.
Jaden D. “JD” Deal ’23 said he was grateful that a Harvard alum offered to host him in Santa Fe, N.M. during the fall semester. Away from campus, feelings of isolation caught up with him and overwhelmed him, he said.
“What I thought was going to be a really great moment for my mental health and getting away from my home responsibilities turned more into isolating myself,” Deal said. “I was really alone in my thoughts, and it was really affecting my academic performance.”
Poor mental health prohibited Deal from completing many assignments during the fall semester, he said.
“It was this assignment paralysis, where I felt so much pressure around starting assignments and so much pressure around my academic world that I couldn’t even start assignments,” Deal said.
“It was the first time that I had to really kind of step up and say, ‘I need help,’” he added.
Citing challenging learning environments away from campus, some FGLI students petitioned to live in Harvard’s dorms.
Those students include Aisha C. Abdelhamid ’23, who said she had difficulty focusing on academics while living at home in New Hyde Park, N.Y. in the fall.
“I shared a room with my sister, and she also had school online,” Abdelhamid said. “It was always a conflict in terms of who would take the desk or who would be distracted during class.”
To remedy her situation, Abdelhamid decided to live on campus this semester.
Not all students with challenging home environments felt they could make that same choice, though.
Though the College attempted to ease the financial burden of living off campus by providing students a $5,000 stipend per semester, the allowance had the effect of convincing some students to stay put in challenging learning environments, they said.
Deal said the $5,000 was a “huge boon” for his family and went toward repairing a car, buying groceries, and covering various other expenses.
Deal said though he wanted to return to campus, the prospect of contributing $5,000 toward his family was too appealing to pass up.
“If you stay away from campus, you’re given $5,000. Obviously, a majority of students are going to want to choose that even if it means returning home, even if it means still paying bills and supporting your family,” he said.
Harvard College spokesperson Rachael Dane declined to comment on the practical effects of Harvard’s stipend.
Other students said they used the Harvard money to find living accommodations away from home where they could smoothly continue their studies.
Avery C. Robinson III ’23 said he was “grateful” for the stipend, which allowed him to secure a living arrangement away from home where he could successfully take classes.
“For me and a couple of my blockmates, we knew that staying at home really wasn’t an option. It wasn't gonna be conducive to our learning,” he said. “Eventually we found an Airbnb in D.C. for the fall, so we stayed there.”
For Barton, the student who relocated three times over the past year, the $5,000 stipend encouraged him to continue his studies, as it allowed him to “buy groceries, pay bills, and survive,” he said.
“My biggest incentive for staying in school obviously was the stipend Harvard supplied because that would give a baseline security,” Barton said.
Dey — the student who received tech support from Harvard — said he believes the College sometimes overlooks the unique challenges FGLI students face at home. For example, Dey said one of his professors this year required students to complete a midterm exam on iPads, forcing him to specifically request to take it on paper.
“I don’t know where this came from but the assumption everyone has an iPad,” Dey said. “We just had our midterm, and I had specifically asked — this is considered an accommodation — to print out my exam and then scan it with my phone.”
Harvard will lend and domestically ship an iPad to students enrolled in classes that require one, per the Office of Undergraduate Education website, though Dey said he was unaware of that option.
Yousuf Bakshi ’23, who is living on campus this spring because he faced a challenging learning environment at home during the fall semester, said he thinks “the novelty of Zoom has worn off,” leading some professors to jettison FGLI concerns.
“It felt like this semester, people like faculty have kind of dismissed the idea that some people don’t have the same technology and equipment to continue as normal,” he said.
Bakshi added he raised this concern with his professor, who was very “receptive.”
Barton also said certain professors and staff have “made genuine and true efforts to be there for students” throughout the pandemic. He specifically highlighted his Spanish instructor, whom he called “intensely supportive.”
Despite individual professors’ empathy, Robinson said it is “draining” for students to detail their personal challenges to professors in order to receive accommodations.
“Having to talk about your traumas and the difficult stuff that you deal with at home just to be accommodated for, so you don’t have to turn in a paper or homework the day that it’s due, is mentally, emotionally, physically taxing,” Robinson said.
Beyond College faculty, staff, and administrators, Harvard-affiliated organizations dedicated to supporting FGLI students tailored their support to meet students’ specific needs during the coronavirus crisis.
Robinson, who serves as a co-chair for First-Year Retreat and Experience, a freshman pre-orientation program geared toward students from underrepresented backgrounds, said the group focused last August on creating comradery among its participants.
“Something that we really focused on was, how are we going to build a community online?” he said. “Introducing them to resources and opportunities is always [a] super important and essential aspect of FYRE, but also building that first-gen, low-income community — that feeling of home and belonging.”
First-Generation Harvard Alumni President Paul J. Martin ’94 said the organization, which primarily provides mentorship to current College students, raised more than $90,000 for FGLI students in March through a GoFundMe page. Martin said the group dispersed the money to 180 qualifying students through $500 grants.
Martin said the alumni group also wrote a letter to University President Lawrence S. Bacow and Dean of the College Rakesh Khurana expressing the “specific needs of FGLI students.”
Khurana told The Crimson in a February interview that though efforts have been imperfect, the College strives to have an “equalizing” function.
“People are coming from backgrounds in which social resources, economic resources, and cultural resources are not evenly distributed,” he said. “One of the things that the College aims toward — and I recognize we’re not where we want to be yet — is to be an environment where every opportunity is open to students.”
Robinson agreed that there are limits to Harvard’s attempts to create the same experiences for all of its students — particularly during a pandemic.
“First-generation, low-income students don’t really have the same amount of time to allot to their academics,” he said. “We’re the glue of our family.”
CORRECTION: March 10, 2020
A previous version of this article incorrectly stated that Jaden D. “JD” Deal ’23 spent the fall semester in Santa Fe, Calif. In fact, he spent the fall semester in Santa Fe, N.M.
—Staff writer Hannah J. Martinez can be reached at hannah.martinez@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @martinezhannahj.
—Staff writer Taylor C. Peterman can be reached at taylor.peterman@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @taylorcpeterman.
Sections
Ever seen the gate when you log into Harvard Key? That’s Winthrop’s very own, and it welcomes you into both Canvas and into one of the best communities on campus. Be prepared to be wowed by incredible spaces, traditions, and even more incredible people for those lucky enough to call Throp home.  
Winthrop is built on its community, composed of an incredible group of resident tutors, HUDS staff, security, building managers, deans, proctors, and students. Fariba Mahmud ’22, Winthrop’s HoCo co-chair, says the thing she is most excited for incoming freshmen to experience is “how welcoming not only the students are, but all of the staff is.” From tutors that are “always checking in on you” to the building staff and security officers “trying to get to know you” and their friendly HUDS staff — as Mahmud emphasizes, “That’s what really makes Winthrop House not just a House, but a home.”
Even when it seems it can’t get any better, this lovely community lives in one of the nicest and newest Houses on campus, and is home to its very own grille and art studio! There are four main common areas: the Grille, Dhall, Junior Common Room, and Lion’s Den, each with their own unique vibe. The Dhall is always bustling with students and perfect for socializing, studying, or just hanging out. The JCR hosts many House-led events, such as the annual and much-anticipated Winthrop’s Got Talent, while the Lion’s Den is perfect for Sunday Night Football. Best of all, according to HoCo co-chair Karina Ascunce Gonzalez ’22, “the Grille is the spot to be on a Friday night!” Mahmud adds that “the Winthrop Grille probably has the best food out of any House grille. We have mozz sticks, mac and cheese bites, boba — probably the widest variety of any House too!” In addition to these spaces, Gonzalez described the Beren Rooftop Common Room — made of glass and overlooking the river — as “ethereal” and her favorite place in the House.
Beyond the gorgeous interior and amenities, Winthrop has a prime location facing the river and three stunning courtyards. While Standish Courtyard is known for its darties, Gore is known for its iconic tire swing and seemingly attracts every club on campus for official club pictures. Prepare to see lots of business casual attire posing outside and in the hallways for some professional photoshoots as you walk to your room.
Even in these unprecedented times, Winthrop House has fostered a loving and welcoming community, keeping everyone together despite location and time zone. Traditions like Lion Buddies, Weekly Winthropian, community dinners, and Secret Snowflake have traversed into the world of Zoom. For Lion Buddies, blocking groups are matched with an upperclassmen group to help integrate and welcome them into the House, with a big virtual reveal of their Buddies and a dinner to celebrate! Weekly Winthropian, typically a newsletter printed and distributed in the Dhall, has moved to Instagram, where Winthropians can still nominate someone in the House to be featured each week. And monthly community dinners are held over Zoom with the lure of a reimbursed meal and some lovely company. Despite the challenges and distance of this year, Winthrop seems to have been growing as close as ever!
In Winthrop, sophomores get their choice of luxurious singles and suites. Around half of sophomores will end up in a single, but it typically is up to your own personal preference. Sophomores are spread around the House, getting a chance to live near tons of different Winthropians in one of three gorgeous halls: Standish, Gore, and Beren. All of these perks are in addition to the fact that the House is newly renovated, spacious, and right by the river — what more could you ask for?
As far as (post-Covid) parties go, the eight-man in Standish is probably the most infamous; however, events are held all around the House in the numerous different common spaces — no matter what, there is always something going on and things to do on the weekends. Between late night mozz sticks at the Grille, studying in Beren, hanging out in the Lion’s Den, and even swinging on the tire swing, you’ll never want to leave! And I mean... who would?
Still have some lingering questions about life in Throp? We sat down with Gonzalez and Mahmud who shared all the reasons to love Winthrop and more.
If Winthrop was a HUDS dish, what would it be?
KAG: A bistro bowl! Every Thursday, HUDS has a special bistro bowl, which is a nicer, fancier alternative to the food they usually have… So just a bistro bowl because Winthrop is bougie.
If Winthrop was a Taylor Swift album or song, what would it be?
FM: I’m thinking Love Story and You Belong with Me.
KAG: Fearless! She’s got that lion’s mane hair going on at that time in her life, I love it, it’s very fitting.
What is your favorite memory of Winthrop?
KAG: My roommates and I — sophomore year, so last year — we went and filmed a music video [to] “What About Love” by Austin Mahone in different parts of Winthrop, and it was just such a sweet memory. Very indicative of my general experience of Winthrop — it’s been very social, very warm, very welcoming, despite any sort of bumps in the road. It’s been very, very much an incredible and very enjoyable experience.
FM: I think it was on Housing Day when we all found out we were all in Winthrop — we’d come to some of the Winthrop programming that they had that day… and we were just kinda on this ecstatic high, like we have so much to look forward to in these next three years. And that night, after we all were just chatting, we decided to go up into one of the rooms in Throp and we all just toasted together and were really so excited to be in the House. We all took a picture together and I still have that, it’s on my desk right now.
So what about love? All signs point to Winthrop.
Read our overviews of the other Houses here!
CORRECTION: March 10, 2021
A previous version of this article misstated the name of Karina Ascunce Gonzalez '22.
Like many rising seniors at Harvard each year, Jenna D. Lang ’21 spent the summer before her final year searching for post-graduate job opportunities. This year’s senior class, however, is graduating into a job market that looks radically different from what it did a year ago.
When Lang reached out to one small media company she hoped to work for, she learned that the coronavirus pandemic had left it struggling to hold on its existing employees, let alone hire new graduates.
“I’ve run into that problem a couple of times with smaller organizations — that they’re just not hiring this year, which is unfortunate because this is the year I’m graduating,” Lang said.
She noted that a number of her peers are running into the same issues, especially those looking to work for small businesses or nonprofits.
“I’ve been having a harder time than people who would plan to work at a very large company that would still be hiring this year,” she said. “A lot of other people who are planning to work at smaller groups, nonprofit organizations — their hiring might be more dependent on that year's funding or smaller day-to-day expenses.”
As the United States approaches its first full year of shutdowns in most places across the country, Harvard students have had to adjust to the prospects of entering the Covid-era job market, all while going through a completely remote hiring process.
In interviews, several members of the Class of 2021 described a range of experiences throughout this recruiting season: some reported it went smoothly, while others asserted the pandemic had created new bumps in the process. All reported a new sense of uncertainty.
According to Office of Career Services director Robin E. Mount, the most difficult aspect of the pandemic has been “trying to replicate the networking aspect.” Still, in her view, it is not all bleak for Harvard students and there is a “light at the end of the tunnel.”
“We’re going to start to go back to somewhat of a new normal,” she said.
When it comes to recruiting for jobs at large companies that often draw heavily upon Harvard graduates for new hires, the market has stayed relatively consistent, according to Mount.
Her team has “felt pretty lucky” that many employers are “very formulaic,” and take a certain number of Harvard students each year, she said.
Even during the Great Recession, Harvard undergraduates overall fared better than graduate students, Mount noted.
“We weren’t as bad as business schools and law schools, and that’s because if you think about it, a smart undergrad entry-level hiring is the cheapest person that you hire,” Mount said of the market during the 2008 crisis. “So some people traded down and decided ‘I won’t take someone with a more advanced degree, then I have to pay more money.’”
In addition, Mount said she believes the experience of the last downturn may persuade companies to keep their recruitment of Harvard students stable.
“Over time, a lot of companies and organizations felt like hiring during that Great Recession, they missed a whole class of students, a whole group of people,” Mount said.
Julia A. Losner ’21, a pre-med student who is applying for M.D.-Ph.D programs, said she did not feel the same job squeeze some of her peers did.
Beyond having to sit for admissions interviews by video call, she said she was not particularly phased by the pandemic since she will enter the workforce after she finishes more schooling in an industry with high demand.
“No matter what the state of the economy is, hopefully there should always be a need for science, research, and medicine,” Losner said.
The applied science and engineering fields are likely to also remain fairly stable, according to School of Engineering and Applied Sciences Dean Francis J. Doyle III.
Doyle said in a Feb. 18 interview with The Crimson that the data out of Washington, D.C. projects “a pretty healthy market” for applied science and engineering careers.
At a recent summit for engineering school deans organized by the American Society for Engineering Education, the deans discussed labor market forecasts that projected a need for “about a million” trained engineers, he noted.
“If you add all of us up, all of our students — something like 200 programs around the country — we represent about 70,000 engineering students,” Doyle said. “So we’ve got a gap.”
Economics director of undergraduate studies Jeffrey A. Miron said he was confident Economics concentrators would be largely unaffected by stresses on the job market.
“I have not heard stories from concentrators broadly or from the advisors who talked to a lot of students that there’s panic or widespread unemployment, but I just really don’t know,” Miron said.
Many students can still find remote jobs in consulting and finance, Miron said, which are popular career paths for many Economics concentrators.
Of the students in the class of 2020 Miron has talked to, he said “they all found jobs” and “don’t seem to be especially worried.”
“If we had students who are planning to open restaurants, we might have a raised eyebrow,” Miron continued.
Miron said another reason for Harvard students’ success in finding jobs amid hiring cutbacks is the University’s strong reputation.
“The employers would have cut back on hiring from students from other schools, not from the very top schools,” he said. “People coming from Ivy Leagues would be less affected.”
OCS associate director Deborah Carroll said that while the job market for the class of 2020 was “surprisingly steady,” for the class of 2021, “the main theme from employers was just uncertainty.”
“Especially in the fall, when the stock market hadn’t recovered — even if they’re not in finance, that’s an indicator for the economy and indicates how much business they might have, their own financial stability, and ability to hire,” she said.
At the same time, students may be less inclined to seek help finding employment given that all advising is now virtual. Keith R. Karasek, director of experiential learning and career development at SEAS, estimated he is doing 30 to 50 percent less advising than he did in the previous year.
Karasek added that when the pandemic first hit, companies focused more on their current employees than onboarding new hires, but emphasized that many larger companies wanted to maintain a constant hiring pipeline amid Covid-19.
Fernando S. Young ’21 was able to secure an internship at Facebook for next summer, but not after several months of back-and-forth and uncertainty.
Young said he had been confident before the pandemic he would receive a return offer after interning at Facebook for two summers, but the pandemic coupled with boycotts against Facebook over the summer made his prospects much more precarious.
At the end of last summer, the company told him he might have to wait until March 2021 to learn whether they would make him an offer, forcing him back into the job market.
“My expectations were shifted, definitely,” he said. “I was applying to jobs that I didn't necessarily see myself being in — it was more so out of desperation.”
Job hunting in a remote market also made the interview process more challenging, Young added.
“Even something as simple as comprehension and understanding what was the expectation, or the questions being asked of us – it was different on the remote format, whether it was from glitches in the audio to just not being able to understand as clearly,” he said.
Facebook ultimately did offer Young a full-time offer in December, he said.
Andrew R. Sacks ’20-’21, who will graduate in winter 2021 after taking three semesters off from Harvard to work for the Biden campaign, said the political world does not offer much better prospects in the post-election lull.
“Most of my friends are out of school, and from the campaign world are out of school, and are in the midst of applying for administration jobs and other work in the campaign and politics world,” he said. “That job market is very slow right now.”
Samuel K. Meyerson ’22, who is interested in foreign policy and national security jobs, wrote in an email that he “struggled” to find a summer internship his junior year, often considered by students the most important season to demonstrate skills to recruiters.
Meyerson added that many firms reduced hiring due to uncertainty over the virus.
“One employer actually told me that it would be really difficult to get a summer internship because of Covid-related budget constraints, and encouraged me to reapply next year,” Meyerson wrote. “I got lucky and found an opportunity this past month, but I was quite stressed that I wouldn't have anything.”
OCS staff said they believe the post-pandemic era will bring a new normal to the employment world, with employers utilizing some of the perks of online hiring while resuming some in-person parts of the process.
Anthony J. Arcieri, another associate director at OCS who advises science and engineering concentrators, added that despite the limitations of virtual networking, the online setting has allowed students face-to-face time with new companies.
“Texas Instruments came to our engineering fair. They’ve never come before. They’re in Texas, you know, they wouldn’t have flown out for the year before, but they came this year, which was wonderful,” he said. “So that was just another employer our students had access to.”
Still, Mount emphasized that she and her colleagues are still mostly “in the dark” about how that may shape up over time, though she believes the hiring process in fall 2021 will remain almost completely virtual, regardless of whether students are on campus.
“In terms of hiring talent, is it all going to stay virtual? Is it going to be hybrid?” she said. “What we’re finding from employers is nobody’s planning to come back to campus in person in the fall.”
Like Mount and Arcieri, Meyerson wrote that he has hope for the post-pandemic future.
“Barring a surge of Covid variants that are not covered by the vaccines, I think that the pandemic – and the resulting economic difficulties – will fade throughout the year,” he wrote. “I think that the next recruitment cycle will be much better in nearly all industries.”
Meyerson wrote that his peers had a “vibe of angst” over an already competitive job market set against the backdrop of decreased recruiting, but that the fall recruiting cycle “ran smoothly.”
“Many people were successful, but I’ve also heard numerous anecdotes of very qualified people struggling to get jobs,” he added. “That being said, I’m cautiously optimistic everything will improve by next fall.”
—Staff writer Natalie L. Kahn can be reached at natalie.kahn@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @natalielkahn.
—Staff writer Simon J. Levien can be reached at simon.levien@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @simonjlevien.
Sections
Don’t be fooled by Kirkland’s smaller population — this House is anything but small when it comes to house spirit and tradition. Located on the river, right next to Noch’s, and practically in the Square, Kirkland’s location is so prime it’s hard to beat. Count yourself lucky if you’re sorted into K-House.  
Kirkland definitely isn’t lacking in the quirks department, but this only makes for a more tight-knit community. Some of Kirk’s most notable quirky traditions surround the holidays. Every year, Kirkland throws a Holiday Dinner right before its annual Winter Formal, where outgoing seniors and tutors get to take the stage (literally) and give their warm thanks and advice to the rest of K-House. But the holiday cheer doesn’t end here; perhaps Kirk’s most well-known tradition is its house-wide Secret Santa gift swap, which has even included acapella groups serenading giftees in years past.
Another pro for Kirkland is its tutors’ genuine commitment to the House. While every House claims to have the best tutors, HoCo co-chair Elijah J. Suh ’22 says that “Kirkland’s [tutors] legitimately are fantastic, each and every one.” Despite the fact that many of them were new in 2020 and plunged into their roles right as the pandemic began, they’ve worked extra hard to foster a sense of community for their residents. Plus, they have some of the cutest dogs on campus — with amazing staff and plenty of adorable pups, there’s no place quite like Kirkland!
Even the HUDS staff add a special touch to the Kirkland experience. Suh swears that whenever he or his friends are particularly stressed, the HUDS workers in Kirk give a “suspicious amount of food,” which he takes as them showing their love through unusually large serving sizes. “Maybe our HUDS staff are just nicer,” he added.
While the pandemic has certainly changed the lives of all Harvard students, K-House has preserved much of its House spirit and tradition, even with members living all across the globe. Its annual Secret Santa event became a virtual gift-swap, with students using Amazon to ship presents to their Santees worldwide. The anticipation and creativity involved with this adapted Secret Santa tradition made it just as exciting as the typical Kirkland swap, according to Suh.
The virtual events don’t end there. Kirkland has gone all out, even shipping out packages of indulgent treats to students to have a virtual chocolate, cheese, and wine tasting in place of its annual Sophomore Retreat (if you’re asking yourself why Harvard didn’t send you free chocolate, cheese, and wine, you’re not alone). K-House even hired a professional MC to host its virtual trivia night. Despite the hardship of fostering spirit with students living all over the world, Kirkland House has managed to keep its community thriving (and even spread some cheer through chocolate and cheese)!
Like in many of the older Houses yet to be renovated, sophomores are typically housed in the smallest rooms, usually doubles or triples, after seniors and juniors have had their pick. But hey, you still get to brag about living in the most recognizable Harvard House (thanks to “The Social Network”).
And don’t worry, it only gets better as you get older. Seniors tend to live on the highly sought-after top floor, as well as in the few desirable 10-man suites. Plus, Kirkland has some overflow housing in DeWolfe, which means heating AND AC! Kirk also has a lesser-known annex wing, housing entryways J through N. The annex isn’t attached to the main Kirkland complex; instead, it reigns over a quiet little corner away from the sometimes busy area between Memorial Drive and The Square, offering even more privacy for those who want it.
Curious to learn more about Kirk? We caught up with Suh to find out more about what exactly makes K-House the best House. 
What’s one thing you would want freshmen to know about Kirkland? 
EJS: If you didn’t have the opportunity to become ingrained within a system, whether that be getting really involved in extracurriculars, or finding a really close pset group, or even getting involved in your dorms’ IMs... I think Kirkland is just going to be that opportunity where if you really want to find a community, you’ll be able to find one.
If Kirkland were a fruit, what fruit would it be?
EJS: A kiwi. You wouldn’t know our color or what we look like on the inside based off of purely the weird exterior, but when you open it, you’ll be pleasantly surprised by what it entails.
Describe Kirkland in one word. 
EJS: Weird… but a charming weird.
Read our overviews of the other Houses here!
Sections
If you asked us how we thought our lives would look next year, I don’t think we would’ve predicted going on so many walks, developing an oat milk addiction, or Zooming into commencement. Alas. Here we are, in these unprecedented times. At least the murder hornet thing is mostly over, right?
Sections
If you’re sorted into Eliot House, you’ll find yourself immediately surrounded by an inclusive and caring community. Not to mention, you’ll have back swipe access to the river and may get to see Eliot’s newest poodle puppy in the courtyard. Get excited to be a part of the same House community Rashida Jones once was and to spend your time procrastinating your psets with impromptu chats in the dining hall!
“I think that in my experience something that has been really unique to Eliot was just the kind of familial environment when you walk in,” says HoCo co-chair Courtney A. Rabb ’22. “I remember times when I would go into the dining hall, I would never be afraid to go in by myself because I could see anyone in the House and feel pretty comfortable sitting down with someone and just strike up a conversation.” HoCo co-chair Solomina A. Darko ’22 adds that the house “truly feels like a family and...there is never a time where I feel uncomfortable to be in any space in the House by myself or with other people.”.
Eliot’s HoCo chairs truly sum it up best — not only is Eliot excellent at fostering a close, tight-knit community, but the residents also know how to host exciting and fun events. One of Eliot’s biggest and most popular events is its end-of-the-year formal, Fête. They usually have a swing band come in for entertainment, plus an entire dessert room (That’s right. A whole room filled with dessert. We’re drooling already too.). Usually one or two nights before, students can go to the Faculty Deans’ residence and hand-dip strawberries in chocolate.
And the House’s smaller events, like steins, bring the fun too! Eliot often has live bands come and perform, along with plenty of free food. Each stein typically has a different theme, like disco or Halloween, with one Halloween party turning the entire House into a golf course! They also have tunnel painting steins, mostly targeted towards seniors, during which students are given paint and paintbrushes to add their artistic touch to the underground tunnels and leave their mark on Eliot House.
The HoCo co-chairs had nothing but songs of praise for their tutors and deans. Eliot recently got new Faculty Deans, Stephanie Paulsell and Kevin J. Madigan, and they've already made wonderful contributions to the Eliot community, according to Rabb. “You can tell how much they want to help the House… they’ve only been here since last semester and are already implementing so many different ideas and ways to keep students engaged,” says Rabb. With their amazing Faculty Deans and tutors, students in Eliot couldn’t have found better House faculty!
During the pandemic, Eliot has been hard at work keeping everyone connected in the virtual world, holding regular HoCo meetings online to plan out their latest events. This past spring, they brought Fête online — everyone logged onto Zoom dressed in their finest formal attire and entered breakout rooms to chat and listen to music together. And the fun doesn’t stop there: this spring, they plan to have chocolate tastings for students including a free box of chocolate and an online lesson on how the chocolate is made. And last semester, everyone received an Eliot journal and students received small care packages from their entryway tutors.
Though this year’s sophomores haven’t had a chance to physically live in Eliot yet, the House has strived to integrate their newest members into their community. The sophomores, then freshmen, were sent free t-shirts and plenty of Eliot merch. “They’re still a part of Eliot even if they’re away from the House,” says Rabb. “Solo and I had an open Zoom call with them trying to get to know them and welcome them in a more concrete way with seeing people’s faces.”
Describing her own sophomore housing, Darko told us, “For my rooming group, there are five of us. One of us had a single and then the four of us had two doubles and then we had a really big common room...that I’m sure someone could have used as a bedroom but we didn’t. And then a bathroom with three sinks, a shower and then all the necessities.” Incoming sophomores can expect similar housing, with one or two people getting single rooms and the other roommates sharing double rooms.
The place to be in Eliot seems to be its dining hall, which is the “hub of all activity” and the prime place to socialize. According to the HoCo chairs, the dining hall is where the best conversations are had and their happiest memories are made. “You can go pass through it to get to your entryway and you'd probably spend 10 minutes talking to someone before you’re finished with your journey,” says Darko.
You’ll find special rooms all around the House such as a woodshop, a film room for photographers, a movie room for watch parties with friends, a dance room, and a record room perfect for music-lovers. There’s truly a room for everyone! Specialists are brought in to train interested students on how to best use the woodshop and film room, ensuring every Eliot resident can get the most out of the House’s exciting amenities.
Still not convinced? Darko and Rabb dished out some more info about why there is no better place to be than in Eliot.
What is one thing you want freshmen to know about Eliot?
SD: Your dreams can come true. It sounds so weird, but I think there was a lot of emphasis… that if you want an event to happen, we are here to make it happen. If you have an idea, we truly want to make sure you know you can come to us and let us know, and we will try our best to usually make it come true — and, for the most part, it does.
What do you think makes Eliot special?
SD: The people. It’s cliché, but it’s true, it’s the people... I would say it’s the students who are in the House who have an interest in making the House as fun and as comfortable for them as possible, and for me, it was definitely a place I looked forward to coming back to after classes. It’s my home away from home.
If you could describe Eliot with a HUDS dish, what would it be?
SD: We had beautiful enhanced dinners. I would say it’s the salmon… Not the regular HUDS salmon, the enhanced dinner salmon.
CR: Paired with the pumpkin ravioli.
SD: Oh, that was good.
CR: It’s a delicacy.
What should freshmen who get Eliot look forward to?
CR: They can look forward to a House where they are very much wanted and where their ideas and… how they’re fitting in really matters. They’re going to be surrounded by people who really want them there and want to make sure they’re enjoying their time within the House.
Read our overviews of the other Houses here!
Sections
After the coronavirus pandemic hit, only essential services and businesses were permitted to remain open to help control the spread of the virus. Along with the closure of indoor dining, schools, and sports venues, arts institutions were forced to shut their doors to the public and retreat to a virtual space. Many of Boston and Cambridge’s centers of arts and entertainment learned to adapt to the uncharted territory, many suspending their performance seasons for the first time ever.
The Greenwich Odeum, native to East Greenwich, R.I., is one of the many performing arts centers that were forced to close after the onset of the Covid-19 pandemic. In an effort to adapt to state guidelines, the venue hosted private movie screenings and virtual streams.
Currently, The Odeum has slowly begun to open its facilities to the public, allowing for limited capacity movie screenings and live performances while still maintaining its virtual presence through an online stream.
For the first time in its 139-year history, the Boston Symphony Orchestra was forced to cancel live performances with audiences for its fall and spring seasons. Despite the sudden changes last March, the orchestra quickly launched the BSO At Home initiative to share archival audio offerings, self-produced videos from BSO musicians, and videos from previous productions. During a traditional semester, Harvard students would often trek over to downtown Boston to catch a night show of the Boston Symphony Orchestra or the Boston Pops; now, however, they head to YouTube live streams for a socially distanced experience.
The House of Blues Boston, a home for live R&B music, folk art, and Southern-inspired food, was forced to reschedule many pre-planned shows and performances beginning March 2020 to abide by coronavirus guidelines. However, the venue quickly shifted its business to host virtual performances from artists on “virtual tour,” including The Buckleys, The Big Push Band, and Willie Gomez. As Massachusetts has loosened its coronavirus restrictions, the House of Blues has begun to host limited capacity and socially distanced in-person performances.
On March 12, 2020, the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston announced that it would close for 30 days due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Due to its closure, the museum was forced to cancel many planned events including “Art in Bloom” and “Summer Party,” as well as furlough 301 staff. The MFA reopened on Sept. 26, 2020 and opened several exhibitions in the fall. The museum closed again Dec. 16 to comply with state guidlines. In alignment with the City of Boston’s return to Step One of Phase Three of the Reopening Massachusetts plan, the MFA once again reopened on Feb. 3, 2021.
Throughout previous semesters, Harvard students often took the short T ride to the AMC Boston Common 19 movie theatre to watch the latest releases with their friends. Despite closing in March due to the pandemic, movie theaters across the country, including in Boston, began to allow patrons to rent out private movie theatres for small and socially distanced groups. Currently, auditoriums at this theatre are at 40 percent capacity or less to allow for social distancing.
Along with other performing arts centers in Boston, the Boston Ballet shut its doors in March to abide by local and state coronavirus guidelines. Amid the pandemic, the Ballet moved its major traditions such as “The Nutcracker” online, created virtual programming for ballet school classes, and hosted its first-ever virtual season to replace the fall and winter seasons. Previously intending to open in May 2021, the Ballet announced in early February the cancellation of May performances, further extending its virtual season.
A billboard on Boston’s Paramount Theatre, one of the city’s historical arts landmarks, provides words of comfort and inspiration for passersby, such as “curiosity” and “compassion.” Although arts landmarks in the Boston area were forced to close due to the coronavirus pandemic, many quickly learned to adapt and persist through the unexpected challenges. Virtual programming and live streaming became commonplace for these institutions, allowing them to continue sharing their art while remaining safe amid the pandemic.
Between the uncertainty of workplace closures, contract negotiations, and staff health and safety, the pandemic has presented unprecedented challenges for Harvard’s workers.
“The anxiety of the loss of life, the loss of loved ones, the anxiety of getting infected with the virus — that has been extremely difficult,” said Roxana L. Rivera, the vice president of the 32BJ Service Employees International Union, which represents Harvard’s custodians and security guards.
After Harvard sent students and most staff home last March, employees working in person grew anxious over shortages of personal protective equipment, while those idled by the pandemic voiced concerns over parity in emergency benefits between direct hires and contracted workers. Students and other Harvard affiliates consistently pushed the University to protect all of its workers as it grappled with the public health and financial crisis.
Ultimately, the University guaranteed pay and benefits for all workers until Jan. 15, after which workers and supporters successfully pressured some of Harvard’s individual schools to extend their emergency paid leave policies offering 70 percent pay to idled contracted workers as well as direct hires.
Even with the 70 percent guarantee, some workers continue to face harrowing financial decisions.
“There’s a real genuine concern that HUSPMGU members who are going to see their income reduced to 70 percent are going to be faced with very, very challenging decisions,” Harvard University Security, Parking, and Museum Guards Union Treasurer Sean F. McNally said. “There is a real fear that somebody or more than one person is gonna fall through the cracks and could become homeless because of this.”
University spokesperson Jason A. Newton declined to comment.
Amid such uncertainty, four union contracts expired, bringing additional unions to the bargaining table with the University after two years of negotiations between Harvard and its graduate student union ended with ratification of their first agreement. Given the pandemic, maintaining healthcare benefits and workplace safety were at the top of unions’ agendas. Custodians, contracted security guards, security, parking, and museum guards, and construction workers each ratified one-year extensions of their old contracts. Harvard’s graduate student union also filed an intent to bargain with the University for its second contract.
Organizing for worker benefits and protections remotely has added an additional challenge for unions.
“We fight for good jobs and decent wages, but this was something that was much larger than that and called our organization and our membership to come together in ways that hadn’t been asked of us or them in the past,” Rivera said.
Here's what Harvard's workforce has experienced over the last year:
March–June: As Harvard’s campus mostly shuts down, concerns over health and potential layoffs leave workers anxious. The University guarantees full pay and benefits for employees whose jobs have been idled by the pandemic. Harvard extends paid leave three times from March to June, ultimately deciding to pay all employees their full wages until January 2021.
July 1: After nearly two years of organizing and the longest graduate student strike in recent history, Harvard Graduate Students Union-United Automobile Workers ratifies its first contract with the University. Due to the pandemic and economic uncertainties, the contract will expire one year after its ratification.
August-November: Harvard employees voice concerns over PPE access, social distancing enforcement, testing parity between direct hires and contracted workers after the University opens in a limited capacity.
Nov. 12: Harvard announces it will modify its emergency excused absence policy starting in January, reducing pay for involuntarily idled directly-employed staff to 70 percent and ending pay and benefits for idled contract employees. Some graduate schools individually move to extend the paid leave policy to contracted workers, starting with Harvard Business School and the Graduate School of Education.
December: Harvard announces its plan to close four dining services facilities and lay off 17 workers. Dining workers laid off received the option to shift into new roles based on seniority in an internal reshuffling process starting Jan. 27.
January: After politicians, petitions, and rallies call for equal protections for contracted workers, the Law School and Faculty of Arts and Sciences tell workers they will also provide 70 percent pay for contracted employees. Separately, the Medical School rescinds layoff notices for some of its contracted workers.
—Staff writer Cara J. Chang can be reached at cara.chang@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @CaraChang20.
—Staff writer Meimei Xu can be reached at meimei.xu@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @meimeixu7.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Once, during an elementary school field trip, I watched a planetarium documentary about the Doppler effect — the change in frequency of sound and light waves that occurs as a source and its observer move closer together or further apart. In the visible universe, distant galaxies are moving away from our own, giving them a lower-frequency light wavelength that corresponds to a reddish hue when viewed from a telescope. This phenomenon is called redshift, or so the documentary told us, and it is the primary basis for theories that the universe is expanding: Every distant point of reference carries the warm tint of outward growth.
I can still remember watching the documentary from my planetarium chair, enthralled as the animated galaxies on the ceiling were stretched in every radial direction from where I sat, the primordial darkness of the theater punctured only by the red glow of our faces as we looked upwards at the artificial sky.
Back then, it seemed to me like just a beautiful novelty, and I haven’t been in another planetarium in years. But right now, caught in a yearlong limbo between an abruptly-terminated senior spring and an unrecognizable freshman year, between a childhood without definite closure and an adulthood that hasn’t truly begun, I find myself once again suspended in darkness, watching every known reference point recede from the position where I stand.
The Covid-19 pandemic has taken the traditional coming-of-age progression from high school to college — a time usually marked by structured rituals for closure and rebirth — and shattered it into pieces. Where culturally-revered milestones like prom, graduation, and move-in day once stood, the high school Class of 2020 has found ourselves salvaging the parts that are left. In the year since the pandemic began, our communities have helped us do whatever we can to construct new landmarks for the transition from childhood to adulthood — to replicate every celebration, every interaction, every forward motion over the pixelated dimensions of Zoom — but the inherent contradictions are clear.
We are attempting to take flight in a time that is defined by staying in place. We are attempting to enter the world while it practices isolation. In a year of crisis and profound societal loss, we need the milestones promised to us in childhood more than ever before — but it is a consequence of the very same crisis that we can never experience them entirely, that we may only ever watch as they recede beyond our reach.
We are left with a longing for something whole, something we can hold, although we can’t explain this sadness in tangible terms. We are dreaming of leftovers and worshipping the bones of what we thought was guaranteed. We can only idealize; 2020 was the most memorable year we never had. Who’s to say that what we lost was really ours?
Untethered to our reference points, we easily become disoriented. Did we graduate a few months ago or a few years? Did the semester end last winter or last week? Our bodies have moved through a full cycle of seasons since the pandemic began, but our minds aren’t afforded the same luxury of simple metrics. I entered this period at 17 and likely won’t regain the ability for closure, the ability to reach a societal landmark and confirm that I have passed it, until I am well over 19. In the space between, unbound by linear time, I cannot tell you with certainty whether I have lived a year or a lifetime or none at all.
All I can count is that which I hold onto in the moment. A run through the redwoods. A corsage of flowers from my neighbor’s front yard. The chord of a new song spreading like dye through my chest. A picnic on the bridge over the Charles River, a poem engraved in the sidewalk by my new apartment, a burst of laughter from strangers-turned-roommates who have come to feel like home — each a constellation illuminating the moments they are lived, reminding me that we aren’t left entirely without light that we can see.
All I know is that I am here — back in the darkness of the planetarium looking up, watching with childlike wonder at the only thing we have left: This now, this tenuous and star-studded now, anchoring us here as the known universe recedes outward in a haze of red light.
Eleanor V. Wikstrom ’24 is a Crimson Editorial comp director.
Have a suggestion, question, or concern for The Crimson Editorial Board? Click here.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
How do you come of age when time stops? How can you grow when everything else is standing still?
Senior year of high school calls for celebration: Against the backdrop of a promising, exciting future, graduating students get to close a defining chapter of their lives. Through cheesy speeches and ill-fitting caps, we crown a 12-year struggle against the American educational system as we gear up for the best years of our lives.
But for the College’s Class of 2024, high school graduation remains a purely theoretical concept — a rite of passage unfulfilled. Proms were canceled, senior year events indefinitely postponed, public gatherings no longer safe. We had to distance from our close friends just as we were gearing up to say goodbye. Instead of a joyous celebration, chronic uncertainty and chaos marred our foray into adulthood, offering a glimpse into a future in disarray.
Years of memories, experiences, and relationships were prematurely truncated last March, weeks before they arrived at their natural conclusion. We were never given enough time to fully process the extent of our loss; the calendar flipped from spring to summer to fall, even though our worlds had halted. The pressure to stay positive and to not think about the milestones we were missing was relentless. Now, a year later, we have to be honest with ourselves.
The last year has left the Class of 2024 scarred, our emotions stunted as we continually negotiate with ourselves even lower expectations for our futures.
Even as we shifted settings and transitioned to college, some of us met Harvard with defensive cynicism born out of our senior spring. Without having moved on from our high school selves — properly, anyway — we were forced to forge new identities in a phantom campus. While we’ve been a part of Harvard nominally — showing up to (Zoom) classes, doing the (virtual) work, (remotely) participating in clubs and sports — many of us do not feel like a part of the fabric of this community. We are in a state of limbo, uncomfortable with how we left our homes and suffering from a lack of the human interaction that defines any year in college, but especially the first.
Technology and anxiety make a poor combination, and bright screens tugged at our mental malaise. We have certainly tried to find our people, forming our own support networks and pursuing moments of genuine personal connection. Yet reaching out via Zoom private chats and GroupMe direct messages is awkward, and attempts to connect can sometimes feel like leaps of unrequited faith. So we are left with performative cheerfulness: portraits of big friend groups formed by overzealous strangers, overly filtered in more ways than one.
And the taxing burden of transitioning to college virtually did not fall equally on all students. Some of us endured our entry to Harvard from home, where reliable access to technology and quieter spaces is not a given. Some low-income students had to choose between living on campus and a $5,000 check. Our international peers were all but barred from Widener gate. All of us have suffered, but some worse than others.
We miss what we never had and then some. The serendipity of bumping into friends at Annenberg and sitting down to have a meal with them; the chatter that fills the lecture hall with music, before and after class. The chance to fully embrace and become a part of our new community.
We are still waiting for the crescendo of our introduction to Harvard; we will likely live it vicariously through the Class of 2025. Part of us knows that we will resent watching them hopefully receive the freshman year milestones we missed, and then feel guilty for our bitterness.
It will take time to reclaim and rebuild ourselves and our expectations. We aren’t without hope and are ever so cautiously optimistic that a more traditional life at Harvard awaits us sooner rather than later. Until then, we take it one dimly lit campus, one lonely meal, and one silent night at a time.
This staff editorial solely represents the majority view of The Crimson Editorial Board, in this case, heavily influenced by its members of the Class of 2024. It is the product of discussions at regular Editorial Board meetings. In order to ensure the impartiality of our journalism, Crimson editors who choose to opine and vote at these meetings are not involved in the reporting of articles on similar topics.
Have a suggestion, question, or concern for The Crimson Editorial Board? Click here.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
When I got the email on March 10 of last year announcing that Harvard students would need to leave campus, I was riding in a crowded metro in Paris. I took the semester off to take a few classes and work at a non-profit in the city. Since I was on leave, Harvard’s email didn’t serve as an eviction letter the way that it did for many others, but it did shock me. It was the first time that I realized that something catastrophic was happening.
I got off at the next stop so that I could call my friends on campus. As I talked on the phone, I watched as Parisians blew cigarette smoke into the air and squeezed past me on the sidewalk as masses of people grasped the handrails and descended into the metro station. I could not understand how it was possible that Harvard had made such an earth-shattering decision when the world still looked so normal. This denial continued, quite literally, until I had an airline ticket in my hands. It was March 14.
The day prior, my work had announced that they were going to be working from home. Not desiring to be trapped in my shoebox apartment, I planned to return home to California. I stood in line for three hours at Air France’s offices. When I got to the front, I naively asked the woman working behind the counter if I could leave in a week because I still had some sightseeing that I wanted to do. She stared at me and told me that I needed to fly out the next morning — there were rumors that it would be the last direct Air France flight from Paris to San Francisco, and she didn’t want me to miss it.
In 72 hours, I went from working in my dream city to sitting in my room in Sacramento. I didn’t even have time to shop for souvenirs before I left. One of the only things that I brought home from France was a fork from a supermarket. The fork is beautiful; its metal looks either blue or purple, depending on the light and the angle that you hold it. I ate most of my meals with it in France.
As I’m sure everyone remembers, the adjustment to quarantining at home was hard and frightening. No one knew what was going on, and the sense of panic was overwhelming. It seemed tone-deaf to talk about my adventures in Europe, given the circumstances. Even in normal times, retelling story after story from your time abroad to your friends can be annoying. Now with the added stress of a global pandemic, it just didn’t feel like the right time to be gushing about how lucky it was that I had been able to live in Paris. So, I held on to my memories from France by almost exclusively using my “French fork” as my cutlery of choice for my meals at home. It reminded me of my experiences in Paris, like the conversations that I had with my classmates or the parks I sat in while enjoying a salad.
As silly as it sounds, I think it’s fitting that of any souvenir I could have taken home from France, it was a fork. It calmed me down and helped me remember a time of normalcy, a time before March 10, when eating lunch with my coworkers in Paris felt ordinary. But normalcy is not just a symbol of comfort — it signifies growth as well. There was a time when what’s now normal wasn’t, and there may be a time when the reverse is true.
To me, my fork signifies not just a time of normalcy before Covid-19 but the goals that I accomplished for myself. My meals in Paris did not feel “normal” right away. When I first arrived, I was so nervous. I didn’t know if I would be able to communicate effectively, if I would find meaningful friendships, if I would be happy at my job, if taking the semester off from Harvard was the right decision. Yet, I overcame these fears and ended up feeling at ease and “normal” in Paris, despite my original hesitations.
It is interesting to look back on this last year and think of all the “normal” acts that we do every day — logging onto Zoom, remembering to put on our masks before we go outside, getting tested for Covid-19 — that previously used to intimidate or overwhelm us. One of the most impressive things in the world is feeling comfortable in a situation that used to scare you. I can’t wait for, not just a return to “normalcy,” but a full return to opportunities to challenge ourselves, push ourselves, and try new things that may one day feel normal. Hopefully, in the future, I’ll return to Paris. And I look forward to having many new normals to experience.
Olivia A. Sison ’21 is an Integrative Biology concentrator in Adams House. 
Have a suggestion, question, or concern for The Crimson Editorial Board? Click here.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
After a few weeks away from Cambridge, I would get antsy.
It happened every year. One summer, I caved and changed my plans last minute to spend the next two months in Boston. After dropping off my suitcases at my new apartment, I took the Green Line to Park Street, transferring trains to get to Harvard Square. One evening, I walked from the Prudential Center to Winthrop House. I was so homesick I even popped into The Crimson.
As the years progressed, I pushed my return dates up and up. I had friends who flew in during the breathless hours before shopping week started. But not me. I liked to take my time, cherishing those rare days when my Google calendar held no sway over me. Some of my favorite memories, even now, are of Harvard in those first days, when it’s quiet, like a song that is building and building and you love what the chorus sounds like, but you especially treasure those first few notes because they break the silence. Because they let you know your song is starting again.
If my returns to Harvard were a slowly building crescendo, then my exit from campus was discordant, a smash of mismatched notes, an orchestra that came to a sudden, stumbling stop.
That Tuesday was the first day in weeks I slept past 9 a.m. My thesis was due the next day, my draft formatted and finalized, my senior spring awaiting me. I woke up to a text message from my roommate: “I went to UPS and bought boxes/tape. I got one for each of us.”
I dream-walked through the rest of the day. I wore a pale yellow skirt that I had been saving for the first days of Cambridge spring (with boots — it was still winter). I went to class, refusing to miss even one moment of being a student. I walked to one of my favorite restaurants in Allston. Once there, I had no appetite. I Uber-ed back to Lowell House, where my friends were meeting for dinner, my face pressed against the car window like a tourist seeing the Square for the very first time.
When I had returned to campus for my senior year, the first House I went to (after my own) was Lowell, newly renovated. I sat in the lawn until the sun went down and bothered my friends and felt safe. That day felt like an exhale. I could feel my time on campus ending, and I was okay with it. I could see the next year unfurl — the long nights I would spend writing my thesis, the day-trips I would take with friends in the spring, the restaurants I would introduce my parents to during graduation week. I was ready to leave Harvard.
But on March 10, sitting in Lowell dining hall, I listened to Dean David I. Laibson’s voice crack as he spoke to seniors, telling us that we would remain part of the Harvard community, that somehow, we would experience the traditions we had been promised. I felt a hand on my shoulder and looked back to see my best friend crying. We leaned into each other as I cried too.
I was not ready to leave Harvard.
As I write this, one year has passed. In this year, like so many of my peers, I have outwardly moved on: started my post-graduate career, devoted time to new hobbies, and begun thinking about graduate school. In a year filled with trials and tragedy, I’m immensely grateful for these silver linings.
But a part of me continues to mourn my college experience. That part is still waiting to land in Boston Logan and catch a glimpse of the Charles River and drop by Felipe’s in the evening and run into friends and familiar strangers and jump back into another semester of school. That part checks my college email, is holding on to a never-used JP Licks gift card, burns a Boston scented candle. It’s ready to go back.
I don’t know if I ever will. Class of 2020, I don’t know if we ever will. No delayed graduation, no weekend trip, no other degree, will give us back what we lost. One day we were college students, and the next we were not, and I don’t have the words for the fear and sadness of that experience. Trust me, I’ve looked for them.
We left our song unfinished. Those final notes will always remain suspended in mid-air, unable to reach us where we are now.
In those last mornings, after we had talked and laughed through the night, we sat in silence, struggling to stay awake. In the space between “See you soon” and “Will we ever meet again?” we held our breath as we watched our friends leave. Between worrying about packing and wondering where we would go, our minds stilled, assignments and jobs faded away. One last time, we trampled through Harvard Yard, linked arms unmasked, procrastinated for just five more minutes —
In the cold, fading light, we stood on the Weeks bridge, huddled together, seeking something more than warmth. We were quiet.
Shireen Younus ’20, a former Crimson Editorial editor, was a Government concentrator in Pforzheimer House.
Have a suggestion, question, or concern for The Crimson Editorial Board? Click here.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
On March 10, 2020, our board met for our regularly scheduled Tuesday night Editorial meeting at 14 Plympton Street, bewildered and broken-hearted. Today, our abandoned conference room is filled with suitcases, stacks of books, and hard-to-store box fans instead of its usual conversation and warmth: the crime scene of a stolen year, frozen in time.
We spent hours in that room the night we learned of our looming Covid eviction, compelled in part by a sense of duty to find the right words to describe an earth-shattering day, and in part to cling to a community that suddenly felt fleeting.
Under varying levels of sobriety, we planned and produced a series of three staff editorials published in the following days — our attempt to preserve the opinions and emotions swirling around the room. As we reread and thus relive them, the memory of us all sitting together aches. Some of the opinions we published that week aged poorly, but choosing to still gather as a board during those chaotic, pressing, precious days — as a group of classmates and friends who knew that something was coming to an end — was perfect.
One year later, we are still opining over Zoom.
Many of us had never felt a sense of community at Harvard as strongly as we did when we were grasping onto it during those fateful final days. Campus life as we knew it was melting away, yet campus, collectively, was truly never warmer. Unabashed revelry, bonding over collective pain, helping our roommates pack, and saying goodbye to every last person we knew (we didn’t really know what social distancing meant yet, and hugged without caution) defined our last week. The palpable care and altruism that sprung up bred treasured moments of joy and companionship. We’ve often returned to these memories.
While time has often felt static or inverted since — many of us have called into editorial meetings from bedrooms laden with stuffed animals and other childhood relics — amid the disruption and tragedy of this year, growth and reflection have happened. Where better to reflect on how college has changed you than your childhood bedroom? This maturation crystalized as, in our fled-to homes, removed from frantic campus, we’ve stewed.
We can’t imagine the insights that stillness brought us will be forgotten when normal life (whatever that means) resumes. Still, growth does not redeem tragedy.
Ultimately, almost every student’s experience over the past 365 days has been defined by hardships. We will have to process the pandemic in our own way, in our own time. Some of us will be drawn to finding silver linings. Others might reject all attempts at optimism as toxic contortions of reality. The number of ways to respond are endless and all valid — after all, who can say what’s the right or wrong way to make sense of the unfathomable?
The University has tried its best to maintain morale. We’re deeply appreciative of the peers, staff, and faculty who, in their dedication to reimagining community, have made lonely pandemic life more okay, enabling more joy than would exist in their absence.
But as a whole, our board’s response to this strange anniversary — how has it been a whole year? has it only been one? — is one of collective sorrow. We look back with sober eyes and see that March 10 was a life-altering day for all of us, even if we didn't know it yet.
That Tuesday, we lost an entire reality. We lost our rooms and our friends and our city — some even lost our country. We lost the certainty of knowing where we would find ourselves in the days to come. We bid farewell to the safety and comfort of our youth. Every last inch of our college experience — both what it was and all that we hoped it could be — was replaced by a strange virtual landscape and new lives we were expected to navigate.
And so we find ourselves needing to take stock of the losses amassed over the past year; to grieve the big and the small. To mourn the ones we lost to the virus, to closed borders, graduations, and distance. But also to ache for the minute and mundane. The small details that simply slipped away under shattering upheaval.
Twelve months later, we miss the faces that we cannot remember. We miss the once close friends with whom we, exhausted from online communications, have lost touch — perhaps gone for good. We miss the live presence of our over-enthusiastic but endearing instructors: the ones who were eager to not only teach but also to fill their lecture halls with energy and passion and heart. We miss the people with whom we were only beginning to forge friendships during that fated March. We miss our international peers who, trapped behind sealed borders, have been forcefully detached from our community. We miss our acquaintances and our lab partners and our mentors. We miss all that could have been. Who might we have bumped into on campus in this virtual year? What memories and friendships might we have made? These phantom losses of the pandemic are overwhelming.
Hopefully, our campus will approach normalcy soon enough. But what then? Return will not be repair. Out of the four classes that left campus on the week of March 10, only two will return, and to a campus full of strangers. Most of our peers will have graduated: Commencement by Zoom, diploma by mail. So much torch-passing and closure simply have not been. How do we pick back up and start again?
Of those returning to Harvard, only seniors will have spent a whole year on campus. Juniors will have chosen their concentrations online. Sophomores will join their Houses in blocking groups forged in estranged circumstances, having never set foot in a Harvard academic building.
The fact is that even if everything turns out just fine — even if, in five months time, we are able to safely join together in crowds, partake in classes, and live a maskless life, our college experience will remain a two-act play with a painful break. A single whole irreparably split in half.
We know our hearts will stay a little bit broken until we are able to gather in our frozen meeting room again.
This staff editorial solely represents the majority view of The Crimson Editorial Board. It is the product of discussions at regular Editorial Board meetings. In order to ensure the impartiality of our journalism, Crimson editors who choose to opine and vote at these meetings are not involved in the reporting of articles on similar topics.
Have a suggestion, question, or concern for The Crimson Editorial Board? Click here.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Harvard Mathematics associate senior lecturer Dusty E. Grundmeier first noticed headlines circulating about the novel coronavirus at the start of the spring 2020 semester. He immediately became concerned that the spreading virus would drastically alter the course of the term.
“I was concerned that we weren’t going to make it through the semester,” Grundmeier said.
In December 2019, Grundmeier and his wife — University of Massachusetts professor Anne Fitzpatrick — welcomed their second child, Peter. Their five-year-old daughter, Catherine, was attending pre-kindergarten.
On March 8, 2020, Grundmeier and Fitzpatrick pulled their daughter out of school due to increasing concern surrounding Covid-19. Just two days later, on March 10, Harvard announced that all classes would transition online for the remainder of the semester.
In the days that followed, Harvard operations transitioned online. While faculty adapted in-person instruction — ranging from lab work to roundtable seminars — to Zoom, the pandemic also forced them to adapt their personal lives to accommodate an increased load of work and home responsibilities.
For Christina Ciocca Eller, a professor of Sociology and Social Studies, a weekday morning begins between 3 a.m. and 5 a.m., initiated by the sound of her daughter coming through the baby monitor. Ciocca Eller’s alarm then rings at 7 a.m.
Ciocca Eller has experienced the ups and downs of a pandemic pregnancy. Her daughter — who was born in August 2020 — has only met her grandparents, aunt, and uncle in person.
“I was not visibly pregnant last March, so very few of my colleagues at Harvard knew I was pregnant and none of my students did,” Ciocca Eller said. “Though I later shared my news with my colleagues and some students — and while everyone in my departments received a birth announcement — it was just a very odd thing, psychologically speaking, that so few people witnessed my pregnancy.”
Although this was her second child, Ciocca Eller said the pandemic has brought “plenty of new learning experiences” when it comes to motherhood.
“In one word, having an infant during these strange times is bizarre,” she said. “Many of the things that were very normal with our first kiddo — who is 3.5 now — are non-starters with the baby: going to the library, having baby playdates, even just going to the grocery store.”
Babysitters, meanwhile, were a non-starter for Grundmeier, who said he and his wife Fitzpatrick did not feel comfortable inviting any outsiders to their home for the first few months of the pandemic.
“I think we were kind of burned out before we started, because, I mean, we weren't sleeping very much,” Grundmeier said. “It's just always hard when you have a baby at home — but then, of course, the pandemic made it much worse because you don't have any childcare.”
In July, they started to feel “a little bit more comfortable having people over” and began the search to hire a full-time babysitter. In Fitzpatrick's words, the process of “finding backup care was like the Wild West.”
“There was like a bidding war among nannies in Boston, because it was becoming clear for schools that the fall wasn't going to have in-person instruction,” Grundmeier said. “So everybody we tried to hire would immediately get better offers.”
“Luckily, we did eventually hire a full-time babysitter for the fall semester,” Grundmeier added. “So we have a nanny coming in, and that's helped a lot.”
Gojko J. Barjamovic — a senior lecturer and the director of undergraduate studies for the Department of Near Eastern Languages and Civilizations — said while his toddler’s daycare has opened again, the pandemic’s erratic circumstances could impose a childcare burden on him and his wife at any time.
“Once in a while you get a positive, and then the whole place closes down for 10 days or two weeks or three weeks,” Barjamovic said. “And then you're back to square one with a baby in the house, having to manage all sorts of ordinary responsibilities as a university teacher and researcher while you have that kid at home.”
Just nine days before Barjamovic’s interview with The Crimson, his son’s daycare closed for ten days due to a positive case, leaving “the baby under the roof.”
Harvard Kennedy School professor Jason Furman ’92 — whose three children are 5, 12, and 13 — said he was “exhausted” by the time the first semester of online teaching ended last spring.
“If the summer hadn't come when it did, I don't know what I would have done,” Furman said.
Furman — who taught Economics 10: “Principles of Economics” for the first time last academic year alongside Economics Professor David I. Laibson ’88 — said the start of the pandemic precipitated a “perfect storm of challenges.”
Specifically, Furman said the Covid-19 crisis eroded the boundaries between his work and home life.
“It was sort of like talking on the phone with David Laibson while I had a child screaming in the background,” he said.
Furman explained that his only reprieve came for the two-and-a-half hours a week that he was “literally teaching.”
“I would effectively say to my kids, ‘You can't come in right now,’” he recounted.
Furman said while his children never made any appearances during his live Zoom lectures, his youngest child did show up on national television while he was giving an interview with CNBC.
“He came in the background, looked, got confused, sort of stared,” Furman said. “The people on TV asked me about him, and were much more interested in him than anything I had to say, I think.”
Grundmeier echoed Furman’s perspective, stating that the pandemic has “blurred the work-life transition.”
“I had one time when a student raised their hand in class and asked if it was my daughter who was singing Frozen in the background,” Grundmeier said. “Another time, my students asked, ‘Is your baby okay?,’ because he was crying a lot in the background.”
Barjamovic said his family — which includes a seventh-grade daughter and a 2-year-old son — has formulated daily rituals to “be able to function.”
“You have to create certain milestones during the day and during the week in order to even get a sense of the progression of time, which I think is psychologically really important,” he said. “In the evening, before we go to bed, we insist the three of us — our daughter and my wife and I — do something together for an hour.”
“We're usually so tired that it can be something just as lame as watching some show on Netflix or playing a game or puzzle, but just to have kind of closure on the date,” he added.
Furman said having a 5-year-old meant it was “very hard for either parent to ever get any peace.”
“Early on in March, just to give my wife a break, I would put all three kids in the car and we would just go for sort of an hour drive, like a roundtrip to nowhere,” Furman said. “There's one place we found that had these rolling hills, and we drive up and down it and call it a roller coaster. And that was our entertainment.”
Fiery A. Cushman ’03, a professor of Psychology, took a call from The Crimson while stationed at a playground in Cambridge. While conducting the interview, Cushman watched his 6-year-old play and waited for his 4-year-old's dismissal from preschool.
Though bedtime is at 7:30 p.m. for Cushman’s two children, at that point, his workday is far from over.
“I'm going to record a lecture for Psych 15 between about eight and 10 p.m. tonight,” Cushman said. “Academia is funny in that I think not many of us work nine to five in a couple of senses. One is that people tend to work long hours, and the other is we tend to work at oddball hours.”
Cushman said both of his children were sent home from their schools at the beginning of the pandemic. While waiting for the schools to reopen, Cushman and his wife elected to home-school their two kids.
“My wife and I divided up the days of the week, and we took turns homeschooling the kids. We were developing curricula for our kids, thinking about what their learning goals should be, and trying to find ways to make sure that we were still getting them outdoors,” he said. “It was honestly a lot of fun and very rewarding.”
Cushman said that while his preschooler’s daycare is running at “three-quarters” capacity now, and his elementary-schooler is back in school on a limited schedule, he has had to adapt his daily agenda to accommodate increased childcare burdens.
“It's definitely the case that now, childcare and work are what we do. There's really not room for anything but childcare and work on the schedule these days,” Cushman said.
Barjamovic said his work responsibilities now regularly bleed into the weekend.
“You try and divvy up things over seven days of the week, rather than five, so as to leave enough room within each day to be flexible,” Barjamovic said. “The downside to that is that you are never off. You don't have a weekend because you then have Ph.D. advising meetings on a Saturday.”
Dean of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences Dean Claudine Gay acknowledged the increased strain of the pandemic on faculty serving in caretaker roles in an interview with the Crimson last week.
“Faculty-parents — and, frankly, all parents and caregivers — have experienced a range of challenges balancing the demands of personal and academic life throughout the course of the pandemic,” Gay said.
She added that FAS Faculty Affairs has provided “multiple supports for faculty-parents, including appointment extensions, research support, office access, prioritizing faculty with children in setting course times, and enhanced childcare support.”
Cushman, who was originally up for tenure this academic year, said he was granted a one-year delay of his tenure evaluation because the administration recognized the constraints placed on faculty by the pandemic.
“For a lot of folks, they’re not just facing kids at home that they have to care for, but their ability to get research done is impacted — maybe because an anthropologist can't travel to their field site, or a neuroscientist can't operate a brain scanner in a way that's safe, or a chemist can't get into the laboratory,” Cushman said.
Many faculty members relayed that the pandemic helped illuminate similar struggles that students and colleagues are simultaneously facing.
Barjamovic said he appreciated that it had become acceptable and even standard to “poke a little bit more” at how individuals were doing, even across faculty-student relationships.
“We of course are well aware that a lot of our students are facing a much bigger challenge than we faculty,” he said. “It’s become more okay to ask, ‘Are you all right now? How are you doing?’”
Cushman, too, said he gained insight into the “different and unpredictable ways” Covid-19 affected people around him.
“This has been a real lesson in how the same big event in the world has a million different impacts on different people in different life places right now,” he said.
At a faculty meeting last week, Gay said she was “really proud” of how Harvard’s faculty, staff, and students “met this moment” during the transition to virtual learning during the public health crisis.
“March 15th will mark the one-year anniversary of the de-densification of campus and the start of our many adaptations, personal and professional, to the pandemic,” she said. “Across every department and program, we came together — over Zoom — to tackle the problem and find a way to continue the work we came here to do.”
—Staff writer Meera S. Nair can be reached at meera.nair@thecrimson.com.
—Staff writer Andy Z. Wang can be reached at andy.wang@thecrimson.com.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Amidst the pandemic, college sports have not been the same: limiting seats to eager fans, practicing with masks on, or taking several Covid-19 tests a week to ensure that each player tests negative before a game. Yet for Ivy League athletes, collegiate competition has been out of commission for an entire year. Following a process similar to the fall, the Ivy League, the first Division I conference to call off fall sports in 2020, also shelved both its winter and spring seasons. Since then, student-athletes have been forced to find outside competition and conditioning to maintain their stamina.
Take Yaraslau Slavikouski, one of Harvard Wrestling’s strongest competitors. Turning the clock back one year ago, Slavikouski was preparing to end his first season with the Crimson on a strong note after taking second at the EIWA Championships at 285 pounds. During the 2019-20 season, the EIWA Freshman of the Year had to adjust to a different weight class and learn what it takes to wrestle at the collegiate level. Fast forward to March 2021, he finds himself having to adapt to not only an entirely different type of training under Covid-19 protocols but also to a more demanding mindset as an athlete.
“It's about staying disciplined and investing a lot of time in getting better; not necessarily getting in shape or getting better for a tournament, but learning new techniques, new moves, and trying to prepare for the next season, kind of long-term planning.”
Slavikouski, the unanimous selection for Ivy League Rookie of the Year and the first Harvard wrestler to win the honor in 16 years, has been staying active despite the hiatus in Ancient Eight contests. Currently, he is training in his home country of Belarus and is set to compete at the U23 Nationals at the end of March, followed by the European Championships. He will take on these competitions after winning bronze at the Belarus Senior Nationals in January. For Slavikouski, however, bronze was not enough; he is determined to come back stronger in the coming weeks at these next matches.
“I lost one match to a pretty experienced guy who took third at the Olympics in 2016,” Slavikouski said. “He was good, mostly I blame myself for my loss, a few tactical mistakes here and there. I could have won, but what can you do now except get better.”
However, the first-team All-Ivy League selection performed extraordinarily well given the inability to compete in tournaments due to the pandemic. In alignment with strict Covid-19 protocols, Slavikouski and wrestlers across the nation have had to tiptoe around doing the one thing to truly prepare for tournaments: getting on the mat and wrestling in a naturally competitive setting.
“Not wrestling in tournaments for a year definitely took its toll on me,” Slavikouski remarked. “It just takes time to get used to the tournament routine and get over the anxiety of wrestling. You can still practice, you can still wrestle with partners, but it's not the same as wrestling in a tournament.”
Given that wrestling makes it difficult to practice social distancing, wrestlers like Slavikovski are trying to make the best of it: minimizing the number of interactions with partners, practicing shadow wrestling, lifting weights, and running.
“I felt the difference when I got back to Belarus. I realized how, yes, conditioning is great, but no matter how many miles you run, it's still different when you step on the mat, when you wrestle with another human being, or another athlete who is in great condition,” Slavikouski said.
The second-team National Wrestling Coaches Association All-American selection has had to readjust to new conditions again and again, and adaptability has had to become his friend. As for training in Belarus, “it's very different.”
“I’m training at different clubs and going to different cities, but there's no routine,” Slavikouski said, “I always have to improvise and find something new.”
On a more positive note, the Ivy League’s decisions have provided Slavikouski the opportunity to develop his technical skills as a wrestler. Through training camps in Belarus and practicing with the national team, he feels that he is learning new techniques that will help him improve in future tournaments.
When the Rechitsa, Belarus native finally returns to Cambridge, he will be welcomed home by the team he thought he would be training with at this very moment — the team that he will continue to impact for years to come.
“Being a part of the team and sharing this incredible bond, going through everyday struggles and practices together — that's been the best experience of the wrestling team,” Slavikouski said.
And when he does step back into the Malkin Athletic Center, Slavikouski will bring with him not only these new technical skills, but also the lessons he has learned about discipline and perseverance through his resilience as an athlete in this past year.
“The most important lesson is staying disciplined no matter what the circumstances are and no matter what environment you are in; no matter what city, no matter what problems you experience, or what you, your friends, or family are facing, you still have to stay on schedule, stay on top of your diet, and on top of your training plan,” Slavikouski reflected.
“Even if you don’t have access to a gym, you can still run, and if you cannot run, you can do something in your room. You just have to stay disciplined.”
If there is one thing that has stayed consistent for this Harvard wrestler amidst the trials of this past year, it is his dedication to the sport he continues to flourish in. Slavikouski has thrown back every curveball with greater force, and each one has instilled the values of staying positive amidst the challenges and holding oneself accountable to persevering — a mentality especially crucial to the sport of wrestling.
— Staff writer Mairead B. Baker can be reached at mairead.baker@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @baker_mairead.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Amidst the Ivy League’s decision to cancel fall, winter, and spring contests, Cassandra Pasadyn of the Crimson Women’s Swim and Dive team made the difficult decision to activate her advanced standing — an academic process that allows for early graduation — and forego her eighth semester at Harvard. Rather than say goodbye to her team and sport at the 2021 Women’s Swim & Dive Ivy League Championship that was scheduled to take place at Harvard’s Blodgett Pool this spring, the now alumna said her goodbyes from her home in Hinckley, Ohio, last summer.
The Eliot House resident has contributed to the women’s swim and dive program in and out of the pool. In her first and second seasons with the Crimson, the team won back-to-back Ivy League Championships. Posting impressive times in the 100 (0:55.44) and 200 (2:00.74) yard backstroke, Pasadyn was especially influential in the 2019 Ivies victory. In her third season, Harvard achieved Ivy League runner-up status. In 2020, Pasadyn was elected tri-captain.
In November, the Ivy League officially canceled 2020-21 winter sports, officially ruling out the chance that Pasadyn could return to the pool in her regularly scheduled senior year. The coronavirus pandemic and Harvard’s subsequent decision to cancel athletic competition caused Pasadyn to “take a step back” and think about “what this meant for [her] senior year… and long term future.”
Advanced standing allows eligible students to convert Advanced Placement (AP) test scores to Harvard College course credit. Having completed her concentration, secondary, and general education requirements, the course credit made it so that Pasadyn could graduate in seven rather than eight semesters. Pasadyn already had the credits in place, but it was just a matter of formally taking advantage of the advanced standing process. In her own words, activating her advanced standing made the most sense “financially, logistically, and even emotionally.”
The integrative biology concentrator has spent what would have been her last semester at the University interviewing for medical school. Pasadyn plans to matriculate in the fall and says that “this extra semester [was] a gift of time to pause, reflect and truly take a break from the pace of life.”
The NCAA does not allow unenrolled student-athletes to formally meet with teammates and coaches. The tri-captain’s decision to activate her advanced standing and unenroll in the spring, however, was well-received by both parties. Her coaches and teammates made announcing her decision “easier than [she] could have imagined.” Although as an unenrolled athlete she cannot officially call herself captain this semester, Pasadyn is determined to retain close relationships with her teammates and coaches — whom she refers to as her “second family” and “support system.” Cassandra is not the only Pasadyn on the women’s swim and dive team; her younger sister, sophomore swimmer Felicia Pasadyn, will graduate in 2023.
Reflecting on her experience over the past year, now alumna Cassandra Pasadyn has some advice for other student-athletes finding themselves in similar circumstances.
“My season getting canceled made me realize that sport isn’t everything, but the team can still be… These relationships are friendships that will last a lifetime. This is just one season, but your team and the memories that you’ve made in this sport will go way beyond this pandemic.”
— Staff writer Marlee Masters can be reached at marlee.masters@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
At first, junior Dom Petrie was excited. It was the morning of Tuesday, March 10, 2020, and the then-sophomore forward was sitting in her 8:00 a.m. “GENED1011: Human Trafficking, Slavery, and Abolition in the Modern World” section when Harvard announced that it would indefinitely be transferring classes online and requesting that all students leave campus.
“We were all in class, and we remember we just were like, ‘No way this is happening. This is real.’ And, at first, we were all so excited because we were like, ‘Oh, yeah! An extended spring break! Let’s go! That’s awesome!’” Petrie recalled.
At the time, the idea of not being able to follow up her 12-goal, 23-assist sophomore campaign, which earned her All-Ivy Second Team honors in 2019-2020, was far from Petrie’s mind.
“We all thought that we were probably going to come back after spring break,” she explained. “And then spring break turned into the rest of the year, and then the rest of the year turned into summer school online, and then summer school turned into this year.”
A year later, Petrie is still at home in Hermosa Beach, Calif., where she starred for a boys’ hockey club, the Anaheim Jr. Ducks. In addition to working towards her economics degree and training on her own time, she is currently serving as the sole assistant coach for the LA Lions, an all-girls hockey team. She seeks to inspire a community that was not nearly as large when she rose through the hockey ranks.
Petrie’s love affair with hockey began when, as a toddler in Northern California, she attended a San Jose Sharks game. Her older brother was enthralled, and she quickly followed suit. She received her first pair of skates for her third birthday and fell in love with scooting around the ice. Eventually, she began playing, first on local teams and then on travel teams.
When she moved to Southern California at the age of ten, there were only one or two girls’ hockey teams in the region. Instead, she played — and starred — for boys’ teams throughout her hockey career, often alongside her older brother. In the 2017-18 season, she tied for second on the San Diego Jr. Gulls, a boys’ team, in combined goals and assists, in addition to helping the U.S. team win gold at the International Ice Hockey Federation’s 2018 Under-18 Women’s World Championships.
Now, there are more options. Girls’ hockey is growing quickly in Southern California, so more young athletes have the opportunity to join teams like the LA Lions, which was not founded until 2016.
“There weren’t very many opportunities to play girls’ hockey out here when I was growing up,” Petrie said. “That’s the biggest thing that’s changed, is now you have two well-established organizations that kids can [join], and I think you’re only going to continue to see that number grow.”
“Ice hockey has grown tremendously in Southern California in the last twenty years, and girls’ hockey, and the Lions program, in particular, is seeing its own level of exponential growth over the last five years,” added Lions head coach Andrew Stone in an email to The Crimson.
Petrie’s love for hockey and the opportunity to mentor younger athletes were important factors in her decision to accept the position with the Lions. Last summer, a family friend introduced her to coaching, and after giving a few lessons and enjoying it, she decided to give it a shot.
“If I was going to work, I wanted to do something that I would enjoy and have fun doing that wasn’t going to look like a job, and to me [coaching ice hockey is] the last thing from that,” she explained.
At Lions practices, Petrie mostly runs the defense and provides hands-on, in-depth instruction to her players. The Lions are a small team, which allows her to work closely with each individual athlete, running drills and demonstrating proper technique. She pushes them to step outside their comfort zones and try new moves. Most importantly, though, she prioritizes creating a fun, safe space for her athletes to be themselves.
“[Petrie]’s coaching style is very complementary to my own,” Stone wrote. “We both comprehend and communicate the importance of mental strength and positive character to the players. You can have all the talent and skill in the world, but without the ability to stay positive while dealing with adversity, such talent and ability is minimized.”
Petrie’s mentorship has already resulted in significant improvements, both on and off the ice. Years of high-level hockey experience have allowed her to break down moves to every minute detail, and she has been able to provide personalized instruction to all of her players. In addition to the Lions’ victories on the ice, she has garnered her players’ trust.
“It’s been awesome to see where the girls might have been super quiet at the start of the year have really started to open up and come to me and talk to me about things, so being able to be relatable with these kids [has been very rewarding], especially since it’s something that I’ve gone through,” she said.
In Lions practices, Petrie relays the lessons she has learned through years of hockey. She hopes to instill Harvard Hockey’s culture, which values open-mindedness, effort, and attention to detail, in her athletes, who range in age from 10 to 14. Prioritizing discipline at such a young age allows young hockey players to develop mental strength and a good work ethic. Petrie is optimistic that these are lessons that will serve these girls well if they choose to follow her path.
“I think that that’s so important to have as a young girl playing hockey, especially in California; having someone that sees you can take this path, you can stay playing hockey in California, you don’t have to go off to the East Coast and play in a prep school, and show them that you can do you, you can rock you, and you can be 100% yourself and do what you want,” she said. “And it’s okay if your path is different from everyone else’s.”
However, the girls on the Lions roster are not the only ones reaping the benefits of Petrie’s coaching. Petrie herself has learned some valuable lessons from the process as well, including a deeper understanding of hockey fundamentals and a greater appreciation for the complexity of coaching.
Plus, as she prepares to bid for a spot on the U.S. Women’s National Team roster for the 2022 Beijing Olympics and for her senior season at Harvard, Petrie may have a new trick or two up her sleeve on the ice as well.
“One of them has been teaching me a new move,” she said with a smile. “I can’t wait to pull it off in a game.”
— Staff writer Griffin Wong can be reached at griffin.wong@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Flagstaff, Ariz. – In the heat and altitude of the Arizona winter, the Crimson Men’s and Women's Cross Country teams have come together to train and bond in a drastically altered year for Harvard sports.
After a successful 2019-2020 season, Crimson cross country runners were forced to scatter across the globe in March 2020, much like the rest of the Harvard campus. For many of the long-distance runners destined to compete in the Indoor Track & Field NCAA championships, the interrupted season was a blow to the incredible individual and team progress throughout the 2019-2020 season. This season saw some of the more impressive results in the history of the program, with both the men’s and women’s teams qualifying for NCAA national championships for the first time in program history.
With seniors lost to graduation, underclassmen taking a gap year, and a new class of first-year runners unable to join the team in a typical fashion, this year was always going to be a challenge for the coaching staff and the runners. In a sport as grueling as cross country, team chemistry and shared workouts can help bear the burden of high-volume training weeks and keep runners accountable. Especially for young runners, the jump from high school to college involves longer races and an acceleration in mileage that almost needs to be supplemented by mentorship and coaching.
“We were pretty much training individually throughout the entire fall,” said junior David Melville about the fall semester. “For high volume, it’s very difficult to run on our own, to mentally manage that.”
Three to four incoming first-years who had deferred enrollment, along with a few sophomores, came out to Flagstaff in the fall to train together for a few weeks. This Arizona experience ended up being a test run for the bigger group that would come out in the following semester. The team hopped on a Zoom call over winter break and decided that they had to meet up somewhere. Training alone, scattered across different time zones, was too difficult for student-athletes to keep up their training volume and simply ruined team morale.
“I would say that the biggest challenge for me was a lack of motivation to continue to train hard, and I think many people on the team struggled with that too at first,” said Michael Alber, who is deferring senior year enrollment until next year, about the fall season. “There really isn’t an easy solution to that, but knowing that you’re not alone helps.”
Following the lead of the deferred freshmen, a large group of the team decided Flagstaff, Ariz., was a perfect fit for the team's needs. Flagstaff remains much more temperate than Cambridge during the winter months and is at a much higher altitude — approximately 7,000 feet — compared to Cambridge’s 39 feet of elevation. With this additional altitude, the runners hope to add a cardiovascular boost to their training regimens. Moreover, Flagstaff has hundreds of miles of dirt roads, perfect for preventing injury from overuse on pavement. Finally, Flagstaff has a long history of being a place for performance athletes to train. This meant that, as Covid-19 restrictions eased, there was the potential for informal and formal races to keep the team in racing condition. Overall, Flagstaff was the perfect destination for the team to train and bond during the restricted season.
“Having a group in Flagstaff is really great. We can push each other during workouts, and it’s also nice just to spend time together and not be alone at home,” commented Alber on the merits of the Flagstaff setup. “Although we won’t be racing for Harvard anytime soon, this training will still help us when we hopefully compete in the fall.”
The total number of people in Flagstaff varies, as runners on both the men’s and women’s sides join the team for a week or two and then leave for other final destinations. However, normally, there are about nine to ten runners from the men’s team at any given time so far this semester, and another men’s team member is arriving this coming week on a permanent stay. Moreover, four runners from the women’s team have settled in Flagstaff as well. This group of 13-14 runners is split between two houses, one for the men’s group and one for the women’s group. The runners frequently meet up for bonding events and training.
So far the team has not been able to engage in any races while out in the Grand Canyon state. However, that is slated to change as many of the team members applied to a race on March 21st in Phoenix. Race coordinators have not released the final rosters or the events in hopes to keep crowds at bay during the Covid-19 pandemic. Nevertheless, it is safe to assume that some Harvard runners will have the chance to compete in their first real race in a year. This will be an especially large boost to team morale, as the Ivy League is one of the only major NCAA Division I conferences currently on hiatus. Thus, Crimson runners have had to watch from the sidelines as their competitors outside of the Ivy League partake in races and competitions across the country.
“Being like, one of the only groups that’s not able to run all of those races, we’re kind of looking at the other teams, running all these really fast times and qualifying for nationals and stuff,” said Melville on the canceled season. “So us being out here is making the best of a tough situation. Everyone has been super excited for the meet coming up because it’s been 13 months since any of us have raced. We’ve been training really hard, and it’ll be fun to see that training pay off. I think a lot of us are going to make big jumps compared to where we left campus.”
Most of the runners are excited for the benefits of the high altitude training in the short run, but generally are unsure that those benefits will carry through to next year’s season. Furthermore, high altitude training can be draining for the same reason it is so effective. For this reason, every Friday, the team packs into cars and drives down to Sedona, which is at a much lower altitude (4,000 feet), to sample a different altitude and gauge the effects of the extra 3,000 feet.
Another positive development of the team’s time in Flagstaff is the closer relationships they have formed. Running is by nature a solitary sport during races but thrives as a communal sport during training. Keeping the team connected during Covid-19 was always going to be a major challenge, but the Flagstaff group has been able to make the best out of the canceled season.
“It’ll be easier going back to campus, knowing all of these incoming freshmen who have deferred,” Melville noted. “I think it’s especially good for them because they get to see how the older guys train and what they do on a daily basis. But overall I think this is really good for team chemistry in general. We’ll definitely be a lot closer as a team because of this. You’re living in a house with seven other guys, [so] there will be a lot of good memories to look back on.”
Runners always are a resilient bunch, capable of running 100-mile weeks on limited rest. A Covid-19 impacted season required a different kind of resilience: the kind of resilience to bring a scattered and disparate team together.
— Staff writer William Connaughton can be reached at william.connaughton@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
On the morning of Tuesday, March 10, 2020, the Ivy League basketball season came to a screeching halt. The men’s and women’s Ivy League Basketball Tournaments, set to take place at Harvard the upcoming weekend, were canceled, with the regular-season champions, the Princeton women and Yale men, receiving automatic bids to the soon-to-be-canceled NCAA Tournament. In scrapping the tournaments, the Ancient Eight was the first college basketball conference to call a premature end to the season. The then-contentious decision was followed by a cascade of cancellations as the country began to grapple with the Covid-19 pandemic.
A year after the cancellation that shocked the college basketball world, most conferences are holding tournaments again as the sport gears up for the return of March Madness. Not the Ivy League, however. Again exercising the caution that briefly made it sports’ leading story last season, the Ancient Eight last November became the only NCAA Division I conference to cancel all winter sports, including men’s and women’s basketball, due to Covid-19 concerns. While most of the college basketball world has enjoyed a return to something approaching normalcy — albeit mostly fan-less and with a handful of Covid-19 related game cancellations and a series of health and safety protocols — the Crimson has remained on the sidelines.
But while there has been no on-court activity at Harvard this year, the basketball programs have hardly taken a year off. Throughout the entire calendar year, Crimson basketball coaches spend considerable amounts of time engaging with prospective high school athletes in the hopes of securing their commitment.
For 2021, the men’s team has landed what is currently the 49th best-recruiting class in the country according to the scouting service 247 Sports, which is best in the Ivy League and in line with some of its stronger recruiting classes in recent years. That includes prospects from Massachusetts, Illinois, Arizona, and South Carolina, evidence that, at least for the 2021 class, the pandemic has not kept Harvard from recruiting across the country.
Associate Head Coach Mike Roux, who leads recruitment for the women’s team, detailed a recruiting process that takes place over a few years. Prospects are identified early in their high school careers and get to know the program over the course of many conversations. The process then intensifies during junior year, when potential recruits take SATs and ACTs and the coaching staffs begin to determine which students might fit in both on the court and in the classroom.
“As they move into their sophomore and their junior year,” Roux said, “it starts to get a little more heavy in terms of recruiting and trying to get kids on campus and trying to have them understand who Harvard is and what our basketball program is all about.”
Alongside the personal connections built early on are evaluations from the coaches, who travel the country to see potential recruits, particularly during the April of and July after their sophomore years.
“The way AAU has progressed over the last probably ten years, there’s no one tournament anymore like there used to be 15 years ago that you could go to and see all the best players,” Roux said. “You do kind of have to scour the country, and during the month of July, our staff is all over the place. We’re in every corner of the country — we’re everywhere.”
For the class of 2021, most of this had been completed by March 10, 2020. Men’s Assistant Coach Brian Eskildsen explained that as far as the 2021 class, the Crimson, by virtue of its early pre-pandemic recruitment, was not impacted as much as other programs might have been.
“We were fortunate that we are out ahead of the game,” Eskildsen said. “We had those guys on campus, they had already spent time with our players, they had already seen what campus looked like. And so when everything shut down, we were actually ahead of maybe some other schools because [the prospective players] had a really good feel for who we were, and what Harvard was about.”
In recruiting the class of 2022, however, Harvard basketball has had to embrace the new elements of recruiting in the pandemic. With the NCAA extending its recruiting dead period through May 31, 2021, college basketball coaches across the country have been unable to meet with players in-person. Unable to welcome recruits to campus, the Crimson coaching staffs quickly adjusted by increasing phone calls, providing virtual campus tours, and holding Zoom meetings with players and their families. For a university that prides itself on its vibrant community, however, the lack of in-person recruiting has unavoidable shortcomings.
“We've had to try to find some creative ways to get all of our information about who we are as a program to the prospects and their families without them ever setting foot on campus,” Eskildsen said. “I don't think it's as easy for guys to get a feel for what our players are like, you know? When they're on campus, they get to see that our guys [...] like the same music, they play the same video games. You know, they're very similar as people and they love basketball.”
The inability of coaches to watch players compete in live settings has also affected the recruiting process. While reviewing recruits’ game films has long played a prominent role in evaluating a player’s talent, the importance of identifying talent through film has significantly increased in the past year.
“We haven't gotten to see them at practices or games in their high school seasons, [but] we've gotten a lot of tape,” Eskildsen said. “So it's gone virtual, where we were always watching game film that we were [...] getting sent to us, but that has been amplified. Because that's the only thing that you can do from a talent evaluation [standpoint].”
Despite the challenges posed by recruiting almost entirely through digital platforms, the past year has also provided opportunities for Harvard’s basketball programs to improve their outreach to players. As women’s Head Coach Kathy Delaney-Smith explains, the introduction of more digital recruiting practices has increased her program’s flexibility when communicating with recruits.
“I would credit [Coach Roux] and other staff members who have worked really hard putting together a PowerPoint. It can encompass anything from the virtual tour of Harvard to the virtual tour of the athletic facilities to ‘meet the coaches’ to the projected future we see for you as a basketball player in our program,” Delaney-Smith said. “I think this is something where, if I had it 20 years ago, we would have maybe gotten some more big-time players because it’s really quite, quite good.”
With new dimensions of basketball recruiting opening up more creative ways to hit the recruiting trail, the coaches all agreed that it is likely that many of these techniques, such as Zoom presentations, will last into the future. But while the shift to more digital recruiting strategies may persist, Crimson coaches remain excited at the prospect of interacting with players on campus and in live competition once again.
“For all of us in college coaching, we’re looking forward to the day when we can go back out and recruit and see kids play live,” Roux said. “As much as all this stuff will stick, there’s still no replacement for your own two eyes watching a kid play live and seeing everything that goes on around that. I think everybody’s looking forward to that day.”
According to Eskildsen, even the absence of Ivy League basketball this year has not been a major drag on recruiting.
“I think it's been hard for us in terms of the Ivy League schools, our basketball product hasn't been available for them to see,” Eskildsen said. “But ... if anything, I think people recognize how quick the Ivy League was to cancel the tournament back last year. And I think seeing that for putting the players and their health and safety first and foremost is a positive.”
— Staff writer Lev Cohen can be reached at lev.cohen@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @LevTHC.
— Staff writer A.J. Dilts can be reached at aj.dilts@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
As the Harvard University men’s hockey team departed the Bright-Landry Hockey Center around one year ago, most players and coaches did so still holding high hopes for next season.
Today, many still do — but the anticipation has to wait at least a year longer than they may have expected.
As the coronavirus has upended sports in the Ivy League in the year since Covid-19 emptied Harvard’s campus last March, canceling an entire year of athletic competition and reforming rosters throughout the conference, the men’s hockey team has dispersed around North America.
Today, as much of college hockey gears up for Covid-era conference playoffs, Harvard players are training in junior leagues and working out with private coaches in all corners of the country. Like the rest of the Ivy League — which canceled all three athletic seasons due to the pandemic — Harvard has watched from afar as many of its non-Ancient Eight opponents play on with restrictions through a pandemic-stricken season.
“I think anybody involved would say that it is difficult and at times can be frustrating,” Harvard men’s hockey coach Ted Donato ’91 said last week. “You realize the opportunity that is passing by for these young student-athletes.”
“On the other side of it, you really fight to have the perspective to say that the health and the safety of our student-athletes come before everything else,” Donato added.
‘All Across North America’
Over the past year, players on the Harvard roster have spread across the continent. In fact, in the spring 2021 semester, no men’s hockey players are living on campus, including those allowed on campus per the university’s guidelines. Many of the under-21 players have returned to junior hockey to compete for teams across the midwest in the United States Hockey League.
“They’re age-eligible, and there’s this structure, really,” Ted Donato said. “To me, that’s what everybody’s in search of, to be able to have some structure where it’s safe and they still have an opportunity to play and compete.”
Players over 21, however, do not have the advantage of meeting junior hockey’s age cut-off. While the Crimson USHL-ers have been able to participate in real games against other Division I-caliber players, the older members of the Harvard squad have regrouped more informally.
Jack Donato, who completed his junior season last March, is currently in Florida, along with more than half of his teammates. In the Tampa area, the Crimson skaters have been training under Brett Strot, a former assistant coach for the U.S. Women’s National Team who served on a staff that saw the American women capture the 2017 International Ice Hockey Federation Women’s World Championship gold medal.
With Strot — who currently coaches at the United States Premier Hockey League level — the Harvard players have been skating alongside other Ivy League student-athletes who had their seasons canceled, including skaters from Brown and Dartmouth.
In fact, Jack Donato said the Ivy rivals are sometimes able to line up by team during drills.
“It's been great. These kids from other schools are awesome, but it is competitive,” Jack Donato said. “You definitely get that school pride aspect into it, and it’s fun.”
Some of the players who maintain juniors eligibility have also spent time in Tampa Bay. Despite playing for USHL teams and the United States World Juniors Squad that captured gold in January, sophomore forward John Farinacci and sophomore defenseman Henry Thrun both spent some time training in the Sunshine State, according to Coach Donato.
Reshaping the Roster
When the Crimson returns to the ice, they will do so with an unprecedented level of roster turnover. If the 2021-22 season starts as planned, two full classes will enter it never having worn a Harvard sweater.
“I think for our team, the biggest issue is going to be just finding our footing right away,” Jack Donato said.
“You’re going to have potentially half of your team playing their first game in October,” he said. “The good news is that the rest of the Ivy League is in the same boat.”
Jack Donato was one of just three players who opted to take the year off. Five more opted to leave the team for professional hockey.
“I wasn't necessarily ready to give up playing for Harvard and being a student-athlete at Harvard,” said Donato of the decision to take time off. “Although this year has been tough, it’s given me a lot of perspective on how much I do appreciate being able to go to the rink every day and be a student-athlete at Harvard.”
While Jack Donato is one of three Crimson skaters who opted not to enroll academically this year to preserve eligibility, he was the only class of 2021 player to do so. Four other seniors decided to enroll and will graduate as scheduled in May. Under the Ivy League’s temporary policy adjustment that will permit graduate students to partake in the conference’s first season back in play, these seniors would technically be eligible to appear next year if they enrolled in a Harvard graduate program. At this moment, however, there are not any members of the Crimson roster that plan to take advantage of the amendment.
The Crimson will also bring back players who have taken part in differing training regiments during the year off.
“When you have guys within your program, as a program, and as a coaching staff, you have a certain way you want things done,” Ted Donato said. “You have certain fundamentals that you feel that you have as a coach that you want your team to abide by, and kind of use as a compass. And sometimes that’s a challenge when you have guys that are coming from other teams and other disciplines.”
The roster ramifications began even before the academic year. Last year, the five Harvard players who had been drafted by NHL teams decided to forego their remaining eligibility in addition to not enrolling academically. Ted Donato said that four of the five players who departed for pro hockey had indicated that they were planning to return to Harvard before the season was officially canceled.
“The fact that we weren’t going to be on campus and having a season had a significant impact on those decisions,” Ted Donato said.
Jack Drury, who was drafted by the Carolina Hurricanes in 2018, has spent the season in the Swedish Hockey League after departing Harvard as a rising junior. In his first 35 games for the Vaxjo Lakers HC, Drury has put up 25 points, including 10 goals.
Other players who decided to go pro early have seen limited playing time. Jack Rathbone (Vancouver Canucks), Jack Badini (Anaheim Ducks), Henry Bowlby (Florida Panthers), and Reilly Walsh (New Jersey Devils) have all seen limited action for their respective organizations’ American Hockey League affiliates. Of the group, Walsh has appeared the most at the AHL level, with 9 games played as of March 9.
Donato, who is expected to return for his 18th season behind the Harvard bench next winter, said he remains “very optimistic” about the team’s prospects when it returns, despite the challenges of regrouping.
“I’m extremely excited about the team’s potential and possibilities next year,” he said. “I do think there are a lot of reasons for optimism. Although very inexperienced, I think we can be very talented and exciting, and I’m looking forward to that.”
— Staff writer William C. Boggs can be reached at william.boggs@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @BoggsTHC.
—Staff writer Jasper G. Goodman can be reached at jasper.goodman@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @Jasper_Goodman.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Like many student-athletes at Harvard junior Victor Crouin had his world turned upside down when students were sent home in March due to the coronavirus pandemic. The star first seed on the Crimson’s elite squash squad managed to return to his hometown of Marseille, France, just before the nation went into lockdown.
“Last March, I traveled back home straight away. And I got lucky because France had a national lockdown just three days after I came back home,” Crouin said.
Although the lockdown kept Crouin off-court for almost two months, he was able to hit the ground running as soon as courts reopened in May.
“It's justified that during the lockdown, we weren’t able to go on the squash courts,” Crouin said. “So in May, when they eased the restrictions, the first thing I wanted to do is to go on the courts and hit the squash ball. I was really motivated to go back on court and to train again.”
According to Crouin, he has been able to train regularly since returning home, maintaining a rigorous regimen that sometimes includes two workouts in one day.
“I've been training broadly, once every day, sometimes twice, when I don't have classes or feel like I've got enough time to spend two to three hours on court,” Crouin said. “But, most of the time, I train in the morning, and then when class is taught at 9:00 a.m. [Eastern Standard Time], then it's 3:00 p.m. here in France. So I've got time to have lunch and then get ready to go to classes.”
This past year, Harvard’s cancellation of all three sports seasons left many student-athletes dejected. Crouin felt that without the structure of Crimson sports, he had to dig a little deeper for motivation.
“It’s a little bit hard to keep the motivation every day when you don't have [competition],” Crouin said. “I guess I just learned to motivate myself with other means than a competition, and just to focus on personal growth and [improve] without having to compete against someone else — to just keep being able to enjoy competing against myself.”
For Crouin, one of the silver linings of being back home has been getting to train with his father again. According to Crouin, his father was his first coach and continues to play a key role in improving his game.
“I'm training as much as I used to when I was on campus,” Crouin said. “It's just instead of having team training, I'm really having individual training with my dad, who's my main coach, at home.”
“We've always had a close connection,” Crouin added. “On the squash courts, since I started playing squash, he has been my coach from the very beginning. And so it was nice just to be home and be able to interact with him on a daily basis, whether it was on the court [or] outside of the court, share ideas, and then we could continue to evolve my game.”
Crouin hopes for a return to normalcy this fall when he will look to lead by example as one of the team’s four seniors. According to Crouin, older players on the squash team play crucial roles in helping new teammates adjust to the lives of student-athletes.
“I always aspire to help my teammates just get better by inspiring them through work ethic or just knowledge about the game,” Crouin said. “When I was a sophomore already, it was weird not to be a freshman anymore, and to have incoming freshmen in the team that we had to manage and help to adjust to the campus environment.”
“'I’m looking forward to being this ‘big brother,’ just helping the younger students getting [into] the team and being ready to help the next generations [of players].”
Crouin also deeply misses the camaraderie of the squash team and looks forward to making more memories with them during his final season competing for the Crimson.
“[I’m excited to] share amazing moments with my teammates, on- and off-court,” Crouin reflected.
When Harvard athletics (hopefully) return beginning fall 2021, Crouin will lead the charge as the Crimson aims for a third straight title. Harvard won the 2020 College Squash Association Men’s National Championship against No. 3-seeded University of Pennsylvania last March, just days before the March 10, 2020, campus shutdown
— Staff writer Eliot Min can be reached at eliot.min@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
One year after Harvard undergraduates were sent home and Square businesses drastically shifted their operations in March 2020, the essential workers of Harvard Square and Harvard’s campus have worked tirelessly to keep the local community alive. The Crimson’s Multimedia Editors spoke with local essential workers who have largely worked throughout the coronavirus pandemic to learn about their experiences.
Iyobel Tensae stands in front of Adams House on Plympton Street. Tensae works for Harvard University Mail Services, picking up Covid-19 tests from 11 different test sites on campus. Mail Services returned to close to normal operations in the spring semester of 2021.
Gloria, a cook at El Jefe’s Taqueria on Mt. Auburn Street prepares tacos for a takeout order. Unlike many other restaurants in Harvard Square, El Jefe’s has not reduced its operating hours and remains open 20 hours a day, from 8 a.m. to 4 a.m.
Two chefs, Ivan and Israel, prepare pizza behind the counter at Pinnochio’s Pizza and Subs on Winthrop Street. Pinnochio’s has often been a late-night favorite in Harvard Square, but as of late November 2021, only take-out orders can be placed after 9:30 p.m.
A barista at J.P. Licks on Massachusetts Avenue finishes making an iced coffee Tuesday afternoon on one of Cambridge’s warmest days of 2021. All 17 J.P. Licks locations in the greater Boston area are currently open, yet none allow indoor dining.
A server at Le’s Vietnamese Cuisine in The Garage on Dunster Street gets ready to bring out an order of five bowls of pho to guests in the dining room. Many other restaurants in the building, including Chutney’s and El Jefe’s Taqueria, have largely remained open for dining since last fall.
An employee helps check out items for customers at the Harvard Bookstore on Massachusetts Avenue. The Harvard Bookstore set up curbside pickup services starting in early January 2021 from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. each day to safely keep up with the volume of visitors.
An employee at Cardullo’s Gourmet Shoppe on Brattle Street prepares fresh bread by the deli counter. Cardullo’s has remained open, despite the pandemic, to provide gourmet delicacies and gifts, as it has since 1950.
A line cook prepares a large takeout order in the kitchen at Tasty Burger on John F. Kennedy Street. Tasty Burger greatly reduced its indoor seating capacity, reserving only one table and the counter for indoor dining.
At Saloniki on Dunster Street, Fernando cooks chicken gyros on the grill. Like many other restaurants in Harvard Square, Saloniki has had to reduce its business hours to cut costs and remain open during the pandemic.
Ivy Rose and Chris Murphy stand inside the entrance of the Fjallraven store on Church Street, taking visitors’ temperatures as they enter the store. Chris has been working in the store throughout the duration of the pandemic, which has necessitated numerous precautions to ensure the safety of customers.
Sections
Exactly one year ago, Harvard administrators informed undergraduates that they would need to evacuate campus in just five days, due to the Covid-19 pandemic. From March 10 to 15, 2020, students packed up their rooms, made travel arrangements, and said goodbye to their friends and classmates. The Crimson’s Multimedia Editors documented those hectic five days, and one year later, they revisited some of the same locations to capture the new normal on campus.
After students were notified that they needed to depart campus by Sunday, many members of the graduating senior class gathered on the stairs in front of Widener Library to pose for an impromptu senior class photo. One year later, Widener Library is still closed to students and public visitors, leaving tourists to roam the yard wearing protective masks.
In the days leading up to the evacuation, students scrambled to pack their belongings and arrange for storage or shipment. Students frantically purchased cardboard boxes and storage equipment, while simultaneously making travel arrangements to leave campus. One year later, the same street is deserted except for one woman wearing a face mask.
Amid the uncertainty of Harvard’s campus de-densification, some undergraduates gathered with their classmates to play sports and spend time together before having to depart. One year later, a small group of students, wearing protective masks, walk together down Mill Street to take a break from remote classes and enjoy the sunny day.
While many were busy arranging plans for departure, some students gathered in Harvard Yard to spend their last moments with friends and classmates. Students played frisbee in the mildly warm weather, walked along the Charles River, and experienced the feeling of campus one last time. One year later, many seniors and juniors are back on campus, but the Yard is still relatively empty. Although domestic and international travel has been heavily discouraged by national authorities, some tourists continue to frequent Harvard Yard and place their hand on John Harvard’s foot.
Many undergraduates also congregated at parties organized by final clubs and other social organizations to celebrate their last moments together; for many seniors, parties like these would be the last time they saw many of their classmates and friends. Final clubs, like the Owl, had lines spilling out the doors. One year later, Holyoke Place is deserted, only frequented by the occasional jogger or Lowell House resident.
The Richard A. and Susan F. Smith Campus Center, once bustling with students and Harvard affiliates, has been recently reopened to students under strict guidelines, as part of Harvard’s phased campus reopening. The Smith Center’s Harvard Commons has been completely rearranged to guarantee social distancing at all times, and visitors are required to book a spot in advance.
Over the past year, Harvard’s campus has dramatically changed. Traditionally, students would be preparing for midterms, enjoying the occasional warm day, and living in campus accommodations during March. However, due to the impact of Covid-19, undergraduates are scattered across the world, attending classes from their computers. As the pandemic continues through the spring, some students are living on campus, but many are looking towards the fall 2021 semester to potentially return to what was previously viewed as “normal”.
Sections
Gratitude can be hard. Gratitude in the midst of a global pandemic and other endless societal trauma? Damn near impossible. Yet, as many of us sit in our empty childhood bedrooms a full year out from the day the world ended, we can’t help but slow down and appreciate even the little moments that have brought us joy this year. We asked our writers to share their own personal “little moments” in doodle form, as we appreciate a year truly like no other.
To all the blanket burritos I’ve encased myself in before… Thank you for reminding me that to be alone is not to be without warmth.
— Christine S. Lee ’23
Did I regret it? A little. Do I still regret it? Absolutely not. The quarantine bangs, if anything, are at least a conversation starter and at most, an invitation to be your hairstylist. And trust me, you won’t regret it either.
— Janani Sekar ’23
Spontaneous calls to talk about really specific topics, and no general catching up.
— Sarah M. Lightbody ’22
Constant appreciation for the HUDS staff, for being all around wonderful human beings and providing me with plenty of oat milk.
— Rachel L. Reynolds ’22
To all the stray cats I feed in my neighborhood, thank you for the never-ending cuteness and serotonin.
— Maranda Ngue ’22
My mama makes the best cup of tea in the world, and I’m so grateful for another year of drinking tea with her while complaining about Zoom, stressing about the future, or discussing the latest episode of “Below Deck.”
— Peyton A. Jones, ’22
So, maybe everything else is falling apart, but at least we have warm blankets, HUDS oat milk, and plenty of stray cats to help us pull through. We may not be experts in ~emotional stability~, but appreciating even the tiniest things to get us through this year feels like the right start. So why wait? Send that appreciation text, that letter of gratitude, that doodle-full-of-love — and look forward to a better year ahead<3
Sections
Man, is it the 365th day of March already? Jeez, time has really flown by for Flyby. It’s been a weird year, but don’t worry — we still found a way to opine, complain, and make quizzes about our new virtual reality. We proudly present Flyby’s Top 10 Pandemic Pieces of the Past Year, from the start of this nightmare to today:
March 11, 2020: How to Blow Your BoardPlus in 5 Days
Ah, yes. The one that started it all. With just five short days to figure out our entire lives after moving to a virtual semester, most of us spent the days stressing over everything from storing belongings to squeezing in the maximum number of tearful goodbyes to arranging transportation home. Once the critical items were checked off, though, we faced another problem: How on Earth does one spend $65 of BoardPlus in five or less days? Luckily, this board has a deep love of LamCafe Javivas and intimate knowledge of every campus café.
Thanks to Hannah J. Humes ’21, we blazed through our final days holding BoardPlus office hours, stocking up on snacks for our drives / flights, and, yes, purchasing entire cakes.
March 24, 2020: How to Vibe Check Your Zoom Class
Just about a month prior to doomsday, we presented the incredible instant classic of “How to Vibe Check Your Section.” After about two weeks at home getting familiar with the latest cursed blue app in our lives, our piece needed an update to fit these virtual times. Where would we be without our lovely vibe-checking writer?
Thanks to Sarah M. Lightbody ’22, we can vibe check across any distance, and look good doing it. 
April 10, 2020: An Open Letter to the Class of 2020
After a month off campus, we were still deep in our feelings. Our seniors were oscillating between complete shock and sadness; our underclassmen were missing those final weeks with their mentors and friends. We’re a pretty sentimental board, so we channeled our feelings into a farewell piece expressing our gratitude to the senior class whose last year at Harvard ended far too soon. Class of 2020, if you’re reading this, we love and miss you!
Thanks to Rocket Claman ’21, we learned it’s okay to not be okay, and that you should always tell the people you love how you really feel.
April 22-25, 2020: Virtual Visitas Feature
Despite being in a pandemic, we were determined to welcome the Class of 2024 to Harvard, and hopefully pass on some of our upperclassmen knowledge (like, please, please, please don’t wear your ID and keys on a lanyard around your neck!). Knowing nothing about what Virtual Visitas would actually be like, we still managed to point out the silver linings of a Virtual Visitas, give advice on how to choose a college that fits with no in-person campus visit weekends, and, most importantly, how to have a ~spicy~ Virtual Visitas.
Thanks to our staff writers, we were able to keep the welcoming spirit of Flyby going strong in a truly *unprecedented* situation. 
May 5, 2020: How to: Not Revert Back to Your High School Self During this Quarantine
Something about being in your childhood bedroom just makes you want to play your sophomore year playlist on repeat, text old crushes, fall back into your high school sleep schedule, or do something equally toxic. Luckily, we were able to brainstorm some practical solutions to cope with the quarantine impulse to re-read Percy Jackson and be a grindy tryhard.
Thanks to Kiana Ziadkhanpour ’22, we remembered that sometimes, you need to actually take care of yourself in a pandemic, and were grateful for the tips on how to go about it.
October 13-16, 2020: Dear Freshmen Feature
With fall weather fully setting in and our Guide to Harvard-Yale (understandably) off the table, we devoted ourselves to a brand new feature: Dear Freshmen. With a campus full of almost entirely freshmen, we gladly passed along all the hot tips, wholesome advice, and Cambridge must-do’s we wished we could have given in person.
Thanks to our staff writers, we welcomed in the new freshmen with joy, advice, and excitement — Covid may have changed their first year at Harvard, but we wouldn’t let it change our love for them<3
October 22, 2020: An Open Letter to the Friends I Really Like But Just Don’t Talk To
Do you ever look at your texts during a global pandemic and realize you kinda haven’t had the emotional stamina to reach out to, like, anyone in months? Yeah, we get it. Luckily, your people will understand, even if it’s been a minute. Still, never a bad idea to express some #gratitude, so feel free to use our open letter for some inspo (or just copy and paste — we won’t tell).
Thanks to Georgia K. Steigerwald ’23, all of us who kinda disappeared into a TikTok wormhole in April and didn’t reemerge til September felt inspired to send some words of affirmation to the people we care about.
February 18, 2021: Flyby Tries: Fun Ways To Reuse Those Giant Brown Paper Bags
Few images can appropriately sum up a year of living on campus during the pandemic without a single word — among them is undoubtedly the giant brown paper bags filling every recycling bin in the Cambridge area. If you’ve been watching too many Five Minute Crafts videos and feel like you can do anything with a pair of scissors and a glue stick, look no further for ways to spice up those plain bags. Maybe they’ll serve as some great keepsakes when this nightmare is over.
Thanks to Ashton E. Body ’24 and Alexandria T. Q. Ho ’24, we gave those brown bags an interesting second life as everything from protest signs to picnic blankets to slippers.
February 22, 2021: Dude That’s Rude: Having Basic Expectations of Your Students
With another midterm season slowly rolling in, our writer appropriately captured the feeling each of us has had nearly every time we’ve looked at an assignment these past few semesters: “RUDE.” The bar may be on the floor (asking us to have thoughts? crazy!), but that doesn’t mean it hasn’t still been an honestly tough semester — or maybe it’s just ~different~.
Thanks (again) to Rocket Claman ’21, we felt #seen about how really, truly, awfully burnt-out we’re all feeling — and hoped our professors would see it too. 
March 5, 2021: Flyby Everywhere: My Passport Probably Thinks I’m Dead
As the first piece in our new Flyby Everywhere international column, this one holds a special place in our heart. While this year has been a general shitshow for everyone, international students have been hit especially hard, with many new freshmen never having stepped foot in the United States (let alone on campus!). To our international freshmen classmates, we love you, and you deserve so much better than this year.
Thanks to Sandra W. Mwangi ’24, we appreciated the simple joys of having seen even the slightest exterior of a Harvard building in person, and enjoyed time well spent exploring through Google Earth. 
And here we are, back to the present. There’s no denying that this was a dumpster fire of a year, in more ways than one. Yet, at least we’ve had the best classmates to share the experience with. It’s been quite a ride, and no matter what this next year brings, we’ll be here to commemorate and commiserate with salty articles, funky quizzes, heartfelt open letters, Harvard hacks, and, as always, a whole lot of flove.
Xoxo,
Flyby
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The chair and two members of the Presidential Committee on Harvard and the Legacy of Slavery met for a Tuesday afternoon virtual webinar to discuss the Committee’s work and plans.
Organized by the Radcliffe Institute, the panel featured Radcliffe Institute Dean Tomiko Brown-Nagin, who chairs the committee, History Professor Tiya Miles, the co-chair of the subcommittee focused on “campus and community,” and University Professor and former Law School Dean Martha Minow, who co-chairs the subcommittee on curriculum and educational materials.
Brown-Nagin announced during the panel that the committee will release a report of historical findings and recommendations for action “during winter of this year,” adding that its work will be “a beginning, rather than an end” to Harvard’s engagement with its history surrounding slavery.
University President Lawrence S. Bacow announced the formation of the committee in November 2019, writing that its work would allow Harvard to “continue to understand and address the enduring legacy of slavery within our university community.”
The initiative would “provide opportunities to convene academic events, activities, and conversations that will encourage our broader university community to think seriously and rigorously about the continuing impact and legacy of slavery,” Bacow wrote at the time.
Brown-Nagin said the committee — which includes 14 faculty from 10 of Harvard’s 12 degree-granting schools — is undertaking a “monumental” effort that demands a “multidisciplinary lens.”
“Our collective hope for a more just society requires us as individuals and as a community to pursue truth fearlessly and thoughtfully, and this means engaging with the present and not only with the present, but also with the past,” Brown-Nagin said.
“We can’t dismantle what we don’t understand,” she said. “And we can’t understand contemporary inequity and injustice unless we reckon honestly with our history.”
Fostering broader engagement with history is at the core of the “campus and community” subcommittee’s work, Miles said.
“All of us develop a sense of who we are through history, through how it is that we define the past, through how it is that we apply the past to our own lives,” she said. “If we believe that historical understanding is collective, we have to open up a process that involves the community.”
The subcommittee’s work has been guided by “asking what it is that broader communities, not just Harvard, will gain from the work that we do,” Miles added.
Among the initiatives under consideration are a “graphic catalogue” of objects and places associated with Harvard’s ties to slavery, walking tours, public discussions, and a possible collaboration with the American Repertory Theatre.
The subcommittee on curriculum has focused on making research and course materials related to Harvard’s ties with slavery “much more readily available and usable,” Minow said. It is also engaging with filmmakers about the possibility of creating a series of films on the “experiences of slavery and their influence at Harvard.”
“We can’t change the past, but we can change the trajectory of the future,” she said.
The panel discussion comes just over a month after Bacow announced that the Peabody Museum of Archaeology and Ethnology had found in its collections the remains of 15 people of African descent alive during the time of slavery in the United States.
“This terrible discovery calls for an urgent response,” Brown-Nagin wrote to Radcliffe Institute staff at the time.
In the Q&A session at the end of the discussion, Brown-Nagin briefly addressed questions about Harvard's possession of photographs of enslaved people commissioned by Harvard biologist Louis Agassiz in the 19th century as part of a racist project to prove the biological superiority of white people. A Massachusetts court last week rejected a lawsuit against Harvard that alleged the University's possession of those images was illegal.
“The most recent statement from the University commits to making those daguerreotypes more publicly accessible, and we look forward to hearing more about that,” Brown-Nagin said.
Discussion attendees also sent questions about the student movement encouraging Harvard to divest its endowment from private prisons.
“There is the statement — the position of the university,” Brown-Nagin said. “Then there’s the work of the Committee. And I will say that this committee appreciates that mass incarceration is very relevant to the work that we're doing.”
One discussion attendee asked Miles what her projection was for the amount of time it would take for humanity to “heal” from the damages caused by slavery.
“I think we need quite a long timeline,” Miles said. “When I think back to my enslaved ancestors, I really reflect on that — on how they had to have a long timeline, in order to keep themselves moving from day to day in the conditions under which they have to live.”
“We are so deeply enmeshed in racial hierarchies,” she added. “I think it will take at least as long as this country has existed — and before that, because this was going on in the colonial era — and longer for us to start to unweave that net.”
—Staff writer Oliver L. Riskin-Kutz can be reached at oliver.riskin-kutz@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @OLRiskinKutz.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
