News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
More than three dozen students and supporters of the graduate student union interrupted a speech by University President Lawrence S. Bacow in Sanders Theatre Friday afternoon, capping three days of demonstrations in support of the union’s strike.
Bacow had barely begun his speech to freshmen and their parents for First-Year Family Weekend when Eshaan J. Vakil ’25 stood up and shouted, “President Bacow!” At least 40 students and their supporters followed suit, chanting for a “fair contract now” before walking out of the auditorium.
The walkout was organized by Student Labor Action Movement and Harvard College Young Democratic Socialists of America, two student groups that have been organizing in solidarity with Harvard Graduate Students Union-United Automobile Workers during its three-day strike.
The strike ends at midnight Friday.
“Hear me now,” Vakil shouted, with other demonstrators echoing him. “I am a first year. I stand with student workers, their working conditions, our learning conditions. None of us want abusers on campus.”
Some freshmen and parents who remained seated applauded the demonstrators as they exited. As chants faded, Bacow continued his speech, pausing only slightly to acknowledge the interruption.
“As I was saying, it’s a pleasure to be with all of you here at Harvard in person,” he said. “Let’s hear it for our students. A round of applause.”
According to Vakil, the group wanted to demonstrate against what they see as a lack of adequate pay and recourse for discrimination for student workers.
“We felt it was our moral duty to disrupt that speech because we need to show the world that this is not okay — this state of being and this situation where student workers and grad students and all workers at Harvard are being underpaid, and they don’t have any access to real recourse,” he said in an interview following the demonstration.
Jacob K. Ostfeld ’23, a member of YDSA, said the walkout was meant to inform parents of the union’s concerns. Ostfeld added that Harvard’s inaction at the bargaining table “forced” the demonstrators to take drastic action.
University spokesperson Jason A. Newton declined to comment on the walkout.
The event was only open to students and family members with badges for parents’ weekend programming, but the demonstrators collected the badges from supportive freshmen, distributed them to other undergraduates and graduate students, and worked out a script for the walkout, according to participants.
Katherine A. Cassese ’25, a member of SLAM, said she collected badges and wanted to join the walkout effort. She said she was “nervous” about possible disciplinary action before the event.
“I was so scared, but once it actually started and we started screaming, I was not nervous anymore,” she said. “I remembered why it was so important.”
While HGSU-UAW sanctioned and supported SLAM and HYDSA in coordinating the walkout, the union did not organize it, according to HGSU-UAW Trustee Andrew M. Bergman.
Parents attending Bacow’s speech said they were caught off guard by the protestors.
“It was a little startling at first because they started yelling and I was one row behind them,” said Melaine Osborne, the parent of a freshman. “But I get it. It was very strategic, and I get it.”
Doug Campbell, another parent, said families heard the protesters loud and clear.
“I felt like the union handled it in a respectful way. They stood up, they made their point, and then they left,” he said. “But their point was obviously made clearly and forcefully, and everybody listened.”
Arya Kaul, one of the demonstrators and a Ph.D. candidate in the Medical Sciences, said he was “surprised” by some positive reactions from the audience.
“I think there was some confusion among family members about what was happening, and why a bunch of people were standing up and chanting,” Kaul said. “But, amazingly, I was surprised to see there was some applause, some support from family members in the audience who didn’t walk out with us, but wanted to offer their support.”
Vakil said he hopes the walkout will encourage other undergraduates to voice their opinions.
“What I hope is that more undergraduates who support the strike feel comfortable standing up and making sure that their voice is heard and that their thoughts are known,” he said.
After Bacow’s speech, Dean of the College Rakesh Khurana said in an interview that the demonstrators had a right to protest respectfully.
“They are supporting our community’s right to protest and then also to abide by the guidelines that we have for respecting people that are speaking, so always appreciate it when we are able to do both of those things,” he said.
—Staff writer Cara J. Chang can be reached at cara.chang@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @CaraChang20.
—Staff writer Meimei Xu can be reached at meimei.xu@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @MeimeiXu7.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
HANOVER, N.H. — If the Harvard men’s hockey team was at all rusty after 19 months away from the ice, it didn’t show in the Crimson’s season-opener on Friday night.
No. 15/14 Harvard put on an offensive clinic in its first game since March 2020, trouncing Dartmouth, 9-3, at Thompson Arena to open the 2021-22 regular season. The Crimson (1-0, 1-0 ECAC) exploded for six second period goals, burying the Big Green (0-1, 0-1 ECAC), which struggled to create scoring chances in its home opener.
Harvard dominated from start to finish in a contest that got more lopsided as it went on. Six Crimson players recorded multi-point nights — including freshman forward Matthew Coronato, who dazzled in his Crimson debut, notching two goals and two assists.
“It’s always tough to win on the road, and this has been a tough place for us over the years,” Harvard coach Ted Donato ’91 said. “It’s nice to be finally playing a game, and I thought our guys made some key plays.”
Harvard’s special teams picked up where they left off from two years ago, when the Crimson carried one of the best power plays in the country. On Friday, Harvard’s penalty kill limited Dartmouth to 1-for-7 on the man advantage. The Crimson went 3-for-6 on the power play.
“It’s a big part of the game, so we do spend a lot of time on it,” Donato said of Harvard’s special teams. “I thought, killing penalties, we had some shot-blocks, we had some nice saves, [and] we had some puck battles that we won.”
Dartmouth goalie Justin Ferguson struggled in his first appearance in net for the Big Green since January 2020. The senior, who had played in just four games for Dartmouth prior to Friday, allowed nine goals on 37 shots. Still, Dartmouth coach Reid Cashman stuck with his starter for the full 60 minutes.
Harvard jumped out to an early lead, scoring the first two goals of the game in the opening period, despite committing three penalties.
The Big Green gave up a tone-setting shorthanded goal just over one minute after the opening faceoff. After the Crimson committed a penalty just 10 seconds into the game, Coronato put Harvard on the board, taking the puck from a Big Green defender just inside the blue line before scoring on a breakaway with a wrist shot that snuck past Ferguson on the glove side.
“It flipped from us being at a disadvantage to feeling good about ourselves,” Donato said.
Coronato, who went on to score again in the third period and assisted a pair of goals in the second, said he was “really excited off the jump” in his first game for the Crimson.
“I was able to get a turnover at our defensive blue line and just kind of took off and put it high glove,” he said of his first-career goal. “It was a great feeling.”
The Crimson’s penalty kill created problems for Dartmouth, which gave up one shorthanded goal and a pair of goals that came seconds after power-play chances expired.
Harvard tacked on one more in the opening frame when junior forward Nick Abruzzese scored a power-play goal on a shot from the bottom of the left circle. The right-winger — who is coming off a strong freshman season two years ago during which he recorded 44 points and was named the ECAC Rookie of the Year — collected a pinpoint pass through the slot from senior forward Casey Dornbach and beat a lunging Ferguson.
Harvard then cracked the game wide open in the second period. After killing off the tail end of a five-minute Big Green power play that was left over from the first, Harvard came alive for six goals — including two on the power play — that put the game out of Dartmouth’s reach. Wyllum Deveaux, Sean Farrell, Baker Shore, Jack Donato, Henry Thrun, and John Fusco each registered their first goals of the season in the second frame.
After both teams scored in the first three minutes of the second period, making it a 3-1 game, Farrell scored the first of five unanswered goals while crashing the net after a blue line shot by Thrun. From there, the Crimson never looked back.
“Coach Donato really preaches that our best game can beat anyone and that our legs can come through in a 60-minute game,” said Thrun, who notched three points with a goal and two assists Friday. “If we just stick to our game and wear teams down, we’ve got the depth up front — and with D — to be able to play a full 60 minutes and eventually get teams to break down and find the back of the net.”
Dartmouth showed offensive life only intermittently. The Big Green got on the board just under three minutes into the second period when defenseman Tanner Palocsik chipped the puck forward to himself to create a breakaway. The junior fired a shot from the slot that snuck past Harvard goalie Mitchell Gibson.
Gibson, who shared playing time during his freshman season two years ago, surrendered only one goal Friday before being pulled during the second intermission with a big lead.
Dartmouth showed life in the final 2o minutes, scoring twice — but it was too little, too late.
“There’s some things that I am concerned about that we need to fix and adjust,” Donato said. “But overall, I think we should be pretty happy coming out of the game.”
Harvard will host Bentley (3-3) at 8 p.m. Saturday in its first game at the Bright-Landry Hockey Center in more than 600 days.
—Staff writer Jasper G. Goodman can be reached at jasper.goodman@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @Jasper_Goodman.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
On Wednesday morning at 6:00 a.m., Harvard Graduate Students Union-United Automobile Workers began its second strike in two years. Graduate and undergraduate student workers planned to stop teaching and conducting research for three days, as members of the union picketed through Harvard Yard and the Longwood campus. After failing to reach a contract agreement with the University, the union decided to go on strike to demand greater raises, agency shop, and reforms to Harvard’s procedures for handling discrimination and harassment claims.
The Crimson’s Multimedia Editors documented the union’s three days on strike, capturing their picketing through Harvard Yard and Longwood campus.
On a cold, rainy Wednesday, Harvard’s graduate student workers assembled the picket line and marched through Harvard Yard. From blocking delivery trucks at 6 a.m. to rallying in the Science Center Plaza at noon, the picketers were chanting and shouting all throughout the day.
Around Harvard Yard, a variety of chants, songs, and call-and-response shouts could be heard throughout the three-day strike. Picketers carried buckets to hit with sticks, adding noise on top of their chants.
On both Wednesday and Thursday, picketers circled around the entrance to the Smith Campus Center, attempting to prevent Harvard affiliates from entering the building. This picketing technique forces others to “cross the picket line” in order to attend lectures, visit office hours, or access labs.
Over the past few months, the union and the University have clashed on a number of issues, including compensation, third-party arbitration for claims of identity-based discrimination and sexual harassment, and agency shop. These issues are the same sticking points that led to the union’s December 2019 strike that lasted for 29 days.
On Thursday, undergraduate students walked out of their classrooms around 11:35 a.m. near Harvard Yard to support the graduate student union strike. Undergraduates cited solidarity with graduate student workers in deciding to join the demonstrations.
During Thursday’s pickets in Harvard Yard, the weather stayed free of rain after a series of showers Wednesday. More graduate and undergraduate students in support of the union joined the picket line.
On all three days of the strike, the union hosted rallies in the Science Center Plaza to update picketers and strikers on the status of bargaining committee meetings, discuss the importance of striking for their demands, and demonstrate their strength in numbers. A variety of speakers shared their thoughts with the crowd and tried to boost morale for the rest of the day, despite the cold weather.
During Thursday’s rally in the Science Center Plaza, the union’s Sergeant-at-Arms Maya I. Anjur-Dietrich spoke about Wednesday’s bargaining session with the University. “Our disruption and our strike, and your walkout and everything that you’re doing to your professors is working and is going to get us a better offer when we get back to the table when they’re ready to bargain again,” she said.
Throughout Thursday afternoon, picketers carried around a structure with the phrase “Harvard consumes our labor” outside the Smith Campus Center.
As the picketing continued on Thursday afternoon, strikers marched their way through the Smith Campus Center, attempting to disrupt the usually quiet space. With two days complete of the three-day strike, picketers were looking toward their final day to demonstrate in numbers.
On the third and final day of the Harvard graduate student union’s strike, picketers continued to march across campus forming picket lines near the Science Center and Memorial Hall to prevent students and parents from attending large courses. With a large set of events related to First-Year Family Weekend on Friday, strikers desired to disrupt the atmosphere of campus.
At a 12 p.m. rally for the Harvard graduate student union, HGSU Bargaining Committee member Cory W. McCartan spoke to a large crowd of student workers and supporters of the union. Strikers were near Sanders Theater in order to picket large undergraduate courses including CS50 and Ec10a, which allowed both students and parents to attend.
During an event in Sanders Theatre for First-Year Family Weekend, more than three dozen supporters of the graduate student union interrupted a speech by University President Lawrence S. Bacow. The protestors chanted “fair contract now” in the theater before walking out and encouraging students and parents to join.
Demonstrators walk in a circle outside the main entrance to the Science Center on Friday afternoon. As the three-day strike reaches its end, student workers await to see if any possible outcomes arise following their picketing and demonstrations.
