News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
More than a year after being hastily forced to leave campus, our Editorial Board finally gets to opine on some promising news: Vaccines are coming, and they’re coming fast.
All people over the age of 16 who “live, work, or study” in Massachusetts will be eligible to receive the Covid-19 vaccine beginning on April 19, according to a plan unveiled by Massachusetts governor Charlie D. Baker ’79 last week. We won’t be the first to reach the milestone — several other states, including Georgia, Alaska, and West Virginia, have already opened up eligibility to their entire adult population. Yet the newly announced policy is a testament to Massachusetts’s efficient and targeted vaccination rollout: Massachusetts is now the state ranked second in the nation in terms of the percent of vaccines administered out of those delivered, and the early eligibility expansion date proves that we have managed to inoculate our most vulnerable populations first and fast.
The announcement is obviously welcome news for our community, offering a glimpse of the light at the end of a very long tunnel. However, it comes with some thorny questions.
On the University front, there’s the matter of distribution: How should we allot our doses, if and when Harvard receives them? Should Harvard have access to the vaccine before the end of April, we believe that it must first prioritize its employees who interface directly with students: dining hall workers, custodial staff, and more. While many of these employees are already eligible in the state of Massachusetts as frontline workers, it’s likely that some of them will not be able to access a vaccine by April 19, particularly because of the slow drip of vaccines assigned to our institution. While we’re eager to get vaccinated ourselves, these employees have made a semester on campus possible for many of us, facing uncertain working conditions and constant exposure to the virus. They deserve priority in any distribution system.
In the meantime, individual students shouldn’t wait around for Harvard to deliver the vaccine to their door. In fact, doing so might not even be an option: The timing of Massachusetts’s decision to open up vaccine eligibility makes it difficult to get a two-dose vaccine before mid-May, when many of us will be leaving Cambridge for the summer months. Most of the vaccines distributed nationwide to date have been the Moderna and Pfizer vaccines, which must be administered in two doses 28 and 21 days apart, respectively. This creates an incredibly small window of time for students to get their first dose if they want to guarantee easy access to a second dose in Massachusetts before their departure; one that will grow smaller and smaller each day after April 19.
Our peers should get the vaccine as quickly as they are allowed — even if that means having to navigate a sometimes clunky registration system. And once they’ve mastered the system, we hope that students will take the time to educate others on how to schedule appointments. Quickly vaccinating all members of our community is crucial, and we need an all-hands-on-deck approach.
The process won’t be without complications: Students might struggle to get the vaccine on time, or at all, and Harvard itself will have to grapple with tough prioritization and implementation questions. Throughout it all, communication will prove crucial. We hope the University will provide clear, informative updates at every step of the process, regularly detailing their involvement (or lack thereof) in the vaccine distribution process. Similarly, Harvard should be proactive about setting up a system for Harvard students to report their vaccination status. Doing so will allow the University to actively monitor inoculation rates within and beyond our campus, and to strategize and react if student uptake lags behind our community.
Vaccine distribution might be stressful or confusing, even frustrating. But it’s also an extremely positive development: a vital step towards our return to normalcy. We can’t wait for all Harvard affiliates to get their shot.
This staff editorial solely represents the majority view of The Crimson Editorial Board. It is the product of discussions at regular Editorial Board meetings. In order to ensure the impartiality of our journalism, Crimson editors who choose to opine and vote at these meetings are not involved in the reporting of articles on similar topics.
Have a suggestion, question, or concern for The Crimson Editorial Board? Click here.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
So far, my experience with “wellness days” has been mixed. To any Harvard student who isn’t aware of wellness days, before I fill you in, I should preface my explanation by saying that I admire your ability to ignore your emails. Oh, and I apologize for when your classmates and professors randomly failed to attend classes.
“Wellness days'' are Harvard’s pandemic-era reinvention of what was formerly spring break. Rather than a week-long vacation from college, the Faculty of Arts and Sciences’ split these five days of break and spread them across the spring semester, fortnightly, on rotating weekdays.
As a freshman from New Zealand, I’ve never had an American spring break before, so my expectations of somehow ending up in Miami and fighting a crocodile were already beyond any wellness day’s reach. Nonetheless, my experience with wellness days was off to a good start. Two of my classes have lectures on Mondays, so between Presidents Day and wellness days, my schedule had two weeks in a three-week period with half my usual number of classes. Compared to the large workload reduction of a spring break, concentrated in a week, it initially seemed that a smaller reduction to my workload spread across wellness days would be more useful.
When it came to promoting mental wellbeing in the long run and avoiding burnout, wellness days had the upper hand on spring break.
Yet when March 16 arrived, my wellness day differed greatly from the bliss of March 1. With midterms approaching, unwritten essays called and required readings watched me from their minimized window with a judgemental glare. However, the strangest thing occurred next: absolutely nothing. In that 24 hour period, my greatest contribution to my education was putting the charger into my laptop for classes the next day.
There were various ways I could have used that day productively, and instead, I found myself using it the exact way it was intended to be used: to take a break from work. But the guilt and stress of having achieved nothing that fateful Tuesday did anything but bolster my mental health. So was the problem with “wellness days,” or was the problem me, in my inability to let this day pass by guiltlessly?
My experience on March 16 was a bleak contrast to March 1: the main difference seeming to be that the March 1 wellness day was on a Monday, distant from end-of-week deadlines, camouflaging themselves into the weekend, whereas March 16 was just a bit closer to those weekly deadlines, and victim to the increased workload of the mid-semester. What had been so pleasurable two weeks before became a day of relentless guilt.
FAS’s attitude towards wellness days seems to be that they assume detractors “roll their eyes” at them. But the issue is not that the wellness days, speckled throughout the semester and popping up often unexpectedly, have a negligible effect, but that the concept of wellness days as it currently stands is counter-productive to wellness. You’re encouraged to spend time away from your work, and if you “successfully” manage to do so, the consequence is a day subtracted from the time between now and your next deadline.
With this time of year being a minefield of deadlines, I can’t imagine anyone who spends their wellness day without working wouldn’t share this guilt, and potentially experience an increase in stress and anxiety afterward.
With the upcoming wellness days on March 31 and April 15, the student body is heading to Armageddon. As Friday deadlines linger on the horizon like a greedy, chocolate-smeared child waiting to steal your candy as you exit the candy store, attempting to use these breaks, Wednesday and Thursday respectively, as actual breaks, is futile. Approaching these Wellness Days with the mentality of ignoring work is bound to result in guilt and stress.
At the same time, if people take the opposite approach and these days become dedicated to work in order to avoid stress and guilt, another concern arises: Using a day promoted as restful to work risks suggests that doing work is an example of self-care when in reality, time dedicated to wellness excludes time spent working.
Fundamentally, “wellness” should not be a matter of simply trying to mitigate future feelings of stress and guilt.
I greatly appreciated Dean of Students Katherine G. O'Dair’s email where she emphasized the importance of using this day in the way that you personally feel is most beneficial for your well-being and that, for some people, this might mean catching up on work. This was a refreshing difference from the impossible suggestion that we should spend wellness days without working. But although this statement was needed, it also illustrated that these days are not actual breaks, because doing no work, which a break inherently involves, is at the cost of future feelings of stress and guilt.
Under no circumstances should staff and students go the whole semester without any breaks.
But because it may be more beneficial for your mental health to use these days productively rather than to abstain from working, this consequence of wellness days is exactly that. Looking ahead to the fall semester, I encourage the FAS to reconsider what wellness means and what’s the best way of engendering it. If they take a similar approach, it should be their priority to create a culture around break days that is supportive and conducive to abstaining from work.
James M. Heffernan ’24’s column appears on alternate Thursdays.
Have a suggestion, question, or concern for The Crimson Editorial Board? Click here.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
April 2020 — Having forgotten my umbrella, I rush past people on the gray, wet streets of Brooklyn picking up groceries between my Zoom classes. I struggled to carry five full bags by myself, but I no longer felt comfortable letting my mother leave the house on her own following a rise in hate crimes against Asian Americans — with the latest news of an Asian woman attacked outside her home. Having to run down the block with my hair stuck everywhere on my face not covered by a mask in fear of being late to class — again — was a great inconvenience. But a mere inconvenience was much better than the increasingly real possibility of my mother becoming a victim of a hate crime. In the worst-case scenario, I choose my mother’s safety over mine.
I have borne witness to the politicization of my ethnic and cultural identities and the disastrous consequences that have already risen as a result. When a strong stance against China became a popular campaign issue in the 2020 presidential election, I was most apprehensive about whether or not Americans would project intense disapproval of the Chinese Communist Party onto Chinese Americans. Would our nation learn from our past, or would we repeat our shameful history? I seemed to have found my answer just the other day when a close friend brought up in conversation that perhaps the key to the reinvigoration of a unified American national identity lies in politically uniting the country against China. Indeed, it seemed that my worst fears had been confirmed.
My biggest fear is that I, and many just like me, no longer have claims to our own identities — that we no longer get to decide who we are and what we stand for in the public eye. The Han Chinese ethnicity and the Chinese nationality are definitively not the same. Even so, I was taught from a very early age that to most people, including the Chinese community here in America, there is no difference. My neighbor next door likes to sing the Military Anthem of the Chinese People's Liberation Army in the evening — not because he endorses the Chinese People’s Liberation Army, but because it reminds him of the people back home. Even the CCP seems to have more of a say in defining who I am than I do — with its continuous efforts to equate its political agenda with the larger Chinese cultural heritage and values. However, the CCP isn’t the only one from whom I am reclaiming my identity.
The experiences of hyphenated Americans, such as “Chinese-Americans,” are so often reduced to popular stories of children being bullied in school for their traditional lunches and names that are too easily mispronounced because they are not conventionally “American” — as in, white.
We are always more than that.
To define hyphenated Americans by the larger American society’s alienation of us is to tell us once again that we are not Americans. We are.
I exist as a person whose role in American society is more than the perpetual foreigner, a conveniently ignored outcast until it is time to undermine the oppression of Black, Indigenous, and people of color.
Of all the places on Earth, the United States should be the last place not to understand the difference between ethnic and political identity. In a country whose nationality was born out of a hunger for freedom, liberty, and opposition to a singular ethnically-homogenous culture, why should some of its people be assumed to be followers of a distant government they have never lived under? In a country personified by a statue with the engraved words “Give me your tired, your poor, your huddled masses yearning to breathe free,” why are the huddled masses considered extensions of the very governments they decided to leave behind? How did celebrating Lunar New Year suddenly link me and my family to the human rights violations committed by the CCP?
It does not. We as a nation must acknowledge that by reducing some of us to only a “model minority,” we erase suffering and pit people of color against each other for the sake of glorifying whiteness. It is deeply destructive when communities are denied the right to belong in America, only finding comfort in their familiar cultural roots — cultural roots that are actively being exploited by authoritarian regimes committing relentless, heinous crimes. We cannot unify America by treating Chinese Americans as enemies of the state. Rather we must recognize all hyphenated Americans for what we are: Americans.
Ruby Huang ’24, a Crimson Editorial comper, lives in Leverett House. 
Have a suggestion, question, or concern for The Crimson Editorial Board? Click here.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
The words don’t exactly roll off the tongue: I am an English concentrator, and I am taking the semester off from school because I want to read books.
But they are the truth.
Heading into 2021, I made one resolution I might actually be able to keep. Unlike in previous years, when I’d vowed to eat less sugar or to be a better sister, my resolution this year is concrete: I want to read 52 books in one year.
I first cultivated this dream with my English teacher way back in high school as I made preparations for a pre-college gap year. It was his dream, he said, to take a year off from teaching and read a book per week for an entire year.
At the time, this goal seemed unexciting. My junior year of high school, with that same teacher’s guidance, I had already tackled many dense works of famous literature. I graduated from high school with “Invisible Man,” “Anna Karenina,” “Consider the Lobster,” “Lonesome Dove,” and “Beloved” under my belt.
So instead of reading, I spent my gap year traveling in Peru and Bolivia, working as a ski instructor, road tripping, and generally avoiding anything that resembled a challenging book.
Something had changed when I turned 18. Growing up, I was always reading — walking down the street, upside down on the couch during dinner, two hours past bedtime making covert use of the lamp on my bedside table. One school vacation, I read eight books in 10 days. Yet somehow, I didn’t want to read, or even want to want to read, anymore.
Of course, when I chose English as my concentration as a sophomore because I wanted to write (not read), I knew that I was picking a major that involved reading. Entire books’ worth of reading — the kind of books that, honestly, scared me a little. But I signed on, in part, with the somewhat reassuring knowledge that I had (shh) made it through my whole first year without finishing a single book for class.
As an English concentrator, I finally leaned into the coyness embedded in Jane Austen’s depiction of consciousness in “Pride and Prejudice.” I read short stories from writers who had received their MFAs at Iowa Writers’ Workshop and were published in The New Yorker. I even tried my hand — twice — at writing short stories of my own, and I loved it. But the magic of reading? It still wasn’t there.
It wasn’t there until, sitting in my backyard on an unusually warm April day, I cracked open Anton Chekhov’s collected short stories for class and read “Gusev.”
In many ways, the story was far from what I knew. The titular Gusev was a soldier from the Russian military riding in the belly of a ship, trying desperately to make it home before he was killed by consumption. I was a college student trapped in Cambridge, dressed in a quarantine uniform that looked suspiciously like my burned-out-high-school-senior look of sweatpants and a pullover, who could barely bring herself to finish a single book for class.
But Gusev was dying of consumption, a story that was becoming all too familiar as we traveled deeper into the belly of the pandemic. It made me want to want to read.
In “Gusev,” I saw the fear experienced by patients isolated in Covid-19 wards, unable to see even their families. “I haven’t written home,” Gusev said toward the (spoiler) end of his life. “I shall die and they won’t know.” I saw appalling anti-Asian racism, a fact that makes it difficult to read. I saw mistrust of leadership, attempts to come to terms with death, and the feeling, presented by a fellow occupant of the ship’s sickbay, that, “the worst of it is that they know perfectly well that you can’t last out the long journey, and yet they put you here.” The “they” feels universal.
This is what I look for in literature: words to tell me how I am feeling before I know I am feeling it. Imagery that challenges me to step outside of what I know. Prose so beautiful I have to stop and read it again, and again; sometimes dashing quotes on sticky notes and placing them in strategic locations; always underlining.
When classes started in September, I fell in love with literature again. Each day, I sat in my apartment in Somerville, leaving only to take walks and go to the grocery store. Unmoored from the activities that crop up on campus and desperate for an escape, I was finishing books, often two per week. And the books I was reading allowed me to experience the thousands of lives I was not living — often painfully, often in ways that pushed my worldview far beyond my academic bubble. Not only did I want to want to read, I just plain wanted to read.
So in January, when Goodreads, an app designed for people to share their reading experiences with friends, suggested I set a reading goal for the year, the conversation with my high school English teacher returned: 52 books in one year.
Overeager in January, I sped through classics (Salinger’s “Franny and Zooey,” Morrison’s “The Bluest Eye,” Huxley’s “Brave New World”), contemporary (Orange’s “There There,” Vuong’s “On Earth We’re Briefly Gorgeous,” Ng’s “Little Fires Everywhere”), and many in between. I spent much of February slogging through a second attempt at Faulkner’s “Absalom, Absalom!,” after only making it through a third of the book when I read it for an amazing class my freshman fall. Next came Saunders’s “Tenth of December,” and van der Berg’s “The Third Hotel,” delighting in both authors’ subversive (or, as I like to say, “bait-and-switch-y”) styles.
It is spring, and once again, I am carting around books everywhere I go — doctors’ offices, car rides, and (most often) from my bedroom to the kitchen and back again. Rare are the days that end without a page turned in my latest book.
As of March 21, I am three books ahead of schedule, and the challenge has changed in format. I still plan to read 52 books, but the more I read, the more I find the act of reading meaningful and enjoyable in its own right.
I read because I remember everyone before me who shared a piece of themselves through books.
I read because sometimes the things that aren’t real are actually the most real.
I read for that feeling when, for a page, or 10, or 50, time stops.
I read because I am lucky, and I can.
I read because I am finding my way back to myself.
— Magazine writer Zoe B.R. Goldstein can be reached at zoe.goldstein@thecrimson.com.
Sections
As a kid, Nina S. Jensen ’25 hated drawing — “like, really hated it.”
That all changed when she turned 12. She downloaded Twitter and saw celebrities responding to portraits of themselves created by their fans; Jensen wanted in. Flash forward almost a decade and Jensen, an incoming member of Harvard’s class of 2025, is a self-trained royal portraitist, having painted a portrait commissioned by Her Royal Highness Princess Marie of Denmark. In addition, she, autistic herself, is an increasingly high-profile advocate for the visibility, understanding, acceptance, and support of autistic people — the term Jensen prefers to use — around the world.
When Jensen began to draw, she was an amateur. Her first foray into the art world was a “completely unrecognizable” drawing of Beyoncé. From there, Jensen “just started drawing more and more.” As she worked to get better, she sought recognition from the subjects of her painting, often traveling from her home in Denmark to London to meet actors during their movie premieres.
“I would stand there all day, trying to get a good spot,” Jensen recalls. “I succeeded every single time. I always got a signature on the drawing.”
Ultimately, Jensen’s passion for grabbing the attention of celebrities would result in her own discovery at the age of 14 by world-renowned art collector Beth R. DeWoody.
“I went to the ‘Batman vs. Superman’ movie premiere in London and I was drawing Henry Cavill,” Jensen recalls. “[DeWoody] approached me and said that she was really interested in my art and that she might be interested in doing some commission work. I was over the moon.”
Soon after, DeWoody would feature Jensen’s portraits in curated exhibitions in Los Angeles. Jensen began to enter the professional art space.
She believes many might find it strange that she specializes in portraits, given that she is autistic. “People have this idea,” she says, “that autistic people aren’t very social or good with faces. I love capturing people.”
Jensen says she feels fortunate to have been born into a supportive family filled with other autistic people. Her brother was the first to be diagnosed. Soon after, she and her mother received their own diagnoses.
“Autistic women and girls are often misdiagnosed, diagnosed late in life, or not diagnosed at all,” says Jensen. Autism in girls is often “just different than in boys,” for whom autistic traits present in a way that is “often more noticeable in terms of how autism is described and how the diagnosis is given.”
Without a mother who understands her completely, “it would have been much harder,” Jensen says. “She’s encouraged me to do what’s best for me, not just what society perceives as ‘the best.’”
Indeed, Jensen’s parents showed full support for her career in the arts. She had previously only ever worked in pencil, but Jensen’s father pushed her to try oil painting after hearing about an opportunity to paint a portrait for the Danish National Police. Jensen was hesitant at first, but ultimately went for it. She was up against professionals for the job, but her talent spoke for itself.
“I’m so happy that I got the chance to do it,” she says. The portrait series that she added to dates back to the 17th century, making her selection that much more historic. “It’s such an honor, because I’m probably also one of the only female artists in that whole collection.”
Jensen next set her sights on the chance to paint Her Royal Highness Princess Marie of Denmark, patron of the Danish Association for Autism. Jensen reached out to a contact at the organization, asking if it might be possible for her to paint the princess. A few months later, she received an answer from the palace: yes. “Most little girls want to be a princess at some point in their lives, so it was a very fairytale kind of experience,” Jensen reflects.
“The difficult part is having to top that,” she laughs.
Jensen intends on taking courses in the fine arts when she arrives at Harvard, finally gaining the technical skills she has never had the chance to receive. She also hopes to found a new student organization aimed at advocating for and enhancing the opportunities available to autistic students. She hopes that amplifying autstic perspectives will influence the world’s future leaders studying at Harvard. Jensen, along with the future organization’s co-founder, autism ally Rosanna K. Kataja ’24, will advocate for the University to expand their admissions outreach to autistic students. Further, they are working to designate internship opportunities at major companies for autistic students and professionals.
Jensen and Kataja were first inspired to start this organization after they launched a popular petition against tThe Golden Globes nominations of Australian singer and director Sia’s newest film: “Music.” The film has been subject to immense criticism due to Sia’s casting of a non-autistic actress, Maddie N. Ziegler, in the role of an autistic young woman. Many have called Ziegler’s portrayal of an autistic character a caricature of autistic body language and have further criticized the film’s portrayal of restraint techniques.
“It’s more than just a movie,” says Jensen. “It represents the problem we have in our society. It was really the breaking point for me, realizing that I just can’t tolerate this anymore.”
The Change.org petition, addressed to The Golden Globes, Sia, Ziegler, starring actress Kate G. Hudson and actor Leslie Odom Jr., production companies HanWay Films and Vertical Entertainment, and the Hollywood Foreign Press Association, has since received over 150,000 signatures. Jensen and Kataja’s efforts have been recognized by several U.S. and international publications, including the Los Angeles Times, The Independent, and Newsweek. Jensen says that neither Sia’s team nor The Golden Globes have issued statements acknowledging the petition, though she speculates that they are aware of it given its popularity.
“They don’t have any personal stake in any of this,” says Jensen. “They don’t experience [autism] and they don’t care.”
In spite of the lack of a publicly-issued response from Sia’s team or The Golden Globes, Jensen was touched to see the outpour of support that the petition received.
Jensen says that many who might normally say, “‘It’s just acting,’” or call her criticism “‘sensitive’” began to back the petition. “It was just amazing to see.”
The Golden Globes, Sia, Ziegler, Hudson, Odom Jr., HanWay Films, Vertical Entertainment, and the Hollywood Foreign Press Association did not respond to multiple requests for comment.
Jensen believes there may be more misconceptions about autism in the U.S. than in Denmark — for example, the mistaken belief that non-speaking autistic people are unintelligent.
“You don’t really hear about the full spectrum in the U.S.,” she says. When a lot of people think of autism, explains Jensen, “It’s that white, straight, young adult, virgin man — socially awkward — who has this crazy ability.” Jensen says this lack of diversity in media representations of autism is “unfortunate,” as autistic women like herself are rarely portrayed.
In 2016, an award-winning documentary series, “Extraordinary People,” featured Jensen and spotlighted her journey and accomplishments as a young autistic artist.
“People are realizing that autistic people are very capable,” says Jensen. “I got photos of drawings from parents by their [autistic] kids who had seen me in this documentary series and started drawing, because they wanted to do art like I did.”
Jensen’s greatest wish is for austistic people to be recognized for their individuality: “I think the most important message is to have people forget all these stereotypes — be aware of them, because some of them, like being sensitive to sound, are generally true. But don’t rely on them. Just do the same thing you would with any other person. Figure out who they are as individuals.”
— Staff writer Gabrielle J. Pesantez can be reached at gabrielle.pesantez@thecrimson.com.
Sections
Without trust, markets break down. The U.S. dollar is a fiat currency, which means that its value is derived from the trust we ascribe to our government; as that trust wanes, Americans turn away from traditional financial institutions. During the 2008 financial crisis, many everyday Americans, unsure of who to trust, took their money out of banks en masse. Large commercial banks began to fail; by 2012, almost 450 banks had collapsed. Today, deep into a historic pandemic and recession marked by political division, Americans’ trust is waning again.
On Jan. 27, a group of amateur traders helped push the stock of struggling video game retailer Gamestop to a price of $347 per share. Alarmed, financial experts took to the air to warn against what Alan Greenspan, former chair of the Federal Reserve, calls “irrational exuberance” — an unreasonable, optimistic view that the market will keep rising. Jim J. Cramer ’77, host of CNBC’s finance show “Mad Money,” was of those exasperated experts — “People begin to think, ‘Are prices real?’” he exclaimed on the air.
During a segment of CNBC’s “Squawk on the Street,” Cramer warns viewers that it is unrealistic to expect the stock’s price to continue rising, while simultaneously, a graphic on the right side of the screen flashes that Gamestop’s stock is up 67 percent from the day before.
Cramer, a Harvard graduate, Goldman Sachs alumnus, and former hedge fund manager, is the kind of man from whom Americans used to seek financial advice. But today, traders aren’t listening to Cramer; they continue to trade Gamestop, and they continue to discount his expertise.
Cramer was president of The Crimson during his time at Harvard. His first notable brush with controversy came when he wrote an article alleging his resident dean, Alan Heimert ’49, had lied to the administration. In retaliation, Heimert prevented Cramer from receiving his diploma during his graduation ceremony. After graduating, he worked a few years as a reporter before attending Harvard Law School. Next came Goldman Sachs, where he stayed for three years before founding his hedge fund, Cramer Berkowitz, in 1987.
Cramer claims that Cramer Berkowitz saw fantastic returns during his tenure; his CNBC bio states that the fund compounded returns of “24 percent after all fees for 14 years.” Despite the reportedly dazzling returns, his management was turbulent: His former employee, Nicholas W. Maier, alleged that Cramer would break computers and scream at employees.
While editor-at-large of a finance magazine, he was accused in 1995 of using his position to influence the value of the stocks he covered for personal gain, allegedly earning $2 million for himself in the process. An editor at a competing finance magazine called Cramer’s actions “a legal form of front running.” In 2001, Cramer left investment banking to pursue a career in media, but accusations of wrongdoing followed him.
After the 2008 financial collapse, Cramer faced intense criticism for encouraging the audience of “Mad Money” to hold on to their stock in Bear Stearns. On March 11, 2008, he reassured his viewers: “Bear Stearns is fine. Do not take your money out,” he said. “Bear Stearns is not in trouble.” By March 16, the stock had lost 96 percent of its value. It avoided bankruptcy only because it was purchased by J.P. Morgan Chase later that day.
In October 2008, CNBC ran an ad for “Mad Money” that featured a dramatic voiceover of Cramer chiding his viewers about the dismal state of the market, counseling them that it had been irreparably changed: “It will never make sense to buy and hold so-called blue-chip stocks forever anymore. If last week didn’t prove that you, nothing will.” The video ends with the tagline “In Cramer We Trust.”
During the biggest financial collapse of the past century, Cramer’s show appealed to viewers’ trust in him — the same Cramer who, seven months earlier, told viewers “Bear Stearns is fine” five days before the company collapsed.
In March 2009, Cramer appeared on The Daily Show to discuss CNBC’s coverage of the markets during the 2008 financial crisis with then-host Jon Stewart. During that interview, Stewart criticizes Cramer for his advice to viewers in 2008, and questions CNBC’s reputation as a trustworthy expert on financial markets.
In the same interview, Stewart plays a clip of Cramer in 2006 where Cramer advocates for practices (which he used while serving as a hedge fund manager) that resemble market manipulation, including feeding fake stories to reporters to devalue stocks and strategies to influence futures markets. “I would encourage anyone who is in the hedge fund game to do it, because it’s legal, and it’s a very quick way to make money,” he says in the clip.
That clip and another scandal, in which his media company allegedly collaborated with short-sellers to devalue stocks, drew the ire of the Securities and Exchange Commission, who investigated and subpoenaed Cramer before later dropping those investigations.
Cramer isn’t the only CNBC personality who has angered the public. Memorably, Cramer’s colleague, Rick Santelli, shouted at traders from the floor of the Chicago Mercantile Exchange: “This is America, how many of you people want to pay for your neighbor’s mortgage that has an extra bathroom and can’t pay their bills, raise [your] hand!”
To many, it seemed the former investment banker was chiding the millions of Americans who had accepted subprime loans because they were told they could afford them — implicitly blaming them for the recklessness and greed of the investment bankers.
His rant stoked the seething rage that many Americans, of all political leanings, harbored about the financial crisis. To some conservatives, Santelli highlighted wasteful government spending and homeowners’ lack of personal responsibility. Conservative pundit Glenn L. Beck credited the start of the Tea Party to that sound bite. Conversely, to those on the left, the absence of empathy and faux rage Santelli displayed may have helped to forge the Occupy Wall Street movement.
Many Americans began to feel that Cramer, Santelli, and the scores of former investment bankers who grace financial news programs, were far more worthy of scorn than foreclosed on homeowners. In their eyes, the difference between greedy investment bankers who ruined the economy and former greedy investment bankers who give hit-or-miss financial advice was negligible.
Given that ire, CNBC’s ad tagline “In Cramer We Trust” was perhaps an admission that Cramer’s value lies in his image, not in his fundamentals — something that Cramer and the market have in common.
In that infamous 2006 clip, Cramer made one comment that flew under the radar: “The great thing about the market is that it has nothing to do with the actual stocks.” Today, that observation seems particularly prescient.
The meteoric rise of Gamestop’s stock was primarily driven by Reddit user DeepFuckingValue, Keith P. Gill in the offline world, who began posting about Gamestop to argue that the stock was undervalued. As Gill made his case, Cramer went on CNBC to state that the fundamentals of Gamestop didn’t warrant the huge jump in the stock’s value, prompting the line: “People begin to wonder, are prices real?”
The more Cramer railed against the Redditor’s apparent “irrationality,” the more the community wanted to buy the stock. Gamestops stock’s value did eventually crash from that high of $347 in late January, to a low of $40 in February, before it steadily climbed back up to $265 by March 12.
A popular post on r/Wallstreetbets, the community behind the Gamestop craze, depicts Cramer as the aged headmaster in the movie “Dead Poets Society,” screaming at Redditors to sell Gamestop’s stock as they proudly, illogically, hold on to the company.
In the depths of a pandemic-driven recession that has further exacerbated income inequality among many, the willingness to listen to Cramer, and people like him, has evaporated. The harder they work to convince the herd of Redditors, angry at hedge funds and the people who run them, that they are in the wrong, the more they put their trust in people like Gill, who gives out free financial advice on his YouTube channel.
Gamestop is not the only ostensibly worthless asset that has gained value in the last year. Since last March, Bitcoin, a favorite financial instrument for many skeptics of the modern financial system, has increased in value by 845 percent. Non-fungible tokens, which are digital images backed by the blockchain, have become more popular as well, with one selling for $69 million in early March. The more one distrusts the financial system’s status quo, the more reasonable other high-risk investments appear.
The increasing desirability of previously fringe assets is not a coincidence, but rather a consequence of the abused trust that Cramer and men like him have fostered. Despite his exasperated condemnations of Reddit traders, it’s his career, and string of scandals, that made this moment possible. “In Cramer We Trust” no longer.
— Staff writer Harrison R. T. Ward can be reached at harrison.ward@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter at @Hurrison_.
Sections
Two yellow puppets walk onto the tabletop stage. They’re somewhat humanoid and muppet-like in shape, one with only eyes, the other with only a nose. On the table they find a flower, which they each enjoy with their respective sense. Slowly, curiously, they discover each other. They switch their eyes and nose and experience the flower anew.
When she was 16, Roxie K. Myhrum ’05 watched this performance at her very first puppet slam. According to Myhrum, the piece has continued to make an impact on her because it encapsulated the power of puppetry to build our capacity for empathy, and it demonstrated why some stories can be uniquely told with puppets rather than with people.
“This moment was just so beautiful at expressing how these characters were able to build an empathic experience for each other,” Myhrum says. “And it was so viscerally delightful for the audience to see that.”
“Also, an important criteria for pieces is ‘Why puppets? If you could just do it with people, why go to the trouble of building something?’ That piece, the puppet show, had a really great ‘Why puppets?’ answer,” she says. “In the rules of this universe, this is how people can interact. They can switch features, they can exist in this kind of realm.”
Today, Myhrum is an award-winning theater director who specializes in puppetry, opera, and nontraditional performances. Since 2010, Myhrum has been artistic director of the Puppet Showplace Theater in Brookline, Mass., a beloved local institution founded in 1974. In celebration of World Puppetry Day on March 21, the night before, the theater hosted its fourth virtual puppet slam since the onset of the Covid-19 pandemic, showcasing about 14 puppeteers live over Zoom, including some veterans and some first-timers hailing from four different countries overall.
As Myhrum defines it, puppetry is “the art of bringing inanimate objects to life to tell a story.” How puppeteers choose to do that varies drastically across the profession. Saturday’s slam alone featured body shadow puppetry, tabletop puppetry, hand puppetry, marionettes, found object puppetry, overhead projector shadow puppetry, microtheater, toy theater, and even stop-motion animation. The pieces ranged from sweet and whimsical, to dark and enigmatic, in a show aimed at all ages.
Sarah R. Nolen, a resident artist at the theater and an experienced puppeteer and filmmaker, felt a pull towards the kind of storytelling puppetry offered from a very young age. She recalls creating a Nancy Drew sock puppet for a sixth grade book report, “totally unprompted.”
“I just love telling stories, but I don’t like people looking at me when I tell the stories,” Nolen says. “I started going out of my way to work in props or things that were totally unnecessary to a project.”
Making props didn’t feel like enough, however. For a fourth grade project, Nolen remembers making a diorama of a scene from Pippi Longstocking and wanting it to move. As a child, however, she wasn’t sure how to make that happen. According to Nolen, the diorama was “like a toy that doesn’t work.”
“Learning about the traditions of puppetry and being able to be behind the scrim, finally, myself, it gave me that world,” Nolen says. “I was able to fix the stagnant toys. It gave me the language, it gave me the skill.”
Myhrum was first exposed to the world of puppetry when she started attending an after-school theater program at age 15 in her hometown of Springfield, Mass. She stayed involved with the arts, even participating in the annual National Puppetry Conference, but ultimately decided to attend a liberal arts school — Harvard College. There, she struggled to accept that her future would be less conventional than those of her peers.
“I went to the Office of Career Services a lot, and had sort of mental breakdowns about it. They were really helpful at putting me more in dialogue with myself,” Myhrum recalls. “It took me a while to get the bravery to say that I’m not going into law school like all of my classmates, I’m not going into consulting. I do want to do something different.”
Since puppetry is a very physical art, the Covid-19 pandemic has devastated the livelihood of many puppeteers. Charlotte Anne Dore, who performed a marionette piece during the Saturday slam, is an English puppeteer as well as a singer and actor who helped maneuver the animatronic gorilla used in the movie “Zookeeper.” During a normal year, Dore typically performs 80 to 100 shows in people’s homes. The majority of that work is gone now, but her company Rosalita’s Puppets has survived through a local business grant and by creating virtual content. Demand for virtual shows, however, can’t compare to that of in-person shows in the pre-Covid era.
“Kids are in school all day, so the last thing they want to do is be online,” Dore says. “They’d still rather be there in person.”
Montrealer Caroline Bernier-Dionne, who also performed during the show — her new piece “Should Ketchup and Mustard Get Married?” featured darling dolled-up bottles of ketchup and mustard — is a puppeteer at Cirque du Soleil. During Cirque’s usual tour, Bernier-Dionne operates a giant robot-dog puppet while skating on the ice. Its show, too, stopped touring when the pandemic began.
There is a bright side to puppetry during the pandemic. Besides the creativity that working virtually can engender — puppeteers like Nolen have taken advantage of small computer cameras to create shows inside oatmeal boxes, for instance — the shift to an online medium has helped foster increased connection within the puppetry community. Puppet slams online can include performances from puppeteers across the globe.
“For me, [the pandemic] was the big reveal,” Bernier-Dionne says. “I understand that we are more than a community — we are an international profession with a lot of knowledge all over the world.”
***
In October 2020, Puppet Showplace Theater faced a serious threat to its survival. Not only had the pandemic brought a stop to the more than 300 shows the theater typically runs every year, but the theater discovered that an employee had fully depleted its bank account through embezzlement. Without any regular income from the usual shows, Myhrum and the rest of staff faced the possibility of closing the theater forever.
But Puppet Showplace Theater reached out to its fans, explaining their situation. The theater’s year-end fundraisers typically raise $30,000 to $40,000. This year, donations from over 1,000 individuals summed to over $150,000, just what they needed to keep the theater running, Myhrum says.
“We were not confident that the theater was going to survive, but there was a huge outpouring of community support. And so now we’re in a more confident, secure and stable position and are hiring for the future,” Myhrum says. “It was really a miracle. We feel very lucky.”
Watertown resident Evan O’Sullivan, who has been going to the theater since 1995, is one of the Showplace fans who contributed to this effort. Each slam, he says, is unique.
“There’s always something new that I like to be reminded of — the magic trick of theater,” O’Sullivan says. “If you’re open enough to it, it can be unlike any other piece of theater that you’ve seen.”
Over the summer, the Puppet Showplace Theater hosted an in-person, socially distanced and masked program for children. When the program came to an end, Nolen remembers the heartfelt request of one young boy.
“He had his mask on, and his big eyes looked at me, and he was like ‘Can we hug after this?’ I looked at him, and of course I have to say, ‘No, I’m sorry. We can’t hug,’” Nolen says. “‘But your puppets can hug!’ And his face even behind the mask just totally lit up, like that was even better! And then we all had our little marionettes all hug each other goodbye.”
Like the slam on Saturday, most puppet slams are meant for people of all ages. Though puppetry in popular media — The Muppets, for instance — is often aimed primarily towards children, Nolen calls it her job as a puppeteer “to make sure mom is not on the phone.”
“To me, a family show is a show where every single age group is engaged and invested,” Nolen explains. “I have jokes in my show for every level. You have slapstick for the little kids, you have wordplay for the middle-schoolers, and then you have adult jokes that go way over the kids’ heads.”
The art of bringing inanimate objects to life — humanoid puppets, found objects, drawings, ketchup bottles — has been part of worldwide cultures for millennia, often depicting complex and purposeful stories. One day, Myhrum hopes, the public will learn to better appreciate puppeteers as interdisciplinary professional artists and the art itself for what it truly is.
“In the U.S., puppetry is highly commercialized, it has often been deracinated, its fangs have been pulled out for mass consumption,” Myhrum says. “There is less widespread public awareness than there should be about puppetry as a powerful, subversive, adult, mind-blowing, badass art form.”
—Staff writer Claire H. Guo can be reached at claire.guo@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @clairehguo.
Sections
When J. Max Bond Jr. ’55 entered Harvard at the age of 16, he was among 15 Black students in his class, most of whom lived in the north corner of Harvard Yard.
As his freshman spring semester began, two other Harvard freshmen erected a wooden cross facing that corner of the Yard, formed by Stoughton and Holworthy Halls.
And around midnight on Feb. 5, 1952, the students lit the cross on fire.
“Some of the onlookers cheered when, after ten minutes, the cross was knocked down,” Bond and his Black classmate wrote in a letter to The Crimson at the time. “But we are sorry to say that others expressed indignation at its destruction. Minutes later a Negro student passing thru the Yard was hailed with remarks such as might be expected in the Klan-dominated States of the South.”
Save a few miscellaneous Crimson articles, Bond’s memory of the incident is the strongest account of the Harvard Yard cross burning, which nearly every biography of Bond’s — he became a well-known architect — invariably notes as formative in his college years.
“I saw the flames,” Bond told The Crimson a few weeks after the incident. “I didn’t think of the Klan right off the bat. When I did realize what it was, I was shocked and I didn’t know what to do.”
Several Harvard deans publicly condemned the cross burning. Three progressive student organizations circulated a petition, garnering several hundred signatures, to have the perpetrators punished.
Post-Harvard, Bond became one of a few prominent Black architects in the 20th century. After his death in 2009, his widow, Jean Carey Bond, released an 11-page retelling of his life.
In it, Jean reveals that the University threatened Bond or any Black student with suspension should they go to the media with the cross burning. Bond, who graduated Phi Beta Kappa and finished undergrad in three years, was never suspended.
Meanwhile, the two freshman perpetrators were handed temporary probation by the Administrative Board.
The pair, hailed as pranksters by administrators and students alike, made a half-hearted apology, saying it was a practical joke. Freshman Union Committee secretary Geoffrey H. “Geoff” Ball ’55 told The Crimson at the time the Union would have taken action if there was “any maliciousness” uncovered. Ball did not respond to a request for comment.
“We do not feel that this demonstration can be dismissed as a prank,” Bond wrote to The Crimson two days after Ball’s comments. “A burning cross carries with it so many unpleasant associations that it cannot be simply laughed off.”
Despite Bond’s appeal to take this history seriously, it is unclear the extent to which the University has, or will, reckon with its troubling ties to the Ku Klux Klan throughout the 20th century, which do not begin or end with the 1952 cross burning.
Last year, University President Lawrence S. Bacow convened the Initiative on Harvard and the Legacy of Slavery, a group tasked with reviewing Harvard’s history with slavery and its residues which seep into Harvard today.
With its initial report coming this upcoming winter, the initiative is the University’s most visible step yet in understanding its enduring connections with slavery. Although it studies the “legacy of slavery,” public statements from and about the initiative rarely mention the 20th century, let alone the KKK — among the most brazen signs of the racism that outlives the formal end of American slavery.
In his letter announcing the Legacy of Slavery initiative, Bacow invoked “the work of the distinguished historian and Harvard alumnus John Hope Franklin, who said, ‘Good history is a good foundation for a better present and future.’”
This article is my attempt to do “good history.” It represents a year’s worth of archival research, as complete a narrative of the Klan’s presence at the University as I could construct. Along the way, I’ve discovered this 20th-century historical hole in Harvard’s reconciliation attempts. Assembling these archives is an opportunity to make them known and put them in productive tension with both present-day racism and other efforts to reckon with Harvard’s past.
Chester W. Hartman ’57, who in 2014 investigated the cross burning, wrote in a Crimson op-ed he could not gather clear details from surviving alumni regarding the incident, but noted that it had gone unacknowledged by Harvard for over half a century. Bond, in his initial Crimson letter, even wrote it was “regrettable” no other students had come forward to write in condemning the incident except him and his classmate.
Hartman emailed then-University President Drew G. Faust, detailing to her the cross burning.
Faust wrote back that the incidents were “particularly egregious and make painful reading,” but noted that “unfortunately, in a university as old as ours there will be many regrettable incidents involving administrators whose values are different from ours, and not all of them are easily verifiable after much time has passed.”
Tucked away in the Boston Public Library’s digital archives are a pair of photo negatives. They depict 10 men in bright white sheets, pointy hats, and cut-out eye holes, posed around the John Harvard Statue. In one shot, a hunching Klansman, propped up in the statue's lap, turns his body to face the statue, staring down the cameraman.
There are hints of formal wear; dress shoes and slacks peek out underneath the white robes. A man on the far right holds a boater hat, historically synonymous with Harvard Class Day attire. This was Class Day 1924. At Harvard’s graduation, students took a break from midday commencement exercises, donned sheets, and celebrated by playing dress-up as the Klan.
The photo description read: “Harvard Klass Kow & Klans — students having fun.”
A friend had alerted me to these photos last summer — their existence, and the lack of immediately available information about the Klan at Harvard, were alarming.
I asked history lecturer Zachary B. Nowak about the KKK at Harvard in the 1920s under University President A. Lawrence Lowell, Class of 1877. Nowak teaches a popular class History 1636: “Intro to Harvard History: Beyond the Three Lies” and is writing a book on the “people’s history” of Harvard’s 385-year past.
Nowak, alongside almost every scholar I asked, was not aware of the KKK’s presence at Harvard.
He was stunned when I showed him the photos of the Klan at Harvard, yet viewed their existence with “less surprise.”
“This is part and parcel of a long Harvard tradition of support for white supremacy,” Nowak says, calling the Lowell years some of Harvard’s most regressive.
Similarly, University of California, Berkeley sociologist Jerome B. “Jerry” Karabel ’72, who has studied Lowell’s presidency at Harvard, says Lowell was prejudiced “on each and every issue that has contemporary relevance” — an imperialist, racist, anti-Semite, sexist, and so on.
“He is one of the very few people who would check every single box,” Karabel says, bluntly. “That simply cannot be written off to be the ‘spirit of the times.’”
The first Black Harvard doctorate and famed activist W. E. B. Du Bois, Class of 1890, even publicly condemned Lowell’s attitudes on race. Amid another scandal when Lowell attempted to expel Black students from Harvard dorms, Du Bois wrote in Crisis Magazine that he thought Lowell was an ally to violent Southern vigilantes. The NAACP echoed his comments, writing in an official statement at the time that Lowell was “putting into effect the program proclaimed by the infamous Ku Klux Klan.”
Werner M. Sollors, one of Harvard’s early Department of African and African American Studies faculty, says the KKK “showed up” in his research on Lowell. But Sollors did not explore it further, because he focused his research on “Black presence” at Harvard, rather than the “worst opposition of racial integration.”
Sollors co-edited “Blacks at Harvard,” likely the first major record of Black Harvard affiliates, published in the early 1990s. (At the time, Harvard University Press declined to publish his book, saying “nobody would be interested” in it and that they do not publish books “only of Harvard interests,” Sollors says. HUP wrote in a statement it could not account this response years later but that this does not reflect its editorial policy.)
Sollors says that confronting obstacles to openness and equity in Harvard’s past is vital, and that “the Klan certainly was a very big obstacle.”
“It’s a burning cross in the ivory tower,” he says.
Sollors adds, “You will find out things that are before your time at an institution, and you are a little bit aghast at what you find.”
One of the earliest attempts to reconcile with the University’s past in connection to slavery came in 2007, when history professor Sven Beckert embarked on a research project, “Harvard and Slavery: Seeking a Forgotten History.”
Katherine M. Stevens, then a graduate student who collaborated with Beckert on the project, writes in a statement that the initiative was inspired by Brown University’s early attempts to reckon with its historical connections to slavery. The group touched on a legacy of scientific racism which “extended well into the 20th century,” but deeper explorations of the continuing legacy of slavery in the 20th century were only “suggested” at the time.
In November 2019, Bacow announced Harvard’s Legacy of Slavery initiative, as a University-sanctioned successor building off of Beckert’s research project. And like its predecessor, the current initiative has yet to pay much attention to the 20th century.
The Legacy of Slavery initiative is divvied into subcommittees that study specific aspects of slavery’s continued footprint at the University. In her subcommittee within the project, Professor Evelynn M. Hammonds — former Dean of Harvard College — says she has focused more so on the 19th-century history than the 20th-century racism that slavery laid the foundations of.
Radcliffe Institute Dean Tomiko Brown-Nagin, who directs the initiative, said in an interview that the real focus of the project is Harvard’s earlier history because there is a “greater need” for understanding Harvard’s “direct ties” to slavery.
Brown-Nagin says that beyond individual scholars, she is unaware of any other program to study Harvard’s 20th-century racial history.
“It can’t be a committee about the entirety of the history of race, racism, and racial injustice at and through Harvard, because that would be a neverending committee,” adds Meira Levinson, a School of Education professor who is part of the initiative.
“There will be allusions to the 20th-century history” in the group’s forthcoming report, Brown-Nagin says. “However, the 20th-century history is fairly well-known.”
Yet it is not clear that Harvard’s ties to the Klan are well-known to all.
Hammonds says she was “shocked” when she saw the photos. Having grown up in Atlanta, Ga., she says the stories she knew about the KKK were those of “terror.”
“I certainly wouldn’t have thought it would find fertile ground at Harvard,” Hammonds says. “I was truly shocked to see them standing around John Harvard’s statue.”
At the turn of the millennium, a Crimson magazine article written by Lauren E. Baer ’02 was among the earliest contemporary acknowledgments of the Klan at Harvard.
Baer tells me she heard rumors that there had been a branch of the KKK at Harvard and began her search in the Harvard Libraries.
“Finding evidence of it in the University archives was a surreal and unsettling experience, and pointed to a history of racism and anti-Semitism at Harvard that had gone unexamined,” Baer wrote to me in an email.
After her article’s publication, however, she wrote that it went largely unnoticed by students and administrators.
The library docket of evidence she refers to, HUD 3502, contains a Crimson article on the Harvard Klan which lay it bare in portentous detail.
HUD 3502, dated in the fall semester of 1923, sets the stage for the aforementioned Klan commencement photos in 1924.
Purportedly founded on campus in 1921, Harvard’s KKK chapter arose at the same time as the reviled, second iteration of the nationwide Ku Klux Klan took prominence during and after World War I.
According to the docket from 1923, the Harvard KKK, while not on the fringes of University life, was leading a half-existence with its “shadow” hanging over campus.
“The Harvard Klan is inactive. But it is very far from being disorganized, nor can I say that even now its influence is unfelt,” an unnamed Harvard Klan member said of his organization. The Crimson’s “traditional policy” at the time awarded all of the Klan members anonymity.
The latter half of 1923 proved to be a crescendo of activity for the Harvard Klan. There was a membership drive with hopes for a public announcement and platform despite the group’s “considerable secrecy.” There was even talk of a Radcliffe College chapter for Klanswomen.
“Harvard, considered the stronghold of culture and conservatism, is about to try its strength with the boasted omnipotence of the Invisible Empire,” the article stated.
The article continued, “The Harvard Ku Klux Klan has only been waiting for the favorable moment to show its strength.”
The author of the 1923 Crimson article also speculated on internal divides within the Harvard Klan.
Some Harvard Klan members believed their presence was redundant because the University was already “100 percent American,” in the exclusionary, white Anglo-Saxon Protestant sense. Yet others saw Harvard as the opposite, a stronghold of racial, religious, and political “filth” that the Klan would not be able to break into.
A day after the article’s publication, NAACP secretary James Weldon Johnson sent a telegram to Lowell and the Harvard Board of Overseers condemning their college’s outgrowth of the KKK.
“The National Association for the Advancement of Colored People wishes to go on record as believing that it would be better to close the University than to permit it to become a vehicle for disseminating the poison of race and religious hatred,” Johnson wrote. “We trust that every effort will be made to discover those responsible for bringing this organization into Harvard and that they will be expelled.”
Neither Baer nor I could find any record of Lowell responding to the telegram or otherwise acknowledging the Klan’s presence on campus. According to SUNY Plattsburgh historian Mark P. Richard, many Massachusetts college presidents joined together in an anti-Klan effort to identify and prosecute found-out Klansmen in November 1923. I could not find any record of Lowell joining such a cause.
One month earlier, October 1923, the Cambridge Chronicle reported on two KKK meetings in North Cambridge, Mass.
Many Harvard students attended these biweekly meetings of the Cambridge chapter of the KKK, according to The Crimson, revealing the existence of pro-Klan sentiment despite the lack of a formally-recognized branch at the College.
Students switched to the “intellectual” Brookline, Mass. Klan chapter after becoming disillusioned with Cambridge. Harvard Klansmen thought the Cambridge chapter was controlled by “low-brows.”
An unnamed Harvard alumnus said to The Crimson in 1923 that 300 “Harvard men” attended a Boston KKK rally mid-October that no media outlets reported on. Harvard Klansmen, reluctant to be recognized as an official student organization because University policies would imperil their secrecy, continued to meet unofficially or at local metropolitan chapters.
In November 1923, the Klan draped a “flaring banner” on Massachusetts Avenue in opposition to Cambridge Mayor Edward W. Quinn. Amid mayoral elections, Quinn had stated the previous day, “If I knew there was a chapter of the Klan at Harvard, I’d come down and break it up!”
In the early 1920s, a former Harvard Klansman said he had been threatened by the Klan for being “indiscreet” with their clandestine activities, the New York Times reported at the time. He reported the threat on his life to a “Harvard College office,” which in turn called it “undoubtedly” a joke. The student eventually left Harvard for fear of what the Klan might do.
At the same time that the Klan’s presence was growing, another organization, the Blue Shirts Club, had formed to combat social issues plaguing campus. But while its platform included strong condemnations of the KKK at Harvard, it does not appear to have mounted any successful opposition. And the club’s priorities wavered, with its stance against cars on campus “taking precedence even over its condemnation of the Ku-Klux Klan,” the New York Herald Tribune reported in 1923.
Mostly unchecked and unashamed by the academic year’s end, Harvard Klansmen posed for that photo-op in front of the John Harvard Statue. The Blue Shirt Club, meanwhile, apparently sloughed off into inactivity. And there, public records of the Klan at Harvard in the 1920s seem to stop.
In his family, Kent A. Garrett Jr. ’63 is one generation removed from sharecroppers. Having grown up in Brooklyn, N.Y., he says going to Harvard was so foreign, it was “kind of like landing on the moon.”
Garrett was one of 18 Black members of Harvard’s class of 1963. After racing across the country to interview his former classmates, he anthologized their experiences in his book “The Last Negroes at Harvard,” published last year.
He tells me that Fred Lee Glimp Jr. ’50, then Dean of Admissions who later became the Dean of the College, called him and other Black students at Harvard “an experiment.” Garrett remembers a white classmate even “studied” him and the other Black students, dubbing them the “White Shadows in the Yard,” in a class paper that received an A. Racial hatred as glaring as cross burning, Garrett says, was rare — but constant indignities and less aggressive forms of racism were regular.
Garrett joined Harvard just seven years after the cross burning and says that no students had “passed down” the history of the incident to him. He never learned about it until he began work on his book. But the cross burning’s legacy, in the form of institutional and interpersonal racism, blazed bright.
While he was at Harvard, Garrett said, students had a willingness to associate with the Klan as a “joke.”
“It was the thing to do — to be in the KKK,” Garrett recalls.
By mid-century, an organized Klan at Harvard had all but vanished. Instead “KKK” transformed into a frequent racist invocation, a conjuring jeered at Black and Jewish students.
The “KKK brothers,” in a 1937 demonstration reported on by The Crimson, released “flory crosses, crudely constructed from paper but none-the-less grimly reminiscent of [the] real thing” to float down and around the Dunster House courtyard.
“Perhaps KKK terrorism is not confined to the deep South,” a Dunster resident remarked at the time.
Between the 1950s and 1970s, Harvard students would sign up for or propose at least four separate screenings of “The Birth of a Nation,” a historic 1915 Klan manifesto turned three-hour film. All were criticized as being shown without historical context.
One screening, planned in the same year as the cross burning, was canceled after the NAACP put the pressure on, which “disappointed” the more than 250 students signed up, according to a Crimson article at the time.
Howard J. Phillips ’62, elected as Harvard’s student body president in 1962, was lauded by “The Cross and the Flag,” a Klan magazine, for his “patriotic” ideological bent. Phillips publicly and immediately disavowed the Klan. But later in life, Phillips invited Richard Shoff, the former Grand Kilgrapp (state secretary) of the Indiana Klan, to serve on a lobbying group governing board with him.
In several incidents across the 20th century, including one as late as 1996, students saw KKK leaflets, threatening letters, and KKK graffiti on campus.
Garrett never mentioned any acknowledgement from the University of the challenges he and other Black students at the time faced.
“Yale and Harvard were intent on keeping their Southern alumni happy,” he surmised.
Now 90 years old, Charles L. “Chuck” Greenblatt ’52, a member of the Society for Minority Rights, a student club that condemned the 1952 cross burning at the time, says his memory of the incident is fuzzy.
“I probably...accepted the story of the administration that it was sort of a prank,” Greenblatt admits in an interview.
Greenblatt, who hailed from a diverse small city in Ohio, was one of several students who worked with the NAACP to recruit more Black Harvard applicants. In describing Harvard’s attitude towards his recruitment efforts and the cross burning, he says its deans had an air of nonchalance.
Long after the incident, he says, no other Harvard administration has publicly acknowledged the cross burning.
The Class of 1955 alumni secretary Warren M. “Renny” Little ’55, however, is “quite aware” of the cross burning, but did not elaborate much further in a statement to me.
He adds, “It was an embarrassment to all concerned and best buried.”
To continue to bury this event, along with the larger history of the KKK at Harvard, would further the common narrative of Harvard as a “bastion of liberalism,” as Nowak puts it.
Yet Harvard’s institutional and social values have, at points throughout the 20th century, often seemed to be more representative of the American racial climate than ahead of it.
Karabel, the sociologist who studied elitism and admissions at Harvard in the 20th century, said Harvard then was still a mouthpiece of “the Protestant upper class” despite a number of Jewish and nonwhite students trickling in.
In contrast to the explicit racial violence associated with the South, Nowak says Harvard’s Boston Brahmin contributed to an “equally toxic” and “subtle” intellectual undergrowth of white supremacy.
Yet from the 1920s Klan chapter to the 1952 cross burning, some members of the Harvard gentry nevertheless flirted with a less “subtle,” more violent tendency.
So what does the University do with this history?
Harvard leadership has approached historical reconciliation through thorough scholarship and examination, which can sometimes make such efforts feel sluggish — a “psychological effect,” of Harvard’s prominence and “symbolism,” Sollors says.
“[Change] becomes a lot of hand-wringing,” he adds.
Karabel says that adjacent to the Harvard and the Legacy of Slavery initiative, a “parallel inquiry” into the 20th century racial history of the University is “warranted.”
“No reason to limit it to slavery and the 19th century,” he adds.
Such inquiries are not easy. “Going to the history of the 20th century is harder because it is more recent,” Sollors remarked,“and so the implications are actually much stronger.”
Harvard junior Samantha C. W. “Sam” O’Sullivan ’22 co-founded the Generational African American Students Association in 2019 and has since focused her efforts on educating others about the legacy of slavery in a Harvard context. She says she was unaware of the long history of the KKK at Harvard.
O’Sullivan says the Legacy of Slavery Initiative is “long overdue,” but that she wants to push for more “actual action” beyond research efforts buried in bureaucracy.
“The whole committee is treating the issue as if it’s in retrospect, how has Harvard done these things in the past, and not so much on what they are continuing to do,” she says. “It feels like the University does not care about these issues, or is more interested in forming committees and talking about these things very intellectually, but not in a very concrete sense.”
If she were to lead the initiative, O’Sullivan says she would start at the present and work her way back, in place of the old-to-new approach of the current initiative.
Garrett says he finds the initiative promising, but was curious as to why they seem to stop at 1865. He says he hopes the racism he and other students endured throughout the 20th century can be taught about through courses and other academic offerings at the College.
Professor Meira Levinson, who co-leads the curriculum subcommittee for the Legacy of Slavery initiative, says she is not sure what place the 20th-century history will play in their efforts, and that it was “too early” to share specifics on the “entry points” for students’ learning about slavery.
Hammonds echoes these comments, saying they are still in the “exploration phase” of research for the report.
In an emailed statement, Brown-Nagin wrote “the Committee is very much engaged in work with bearing on the present,” including an initiative by several professors to document the experiences of Black students descendent from enslaved people. She added that the Radcliffe Institute, which oversees the Legacy of Slavery initiative, has funded several student projects, some of which grapple with “contemporary legacies” of slavery.
Nowak also says the University is taking steps adjacent to the initiative — such as a committee on reforming signage and a mapping effort of “inclusive symbols” around campus — that deal with racism at Harvard in the 20th century.
Both he and Karabel concluded that a significant first step to reconciling with the history and perpetuation of racism at Harvard in the 20th century would be the removal of Lowell’s name from Lowell House dormitory, as students pushed for last summer. Harvard has convened two committees to review name changes, but they are still in the research and discussion stages of their work.
Karabell says Harvard is “behind the times” for not already striking Lowell’s name down after Yale and Princeton removed the names of Calhoun College and Woodrow Wilson School of Public Policy, respectively.
University spokesperson Jason A. Newton declined to comment for this article.
While several scholars I talked to wished the Legacy of Slavery initiative would broaden its scope, all recognized it as an important first step in a long line of much-needed steps from students, faculty, and administrators to address the past.
“Telling the history of this very complex institution is going to take a while, but the most important thing is the willingness to engage with the history as we uncover it,” Hammonds says.
“These dynamics did not emerge overnight, nor will they be quickly disentangled,” Brown-Nagin wrote in a statement to me about the Legacy of Slavery initiative. “I ask members of our community to give us time equal to the magnitude and complexity of our task.”
But O’Sullivan finds the University’s attempts to claw closer to historical understanding still nebulous and ultimately painful to some students.
“There’s so much that we as students don’t know,” she says. “Harvard’s lack of transparency is almost speaking more volumes than the things they are doing. ”
“Especially to Black students, that's one of the largest forms of violence.”
There are many stones unturned in my own research: surviving alumni of the cross burning I didn’t talk to, parts of Lowell’s personal archive marked as classified, documents inaccessible due to the pandemic. The 20th-century story of racial injustice in Harvard’s most accessible historical period retreats every day — with the fading of memory and death of alumni — without a thorough cataloguing. Just like the rest of Harvard’s past, the last 100 years need their own reckoning, their own moment to be added to a broader band of Harvard and American history.
“It is my hope that the work of this new initiative will help the university gain important insights about our past and the enduring legacy of slavery,” Bacow wrote in his 2019 announcement of the Harvard and the Legacy of Slavery Initiative, “while also providing an ongoing platform for our conversations about our present and our future as a university community committed to having our minds opened and improved by learning.” That is my hope, as well.
—Staff writer Simon J. Levien can be reached at simon.levien@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @simonjlevien.
Sections
On a sunny day last November, Boston City Councilor Michelle Wu ’07 waded across Dorchester’s Morrissey Boulevard to meet reporters. High tide flooding had closed the south-bound side of the three-lane highway; on the other side, cars crawled through several inches of water. Some even drove on the slightly drier sidewalk. The calf-high water threatened to overflow Wu’s black combat boots as she walked.
“I’m here with a group of leaders and activists from the climate movement in the city of Boston to mark what will be an increasingly frequent sight in our city: the regular flooding, on a beautiful, sunny day, from sea levels going up and up,” Wu said at the press conference. “We need urgent action on climate now, we need leadership, and we need a Boston Green New Deal.”
Wu, who has served on the Boston City Council since 2013, was referring to her own Green New Deal plan for the city, released last August. The 49-page policy paper, titled “Planning for a Boston Green New Deal and Just Recovery,” outlines a vision for sweeping climate action in Boston that climate activists have lauded as among the most progressive city-level policy proposals in the country. It’s part of a new wave of climate policy that emphasizes the power of smaller-scale action, even in the face of a global crisis.
Wu’s GND is also part of her Boston mayoral campaign in a race that is attracting national attention. Boston has traditionally had white, male mayors, but with former incumbent Mayor Marty J. Walsh confirmed as Labor Secretary, a seat has opened up for a new era of city leadership. As the field crowds with progressives, Wu’s GND could prove a differentiating factor.
A coastal city, Boston is uniquely vulnerable to climate change, which could cause sea levels to rise up to 3 feet in the next half century. Already, low-lying areas like Dorchester’s Morrissey Boulevard see regular flooding. Extreme heat, too, will increase in the city — days with temperatures above 90 degrees, relatively rare now, could number up to 40 per year by 2030.
To prevent these dire results, Wu’s plan sets ambitious decarbonization targets. Her plan would put the city on track to reach net-zero emissions by 2040, a full decade before Boston’s current goal.
But Wu’s plan goes beyond emissions. It also looks at climate change through the lens of environmental justice, acknowledging the connections between environmental harms and systemic inequities and outlining policies to address both. Without action, climate change will only deepen these inequities.
Neither decarbonization nor environmental justice are original concepts, but Wu’s application of them to city-level policy is visionary. Bill E. McKibben ’82, a prominent environmental activist and former president of The Crimson, says Wu’s plan puts her at the “very front of the pack” in terms of local climate policy. “It won’t be easy to implement, but she’s got the plan in place, and I was [blown] away by the depth and detail of her work,” he says.
At this critical moment for Boston, Wu’s candidacy draws from the past to envision a better future for the city. Her GND puts forth intersectional policies informed by historical environmental injustices. Wu views Boston’s progressive history as evidence that the city already has what it needs to become a national climate leader.
In her official campaign video, Wu, clad in her signature royal purple, addresses the camera: “I’m Michelle Wu, and I’m running for mayor to make Boston a city for everyone.” Beyond a platitude, her GND puts policy behind her claim to include everyone. Wu sets forth a vision of Boston as a complex yet inclusive community, one that has real power to overcome historical divisions and move towards a more just future.
Wu announced her mayoral bid in September 2020, before Walsh’s departure. Considering Boston hasn’t ousted an incumbent mayor since 1949 — after the mayor served time in federal prison — Wu was in for a challenge. She was also the first woman of color to enter the race.
Wu’s candidacy as a woman of color is not revolutionary in and of itself, but rather representative of Boston’s changing demographics. The city’s white population has dropped from 95 percent to 45 percent since 1950, and in some neighborhoods, it is now less than 10 percent. Many neighborhoods, including Roxbury and Dorchester, have majority Black and brown populations.
These demographic shifts are starting to reach the mayor’s office, too. Since Walsh’s confirmation as Labor Secretary, former city council President Kim Janey has become acting mayor, the first non-white, non-man to lead the city. Janey is a Black woman who represented Roxbury on the council. If elected, Wu would become the second woman of color to serve as mayor. The field of mayoral hopefuls has now swelled to six, of which only one is a white man.
Boston’s demographics may be changing, but there’s another factor the city has traditionally prized when choosing a mayor: nativity. Walsh and the mayor before him, Thomas M. Menino, were both born in Boston. Four of the other current mayoral candidates grew up in the city as well. In September, a survey of 400 voters conducted by GBH News found that when deciding which candidate to support for mayor, 40 percent of voters considered having grown up in Boston to be a “very important” factor. Another 23 percent said it was “somewhat important.”
Wu is originally from Chicago. And though she has spent 8 years on the city council, she is still a relative newcomer to politics, and to the city of Boston. When she first ran for city council in 2013, she had almost zero political experience. Her election was, in itself, quietly radical — at 28, she became the first Asian American woman to serve on the council. Wu’s story has been one of forming bridges between disparate places and identities — from Chicago to Boston, from Harvard-educated lawyer to city councilor.
Growing up in Chicago as the oldest of four sisters, Wu remembers being “very introverted and pretty shy,” and says she “honestly never thought of myself as a leader in any way.” Like many first-generation immigrants, Wu fell into the role of translator for her Taiwanese parents, who spoke mainly Mandarin. Navigating between the culture of her home and that of the outside world gave Wu a “visceral sense” of the barriers her parents faced, she recalls.
Getting into Harvard was as much an achievement for Wu’s family as it was for Wu herself. She says she was “less convinced” than her parents at the prospect of attending. Still, “I just knew that I would have to go, no matter how I ended up feeling about any of the schools that I got into, because it was important to my family,” she says.
Choosing her concentration was a “negotiation” with her parents to guarantee a stable career, she admits. Her top choice would have been Social Studies, she recalls, but she ultimately settled on Economics. She was “very, very busy, always,” during her four years, routinely enrolling in five classes so she could take electives in addition to concentration requirements.
“In some ways, it still felt that I had a job to do, which was to get decent grades and finish with a degree in something that could be useful,” she says, with a touch of wistfulness. “But the space that I was able to carve out for myself was through extracurriculars and friends, and creating community, finding community for myself.”
Almost every weekend, Wu says she would head down to the Red Line station in Harvard Square with a roll of slot tokens, the precursor to Charlie Cards. As the Director for the Chinatown Citizenship program, she’d hand out tokens to the other student volunteers, and board the T towards Boston to teach English classes to Chinatown residents.
Originally drawn to Chinatown because she missed her mother’s cooking, Wu quickly found a sense of community there that she hadn’t felt before. In Chicago, she says, her family always felt “like ‘other,’ out of place,” but in Chinatown, she saw herself and her family “fully reflected” in her students.
She lights up as she recalls one of her favorite memories — taking the T back from Chinatown over Longfellow Bridge. “You pass over the Charles River. You see the city skyline sparkling with the water and the Esplanade,” she describes. “And it always brings up the feelings of, ‘Now I’m coming home.’”
After graduation, Wu took a job at Boston Consulting Group, lived in the North End, and enjoyed a “blessed young professional lifestyle.” But less than a year in, she received a call from her sisters, pleading with her to fly back to Chicago — her mother was in the midst of a severe mental health crisis. Wu, then 23, became the primary caregiver for her mother and sisters.
In a Boston Globe editorial, Wu recounts her mother’s first hospitalization, when she was forcibly sedated, her clothes cut off her body and placed in a bag. “That bag also contained the last bits of her dignity shredded up inside,” wrote Wu. “It wasn’t the last time I shook with anger at a system that dehumanized her.”
In an attempt to stabilize her mother’s condition, Wu decided to open a small tea shop, which had long been a dream of her mother’s. She thought, “naively” in retrospect, that her mother could take over the shop and “get better all of a sudden,” and that Wu could return to her life in Boston.
By then, Wu still had no plans of going into politics, and had even “actively stayed away from it.” But in the process of opening a small business, she came into direct confrontation with politics and bureaucracy. Wu spent six months poring over the Chicago municipal code and trying to obtain a restaurant permit. “I was running up against barriers and walls from government constantly, everywhere we turned,” she says. Ultimately, she had to ask a local alderman for help.
In 2008, Wu opened Loose Leaf Tea Loft, a cafe and community hub that hosted open mic nights and served teas named after inspirational figures — Barack’s AudaciTea, which promised to “change the way you think of oolong with the flavor of hopeful hazelnut,” was a notable favorite. But despite its success, her mother wasn’t getting better.
Wu sold the shop shortly thereafter, but the bureaucratic barriers she faced getting it off the ground left a lasting impression. “I realized that not only is it impossible to escape politics and government, because it so influences every aspect of people’s daily lives, especially when you’re struggling,” she says, “but that this was a much larger struggle than just what I was going through.”
“Frustrated” at these systemic barriers, Wu decided to apply to law school, hoping to “understand how to better match the laws and the situations that local business owners and families were facing.”
In 2009, Wu returned to Boston to attend Harvard Law School, and this time she brought her family with her.
When I speak to Wu over Zoom in February, she looks tired. It’s a Monday morning on Presidents’ Day, the only time available in her busy campaign schedule. She tells her story with a measured cadence, and without much prompting from me — she’s done this before. It’s hard to reconcile her radical GND plan with her calm, practiced demeanor.
But her GND plan is, indeed, radical — one of the most radical city-level policies of its kind. Developed over the course of a year-and-a-half, the plan lays out 15 targeted policies that combine ambitious climate action with environmental justice reforms.
Like the federal GND that inspired it, Wu’s city-level rendering is grounded in the environmental justice movement. The movement has been around since the 1980s and emphasizes the unequal burden of environmental harms on historically marginalized communities, a burden that will only grow as the climate changes.
“Envision a city…” begins Wu’s GND plan in grass-green text. “A transformed city, where poverty, pollution, social and environmental injustices, and racial oppression are becoming stories from the past.”
Her plan proposes net-zero emissions by 2040, an urban climate corps, resilient stormwater infrastructure, and to divest city funds from fossil fuels, among other policies. Concrete steps and examples of similar actions in other cities accompany each policy. “We have to focus on city power and also think about how intersectional the issue of climate justice is,” Wu said while presenting her plan at a Zoom city council meeting in August.
Wu believes strongly in the power of city government now, but it wasn’t until law school that she got her start in politics.
During law school, Wu wanted to fix in Boston some of the obstacles she had faced in Chicago. She dove into city politics for the first time, interning with Mayor Menino and working to streamline the restaurant permitting program. The tangible success Wu achieved convinced her of the power of city-level policy. “I knew city government was the place I wanted to make a difference, that I felt was so connected to families’ experiences,” she says.
Elizabeth Warren, Wu’s contracts law professor, was running for Senate at the time. Wu, inspired by her teaching, began working full-time with Warren’s constituency outreach team. “That was my first real experience with politics, and I saw just how much it matters,” she says. Warren has endorsed Wu for mayor.
Wu launched her campaign for city council in 2013, a year after graduating from HLS. She felt a “sense of urgency” to represent her family’s experiences and struggles, she says, but also admits she “in some ways naively threw my hat in the ring.” Even her most “well-intentioned” mentors cautioned her against running, saying that as a young, Asian American woman, and “most importantly,” as someone not born in Boston, the odds were stacked against her. But, she reasoned, “I couldn’t change any of those things about myself,” and ran anyway. In the 19-way race, she came in second, and was elected to the council in 2014.
But once in office, a critical vote raised doubts. Wu backed Bill Linehan, a five-term councilor from South Boston, for city council president. Linehan was thought to represent “Old Boston,” and had raised controversy over his plan to redistrict parts of Chinatown, removing two precincts that had voted against him in a previous City Council election.
For many supporters, her vote seemed like a betrayal of her progressive campaign promises, and her idealistic defense a little too naive. “There has been a lot of talk about a ‘New Boston’ and an ‘Old Boston,’” Wu said in a statement at the time, “but I reject the notion that Boston is a city hopelessly divided by neighborhood, income level or political outlook.”
Seven years later, such idealism echoes in her GND plan. “Together, we can reimagine the kind of city we’ve always wanted to live in and make it happen,” said Wu, presenting her plan at a panel discussion in August. But the idealism of her plan, she insists, is grounded in actionable policies. “This is all not just possible, but practical. It is what we are aiming for every day,” she said.
Now, Wu’s idealism seems less pollyannaish, especially in terms of climate action. While on the city council, she’s had a strong record on climate change and environmental justice, passing ordinances on community choice energy, food justice, and wetland conservation. Wu recently secured an endorsement from the Boston hub of the Sunrise Movement, a national youth climate organization.
Beyond climate, Wu has proposed other progressive policies. She has long advocated for fare-free transit across the city — her plan to “free the T” — and publicly protested MBTA fare hikes in 2019 for their unequal burden on Black and Latinx riders. Her proposal, which she claims could be paid for by increasing taxes on gasoline, was once considered outlandish, but has gained traction. Andrea Campbell, another mayoral candidate, has also proposed a fare-free bus system as part of her platform.
Wu now lives in Roslindale with her husband, two young sons, and her mother, whose condition has stabilized. After over a decade in Boston, Wu knows her way around. But some worry her Chicago roots may still hurt her chances at election.
Wu doesn’t see her relative newcomer status as a disadvantage. “I chose the city, and in some ways, I love it like someone who has learned it from scratch,” she said at a March press conference for student journalists.
And in some ways, coming from elsewhere has enabled her to envision Boston’s future through fresh eyes. “I come with a drive to make sure that we are building a city that everybody feels reflected in and welcome in, as someone who has found that here,” she says.
When David Noiles was growing up in Roxbury in the 80s, nearly everyone in his neighborhood knew someone with asthma. He leans back in his chair and shakes his head: “Seriously, back then, the air quality was so bad.”
Noiles joined the Roxbury Environmental Empowerment Program during high school, upon the suggestion of a neighbor. REEP, part of the larger organization Alternatives for Community and Environment, was founded in the early 90s to educate and empower local youth around environmental justice. Two decades later, Noiles now directs the program.
In 1997, around the time Noiles was in high school, buses would idle in the more than 15 depots nearby, spewing diesel fumes into the air. Asthma hospitalization rates in Roxbury were more than 5.5 times the state average. In 1990, Roxbury’s population was more than 70 percent Black, according to the Census.
When Noiles first joined REEP in high school, he learned that one of his classmates, who was also a former REEP member, had died of an asthma attack. “I was like, ‘Oh, crap. He’s one of the people that helped me graduate out of middle school,’” Noiles remembers thinking. “This story has to be told forever.”
REEP gained notoriety in the late 90s, when more than 75 students started an anti-idling campaign to reduce asthma rates and air pollution in Roxbury. The students led a march and eventually forced the MBTA to replace and retrofit dirty diesel buses in the fleet, and also won an extensive air monitoring system for the community. The protest attracted media attention as part of the growing environmental justice movement at the time.
But to Noiles, the most pressing environmental issue in Roxbury at the time was the lack of public trash cans. REEP gave him the vocabulary to see this problem as an environmental justice issue very much related to the racial makeup of his neighborhood. “They want to say that we’re nasty people, Black people in general, people from my neighborhood,” he remembers. “But then when I look outside, there’s no public trash cans.”
For Noiles, one of REEP’s most important impacts was on his own sense of confidence. “Being Black, nobody really cared about what was in your head,” he says. He often felt trapped, with few opportunities to deviate from a set path “in between work and death.” Participating in REEP, however, taught him “you can actually fight for your community, you can have a voice.”
Now director of REEP, Noiles wants to pay that forward and places his hope in young people. “I wish more young people believed in themselves the way that I believe in them,” he says. “I’m just like that dude at the party that pushes the friend in like, ‘I know you can dance. My friend can dance right here.’ Get in there and get busy.”
A few neighborhoods over in Dorchester, Lillian G. Gibson, a current high school student, has only seen one tree planted on her street in the past seven years. But a few streets over, in a predominantly white area of her neighborhood, tree canopy is much more extensive, she says. “I’ve seen what neglected climate action looks like,” Gibson adds.
According to a 2015 report, Dorchester’s population is now 45 percent Black. Some areas of the neighborhood contain less than 10 percent tree canopy, compared to an average of 27 percent city-wide.
“Even if our city has had so many advancements,” Gibson says, “I think the question should really be, ‘For who?’”
Across the city and state, environmental harms skew heavily toward communities of color. Nature deprivation affects 85 percent of Black residents and 90 percent of Latinx residents in Massachusetts, more than six times the rate for white residents. Boston’s Chinatown, located next to several large highways, has the worst air pollution in the state.
And climate change will only exacerbate existing environmental injustices. As temperatures rise, neighborhoods with lower tree canopy will feel this heat burden more intensely. The city’s egregious racial wealth gap — a median net worth of $247,500 for white families compared to $8 for Black families in 2015 — could render Black communities unable to recover from climate disasters. Sea level rise poses a particular threat to low-lying communities, like Dorchester’s Morrissey Boulevard.
Gibson, who previously campaigned for Ed Markey’s re-election to the Senate, first found out about Wu’s GND at an August launch event. Inspired by its depth and intersectionality, she thought, “why not” create a Twitter account to highlight Wu’s plans. Soon thereafter, Gibson helped found Students for Wu, a group of high school and college students who host policy breakdowns and Q&As.
A sense of environmental justice, past and present, is central to Wu’s GND. The plan contains policies to mitigate inequities and was produced through conversations with community leaders and organizations.
Visionary change often connotes federal-level policies, but Wu asserts that cities are equally capable of having a widespread impact.
In Massachusetts, the state exclusively holds certain legislative powers, but cities can still affect change within their realm of jurisdiction. The state controls building codes, but Boston has control over zoning and permitting laws, which can determine housing affordability requirements and concentration of green spaces. The state is also in charge of public transit, although Boston can control how street space is allocated, indirectly affecting how transit is prioritized.
Wu’s plan claims that the sum of these municipal powers, when leveraged, can powerfully impact local communities. “The city level GND is one of the most important levels,” says Nina A. Schlegel, the GND’s lead author and a former staffer in Wu’s office. “The city affects people’s lives and livelihoods and how they experience their neighborhood.”
Wu’s GND sees an opportunity to multitask: in the process of decarbonizing and greening energy systems, to simultaneously redress systemic inequities. “It is not just about avoiding and mitigating harms,” Wu says about her plan. “This is about reaching out and grabbing the opportunity that is there for everyone to benefit, and to close so many of the gaps we've been talking about.”
Wu lays out plans to help close these gaps, including a comprehensive justice audit of Boston’s municipal systems, examining hiring processes, leadership, and communications to “identify where public dollars are actually exacerbating disparities.” Wu’s plan would also reform zoning codes to create affordable housing, allocate priority planting zones to concentrate urban trees in low-income communities, and expand community land trusts.
Her GND also points out the heightened importance of local policy in the absence of action at the state or federal levels. The Massachusetts state house has a notoriously poor record on climate action, most recently with Governor Charlie D. Baker ’79 vetoing a sweeping climate bill earlier this year. Wu’s GND was also conceived during the Trump administration, which stalled climate action at the federal level.
Wu’s plan has been lauded by many environmentalists for its depth and detail into city-level policy, though some have raised concerns about its price tag. The plan does not contain price estimates, but certainly wouldn’t be free, especially as the city recovers from a pandemic-induced recession.
For now, says Schlegel, the Boston GND isn’t meant to be “prescriptive,” but instead to show people a vision of what Boston could be, and prompt them to think, “‘Oh yeah, what else could we explore?’” Schlegel is now the executive director of the Global Center for Climate Justice, which will be producing a more detailed report to accompany the plan in the coming months.
More than anything, Wu’s GND celebrates the city of Boston. She draws on the city’s history of firsts — home to the country’s first public library, first public park, and first public school — to emphasize Boston’s potential to lead.
“It’s because we realized the ways in which we’re interconnected and we can do that again,” she says of the city’s many firsts. “When Boston leads, we have an impact on this country’s trajectory.”
Wu is now a Boston fixture, but she hasn’t forgotten that it was Harvard that first introduced her to the city. Now, student has become teacher — in terms of climate action, Harvard could stand to learn a thing or two from Wu’s GND.
Harvard’s current Climate Action Plan aims to transition the University to be fossil fuel-neutral by 2026, and fossil fuel-free by 2050. It’s worth noting that these decarbonization goals are more ambitious than Wu’s goals for the city, though as a small, private institution, Harvard likely has more control over on-campus emissions.
But unlike Wu’s GND, Harvard’s plan is almost exclusively focused on reducing emissions. The University has also emphasized its contribution to solving the climate crisis as an educational institution, teaching its students and providing scientific research. But many think Harvard should be less of a removed benefactor and more a direct player in the community.
“We think that right now, Harvard’s not necessarily working together with the Boston and Cambridge community, which is something that we believe is essential,” says Sheccid Ontiveros-Santillan ‘23, a member of Harvard Undergraduates for Environmental Justice.
Klara A. Kuemmerle ‘24, a member of Fossil Fuel Divest Harvard, a student group calling on the University to divest from fossil fuels, says the University’s roughly $840 million of lingering investments in fossil fuel companies have direct impacts on local communities. Fossil Fuel Divest recently filed an official complaint with the Massachusetts Attorney General, alleging that Harvard’s fossil fuel investments are in violation of its obligations as a charitable organization under state law. Wu is among the signatories on the complaint.
Wu’s GND includes plans to divest Boston’s public funds from fossil fuels, a move she believes is both important and financially prudent. “It makes a difference when those with influence step up and set the example, and so I completely support the activists and students on campus who have been pushing for divestment,” she says.
Harvard’s climate policies are part of a larger conversation around Harvard’s role in the community. Harvard now owns more land in Boston than in Cambridge. “Boston is uniquely home to Harvard,” says Wu. “There are questions and conversations about the university as a community member and property owner and cultural partner to the city.”
Like other educational institutions, Harvard is classified as a non-profit and does not pay property tax to the city. Instead, many universities, Harvard included, make PILOT payments, or payments in lieu of taxes, for the public services they receive.
Harvard has also never been exempt from conversations about environmental justice. Notably, the University proposed to build a power plant near the neighborhoods of Brookline and Mission Hill in the ’80s to power its medical facilities. The Medical Area Total Energy Plant faced a thorny 12-year legal battle from community organizations that claimed its diesel emissions would harm local residents. MATEP was ultimately approved and functional, though it was eventually sold in 1998. Harvard’s expansion into Allston has raised similar concerns about gentrification.
According to Schlegel, the relationship between the city and its universities is unbalanced. “There needs to be a reevaluation at the city level to be like, ‘We’re providing so many services to these higher education universities,’” she says, mentioning Boston’s employment opportunities, infrastructure, and public transportation. “What should we be asking from them in return?”
University Professor Rebecca M. Henderson, the co-chair of Harvard’s Presidential Committee on Sustainability, says the University is working to be more engaged with climate efforts at the local level. “This is the conversation,” she says. “How do we as an institution really try and play a full role in the community, to help prepare the whole community for what’s happening?”
Henderson says the committee works closely with other institutions like MIT, as well as local officials to develop solutions on both a global and a hyper-local level. One example the committee has considered, she says, is launching a program to insulate local houses, reducing energy bills in low-income communities.
Henderson says she’s not familiar with Wu’s GND, but that progressive action at the city level would be “helpful” for the University. “The greener the infrastructure, the faster we’re going to reach our targets,” she says.
Kuemmerle hopes Wu’s progressive stance on climate change may put pressure on the University to be more progressive as well. Harvard may “feel, perhaps, pressured by the fact that their alumni are kind of speaking out against them,” she says. “These people who are rising up and making a name for themselves are against the very institutions that brought them a lot of their resources.”
Wu’s mayoral bid also makes explicit the impact Harvard students can have on Boston. Harvard students regularly joke about the “Harvard bubble,” that separates students from exploring other parts of Cambridge, let alone Boston.
“I think the truth is, sadly, that we’re not as involved as we should be” in Boston politics, says Ontiveros-Santillan. She says HUEJ has made political endorsements in the past, but she isn’t too familiar with Wu or her GND. “There is definitely a Harvard bubble.”
Wu is a rare student that has been immersed in both sides of this bubble. For a long time, she says, she didn’t know how to talk about her Harvard pedigree. But ultimately, her relatively privileged entry point into Boston has informed her now inclusive view of the city as a place for everyone.
“I think that sense of what doors have been opened, and how much I have benefited from opportunities that my parents never had access to and that so many across our community don’t have access to, feeds an obligation to make sure that we are tearing down every barrier,” Wu says.
From Chicago to Boston, and from Harvard to City Hall, Wu’s own story marks the fluidity she envisions for Boston’s future. Her GND imagines Boston as a community where the spheres of elite institutions and community organizations can overlap and enrich each other, where Wu’s story is possible for everyone.
— Staff writer Maliya V. Ellis can be reached at maliya.ellis@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @EllisMaliya.
Sections
Home is the sticky humidity that assaults me as I step off the plane. It’s the pleasant bustle at the countertop of Versailles restaurant, and the warmth of a quick shot of cafecito fueling the final drive home from the Miami airport. This journey is one I’ve made countless times, an ingrained routine I perform with my eyes literally half-closed, teetering from the exhaustion of traveling. It is one of the most comforting experiences I know.
But home ise something else, too. It is the familiar flush that creeps across my cheeks as I stumble through my order at a restaurant. It’s rolling my R’s in all the wrong places, saying all the wrong things. It’s that slightly condescending smirk correcting me for trying too hard to be something I’m not. Home is volatility and weariness, a sense of cultural limbo that leaves me feeling perpetually disoriented despite my familiarity with Miami’s geography. Welcome home, gringa.
I exist in the middle. As a second-generation Cuban American, my identity vacillates. At school in Boston, I’m basically Sofia Vergara: My roommate thinks that because I can pronounce my brother Andres’ name, that means I’m fluent (even though that should be the one word I get right — I’ve only had sixteen years of practice). The truth is that my Spanish is conversational on a good day.
At home in Miami, of course, I’m considered awfully American. My parents’ world — one colored with the vibrancy of merengue and café con leche — is something always out of reach. I can hardly dance salsa or correctly sing the chorus of Lloraras. More seriously, my liberal values stand in stark opposition to the social conservatism of my traditional Cuban family.
Growing up, these small shortcomings tumbled together, becoming a much larger insecurity. My friends at my predominantly Hispanic high school, many of whom are first-generation immigrants themselves, have always been able to take ownership over the events we studied. Where they added their own experiences to the trials depicted in our study of the Cuban Revolution, I could only learn from an outside perspective. While I wanted nothing more than to be part of the colorful culture uniting my friends and family, I knew I was different.
I quickly realized that I would never really be able to understand the violent refugee narrative of displacement my family and friends experienced. How could I? These were not events I had lived through. While their presence throughout my childhood was always made known, my life has been one of privilege and safety. And shouldn’t I be happy about that?
I know it’s selfish to want to be part of something so awful. Frankly, my grandmother would slap me across the cheek if she heard me say that I wish I could have experienced some of the most uncertain and terrifying moments of her life. Uprooted at the age of eight, she came to this country with only $7 to her family’s name and a broken heart for those left behind. Everything she and the rest of my family have done since then has been to spare me from such suffering. What kind of person longs to go back to a place that has caused so much pain?
But where my grandmother sees pain, I see beauty. Her English has the slightest lilt, a gentle nod to her mother tongue. When she walks, she dances, the swing of her hips a perpetual acknowledgement of the deep-seated rhythm that moves her in everything. Even her odd phrases, translated directly from Spanish, provide an untold comfort in their unique way: “Don’t worry about that boy, mamita, he just thinks he’s the last Coca-Cola in the desert.”
And while my grandmother would say nothing is worth the pain of displacement, I find meaning in her forced resilience. My family knows how strong they are because they had no other choice than to become what they needed to be to survive. And because of that knowledge, they possess a deeper sense of belonging in a country they immigrated to than it seems I ever will, having been born here.
So I stopped trying to fit in, and avoided anything that might call attention to my many shortcomings. When people asked where I was from, I didn’t even mention Cuba. When I had to pick a language to study throughout high school, I chose French. “No one expects me to understand this,” I thought. “I won’t disappoint anyone.” On the weekends, I sought validation from blogs listing Latina celebrities who couldn’t speak Spanish — Selena wasn’t fluent until adulthood! I tried to convince myself that I didn’t need a culture I felt had already rejected me.
I considered my inability to speak fluent Spanish as some sort of barrier to the rest of my Cuban culture. I was so embarrassed by sounding like una Americana when I spoke that I remained silent. Why was every other member of my family able to learn without language classes? What was I missing?
It wasn’t until I got to college that I realized fluency isn’t a magical threshold you cross after some indeterminate amount of time. I saw people who were from many cultural backgrounds speaking Spanish they had learned in classrooms, and it was totally valid. Sure, maybe they had an accent, but who cared? They were communicating and getting by. Why couldn’t I do the same?
In allowing myself to be so defined by the expectation that I should speak perfect Spanish as a Latina woman, I never learned at all. While it’s true that being fluent might help me fit in a little more at home, it’s not everything. Frankly, I’m not even sure I want to be “as Cuban” as the rest of my family.
Of course, there are beautiful things about the Cuban culture — its passion, its tenacity — but it’s far from perfect. My family is far from perfect. They’re loud and single-minded. They can be unforgiving of those who represent anything beyond the world they believe in. My liberalism, for example, is something I’m incredibly proud of, and it’s not particularly “Cuban,” at least not among the older generations. I wouldn’t want to give that up even if I could fit in perfectly.
Assimilation is an interesting paradox: The better you are at fitting in, the more you stand to lose. My grandparents assimilated very well, becoming fluent in English as teenagers and leaving my parents with an understanding of Spanish that they’re still perfecting today. Maybe if things had been different and my family put more emphasis on our language and culture, I’d be “a little more Cuban.” But then it would have been my children or grandchildren who ended up gringos. It’s inevitable.
When I stopped treating my heritage as something to be idolized, I started understanding it for all that it is — faults and beauty alike. I’ve realized that I am not any less a part of my family’s world just because I hold different beliefs, or because my Spanish is not perfect. In fact, those imperfections might serve to enrich the community to which I belong. Home, for me, is not a perfect sense of cultural belonging; it’s a space which I must learn to make my own.
Sections
In her unassuming navy blue blazer, armed with nothing more than a microphone and a sparsely decorated stage, Hannah Gadsby, despite this modest assemblage, commanded the stage. Although “Nanette” is ostensibly a comedy special, Gadsby infuses her set with raw emotion and political rage. That combination earned “Nanette,” Gadsby’s comedy performance, widespread praise when it first premiered in 2018 and, three years later, I still can’t get it out of my head.
Her set begins usually enough, as she delivers one witty line after the other about her life as a lesbian in homophobic Tasmania and a woman in a male-dominated world. As is typical of comedy, even when discussing issues like homophobia and the patriarchy, she provides the audience with a buffer, twisting every anecdote into a punchline that we can feel comfortable enough to laugh at.
In describing her coming of age in Tasmania, an island state of Australia,in which homosexuality was criminalized until 1997, she satirizes the popular opinion of those around her saying in a gruff low voice, “Gays — why don’t you just pack your AIDS up into a suitcase there and fuck off to Mardi Gras?” This incites big laughs from the audience, and Gadsby chuckles, too.
She tells one story about a man who almost beat her up because he mistook her for a man “cracking onto his girlfriend,” quipping,“that part was true, actually.” She laughs as she continues with the story: this ignorant man began to shove her, but then stopped when he realized that Gadsby is a woman, swearing, “I don’t hit women.” Gadsby smirks at the audience, “What a guy.”
Many similarly biting jokes ensue, as Gadsby pokes fun at her struggles to identify with the lesbian community — “I don’t think I’m very good at gay” — and how she enjoys being mistaken for a man by service workers because, “just for a few moments, life gets a hell of a lot easier.” Throughout, Gadsby holds our hand through a plethora of troubling anecdotes, giving us the green light to experience them with her, but only through the comedic filter she provides.
But then she lets the other shoe drop with an unflinching declaration: “I have to quit comedy.” She explains that her career has been built off of self-deprecating humor and that she is no longer willing to make herself smaller in order to feel like she has the right to speak. In her words, when self-deprecation comes from someone who “already exists in the margins, it’s not humility — it’s humiliation.”
Her declaration is an implicit indictment of the audience. If you weren’t already on the edge of your seat holding onto her every word, you certainly are now. Because as soon as she decodes the sentiment which now compels her to leave the realm of comedy, you realize that you have been complicit in such self-humiliating humor for the past 20 minutes and likely are every other day as well.
I, like most audience members, cannot possibly understand the specific hardships that Gadsby has faced because of her marginalized identity, which include devastating incidents of physical and sexual abuse. Fifty minutes after telling the story about the man who “almost” beat her up, Gadsby shocks the audience with the truth that the man did in fact “beat the shit out of her,” attacking her when he realized that she was a gay woman. She explains how, in order for her to use that story as a joke, she couldn’t finish it. Instead, she had shared a filtered version of her truth and then let the audience revel in her humorous rendition of her traumatic experience.
But Gadsby is not interested in the audience’s pity. Nor is she under any illusion that her audience will miraculously be made up of thousands of people who share her very specific identity. Rather, her story is compelling because she uses the specificity of her experience to impart a universal message: We cannot continue to accept self-deprecating humor as a way of deflecting issues that demand serious contemplation. The marginality she describes is particular to her identity, but we all have our own “margins” in which we can entrap ourselves. When given the freedom to flourish, our insecurities and struggles can mutate into moats, isolating us from others. We may be able to shout across the water, but genuine connection is lacking. Humor, although it can sometimes function as a bridge, can serve to widen this divide.
***
Most people I know have go-to lines about themselves that they turn to in times of duress. Personally, when I am in an emotional trough, I often rely on off-colored comments about my inability to open up to others, comparing myself to a hermit or a robot. Such lines are my way of expressing to others that I am in pain, but because I express the sentiment as jokes, the recipients of such comments can’t do much more than laugh along with me.
That isn’t to say that humor isn’t valuable. It brings people together through the catharsis of laughter and can allow us to open up to each other. Chelsea E. Boccagno, a Ph.D. candidate in psychology at Harvard who studies identity malleability, explains that identity exploration can actually be aided greatly by self-deprecating humor “as a way to better understand and cope with who we are.” It can provide a framework for approaching topics that are otherwise too difficult to address.
But she notes that there is also a danger that excessive self-deprecation can “alter our sense of who we are,” as repetition of negative lines about ourselves can ingrain those ideas into our identities. Therapists will sometimes encourage self-deprecating humor as an emotion regulation technique, but without the proper channels to dissect such comments after they are made, they might only serve to reinforce negative ideas about oneself.
I’m always careful to frame my jokes in a way to avoid allowing for more serious discussion of the issues I’m raising, so I’m often guilty of using self-deprecation as a deflector rather than a bridge. Just as Gadsby built her career on making self-harming jokes from atop a stage where there was no follow-up discussion to be had, I almost always ensure that my comments can’t lead to any post hoc conversation. Having a ready-to-go joke about yourself is an easier way of coping with internal problems than genuine self-reflection or therapy.
One of my closest friends openly labels himself a champion of self-deprecating humor. He can casually throw a line into virtually any conversation to diffuse tension and give people a laugh at his own expense. Most recently, his favorite way to finish off a rant is, “You think you’ve had a shit year already and then, you know, you get hit by a car.” It shouldn’t really be funny because he actually was hit by a car a month ago, yet he can instantly flip the mood of the room by making this type of joke about himself. I admired him for this skill when I first met him, but as we got to know each other better, I began to realize that this charming ability wasn’t just a reflection of his deftness with words; rather, it served the dual purpose of putting people at ease while simultaneously disguising his self-doubts and insecurities.
One night, as we were casually debriefing about our day at work, he made one of his characteristic self-deprecating jokes, taking a crack at his own weight. His eyelids were slightly droopy from his second glass of wine, but I could still see clear as day the emotion behind his eyes straining to burst out. We were both professional dancers at the time, so his insecurity about his body was more than self-inflicted — we could be fired if we didn’t maintain the weight desired by our directors.
At this point, my memory is a little fuzzy about what the specific comment was, given that he has made so many similar comments, but the joke itself is irrelevant. Because, by now, I know that the attempt at humor was really an expression of a profound insecurity of his. That night, after he made his joke, I decided to ask him pointedly if he wanted to talk about the issue more seriously. Our relationship had long had an underlying understanding that we both struggled with body image insecurity, but he and I had incompatible approaches to tackling this issue. I chose to never mention the topic, terrified that if it came up, I would have to admit to myself and others how much I hated my own body. He took a seemingly opposite approach, choosing to constantly make jokes about his weight and body type, but one which had the same effect: to deflect real conversations about the topic and to hide pain behind a joke and a laugh.
That hidden pain is why Gadsby ultimately asserts that she must quit comedy. She built her career off of making light of her own trauma, inappropriately relegating her experiences to the punchlines of jokes. We are not all comedians, and we don’t all bear the same burden of trauma that Gadsby does, but her set made me realize that we are all capable of hurting ourselves through our remarks about ourselves, even when they are diffused by the intonation of a joke.
Gadsby’s story is an exceptional one, but since watching “Nanette,” even the most mundane examples of self-degrading rhetoric prompt me to more seriously consider the ramifications of something as seemingly benign as a one-line joke. When I gave my friend space to relinquish the self-deprecatory armor he had been wearing for so long, the floodgates opened and our relationship suddenly became that much stronger because we were honest. I still find self-deprecating humor to be a sociable and charming way of relating to others, but it also toes the line between humility and humiliation, a balancing act that I’m straining to reconcile in conversations with friends and reflections on my own self-expression.
— Staff writer Shelby N. Tzung can be reached at shelby.tzung@thecrimson.com.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
UPDATED: March 25, 2021 at 1:30 p.m.
Harvard will dissolve the University’s Title IX Office and the Office for Sexual Assault Prevention and Response and move its sexual harassment and assault resources under one entity — the Office for Gender Equity — which will be supervised by the central administration.
The move to form the Office for Gender Equity, which will be “fully operational” later this summer, comes after a February external review found that the decentralization of Harvard’s sexual- and gender-based harassment resources inhibited the University’s response to harassment claims against former Government professor Jorge I. Domínguez over a span of four decades.
In an email to Harvard affiliates announcing the changes Wednesday afternoon, University Provost Alan M. Garber ’76 cited both the February external review and a 2019 survey that found levels of campus sexual assault unchanged over the previous four years.
Garber wrote that he hopes the new office “will further advance Harvard’s commitment to providing an environment where each of us can feel safe to participate fully in the life of the University, whether we are studying, teaching, conducting research, or working in other ways.”
The change will result in the elimination of three positions in Harvard University Health Services, according to an email obtained by The Crimson that was sent to staff from HUHS Director Giang T. Nguyen Wednesday morning. He wrote that HUHS will work to “facilitate transfers” for those staff members “to the extent there are open positions at HUHS.”
Erin J. Basler, an education and community engagement specialist at OSAPR, said in an interview with The Crimson Wednesday evening that she was told Tuesday she would be laid off in late May, and given no information about a potential transfer to another HUHS position.
Basler expressed concerns about the speed at which the University decided on the new office structure.
“There were a lot of options of how we could demystify and streamline services on campus, while still maintaining confidential privileged services for the students,” she said. “The idea of having a singular office that deals with all of these things needs to be done with careful consideration and intentionality.”
University Title IX Coordinator Nicole M. Merhill told the Harvard Gazette, a University-run publication, that her office engaged in conversations with faculty, staff, postdoctoral candidates, and students groups on how to improve Harvard’s sexual harassment response procedures. But Basler told The Crimson she was unsure about the effectiveness of the outreach efforts.
“The questions that were asked by Title IX and [HUHS’s Department of Health Promotion and Education] — representing OSAPR — in those meetings could have focused more on how to mitigate barriers, rather than the public perception of the office,” Basler said.
Basler said Merhill and HUHS Senior Director of Nursing and Health Promotion Maria Francesconi met once with her and the rest of OSAPR’s staff in late February to solicit their input on the merger.
“That was the only time I specifically was asked for my opinion,” Basler said.
In a statement Thursday morning, University spokesperson Nate Herpich wrote that Harvard “has engaged with community members with the primary purpose of examining the resources related to sexual harassment (including sexual assault) and other sexual misconduct.”
“Community feedback combined with the AAU data, which showed a need to improve upon community knowledge of the resources and services available, as well as the Report of the External Review Committee, solidified our need to make significant changes to better meet the needs of our community members,” he wrote.
The new Office for Gender Equity will bring together the services previously offered by the Title IX Office and OSAPR, including incident disclosure and filing of formal complaints, direct crisis counseling, prevention and education programs, and psychoeducation services.
Undergraduates, graduate students, postdoctoral candidates, and staff will have access to the office’s resources.
The Title IX Office currently reports to the Provost’s Office, while OSAPR is housed within HUHS. Under the new consolidation, the Office for Gender Equity will report directly to the Office of the President and the Provost, despite continuing to offer some clinical services.
Confidential crisis counseling services and a 24-hour hotline will be offered by the office through Sexual Harassment/Assault Resource Education counselors. Currently, numerous universities — such as Yale, Princeton, and Stanford — house harassment response resources under similar programs.
SHARE will also feature the addition of a new expert staff member dedicated to restorative practices and counseling individuals who have caused harm, Merhill told the Harvard Gazette.
Merhill will head the new Office for Gender Equity.
Along with the new office, the University plans to launch a centralized data hub website this summer, which will provide and analyze data on programming, disclosures, and formal complaints.
The merger comes after significant staff turnover at OSAPR over the last year, including the August 2020 departure of the office’s director, Pierre R. Berastain Ojeda ’10. The University did not fill his vacancy, though it came during a University-wide hiring freeze implemented during the pandemic. Since Berastain’s departure, two OSAPR staff members have also departed Harvard, according to archived records of the office’s website.
Berastain wrote in a text message Wednesday afternoon that the Office for Gender Equity has the potential to simplify Harvard’s sexual assault and harassment reporting system.
“If executed intentionally and through the lens of survivors, a centralized office could make it easier for people to navigate the complex systems that a survivor encounters,” Berastain wrote. “I hope that the new office’s make up reflects the richness and intersectional demographics and lived experiences of our Harvard community.”
The changes come as the Biden administration is reviewing the Department of Education’s Title IX policies, which were overhauled under the Trump administration to strengthen the rights of individuals accused of harassment.
Trump’s Education Secretary, Betsy D. DeVos, released a long-anticipated directive last May overhauling how schools must handle harassment complaints and narrowing the definition of sexual misconduct. President Joe Biden pledged to reverse DeVos’s directive on the campaign trail in 2020, but, despite his executive order to begin reviewing the Trump-era policies, it is unclear what the timeframe for doing so will be.
Harvard affiliates can continue to seek services from the Title IX Office and OSAPR until the Office for Gender Equity’s launch this summer, Garber wrote.
The Office for Dispute Resolution — which investigates formal Title IX complaints — will remain a separate entity. It also reports to the Provost.
A simultaneous structural change at HUHS will also integrate the Office of Alcohol and Other Drug Services into the Center for Wellness and Health Promotion, according to the email from Nguyen. The Center will provide holistic services at the intersection of drug and alcohol use and physical and mental wellbeing.
—Staff writer Jasper G. Goodman can be reached at jasper.goodman@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @Jasper_Goodman.
—Staff writer Kelsey J. Griffin can be reached at kelsey.griffin@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @kelseyjgriffin.
—Staff writer Alex Koller can be reached at alex.koller@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
University Professor Danielle S. Allen and Rockefeller Brothers Fund President and CEO Stephen B. Heintz presented strategies to strengthen civic engagement at a virtual panel co-hosted by the Harvard Kennedy School Wednesday.
In the discussion moderated by Kennedy School professor Archon Fung, Allen and Heintz shared insights from a bipartisan report published in 2020 by the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, entitled “Our Common Purpose: Reinventing American Democracy for the 21st Century.” The report — organized by the Academy’s Commission on the Practice of Democratic Citizenship, of which Allen and Heintz are chairs — contains 31 specific recommendations for an enhanced democracy.
Amid deepening polarization in the United States, Heintz said there remains an underexplored pathway to mitigate national division — local, collaborative initiatives. One of the report’s 31 recommendations advocates for the creation of a “national trust for civic infrastructure” that would centralize funding for local initiatives that are often overlooked, according to Heintz.
“We’re not listening to each other — we’re not even arguing together,” he said. “It is these civic spaces, this civic infrastructure, that give us the opportunities to come together, and to know each other so that we’re not just operating from some caricature in our minds.”
Allen pointed to CivicLex as an initiative that she said is strengthening local democracy. CivicLex, based in Lexington, Ky., distributes local news with a focus on “forward reporting” — reporting on local political agendas in advance — so residents can engage meaningfully in decision-making processes, per Allen.
“I think of them as taking a social media concept — of digital platforms, news provision, and sharing — and replacing it with a civic media concept,” she said. “It’s a model that can be spread all over the country.”
Heintz posited that the growth of the population of the United States without a corresponding increase in elected representatives has contributed to citizens’ disillusionment with government.
At the inception of the U.S., a member of Congress represented roughly 35,000 constituents; today, that value has swelled to approximately 770,000, according to Heintz. The report recommends enlarging the House of Representatives.
“The quality of representation declines, whereas that ratio continues to grow,” he said. “And so one motivation for expanding the size of the House is to make a closer relationship between elected representatives and her or his constituents.”
Beyond the halls of Capitol Hill, Allen suggested work to strengthen the nation’s democracy can take place inside school classrooms.
Allen lamented the dearth of civic educational opportunities for K-12 students and called on federal and state governments to allocate more funds toward civics courses. For every $50 in federal dollars per student invested in STEM education, the government invests 5 cents in civic education, according to Allen.
“I think the hardest work to build out civic education is really going to be helping schools engage communities and build up comfort level with the idea that there’s disagreement in the classroom, and kids are going to talk about hard things,” she said. “And they can have the space to be themselves, to be authentic, and make their own judgements about what matters to them.”
Though she believes the U.S. is in dire need of revamped civic infrastructure, Allen — who is exploring a run for Massachusetts governor in 2022 — said she and Heintz were heartened by the local problem-solving they witnessed over the course of the two years of research that went into the report.
“The joy of doing this work was discovering that solutions are emerging out of our despair,” she said. “People are coming together and finding pathways for hope.”
—Staff writer Isabella B. Cho can be reached at isabella.cho@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @izbcho.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
On Friday, fourth-year students at Harvard Medical School learned where they will spend the next few years in residency, marking a major milestone in their health care careers.
Known as “Match Day,” the annual event is organized by the National Resident Matching Program, and occurs every third Friday in March. All applicants must undergo an application and interview process in order to be matched by the Main Residency Match system.
Using a mathematical algorithm, the assignment system matches residency candidates with programs, based on both the candidates’ and programs’ ranking preferences of each other. According to the NRMP, the system is “100% objective, 100% accurate, and 100% committed to a fair and transparent process.”
Typically, HMS hosts an in-person ceremony for Match Day that family members can attend. However, due to the pandemic, the celebration was moved to Zoom.
Ryoko Hamaguchi, a student at HMS who matched to the Harvard Plastic Surgery Residency Program, said despite the circumstances, she found the event meaningful.
“We had a big class-wide Zoom with the dean of the school, all of our classmates, and we would all open the email at the same time,” she said. “It was virtual, but I think that sensation of community was still there and I’m glad that I was able to enjoy it.”
Hamaguchi said she chose plastic surgery after being “blown away” by the diversity of the specialty’s procedures. She added that immediately after receiving her placement, she turned her camera off and cried tears of joy.
“I was thrilled that I was matched into my top choice program and the fact that I believe that this program will make me a fantastic, great surgeon who can take care of a lot of patients,” Hamaguchi said. “But I was also really happy that I matched into a family of people that were instrumental in me becoming interested in plastic surgery.”
Anthony Tucker-Bartley, another student at HMS, said he was “excited” when he learned that he was matched to the Massachusetts General Hospital Anesthesia Residency Program.
“As soon as I got the news, I just started laughing because when I’m excited, I really laugh,” he said. “In that moment, I was just thinking about my family and how far we’ve come and what it means for them as well.”
Tucker-Bartley said he aspires to become “the best clinician” he can be.
“In general, my main three career goals is really teaching, mentorship, and research,” he said. “Along the way, I plan to also educate future med students, undergraduates as well, and also serve as a mentor throughout the process.”
Sepideh Ashrafzadeh, a student at HMS who matched to the Harvard Combined Dermatology Residency Training Program, said she reacted with excitement and gratitude.
“I’ve just been thinking about how grateful I am for having gotten to this place, because it really did take a village to get to here,” she said. “Each step, I’ve had teachers, mentors, family members, friends who’ve all supported me to get to where I am today, and without them, I wouldn't have gotten here.”
Ashrafzadeh also reflected on how she believes a positive learning mindset contributes to success in professional medicine.
“It’s not necessarily school rank or prestige that matters most — it’s just what you make of the experience,” she said. “If you go in with the attitude of ‘I’m just going to make the most of this experience’ in terms of exploring myself, in terms of making friends, in terms of finding amazing mentors, you’re going to have a wonderful medical experience.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
A team of researchers at Harvard Medical School detailed how mutated Covid-19 variants can evade both naturally occurring and synthetic antibodies in a study published earlier this month.
The study, titled “SARS-CoV-2 evolution in an immunocompromised host reveals shared neutralization escape mechanisms,” was published in the journal Cell on March 16.
Jonathan Abraham — the study’s principal investigator and an infectious diseases doctor at Brigham and Women’s Hospital — said that the study was inspired by an immunocompromised patient with a chronic, mutated Covid-19 infection.
Immunocompromised individuals often lack sufficient antibodies to fight off a Covid-19 infection, according to Abraham. This allows the virus to replicate without significant resistance, so the patient ended up with several mutations, according to graduate student and senior author Sarah A. Clark.
The researchers looked at the Covid-19 mutations in the original patient and created safe, non-infectious versions of the virus to work with in the lab.
By working with the “dummy” viruses and selected antibodies, researchers were able to model how Covid-19 can evade immune defenses when multiple mutations are present.
“A single mutation that might pop up in a sequence is not really that big of a deal,” Clark said. “But if the virus continues over time to circulate in the world and has more and more chances to mutate, our paper kind of shows what that effect could be as those mutations accumulate.”
Given the natural accumulation of mutations, Clark said a Covid-19 variant could eventually emerge that evades current vaccines. New, more infectious variants have already cropped up in the U.K., Brazil, and South Africa.
“At a certain point, they’ll stop working. They’ll have to be updated, so kind of like an expiration date in a way,” said Abraham, who is also an assistant professor of microbiology at Harvard Medical School.
Abraham said the health community must remain vigilant in tracking virus mutations as they happen and will need to continue to update both therapeutic antibodies and vaccines.
Lars E. Clark — a graduate student and lead co-author on the paper — said the public should not be too alarmed by their findings. Mutations of Covid-19 are normal, considering the virus has only recently jumped to infect human hosts.
“[The study is] really only looking at the antibody response and that’s only one component of the immune system, so you can’t take too much away from it,” he said. “But I still think it’s an important addition to everything else that’s already out there.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
A significant majority of respondents to The Crimson’s annual survey of Harvard’s Faculty of Arts and Sciences — 73 percent — believe the Harvard Corporation’s commitment to achieve net-zero greenhouse gas emissions from its endowment by 2050 is “too slow.”
The survey also revealed that a majority of respondents do not believe the University is doing enough to fight climate change. Faculty responses demonstrated strong support for divestment both from the fossil fuel industry and from companies tied to private prisons.
The Crimson distributed its faculty survey to more than 1,100 members of the FAS in late February, polling Harvard’s flagship faculty on key University policy decisions, challenges they face as academics, and pressing issues on campus — including the repercussions of the Covid-19 pandemic. Tenured, tenure-track, and non-tenure-track faculty all received the survey.
The 94-question survey obtained more than 300 responses, though not all respondents answered each question. The anonymous survey, a link to which was emailed to nearly every member of the FAS, was open from Feb. 26 to Mar. 5. The Crimson did not adjust the data for possible selection bias.
While the first installment of The Crimson’s 2021 faculty survey series explored faculty views on the University’s tenure procedures, the second installment examines how faculty view Harvard’s response to divestment movements on campus.
In recent years, divestment from fossil fuels has become a point of contention between the FAS and the University. In February 2020, the FAS voted 179-20 in favor of a motion urging the Corporation — the University’s highest governing board — to divest. The vote, representing the culmination of a four-month-long debate, marked a dramatic rebuke of administrators’ longstanding refusal to support divestment.
Last Monday, organizers with Fossil Fuel Divest Harvard, a student group calling on the University to divest from fossil fuels, filed a complaint with Massachusetts Attorney General Maura T. Healey ’92. In the complaint, the students alleged that the Corporation’s investments in the fossil fuel industry violate state laws governing the investments of non-profit organizations.
More than 115 Harvard faculty members signed on to a public letter backing the complaint.
The faculty surveyed overwhelmingly supported the same goals as the student organizers: 75 percent of respondents said they agree that Harvard should divest from the fossil fuel industry, with 40 percent responding that they “strongly agree.”
The Harvard Management Corporation has decreased its exposure to fossil fuels — including both direct and indirect investments — by 80 percent since 2008, according to a company report published last month.
Additionally, the report found that HMC had no direct exposure to companies that “explore for or develop further reserves of fossil fields” as of June 2020.
FAS faculty also appear to demonstrate majority support for private prison divestment. The survey indicated that 74 percent of respondents agreed that Harvard should divest from companies tied to private prisons, including 50 percent of respondents who “strongly agree.”
Of survey respondents, 38 percent revealed that they were dissatisfied with University President Lawrence S. Bacow and the Corporation’s response to divestment movements on campus, including 17 percent who indicated “extreme” dissatisfaction. Another 25 percent of respondents shared that they were satisfied with Bacow and the Corporation’s response, although only 4 percent expressed “extreme” satisfaction.
Virginie Greene, a professor in the Department of Romance Languages and Literatures, said in an interview that the University’s reluctance to divest from fossil fields is an issue of “governance and transparency.”
“Harvard has a governance structure that’s not very democratic on certain aspects, and particularly the financial arrangement — the way that the university invests — Harvard faculty are not consulted on that,” Greene said. “We have no power except for organizing and petitioning.”
“We are never consulted by the Corporation on this issue,” she added.
In April 2020, the Corporation directed the Harvard Management Company to develop a plan to achieve net-zero greenhouse gas emissions from its endowment by 2050. Under the plan, the Corporation would work with faculty and experts to develop a methodology to calculate greenhouse gas emissions within the portfolio.
Though some faculty members have indicated that they supported the Corporation’s commitment, the survey revealed that 73 percent of respondents currently believe the University’s pace towards net-zero emissions from its endowment is too slow.
More broadly, 60 percent of survey-takers disagreed that Harvard is doing enough to fight climate change, including 25 percent who “strongly disagree.” Only 14 percent of survey-takers agreed that Harvard is doing enough to fight climate change, with 4 percent who “strongly agree.”
University spokesperson Jason A. Newton wrote in an emailed statement that the Corporation’s commitment to achieve a carbon-free footprint by 2050 reflects the timeline provided by the 2017 Paris Agreement.
“The net-zero commitment provides an opportunity to scrutinize Harvard’s entire endowment portfolio with respect to greenhouse gas emissions in the broadest sense, not just exposure to fossil fuels,” Newton wrote. “The net-zero commitment also extends that scrutiny to asset managers and companies that are failing to also account for and reduce greenhouse gas emissions.”
“In taking on this leadership role – the first U.S. endowment to make this commitment and clearly state its expectations to asset managers and companies – Harvard is leveraging its voice to urge others to join us in creating an economy that is fully net-zero by 2050 (the timeline reflected in the Paris Agreement),” Newton added.
During a faculty meeting earlier this month, Music professor Alexander Rehding asked Bacow about the implementation of the Corporation’s 2050 commitment, stating that the commitment currently lacks “benchmarks or interim milestones on the way to our goal of net-zero 2050.”
“There is no shortage of existing benchmarks,” Rehding said. “If you look at the UN report from 2018, it uses 2030 as this interim benchmark, and that is only nine years from now, and that is when 50 percent of the goals should be reached.”
“The clock is ticking,” Rehding added. “Of course Harvard doesn’t have to follow the UN recommendations, and I hope we can propose something that is far more ambitious. But benchmarks are crucial to lay out the path to success.”
For its 2021 Faculty Survey, The Crimson collected electronic responses through Qualtrics, an online survey platform, from Feb. 26 to Mar. 5, 2021. A link to the anonymous survey was sent to 1,182 FAS and SEAS faculty members through emails sourced in February 2021 from Harvard directory information. The pool included individuals on Harvard’s Connections database with FAS affiliations, including tenured, tenure-track, and non-tenure-track faculty.
Of those faculty, 315 accessed the link to the survey. A total of 309 participants answered at least one question, while 235 participants completed every question in the survey.
To prevent participants from accidentally taking the survey more than once, The Crimson enabled Qualtrics’ browser cookie functionality to register unique survey sessions on each device. This device data is controlled by Qualtrics, and The Crimson does not retain information that could identify devices accessing the survey with anonymous responses.
In an effort to check for response bias, The Crimson compared respondent demographics with publicly available information on faculty demographics provided by the University — information regarding gender, minority background, SEAS affiliation, and ladder versus non-ladder status. Overall, respondent demographics tracked with faculty demographics.
Of survey respondents, 38 percent identified themselves as women and 19 percent identified themselves as minorities. Based on data in the 2020 FAS Dean’s Annual report, women and minorities make up 32 percent and 25 percent of FAS ladder faculty, respectively.
According to the report, 41 percent of the FAS were non-ladder faculty — a term synonymous with non-tenure-track faculty. Similarly, 39 percent of respondents to The Crimson’s survey identified themselves as non-ladder faculty.
Of faculty who were sent the link to the survey, 106 — or 9 percent — are affiliated with SEAS. In comparison, of respondents who indicated their divisional affiliation on the survey, 6 percent reported an affiliation with SEAS.
—Staff writer Meera S. Nair can be reached at meera.nair@thecrimson.com.
—Staff writer Andy Z. Wang can be reached at andy.wang@thecrimson.com.
This is the second installment in a six-part series analyzing the results of The Crimson’s survey of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences, Harvard’s flagship faculty. Read the first installment here.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Some Harvard faculty, student workers, and staff living abroad have faced significant issues with a third-party payroll system the University shifted them to in January, with a number of affected graduate students missing their paychecks for months.
Harvard pays its employees based in the United States directly, but international law complicates the hiring and payment of employees working abroad, so the University maintains a network of third-party payroll providers — entities that officially employ the workers — even as they continue to work for Harvard.
Harvard’s third-party payroll system has been established for years, but enrollment in the system was vastly expanded this term to account for the increase in staff working remotely from abroad during the pandemic. Now, approximately 300 employees — quadruple the numbers of recent years — are paid through overseas Harvard-affiliated offices or third-party payroll companies.
Harvard notified the Harvard Graduate Students Union-United Automobile Workers in December that workers living abroad would be transferred to the third-party payroll system and promised to provide a list of affected student workers.
The union quickly realized, however, that the system was causing pay delays for its members when the list the University provided in February was shorter than the union anticipated, according to HGSU-UAW President Brandon J. Mancilla.
HGSU-UAW organizer Samuel D. Keaser said around 250 graduate student workers have potentially experienced delays.
“We’re still hearing about cases weekly that we have not known about before,” he said.
University spokesperson Jason A. Newton wrote in an emailed statement that when Harvard transitioned nearly all employees to remote work last March, it initially kept workers who moved abroad on its direct payroll system. Once it became clear, however, that employees abroad would continue to work remotely for the entire 2020-21 academic year, Harvard decided to move those workers to a third-party system starting in January 2021 to comply with international law, according to Newton.
“Under the extraordinary circumstances of the global pandemic, the University implemented payroll policies based on our commitment to our faculty, staff, and student workers who are temporarily located abroad,” Newton wrote. “Options available under the policies include hiring through third-party entities as well as overseas Harvard-affiliated offices, providing continuity in remote teaching and research, and compliance with local employment, tax, and other requirements.”
When a department wants to hire a worker living abroad, Harvard’s Global Support Services office helps connect them to an appropriate third-party entity which is responsible for paying the employee, according to Newton. One such entity is Safeguard Global, an international payroll company that has branches in more than 179 countries and employs workers for multiple departments at Harvard.
Anne Dymek, a Germanic Languages and Literatures Ph.D. candidate and teaching fellow currently living in Germany, said Harvard informed her in early December that she would begin receiving her pay from Safeguard Global, but she has still not received a paycheck from the company this term.
“The pay worked just fine in the fall because Harvard kept paying us just like normal,” Dymek said. “Then they announced that someone else would pay us starting in January, but I have not seen any pay so far.”
She said Safeguard Global first reached out to her for employment information on Feb. 9. A week later, she received her employment contract, but it was locked with a digital pin that she was not initially sent.
“It never reached me, so I kept writing them, ‘Where’s the pin? The pin never came.’ It took them weeks until finally they could send me the pin, so I couldn’t sign the contract on time,” Dymek said.
Even after signing the contract, her paychecks never arrived. Dymek said she appealed to Harvard and received an advance from the University on March 11. She added that she also received a payment from Safeguard Global on March 19 of an amount that does not seem to match her salary, and she does not know when she will begin receiving her regular pay.
Manuel Gebhardt, another teaching fellow in the Germanic Languages and Literatures department living in Germany, said he did not receive any pay from Safeguard Global until March 11, when the company gave him a payment labeled as a “bonus” for January and half of February. He added that he received another payment from Safeguard Global Wednesday.
Safeguard Global spokesperson Narissa Johnson wrote in an emailed statement that the company can only comment on the experience of workers once they have been onboarded.
“Our data shows an average time to onboard Harvard workers was 31 days, and this is the same as our performance with hundreds of the other multinationals to which we provide this service,” Johnson wrote. “We are proud of our ability to bring workers onboard quickly, as needed by our clients.”
She added that internal service logs show the company has responded to “every Harvard inquiry” in 59 minutes on average.
As both Dymek and Gebhardt began experiencing delays in their pay, they reached out to their department administrator, Andreea Florescu D’Abramo.
Gebhardt said he received an advance top-up payment from the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences on Feb. 1 after Florescu D’Abramo contacted Global Support Services on his behalf at the beginning of January. He also said Harvard had offered him an interest-free loan until he received pay.
Florescu D’Abramo said delays were “not excusable,” but added that they were “to be expected” given the influx of workers on the third-party payroll system.
“That still doesn’t help the students, but I can understand why it took so long,” Florescu D’Abramo said.
Keye S. Tersmette, a Ph.D. candidate and teaching fellow in Middle Eastern Studies and Anthropology, said he did not receive clear indications on how he would be paid this semester and also faced delays receiving his paycheck.
He eventually received payment from Safeguard Global in February to his account in the Netherlands and a top-up from Harvard to his American bank account, he said.
Mancilla, the HGSU-UAW president, said ensuring these workers receive pay is a top priority for the union.
“Right now, the immediate issue we have is to make sure that these folks get paid, and we find a resolution to their immediate problems,” he said.
—Staff writer Cara J. Chang can be reached at cara.chang@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @CaraChang20.
—Staff writer Meimei Xu can be reached at meimei.xu@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @meimeixu7.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Two healthcare experts affiliated with the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs discussed how mobile phone technology can be deployed to tackle veteran homelessness at a Harvard School of Public Health seminar on Wednesday.
D. Keith McInnes — a professor at Boston University’s School of Public Health — headlined the event, which was moderated by HSPH instructor Jill S. Roncarati.
The seminar focused on McInnes’ current research, which explores the feasibility of using cell phone data to prevent and combat homelessness among veterans in the greater Boston area. His research is funded through the Center for Healthcare Organization and Implementation Research, a public health and research institute at the VA, with which Roncarati is also affiliated.
The issue of veteran homelessness has decreased over the past decade but remains a top priority for the VA, according to McInnes.
“There are about 37,000 veterans, it’s estimated in the United States, who are experiencing homelessness,” he said in an interview with The Crimson after the event. “About two-thirds have various shelters, kind of roof over their head, and one-third is what we might call street-homeless.”
McInnes and Roncarati both said accessing healthcare is a primary concern for many veterans experiencing homelessness, especially those managing chronic illnesses, chronic pain, substance use, post-traumatic stress disorder, depression, and suicidality.
McInnes’ team provided a few dozen local veterans — both homeless or at risk of becoming homeless — with mobile phones that they can use to call a health care provider or log a daily mood self-identification as a part of a mental health intervention.
The phones serve a dual purpose: they are also automatically collecting data that can later be harnessed to improve veterans’ access to health care services. By tracking movements, calls, and texts, McInnes hopes to gain a better understanding of which health services and social networks veterans are availing themselves of — and where there are gaps that need to be filled.
McInnes said the phones will also collect data around major transitions or health events in veterans’ lives, with the goal of identifying patterns that lead to detrimental outcomes.
“For example, somebody is staying with a friend, maybe couch surfing, and then a week later they’re in a shelter, that would be a transition. A major health event could be hospitalization or an emergency room visit,” McInnes explained. “We’d like to understand what is happening in the days and maybe even hours before one of these events.”
Prior studies examining risk factors for homelessness among veterans have typically relied on surveys. However, McInnes said surveys may not be the right tool in this research area due to recall bias.
“Even if one does surveys every three months on a group, trying to get somebody to remember what they felt like the day or two before a housing transition is quite hard,” he said.
McInnes said in the interview after the seminar that he anticipates that the number of veterans experiencing homelessness will spike due to the economic fallout of the Covid-19 pandemic.
However, Roncarati said she remains optimistic about the potential of mobile phone technology to support this vulnerable population.
“One of the messages that I heard was that it is possible to do technology-enabled care among a population that is homeless or primarily homeless,” Roncarati said in an interview after the event, summarizing her major takeaways from the seminar.
At the seminar, McInnes stressed that efforts to support public health among homeless populations should also include non-veterans.
“I think we have to keep pressing and pushing and trying,” he said. “It’s just such a complex issue that it’s going to need multidisciplinary teams.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Sen. Christopher A. “Chris” Coons (D-Del.) underscored the importance of promoting national service to bridge partisan divides and restore democratic values at an Institute of Politics forum event on Wednesday.
The panel — moderated by IOP Director and former Peace Corps Director Mark D. Gearan ’78 — occurred just hours after the nonprofit Voices for National Service inducted Coons into the National Service Hall of Fame, the organization’s highest honor.
Coons has long championed the expansion of national service programs; he recently helped secure $1 billion in funding for the government-backed program AmeriCorps in the American Rescue Plan, signed into law by President Joe Biden on March 11.
Citing national service as one of the “most broadly bipartisan ideas” on Capitol Hill, Coons said the power of service is two-fold, at once uniting Americans of diverse political views and fostering national pride.
“Those are two important pieces of why President Biden and I and many others here in the Senate see national service as a vital part of addressing the civic moment we are in right now, when we are so divided on partisan lines — and where there are so many questioning the very project of citizen leadership and of democracy,” he said.
For Coons, a renewed vigor for national service not only requires robust federal funding, but also a “new way to frame” the value of service. The senator cited the Civilian Climate Corps — a new program aimed at employing Americans to combat climate change — as a service initiative that could, in conjunction with pre-existing initiatives like the Civilian Conservation Corps, gain bipartisan support.
“The Civilian Conservation Corps was an FDR program in the depths of the Great Depression that gave millions of Americans the opportunity to be engaged in improving the infrastructure in our public lands and our national parks,” he said. “I am hopeful that we will find some bipartisanship in support of the expansion of the Civilian Conservation Corps, which already exists in almost every state in America.”
Coons also said that current partisan gridlock illustrates a more foundational refusal to account for opposing viewpoints, citing clashing news sources like Fox News and MSNBC that are almost “describing different realities” as a key source of partisan hostility.
“The term that I hear more often these days than any other to describe one’s political opponents is, ‘They’re crazy. That’s just insane,’” Coons said.
“The language I hear commonly used throughout our country about political opponents has stopped being about policy differences, and has started being about marginalization, disrespect, and an unwillingness to work together,” he added.
Despite similarities to the political turbulence of past decades, Coons said specific developments — including the storming of the U.S. Capitol on Jan. 6 — mark a unique chapter in American history. He pointed to the power of national service to heal the nation amid these challenges.
“The events of the last year have strained the bonds of citizenship and fellow feeling amongst Americans, in some ways more than at any point in my life,” Coons said. “And that’s why we need to reinvest in reviving a sense of our shared civic purpose, and the significance of democracy.”
As he concluded his reflections, Coons said he was “humbled” to be attending the virtual panel from what was once former Sen. John S. McCain’s office — behind him stood photographs he had taken with the late senator on trips to Afghanistan and Vietnam.
Coons urged young Americans to assume the mantle of civic engagement, emphasizing that no political party possesses an “exclusive hold” on patriotism.
“I know that you have the heart and the passion and the energy that will save our democracy, bring us together as a nation, and move us forward,” Coons said, addressing his virtual audience. “And I cannot tell you how urgent and how rewarding that work is.”
—Staff writer Isabella B. Cho can be reached at isabella.cho@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @izbcho.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Harvard Union of Clerical and Technical Workers alleged the University violated its contract by denying union members access to the sexual harassment complaint resolution process outlined in the agreement, according to a statement sent to union members, University administrators, and managers Tuesday.
According to the union, Harvard is refusing to allow employees who come forward with sexual harassment complaints to pursue the “problem-resolution process” stipulated in the union’s contract, instead of the University’s Title IX process.
The grievance procedure allows representatives of both the union and Harvard to work together to look into and address complaints of sexual harassment leveled by union members. If the two parties are unable to reach a solution, the complainant can request third-party arbitration.
In contrast, Harvard’s Title IX process adjudicates complaints internally within the University. Following a formal report of sexual harassment against a staff member, Harvard’s Office of Dispute Resolution launches an investigation, and the University Title IX Coordinator creates a hearing committee composed of Harvard faculty, administrators, and one external attorney to make a determination on the complaint.
“In a number of recent cases, when HUCTW members brought forward complaints of sexual harassment to HUCTW— requesting our contractual process — University administrators have refused to engage in the required meetings,” the statement reads. “Administrators claimed that our negotiated process cannot be made available to members due to the University’s obligations under the Title IX statute.”
In its statement, the union also wrote that Harvard’s Title IX policies have proved inadequate for handling discrimination complaints filed by members.
“As we’ve learned from our members’ experiences and recent coverage in the media, Harvard’s Title IX process alone — where the University unilaterally controls every step of the process as well as all of its outcomes — has repeatedly proven insufficient to address some staff members’ concerns, particularly when up against powerful Harvard faculty or managers,” the statement reads.
HUCTW wrote in its statement that it believes members should have access to both Harvard’s interim Title IX procedure for handling sexual harassment complaints and the resolution process cited in the union’s contract and personnel manuel.
“We are not suggesting that the contractual HUCTW process replace the Title IX process, nor are we attempting to steer people away from the Title IX process,” the statement reads. “We are simply saying that members should also have access to the contractually agreed-upon Harvard-HUCTW process for resolving sexual harassment complaints if they choose.”
University spokesperson Jonathan L. Swain declined to comment on the union’s allegation that Harvard violated the grievance procedure provision in the union’s contract. He wrote in an emailed statement that the University provides pathways for HUCTW members to come forward with discrimination complaints in ways that abide by federal law.
“The University remains committed to ensuring HUCTW members have access to procedures and resources to report and address matters of harassment and discrimination that also comply with federal Title IX regulations,” Swain wrote.
The union also wrote in its Tuesday statement that it is amenable to working with Harvard if the University has determined there are conflicts between the contract and Harvard’s Title IX process.
“If University administrators have identified ways that Title IX language conflicts with HUCTW contract language, HUCTW leaders are willing to sit down and discuss these concerns,” the statement reads. “However, simply refusing to follow our negotiated contract language is not an option.”
HUCTW President Carrie E. Barbash said in an interview the union is also willing to work with the University to resolve instances in which a union member levels a complaint against a non-union member.
Barbash added that she hopes the union’s statement will spur conversations among union members and University affiliates about the resources available to affiliates who experience sexual harassment.
“This is obviously very concerning for us, very troubling,” Barbash said. “It’s something we want to get the members involved in discussion around and also the wider Harvard community.”
—Staff writer Cara J. Chang can be reached at cara.chang@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @CaraChang20.
—Staff writer Meimei Xu can be reached at meimei.xu@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @meimeixu7.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
At this point, have you played more games of skribbl.io and Among Us than you can count? Is singing karaoke with the least musically-inclined people in the world over an unstable internet connection destroying your eardrums? If so, here are a few recommendations for your next (and unfortunately, not the last) virtual social!
A Cook-off
If you have never made anything besides a peanut butter and jelly sandwich before, here is your chance to actually learn how to cook! Pick a recipe that you and your group will follow together, and set up a time to prepare the dish together over Zoom. Cooking helps you understand various world flavors, and you obtain life skills such as eating healthy and cleaning up after yourself. Making your own food is also much safer than eating out at a restaurant due to a certain infamous global pandemic. We appreciate you for social distancing and #flattening #the #curve.
Jeopardy!
We’ve all seen America’s favorite game show, or at least can hum the theme song passive-aggressively when our friend is taking too long to complete a task. In a Jeopardy tournament, contestants are given general informative clues and must respond in the form of a question. This game is the perfect opportunity for you to flex your obscure knowledge on U.S. history or world geography, or at least pick up some new facts in your weak areas. To raise the stakes of the contest, you can make a pact in which all the losers pay an Uber Eats meal for the winner — if bragging rights isn’t enough for your friends to bring their A-game in Jeopardy, a food delivery order most definitely will.
Kahoot!
Like Jeopardy’s theme song, many of us also know the Kahoot! music, which interestingly spurs a huge sense of competitiveness. Kahoot! has a plethora of pre-made quizzes on just about every topic you can think of, from sports trivia to Disney movies to women of science, and there is no fee to participate. If you’re not completely satisfied with any of the offerings, you can make a quiz of your own!
Never Have I Ever
Think you know your friends well? Wait until you engage in a juicy game of Never Have I Ever! This activity requires zero equipment, screen-sharing, or preparation; all you need is a mutual pledge of honesty. While others are being shy and making innocent statements such as “Never have I ever been to the Quad,” hit ’em with a hard question from The Oprah Magazine, like “Never have I ever binged an entire series in one day.” (Yeah, some of us have ~questionable~ study habits. What about it?) For first-year students, if you’re playing with a blockmate, take this opportunity to dig information on your friend with something like, “Never have I ever borrowed clothes without asking.” If said friend puts their finger down, you’ll have to consider establishing some ground rules.
One Night Ultimate Werewolf
Now that you’ve solidified your relationships with all the aforementioned ideas, why not completely demolish them in an intense game of Werewolf? Werewolf is a multiplayer role-playing game based on deceit and shrewdness (like Mafia!), and it’s always fascinating to see who the best actor is. Be warned: due to the ruthless atmosphere of One Night Ultimate Werewolf, this game may set your friendships back several months.
Now that you have these suggestions under your belt, round up a few friends over Zoom for some virtual quality time! With these ideas, you’ll finally have a not horrible time on a video chat.
