News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Excited to be out of our class that normally runs late on Wednesday night, my friends and I happily walked through Harvard Yard. We were completely engrossed in conversation as we moved along one of the zigzagging sidewalks. It was fairly dark, but I saw an older man coming through one of the gates, walking in our direction. Just as my friends and I passed the man, he slowed down to say to us “fat hobbit girls.” Completely shocked by what had happened, my friends and I continued walking, briefly maintaining small talk until we went our separate ways.
Even though we had separated and that strange moment had passed, that collection of words stuck in my head. Fat. Hobbit. Girls. As a girl who has been short and overweight her entire life, I have heard similar words, but never that bizarre and specific grouping. And yet, no matter the context, the word “fat” always has the power to completely shatter me.
But, why? Why should a stranger’s application of the word “fat” leave me feeling utterly broken? How and why can a single word have that much power?
In truth, I have always implicitly understood the power of the word “fat” and its many proxies. Whether a bully or a family member uttered the word, it symbolized the reality that I did not look how the world expected me to, that I did not reflect the ideal tall and slender feminine form. While looking different is not inherently bad, the meaning of “fat” assured me otherwise. The word was delivered as a punishment that ultimately intended to make me feel disgusting, ashamed, and guilty.
And it always worked, even if that punishment was carried out by a stranger in Harvard Yard, because most people, myself included, have internalized the idea that there are horrible implications of being fat. We are conditioned to believe that being fat means you are ugly, unproductive, lazy, unathletic, slobby, and clumsy, and we willingly buy into “fatphobia.”
Although people of all sizes are capable of exhibiting these characteristics, people perceived as fat must actively work to refute such accusations. Even at Harvard, I have subconsciously been affected by this. I never get an extra side of fries or a second dessert at the dining hall. I carefully navigate the rows of seats in lecture halls. I never shirk opportunities to help in a group project. I have always worried that if I did not do these things, it could simply confirm the assumptions people make about me based on my appearance.
For all of Harvard’s activism and wokeness, I was initially surprised that fatphobia rarely, if ever, comes up in conversation here, but the reality is that Harvard students are image-obsessed. Perhaps acknowledging fatphobia here chips away at the persona of perfection some students attempt to cultivate.
But fatphobia is a cause worth discussing. Besides the personal psychological effects I enumerated above, fatphobia has profound, wide-reaching ramifications. Overweight people, especially women, are paid less and have a harder time finding a job. People who are overweight often receive worse medical care because doctors are likely to attribute unrelated symptoms to obesity. Young adults who perceive themselves as overweight have an increased risk of suicidal ideation.
The power we give to the word “fat” creates these issues, and we turn a blind eye. We cannot ignore the damage we create. In order to dismantle fatphobia, we need to unlearn the assumptions we make about fat people. Rather than “fat” as a moral condemnation, it should simply be a visual descriptor.
This might sound idealistic and naive, but I firmly believe that we are all capable of this on an individual scale. Since that Wednesday night at Harvard Yard, I have vowed to never let “fat” control my life. I will look how I will look, and if others judge me for that, it is not my responsibility to prove them wrong. I will never assume a person’s character or work ethic based on their appearance. I implore you to do the same to begin to atone for the trauma and injustice we have inflicted.
Libby E. Tseng ’24, a Crimson Editorial editor, lives in Pforzheimer House.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Having college students regularly sacrifice their basic nutrition and mental health needs, undergo chronic stress and sleep deprivation, and debate whether or not to attend class while sick during a pandemic should not be as pervasive as it is now. These problems stem from the idea that the individual is entirely responsible for their mental health and wellbeing, which limits help-seeking behaviors, especially amongst youth, perpetuating depression, anxiety, ADHD, suicide, and a host of other issues.
This ideology of toxic self-reliance is especially pervasive at universities like Harvard. It creates a culture that relies on a fixed privileged view that assumes all people should be like the (white, cisgender, straight, able-bodied, male) default who are (supposedly) entirely self-reliant. Yet, mental health should never be an individual battle. Harvard’s expectation of excellence currently relies on a deeply rooted ableism, both mental and physical, creating a campus that is not built for people who have different capabilities, implying that differences are deficits.
Therefore, even though many students at Harvard rely upon accommodations such as extended time testing and mental health services, this is rarely discussed because of the stigma surrounding neurodivergence and mental health problems. They are often perceived as weaknesses, personal failings, or a lack of willpower.
At Harvard, access to mental health services is limited and inadequate, and students are often expected to seek outside therapy or an expert to get a mental health diagnosis, which many cannot afford. I avoided seeking help from Harvard’s Counseling and Mental Health Services for some time because I’d heard that there are limits on the number of therapy sessions provided by CAMHS before students are encouraged to find an outside provider.
The problem is not that we students are not ready for the harsh deadlines of college or the real world, it is that these harsh deadlines are often blind to students’ specific needs. The purpose of education should be to invest in all people so that they can reach their individual potential and contribute to society, which requires a far more personalized approach than a one-size-fits-all model.
This lack of accommodation is especially harmful to neurodivergent, disabled, queer, poor, and/or BIPOC students. The more intersections of oppression that a student sits at the center of, the worse this issue becomes as they face increasing levels of harassment, setbacks, and traumas while often having them be invalidated by the institution. White supremacy centers the needs and comfort of white people while erasing those of people of color. Patriarchy teaches that any expression of vulnerability or dependence on others is feminine and weak.
These systems of oppression work together to promote the idea that the needs of marginalized people are burdens and threats to the collective. Marginalized people are dehumanized and taught to believe their emotional and psychological needs do not matter and thus that they do not matter. They — we — are taught to hate themselves for their weaknesses and any differences in the way they present themselves from the norm, leading to a culture of toxic performativity that prevents anyone from flourishing as their true authentic self.
A true vision of Harvard excellence demands that we accommodate all people by celebrating rather than stigmatizing neurodiversity and actively creating space for differences. We must learn to build a culture that starts by seeing all people as valuable and worthy of being accommodated, no matter what their needs are.
Having special needs is not a personal failing, but a natural part of being a unique human being. To transform our schools from the epicenters of anxiety and depression that they are quickly becoming into the incredible places of learning and growth they should be, there must be communal investment into student’s mental health, emotional growth, and financial support for many students to develop so that they are prepared. We must devote enough resources t0 our education system to support deep personalization of learning for all students.
We are all fundamentally worthy of having our needs accommodated. This view must overthrow our current toxic individualism, and underpin our education at Harvard.

​​David E. Lewis ’24 lives in Quincy House. His column “Unlearning Everything” appears on alternate Thursdays.
​​Have a suggestion, question, or concern for The Crimson Editorial Board? Click here.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
When it comes to kicking the unfair “extra look” colleges give to legacy applicants, Harvard is falling behind, and its peers are taking the lead. Just last Wednesday, Amherst College announced that it will be doing away with legacy admissions — joining the ranks of schools such as Caltech and MIT, who already do not consider legacy status.
It doesn’t take much to recognize that the Harvard admissions process is grossly competitive — after all, the acceptance rate for the Class of 2025 was a staggering low of 3.43 percent. The children of alumni have excelled in this hypercompetitive environment. Between 2014 and 2019, the acceptance rate for legacies, 33 percent, dwarfed Harvard’s overall acceptance rate of only 6 percent.
It’s not hard to guess why. For starters, the children of Harvard alumni are disproportionately wealthy; nearly a third of legacy freshmen hail from half-a-million dollar households. Standardized tests such as the SAT have been shown to correlate strongly with applicants’ household income (thanks in part to eager parents and pricey tutors, the wealthier the student, the better the score). And the ability to participate in extracurriculars that colleges salivate over can oftentimes depend on nothing more than the thickness of your parents’ wallets. Not to mention, being reared by the educational elite is probably conducive to the cultivation of academic talent, which college admissions rightly rewards.
The preposterousness of the tie-breaking boost children of alumni get is magnified once we recognize just how much legacy applicants already benefit from the outsize wealth and inside knowledge they enter college applications with. Piling on an extra advantage on the basis of this preexisting privilege is strikingly unjust.
In elevating the privileged, legacy preference actively disadvantages minority and first-generation college students. Harvard did not start admitting Black students into the College in large numbers until the 1970s. Harvard Medical School’s first Black mother-daughter legacy admit only graduated in 2005, and Harvard Business School’s only came in 2006. And of course, first-generation college students stand to benefit nothing from legacy admissions.
Given the financial resources legacies disproportionately grow up with, and the familiarity with the College and its application process with which many approach their Common App, it is unlikely that abolishing legacy admissions would remotely threaten the presence of alumni children on campus. More likely than not, the children of Harvard alumni would continue to have higher chances of being admitted when compared to the general public. After all, the tradition of legacy admissions is only a symptom of the inequalities surrounding higher education — not its root cause.
So, if abolishing legacy preference would still leave intact the substantial other advantages enjoyed by children of Harvard alumni, why does the University cling so tightly to the widely panned practice? For what other reason would the University be upholding a system that almost exclusively privileges the wealthy and white? The argument that the University has put forth comes down to money: alumni donate more if they know their children are given extra consideration, irrespective of their abilities. That cash, in turn, allows Harvard to further its educational mission.
These economic arguments, which might satisfy our tit-for-tat intuition, fall flat in the face of rigorous research which finds “no causal relationship between legacy preference policies and total alumni giving among top universities.” Moreso, Harvard possesses the largest academic endowment fund of any university in the world. Are we really to believe that the financial security this $53 billion dollar monument affords us would crumble without the mythical “boost” in donations legacy preference provides?
Consider this: What does Harvard have to offer as a result of its legacy preference that peer institutions such as MIT do not? The only answer we can come up with is more unjust admissions.
Admission to a place like Harvard, or any of its peer institutions, comes with the hope of social mobility for many students. But so long as the practice of legacy admissions prevails, this potential will be short-circuited. Children of Harvard alumni surely have many talents to offer the College on their own. The fact that legacy policies allow for such students to be preferenced in an admissions toss-up between them and an equal but less advantaged applicant makes our heads spin.
Harvard bucking its legacy policy has enormous potential to make college admissions writ large more equitable. We have seen time and time again — most recently with the University’s decision to divest from fossil fuels, after which no less than eight other universities divested — that other universities look to Harvard to guide their own decision making. Our friends to the west at Amherst, and across the river at MIT, are leading the charge. Harvard could be a powerful ally.
Our Editorial Board has often turned over lofty questions of what admittance to Harvard really means, and how students ought to spend their time here. But since 2015, we have stood firm on one thing we believe a Harvard education shouldn’t be: inheritable.
This staff editorial solely represents the majority view of The Crimson Editorial Board. It is the product of discussions at regular Editorial Board meetings. In order to ensure the impartiality of our journalism, Crimson editors who choose to opine and vote at these meetings are not involved in the reporting of articles on similar topics.
Have a suggestion, question, or concern for The Crimson Editorial Board? Click here.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
The sound of french horn and lively conversation in English and Spanish fill the air, punctuated by a call and response chant: “Housing is?” “A human right.” “¿Tener un hecho?” “Es un derecho.” Outside the gates of the Massachusetts State House on Oct. 21, a crowd of around 40 tenants and housing advocates protest ongoing housing inequities caused by the pandemic.
Three social justice organizations that foreground housing justice — City Life/Vida Urbana, Homes for All Massachusetts, and Right to the City Boston — collaborated to make the rally a reality. Their aims are twofold: Not only do they want to reinstate the eviction moratorium that expired this summer, but they are also advocating for the state legislature to pass Bill H.1434/S.891, which requires landlords and mortgage owners to seek rental assistance and forbearances before proceeding with a Covid-19-related eviction or foreclosure. This Covid-19 housing equity bill is also urging Massachusetts to create more accessible processes for people to utilize the state’s renter relief programs. The reinstated pause on all nonpayments and no-fault evictions would extend until December of next year.
Andres del Castillo, co-director of Right to the City Boston, shouts to the crowd of protesters. The proposed bill has hopes to “stop unnecessary evictions, unnecessary homelessness, unnecessary cycles of poverty, for not just one person but for entire families, entire communities, for generations,” he says.
Masked up and with caution tape in their hands, many of the attendees surround the Bulfinch entrance of the State House, wearing bright green neon shirts that read, “We shall not be moved. No nos movemos.” A few feet away, three men holding up signs with the numbers 2-4-1-6-6, which represents the number of eviction filings since the moratorium expired.
Despite the state’s efforts to mitigate housing instability after the moratorium ended, the protestors at the Massachusetts State House argue that they have been unsuccessful. Last October, Governor Charlie D. Baker ’79 announced a $171 million initiative meant to replace the statewide moratorium, which was supposed to provide rental assistance, uplift rehousing efforts, offer legal assistance, and help tenants and landlords mediate fiscal conflicts. The state also received nearly $100 million dollars in federal stimulus towards housing stability as part of the Consolidated Appropriation Act and the American Rescue Plan.
Many activists at the rally, however, said that the diversion program failed to support tenants before they reached the point of entering the court system. According to del Castillo, there are $843 million available for renters aid that has yet to flow to tenants and homeowners in need as many of them lack knowledge of the programs’ existence.
The tenants and activists gathered in front of the Massachusetts State House, where employees are not currently working due to Covid-19, emphasized the hypocrisy of legislators’ hesitation to pass a pandemic-related relief bill.
“This housing crisis is a racial justice issue,” says Gabriela M. Cartagena, communications organizer with City Life/Vida Urbana. “In Boston alone, we’re seeing that 70 percent of eviction filings are people of color. Most of these eviction filings are happening in neighborhoods with high Covid rates.” She adds that the upcoming winter season will only bring further health concerns of exacerbated infection rates and rising flu cases.
Vanessa E. Vela, an essential worker and single mother of a 16-year old son, shares the story of her struggle to provide housing for her child in the face of rising rent prices and gentrification. Vela chokes up as she expresses her fear for her son who is currently struggling to maintain good standing in some of his classes as they now worry about the possibility of eviction.
“I’m such a proud mom,” she says. “I’m fighting here for him, not too much for me. I chose to have him, and I need to fight for his rights.” She continues, “We want to make good kids but we can’t if we’re working two to three jobs just to pay rent, just to meet rich people’s greed. Greed never stops. Their pockets will never get full.”
Vela is not alone in her frustration; del Castillo, too, tells the crowd enough is enough. “We have elected officials on the local, on the state, and on the national level that talk about the problem with racial inequality, with structural racism,” he says. “This is the problem. This is the solution. If you don’t fix it, you don’t care.”
Sections
Hogwarts and Harvard garner frequent architectural comparisons, and now it appears that magic is coming to our campus, as well. The Society of Harvard-Undergraduate Magicians, or SHAM, gathers both amateur and seasoned illusionists, cultivating magical interest and skills since 2019. This year, the club grew explosively, adding about 30 new members, meaning that the Great Hall and Annenberg are truly both the dining halls of wizards.
The club’s founders, Sam F. Dvorak ’23 and R. Taylor Kruse ’23, became friends at Harvard during their freshman year. Having performed magic for many years, Dvorak says meeting Kruse was a big deal for him, as he “had never had a good friend who was a magician before.”
“Magic was always sort of in my head,” Dvorak says. In middle school, he volunteered at his local library, where one day he got a job setting up chairs for a magic show. Just before the event, the magician taught Dvorak a classic card trick called the double lift. After learning that first trick, Dvorak practiced with a deck of cards whenever he had a free moment at the library. During the latter half of high school, he started performing more and even traveling for shows.
Kruse stumbled upon magic when he was in the first grade. He began performing tricks at his parents’ restaurant and bar, which served mostly adults, making his first few magic routines “trial by fire.” He jokes that the illusions may have been easier to pull off with many of his audience members already under the influence. Kruse continued to learn new tricks and improve his skills until the beginning of high school when he got busier and had less time to practice. It wasn’t until his junior year that he performed again, this time at his school’s National Honor Society talent show. “Doing that again really reignited the spark in me,” he says.
SHAM hopes to share this spark with its many new members. Dvorak attributes the large influx of magicians to the club’s ability to pub in person for the first time, and to chance: “There seems to be a disproportionate amount of freshmen who identify themselves as magicians,” he says. SHAM is expanding in other ways, too — the club has a new partnership with the Hyperion Shakespeare Company. This fall, SHAM will work as Illusion Designers on Hyperion’s upcoming production of “The Winter’s Tale” — like set designers, but for magic.
The partnership began when the show’s director, Abe S. Joyner-Meyers ’22, reached out to the SHAM co-presidents at the beginning of last summer to share his vision of incorporating magic into “The Winter’s Tale.” Although Dvorak and Kruse are heavily involved in the performing arts, they had never integrated magic and theater before. Yet they were up for the challenge.
Joyner-Meyers says he hoped to make the play “seem magical to the audience, to make it into a spectacle.” The idea “grew out of conversations with [Dvorak] and the other designers on the team into a vision of the show set in this almost circus-like performance space.”
A wide variety of tricks and routines will be used in “The Winter’s Tale.” Joyner-Meyers describes “classic street magic and card magic — like the three-card monte and cups and balls” as well as “magic that calls back to 18th- and 19th-century stage performances, including infinite cabinets.” The pièce de résistance will occur in the final scene, when a statue comes to life.
Still, Dvorak and Kruse’s approach is to tread lightly. “Abe is a fantastic director, and his staging is wonderful,” Dvorak says, “so how he stages the statue coming back to life will be very effective even without illusions.”
Joyner-Meyers attributes the innately magical experience of the show to Shakespeare’s original script: “Polixenes [the main character] has a line at the end of the play right before that culminating moment of magic, where he says, ‘It is required you do awake your faith.’ You have to buy into the theatrical illusion; you have to suspend your disbelief.”
Dvorak has a similar take: A magician is only as good as their acting abilities. “At the end of the day, there is no such thing as magic,” he says. “But what is actually magical is that split second after you do a trick when someone truly believes that they’ve seen something impossible.”
— Staff writer Dannie C. Bell can be reached at dannie.bell@thecrimson.com
Sections
(spoilers for My Neighbor Totoro)
At 20 years old, my favorite film is still a kids’ movie.
When I first watched “My Neighbor Totoro” at age 10, I was drawn in by how beautiful its world is. Sisters Mei and Satsuki exist in a realm of fairytale colors and fantastical creatures, and I wanted to live in it too. In the movie, the girls, ages 10 and 4, move to the Japanese countryside with their father while their mother remains hospitalized in the city with an illness. Among larger-than-life trees and quirky neighbors, they befriend what I can only describe as a large magical rabbit called Totoro and his friends.
The movie reaches its climax when Mei, frustrated that her mother’s doctors won’t let her come home, runs away in an attempt to visit her mom at the hospital. For a few gut-wrenching moments, Satsuki and her neighbors fear a shoe washed up in a local pond belongs to Mei. Eventually Mei is found with the help of Totoro, and the film reveals at the end that the girls’ mother, while still in the hospital, is recovering.
I’ve rewatched the movie countless times over the past decade. If I had a comfort food, it would be this film. But that’s not to say I find it completely comforting. The older I grow, the less I feel like My Neighbor Totoro is a kids’ movie. Its mesmerizing surrealism can no longer hide the profound sadness of two girls missing their mother as they struggle to grow up.
Most of the movie coats this sadness in childlike dialogue and dreamlike imagery — except for one line. I decided to rewatch the movie one night over the summer with my own two sisters. As we sat on our couch, Satsuki and Mei argued, as they always do, about whether or not their mom should come home from the hospital even though her doctors worry she is too sick.
“Do you want her to die, Mei?” Satsuki suddenly asks her little sister.
The blunt delivery struck me. I noticed for the first time how it shifts Mei’s emotions from nervous hope to reckless despair, culminating in her failed journey to the hospital.
As I sat next to my own younger sisters, the climax of the movie changed places. The main struggle of the film no longer seemed to be the search for Mei, but instead Satsuki’s struggle to be a mother figure for her younger sister.
When Satsuki chides her little sister for getting the floors of their house dirty, it’s not because she actually cares about the floors; it’s because she thinks that’s what a mother would say. When she scolds Mei for throwing a tantrum when they argue about their mother, she’s not trying to be insensitive; she’s trying to teach Mei how to be resilient, a lesson no mother is there to teach her.
My home life may not look the same as Satsuki and Mei’s, but being an older sister means I too often take on the role of a parent. When a friend spreads a rumor behind my sisters’ backs, I advise them to rise above and ignore it. When they need help with their college applications, we crank out multi-hour Zoom editing sessions. When they come home after everything at school goes wrong, I’m there, even if it’s just over text.
But Satsuki simply isn’t that good at being a parent. She’s too tough on her sister, forgetting she’s only four years old. She’s not empathetic enough, which only makes Mei more upset.
At times I’m not any better. My attempts at teaching my own sisters to rise above drama veer into preaching passivity. I’m often overcritical, whether editing their essays for school or reprimanding them for arguing over a “borrowed” dress.
Watching this scene of my favorite comfort film, therefore, filled me with fear. With a single impulsive sentence from Satsuki, Mei’s tantrum spiraled into something far worse. What would happen if I made the same mistake?
With my mind racing through what-ifs, it was difficult to take comfort in a movie whose ending I could recite by heart. What Satsuki and Mei don’t know is that they exist in a predetermined world of few consequences — my sisters and I do not. While I might be able to alleviate some of their problems, I will never be able to alleviate this uncertainty.
This unsatisfying conclusion stewed in the back of my mind for months. As I went about my daily college routine, I gradually came to a more comforting verdict. In worrying if I could trust myself with the responsibility of parenting my sisters, I forgot that I can trust them. While I hate to admit it, leaving home for school has meant that I am no longer as involved in their day-to-day lives; I haven’t been for years. In that time, they have continued to exist and to grow and to mature with me watching from afar, occasionally butting in with a word of advice. I’m not Satsuki, sleeping an arm’s length from her sister every night. I’m the sibling version of an empty nester.
When we FaceTimed two weeks ago, my sisters still had problems and still wanted solutions. But those solutions could come from them — they didn’t have to come from me. We may not get the cheery movie conclusion as Mei and Satsuki, but my sisters don’t need a creature like Totoro to protect them, and they don’t need me to protect them either. Although, as their older sister, I’ll always want to.
— Magazine writer Tess C. Kelley can be reached at tess.kelley@thecrimson.com.
Sections
Beijing Language and Culture University contested the claim that its lack of friendliness led Harvard Beijing Academy to uproot and permanently move its program to Taipei, Taiwan, providing emails that seem to contradict the HBA director’s claims.
HBA Director Jennifer L. Liu told The Crimson earlier this month that one factor in her decision to relocate the program was the perceived lack of friendliness on BLCU’s part.
BLCU Director of the International Admissions Office Zhou Xin, who was in charge of the Chinese language program for HBA, wrote in a statement following publication of The Crimson’s story that he was shocked to hear of Liu’s allegations.
“If she really made those remarks, they are nothing but a completely groundless lie with a hidden agenda,” Zhou wrote, arguing that Liu’s comments are inconsistent with what she has expressed to him.
Liu told The Crimson of several instances of friction between the two institutions in recent years, particularly with accessing facilities for the program. According to Liu, BLCU at one point told the Harvard program administrators they would have to split students between two dorms of differing quality or house their students in a hotel. This was compounded in 2019 when, Liu stated, BLCU cancelled HBA’s annual Fourth of July celebration, in which students typically eat pizza and sing the national anthem. Liu said she felt that a possible reason for the shift in attitudes was a change in attitudes towards U.S. institutions associated with Xi Jinping’s leadership.
Translated emails provided by Zhou, however, seem to contradict some of Liu’s comments. In one, Liu expresses appreciation to BLCU for their collaboration, telling the school that the program was ending because “the U.S. government and schools have successively stopped funding projects to China.”
“This sharp and sudden change of Prof. Jennifer Liu’s attitude from being grateful to BLCU to being resentful of BLCU is not what we can understand,” Zhou wrote.
Zhou added that a “friendly and culturally diversified learning environment is what our students are most proud of.”
“The so-called ‘unwelcoming environment’ and ‘lack of friendliness’ is not only groundless but also insulting to us,” he wrote.
Zhou also disputed Liu’s account of BLCU turning the cold shoulder, calling it “seriously inconsistent with the facts.” The two sides mediated any disagreements over facilities through “friendly negotiation and full communication,” he argued, stating that BLCU “fully and strictly fulfilled its duties and obligations stipulated” in its annual agreement with Harvard, which was finalized at least four months before the program began each year.
He added that the Fourth of July celebration was not cancelled; instead, staff told students in the teaching building not to sing aloud and celebrate loudly while other students were in class.
Liu declined to comment on Zhou’s account, instead referring to a statement fromDivision of Continuing Education spokesperson Harry J. Pierre.
“The planned move of this program from Beijing to Taiwan has been considered for some time and reflects a wide array of operational factors,” Pierre wrote. “The program's new location presents a different opportunity for our instructors and learners to broaden their educational experiences. We look forward to continuing to build what has become an excellent program for students.”
Sections
Navigating the basements of Canaday Hall can feel a bit like shuffling through a labyrinth of pipes and offices and boiler rooms, but that’s not all that is kept beneath the surface of this freshman dorm. Tucked away among other typical basement amenities like the common room, laundry, and trash disposal lie the only two spaces dedicated solely to students of Muslim and Hindu faiths at Harvard College.
The Muslim prayer space, located at the basement entrance of Canaday Hall E, and the Hindu prayer space, located in Hall B, which accommodate individual and small-group prayer, are largely invisible to the eyes of the hundreds who pass through Harvard Yard every day. With Memorial Church towering only several yards away, and Rosovsky Hall — the Harvard Hillel building for Jewish students — just down Plympton Street, some members of the Muslim and Hindu communities feel even more starkly that their limited underground arrangement does not fufill the entirety of their spiritual needs.
To Khalil Abdur-Rashid, Harvard’s first full-time Muslim chaplain, the Muslim prayer space is “a band-aid on a bleeding wound.”
According to the Harvard Crimson’s demographic survey on the class of 2025, Muslim and Hindu students constitute 3.9 percent and 3.1 percent of the student population respectively. Together, these groups nearly equal the 7.4 percent of students of Jewish faith.
The Hindu prayer space opened in 2006 as the first of its kind at Harvard. The Muslim prayer space, meanwhile, has existed for more than 20 years. It is not the sole location that Muslim students can visit to gather or pray — students find community in a prayer and meditation room on the seventh floor of Smith Campus Center and congregate for larger Friday prayer in Lowell Lecture Hall — but it’s the only place at the College specifically dedicated to only people of Muslim faith.
The fight for a more appropriate space for Muslim students to practice their faith is not new, but has been ongoing for more than 25 years. A 1995 Crimson article reported that Muslim students resettled seven different times in 1994 until landing on the Canaday basement and, even then, looked for a larger space. The issues raised in the article then — access, acceptance, respect — are closely related to the issues raised today by Muslim and Hindu students and administrators.
“The space is not conducive, appropriate, or enough,” Abdur-Rashid says. “It is in need of tremendous renovation and change and reform.” There is not enough space in Canaday to gather and pray without waiting in line, and the space needs significant upgrades; Abdur-Rashid says the carpet needs to be replaced and the room needs more storage. “Honestly, going down there in the basement, it always felt so desolate, bare, and depressing,” Alaha A. Nasari ’24, a Muslim student, says.
For Hindu students, Dhwani R. Bharvad ’22, the Worship Chair  of Harvard Dharma, admitted that the group was “a little worried” about their first religious gathering post-Covid and even considered running two different shifts for people to come into the prayer space due to its capacity limits.
Both Muslim and Hindu students acknowledge their gratitude for their respective spaces, but also express feelings of disappointment and isolation. “As much as I have love for [the Muslim prayer space],” Ali A. Makani ’24 says, “it’s still clear to every single Muslim when they walk in there that we are relegated to the space of invisibility, that Harvard refuses to publicly acknowledge and support the population here on campus.”
The basement location directly affects how Muslim and Hindu students feel about the extent to which their communities are welcome on campus, giving visibility added importance. “You typically associate a basement with where you throw stuff in there that you don’t really care about,” Alvira Tyagi ’25, a Hindu student, explains. To some, the spaces feel especially inappropriate given their intended purposes: spiritual retreat. “Imagine if they put CAMHS in a basement,” Adbur-Rashid says. Makani puts it simply: “I just don’t like seeing brown people put in basements.”
Abdur-Rashid argues that the lack of visibility exacerbates the situation by making it hard to address. “The more you can’t see communities gathering, the more the problems don’t get realized,” he said. “The discussion about space is always undermined by the fact there is no visibility regarding the need.”
University spokesperson Nate Herpich declined to comment on the perceived inadequacies of the College’s Muslim and Hindu prayer spaces.
According to Abdur-Rashid, the Board of Religious, Spiritual, and Ethical Life began to discuss updating the Muslim prayer spaces over a year ago, but these conversations came to a halt during the pandemic. The chaplain now plans to bring up these concerns about space at the Board’s next meeting. Bharvad also expressed Harvard Dharma’s desire to remodel its space.
“It’s not about communities in isolation,” Abdur-Rashid says. “It’s about multiple communities in collaboration.”

Walking past Oxford Street’s nondescript, brick laboratories, you’d never suspect that inside one, Harvard scientists are researching a technology that could radically alter the climate in our lifetime: solar geoengineering, the effort to dim the sun.
Harvard’s Solar Geoengineering Research Program (SGRP) studies a climate change strategy to cool the earth which sounds straight out of a science fiction novel. If ever implemented, it would entail flying a suite of aircraft 30-odd miles above earth’s surface to inject millions of tons of sulfate particles into the air. High up in the stratosphere, these particles would shroud the globe in a chemical mirror, reflecting away some of the sun’s radiation before it could be trapped by greenhouse gases.
The chemistry is powerful: just a few grams of sulfates in the stratosphere can offset warming from one ton of carbon dioxide, a ratio of nearly 1 million to one.
For all its potency, solar geoengineering cannot serve as a replacement for cutting CO2 emissions. Instead, researchers imagine it could buy time for the transition away from fossil fuels or, assuming this transition comes easily, further minimize the human suffering caused by warming.
The scientists working on it sometimes liken it to engineering a giant, continuous volcanic eruption. In 1815, the eruption of Indonesia’s Mt. Tambora, the largest in human history, released a cloud of ash and sulfates into the stratosphere, blocking out the sun and cooling the planet by an average of 2 to 3 degrees Celsius for over a year. The more recent eruption of the Philippines’ Mt. Pinatubo in 1991 caused nearly 1 degree Celsius of global cooling, often cited as proof that solar geoengineering would work remarkably well.
But volcanic eruptions, evidence of solar geoengineering’s promise, are also evidence of its potential devastation. Pinatubo, by blocking the sun, disrupted the water cycle and thwarted that year’s Indian monsoon, usually crucial to the region’s agriculture. The ozone layer that year also saw an abnormal dip. The year after Tambora, 1816, was dubbed the “year without a summer” for its heavy snow and frost through the summer months; its doom and gloom is said to have inspired Mary Shelley’s “Frankenstein.”
Pinatubo and Tambora are not perfect analogies: solar geoengineering would rely on a different chemical composition of aerosols, and would need to be deployed continuously, unlike a one-time eruption. It would be a climate intervention with no natural precedent at a similar scale — and, in meddling with complex climate systems, would entail complex risks.
Scientists can predict some potential risks from climate models and small lab tests, like an increased chance of acid rain and higher air pollution (sulfates fall back to the earth as pollutants after a couple years). A white, starless sky above our heads. But some risks we may not know, or be able to know, until we deploy the technology itself — and then it may be too late to fix them.
And in addition to the physical risks, both the research and deployment of solar geoengineering give rise to thorny questions about ethics and governance. Among the most contested, the so-called “moral hazard” question: if we seriously considered solar geoengineering, could it decentivize us from cutting emissions or deflate climate justice movements? Given its global implications, who would deploy solar geoengineering, and when? Who would decide what temperature to set the globe to, or when to stop? If something went wrong, who would bear the burden?
The technology is not a new idea — it was proposed as early as 1965, in a memo to President Lyndon B. Johnson — and a few scientific papers delved into the topic in the ’80s and ’90s. But until recently, solar geoengineering hasn’t been studied seriously in the scientific community, let alone considered as a policy option. SGRP, founded in 2017, was one of the first dedicated research centers in the field; a few others, including at Cornell and Stanford, have followed suit.
Though overall funding is still minimal, momentum is building: a recent report from the National Academies of Science, Engineering, and Medicine recommended the U.S. invest $100 to 200 million in a coordinated federal research program on the subject. Solar geoengineering was once a fringe idea, too risky to consider studying — now, the calculus might be changing.
This year has already brought a litany of climate change impacts. In June, temperatures reached 121 degrees Fahrenheit in Canada. In China, subway riders were up to their necks in water, inundated by a year’s worth of rain in a single day. In California, the Dixie Fire burned nearly an unfathomable million acres of land. If that’s not evidence enough, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change’s most recent report confirmed that climate change is “widespread, rapid, and intensifying.” UN Secretary-General Antonio Gutteres called the report a “code red for humanity” and the evidence “irrefutable.”
And we’ve only warmed the world 1.1 degrees Celsius — or around 2 degrees Fahrenheit. The IPCC recommends we keep warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius, 2 at most. Currently, we’re on track for 3 or 4 — a benchmark which would bring catastrophic, exponentially worse impacts. The COP26, the UN environmental summit convening world leaders, may well decide which target the world reaches, and how quickly.
Lives, current and future, are at stake — lending a new sense of urgency to climate strategies, and justifying a second look at the options at hand. As the planet reaches an inflection point, debates around solar geoengineering research function as a sort of litmus test. How bad do you think the current state of the climate is? And what risks are you willing to stomach to reverse directions?
Harvard professor David W. Keith has been urging people to take solar geoengineering seriously for over a decade, and has been researching it for even longer. Now, as the co-founder and leader of SGRP, Keith is one of the most prominent faces in the small but growing field.
Keith teaches Applied Physics at SEAS and Public Policy at HKS, leads SGRP, and runs a carbon capture company, Carbon Engineering, on the side. With his free time, he likes to go on multi-week wildlife trips — hiking, backcountry skiing, even ice climbing — to remote destinations. He has the look of a mountaineer: wiry and rugged, a little severe. He debates like one too, anticipating rebuttals, challenging vague questions, and navigating through arguments with frightening ease. By the end of our interview, he manages to make solar geoengineering, an intuitively terrifying prospect, seem inescapably logical — if not to deploy, at least to research aggressively.
In a 2007 Ted Talk, viewed 84,000 times to date, Keith paces the stage, advocating for more research on solar geoengineering. He stresses that rapid warming will inevitably push future leaders to consider deploying the technology; although little-studied, it stands out amongst other climate interventions as particularly cheap and feasible to employ. “We should move this out of the shadows and talk about it seriously,” he says, leaning forward to look the audience dead in the eyes. “Because sooner or later, we’ll be confronted with decisions about this, and it’s better if we think hard about it.”
Though Keith’s delivery has changed since then, his core argument for solar geoengineering research has stayed consistent: solar geoengineering is an imperfect technology with myriad risks, but has serious potential to save lives, especially for those in vulnerable regions of the globe. Keith counts on his fingers a spate of climate hazards the technology could mitigate: peak temperatures, disruptions to regular precipitation patterns, typhoons, and hurricanes.
Keith was first “sucked into” researching the subject as an MIT graduate student in the late 80s. At the time, it “was one of the topics that nobody was dealing with,” he says. He recalls that he and his fellow graduate students working on various climate interventions were “ahead of our professors in a way,” and the effort was “very much bottom up.”
Since then, he’s tried to bring solar geoengineering out of the shadows and into the public eye. He’s published a book, written op-eds, given multiple Ted Talks, and even made an appearance on The Colbert Report, all with the goal of bringing solar geoengineering research into the mainstream. It hasn’t been easy — people used to “inch away” from him at conferences when he brought up solar geoengineering, Keith told the New York Times in 2017. But he’s continued his efforts because he is convinced that solar geoengineering is not a sci-fi fantasy to be dismissed; it is a powerful, though dangerous, tool that does what other climate strategies cannot: cool the planet quickly and cheaply.
Keith is careful to state that solar geoengineering is not a substitute for cutting emissions — “nobody who has a brain” is saying that, he quips. But he also differentiates between the two. Decarbonization, or cutting emissions, stops the flow of new carbon dioxide into the atmosphere, preventing any additional warming. But even if we cut emissions today, the climate would continue warming. Historical emissions stay in the atmosphere as long as 1,000 years, locking the planet into a certain amount of warming. “With emissions cuts, the underlying thing is all we can do is stop making the world worse,” Keith says.
Instead, Keith envisions using solar geoengineering in conjunction with decarbonization and carbon capture to keep temperatures low while we cut emissions. Though he admits the climate models have their uncertainties, he’s pretty certain solar geoengineering would work to cool temperatures: “I know solar geoengineering could keep temperatures to 1.5 or 2,” he states.
Frank N. Keutsch, his colleague and a professor of Engineering and Atmospheric Science at Harvard, compares solar geoengineering to a “really strong painkiller” for the planet: like an opioid, solar geoengineering comes with side effects and the potential for abuse, but also may be instrumental in taking the edge off a painful transition to a net-zero world.
Though Keith is careful to specify that he is an advocate for research, and not deployment, he has envisioned what deployment could look like: ten jets could fly around the stratosphere, 70,000 feet above the earth’s surface, spraying reflective particles that could provide global cooling — all for around $1 billion a year, he told the New York Times in 2017.
Not everyone is convinced by this scheme.
The risks, physical and social, still outweigh the potential benefits of cooling, skeptics argue. Of particular prominence is moral hazard: what if solar geoengineering diminishes how important the public, or policymakers, perceive cutting emissions to be? Another is “termination shock,” the painful consequence of stopping the technology once deployed.
According to Raymond T. Pierrehumbert ’76, a physics professor at the University of Oxford, the cooling effects of aerosol injection last only one to two years, meaning that solar geoengineering would require continuous upkeep. If we were to deploy the technology and then suddenly stop, we’d pay a steep price — in the compressed span of five to ten years, the climate would warm back up to its previous temperature. Pierrehumbert fears that moral hazard could exacerbate the situation — if we fail to rapidly cut emissions and instead choose to pump more and more tons of sulfur into the stratosphere, this backlash would balloon.
Keith is ready with rebuttals: moral hazard, he says, is a serious concern but could also go the other direction. If people know scientists are taking something as radical as solar geoengineering seriously, they might be doubly incentivized to cut emissions, recent papers suggest. Keith also imagines we could avoid termination shock by slowly phasing out solar geoengineering over the span of 100 to 200 years, all the while using carbon capture technologies to remove the CO2 already in the atmosphere.
Pierrehumbert maintains that society is too disorderly to ethically maintain solar geoengineering efforts through potential wars, famines, and other disruptions, and that carbon capture technology is as of yet expensive and difficult to scale. To him, counting on CO2 removal as an exit strategy is a form of techno-optimism: “It’s like jumping out of an airplane and hoping someone invents the parachute before you hit the ground,” he says.
For Keith, assuming the worst is “close-minded,” and not good science. “In academia it’s our job not to be dismissing things just because they sound bad,” he argues. To dismiss a potential tool for good, as he frames it, would be nothing short of immoral, especially considering that governments may be highly tempted to deploy it to mitigate climate suffering.
“My view is that, in general, it’s very hard to be confident about how the future will unwind, but knowledge is better than ignorance,” Keith says.
In 2017, Keith crystallized his interests into a formal research program, co-founding SGRP along with Gernot Wagner, now a professor at New York University. Finding funding was difficult at first, says Keith, but later funders began to “knock on the door” to give him money. With over $16 million in funding from private foundations and philanthropists, including Bill Gates, SGRP is one of the best-funded programs of its kind in the world. It strives to take an interdisciplinary approach, providing research grants not just to physical scientists, but also social scientists and ethicists.
SGRP is still one of the most prominent research efforts in solar geoengineering, though others have sprouted up since its founding. There’s evidence to suggest solar geoengineering might finally be emerging from the shadows: Congress has allocated modest funding for solar geoengineering research — $9 million out of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration’s $182 million climate research budget is earmarked for studies of “stratospheric conditions and the Earth’s radiation budget.”
Pierrehumbert, who has tracked the field for over a decade, attributes the growing political appetite for research in part to Keith’s advocacy for it, advocacy he fears is only bolstered by the credibility of the Harvard brand name. “Anything that's done at Harvard just is stamped in the public eye as something that has a lot of legitimacy,” he explains.
But for Keith, the cultural shift was bound to happen — and still remains slow-going. Whether solar geoengineering research is still taboo or not is “in the eye of the beholder,” Keith says, noting it was not included in the most recent IPCC report. The NASEM report is “thrilling,” Keith told Science in March, but he still wants to see more funding. “There is essentially no research going on,” he said in a 2019 talk at the Harvard Museum of Natural History. According to Keith, the current global budget for climate research is around $10 billion — he’d like to see 5 to 10 percent of it, or at least $500 million, spent on solar geoengineering.
Still, Keith believes thinking around solar geoengineering is moving in the right direction. “The direction is clearly that people are willing to talk about it more,” he says. And as funding scales up, albeit slowly, research is also moving out of the lab and into the field, bringing debates about solar geoengineering onto a new stage with higher stakes. Earlier this year, SGRP planned to launch a field test called the Stratospheric Controlled Perturbation Experiment, or SCoPEx, under the guidance of Keith and Keutsch.
Originally planned for June 2021, SCoPEx would have marked one of the first field tests contributing to solar geoengineering research — if not for the public backlash that caused its cancellation. Researchers planned the tests to occur in Sweden, coincidentally over indigenous land, but did not reach out to the resident Saami people four months before the first test flight. “The essence of solar geoengineering technology is composed of unknown risks we cannot take as a global community, for the sake of our future generations to come,” wrote the Saami Council in one of two open letters protesting the experiment. In response, SCoPEx was postponed, and now stands at a bitter impasse.
Though the scope of the experiment was small, its symbolic significance looms large, as does the backlash it inspired. Academics like Keith and Pierrehumbert have been talking in circles about solar geoengineering for decades, but through field tests, the public encounters the idea for the first time. And as solar geoengineering teeters on the edge of the mainstream consciousness, SCoPEx might push it one way or the other.
Both advocates and skeptics of research acknowledge that solar geoengineering is more than just a scientific intervention: it is a social and political one, too. Yet the story of SCoPEx suggests that current models to bridge the scientific and the socio-political are insufficient: structural barriers make it difficult for members of the public to express their concerns about the research. How to adequately govern these field experiments — nevermind deployment — remains unclear. But as the research proceeds in an ever-worsening climate, the implications of these questions grow ever larger – and it’s not clear who is equipped to answer them.
The scientists hadn’t expected SCoPEx to go so poorly, so quickly.
The plan had been to launch a specialized balloon 20 kilometers above Kiruna, Sweden, a small mining town in the Arctic Circle. If the apparatus — a balloon fitted with propellers and a hanging gondola — passed an initial test flight, it would then complete a second pass through a thin band of the stratosphere, this time releasing a small plume of calcium carbonate into the air.
The project aimed to answer two basic questions: if one kilogram of aerosols would scatter uniformly over a kilometer distance, and how calcium carbonate aerosols would react with the stratosphere. (The team is exploring the idea that calcium carbonate could serve as a less damaging alternative to sulfate, which is a pollutant.)
Keutsch, who serves as Principal Investigator, says the experiment was designed to “fill a critical knowledge gap” in research while managing to remain narrow in impact. The SCoPEx webpage states that the flight would have released such a trivial amount of calcium carbonate that it would have posed “no significant hazard to people or the environment.”
And the project intended to do more than advance research: the researchers hoped to develop good governance practices that future field experiments could use as a template. As a private experiment, SCoPEx does not fall under the purview of federal regulation. Instead, at the team’s request, it received guidance on decision-making from an external Harvard-appointed task force which shares its reviews and recommendations with the public: the SCoPEx Advisory Committee.
Kiruna, Sweden, though on its face odd, was also an intentional choice. According to Keutsch, the researchers entertained various U.S. sites first, but many presented logistical or technical challenges. Moreover, the team began planning SCoPEx when Trump was still president; it was wary of conducting an experiment that could be perceived as a “technological cheap way out” in a country actively rolling back climate regulations. In Sweden, the experiment seemed to have the best chance of causing minimal harm. Plus, says Keutsch, the Swedish Space Corporation, which runs the test site, was “technically just amazing” and gave helpful feedback on the experiment.
But for all the prior planning, these efforts to preempt political and social concerns still failed.
Åsa Larsson-Blind, vice president of the Saami Council, first learned about the flights slated to pass over her land in February, from a concerned friend’s email.
The friend, a leader of a grassroots environmental justice group called the Indigenous Environmental Network, warned that he had just become aware of a Harvard-led effort to test a technology so disruptive and unpredictable that even its advocates compared it to a forceful volcanic eruption. He worried the flights could threaten the traditional land-based livelihood of the Saami, which is centered around reindeer hunting, fishing, and foraging. And most startling of all, he noted, they were set to begin soon: in just four months, at the start of June.
The Saami Council had heard vaguely about the concept of solar geoengineering before, but the SCoPEx experiment put its members onto a “steep learning curve,” Larsson-Blind admits. But as soon as the Council got a hold on the idea, its position was clear and unanimous: solar geoengineering had “no part” in their plan for the future of their environment.
The Council quickly realized SCoPEx would not cause any direct major environmental harm, but still saw it as dangerous in the long-term. In their eyes, SCoPEx was the first step in developing and legitimizing a technology that would not only detract from the necessary work of cutting emissions, but introduce a slate of new environmental risks.
In a February 24 letter, the Council called on the SCoPEx Advisory Committee to cancel the scheduled test flight. It criticized the experiment for failing to consult the Saami and other key stakeholders, arguing that the oversight was especially egregious given the technology’s “risk of catastrophic consequences.” It portrayed the project’s governance mechanism as inherently flawed due to its “homogenous” and “far from representative” advisory board, and seemed to suggest that remedy was impossible. The scale of solar geoengineering made its risks unquantifiable and unmanageable: “There are therefore no acceptable reasons for allowing the SCoPEx project to be conducted either in Sweden or elsewhere,” the letter read.
Larrson-Blind says the Council would have never voluntarily entertained solar geoengineering as an option — the concept runs counter to the Saami’s philosophy of living sustainably within nature, rather than of it. She argues that the logic behind it only perpetuates the problem at hand. “The idea that mankind is above nature and can control everything has led us into the climate crisis in the first place,” she says. “It’s like chewing off the branch you’re sitting on.”
But the subject “fell into [the Saami’s] lap,” Larsson-Blind says, forcing the Council to share its perspective. Had she not received that email from a friend, she fears she would have never been informed of the experiment.
In March, the Swedish Space Corporation — the organization hosting the flights — and the SCoPEx Advisory Committee both released statements announcing the postponement of the test flight. The Committee said it would need to first conduct a “listening-based engagement activity in Sweden” and complete a “societal review” on the ethical and moral complexities surrounding the flight before another launch.
In June, the Council released a petition calling on Harvard to shut down the experiment altogether. Speaking as “representatives of Indigenous Peoples,” the Council frames solar geoengineering as antithetical to Indigenous environmental thought. The bolded head of the letter reads: “Climate manipulation strongly contradicts our understanding and experience of how to respect and live in harmony with Mother Nature.”
When we ask Keith about the Saami Council’s letters, he sighs in exasperation.
In his telling, the researchers were long aware that Kiruna was home to the Saami and planned on reaching out to the Council after the SCoPEx Advisory Committee approved plans for the second flight: the particle-releasing flight. The letter preempted this effort. In its wake, Keith and Keutsch reached out to members of the Council to privately discuss their positions, but never received a response — a move Keith calls “ethically inconsistent.”
“I don’t see how you can call for engagement and refuse to engage yourself,” he says, shaking his head.
Keith disputes the Saami’s claim that SCoPEx tests or advances the use of a technology. He says the team intentionally designed the experiment to use a delivery platform that would be “useless for deployment.” In fact, it imagined the field test would provide much-needed insight into why we shouldn’t deploy solar geoengineering, uncovering risks computer models and lab-based studies might have missed.
Keith argues the Council takes too narrow and settled a view of the risks of the technology to begin with. “They’re basically saying they know all the answers, which the UN doesn’t agree with, which the CBD [the Convention on Biological Diversity] doesn’t agree with, which most scientists don’t agree with,” he says of the Council’s letter.
Keith believes that rather than dominate nature, solar geoengineering has the potential to restore it — and better human lives at the same time. Coming from a family of environmentalists, he sees the technology as an intervention which could “protect the environment.”
“It’s not clear to me that knowing less is really a strategy which is better for the next generation that will have to make decisions,” he adds. “That’s a perfectly fine position, but it’s not engagement.”
Larsson-Blind rejects this framing. The Saami made their decision clear in the letter, she says, and they worried any discussion would signal their tacit endorsement of the tests. “We perceived that this was an invite to a dialogue on how these tests were supposed to happen,” she says of Keith and Keutsch’s invitation. “That’s not a dialogue about whether or not these tests were going to take place.”
Larsson-Blind says her conviction around solar geoengineering stems from an intimate experience with climate change. As wind and weather patterns in the Arctic have grown more erratic, her family has struggled to care for reindeer as it has in the past. (In the winter, for instance, the animals now sometimes struggle to find food: when precipitation comes as rain, rather than snow, impenetrable layers of ice form over sources of lichen, a seasonal staple.) These challenges, among others, keep her “humble of the forces of nature,” reinforcing her commitment to avoid tinkering with the planet.
She imagines that in a conversation, the researchers would simply condescend to the Council or seek to undermine their position. “They’ll say we don’t understand [the science], but we do.”
Keutsch says he personally wrote to Larsson-Blind, explaining the purpose of a dialogue would have been to gain a “deeper understanding” of the Saami’s perspective and not to convince her of his opinion. “If she had been willing to meet, she would have seen that I would not be dismissive,” Keutsch wrote in an emailed statement.
Keith, who says he also wrote privately to the Council, maintains he takes the Council’s concerns seriously, but believes that they are in no way representative or universal. “It’s what one political organization says,” he stresses.
But later he worries about the extent of the Council’s impact. “They're very powerful,” he adds, shaking his head. “These voices are very powerful in the climate debate now.”
As one of Keith’s former postdocs, Jennie C. Stephens ’97 is a rare bridge between SGRP and the Saami, whose petition cites her work. Stephens, the current Director of the School of Public Policy and Urban Affairs at Northeastern University, is one of the most vocal critics of solar geoengineering.
Stephens first met Keith after receiving a fellowship to research carbon capture in the early 2000s, as the topic was just gaining traction. In 2008, the two even authored a paper together calling for more research on the technique, which aims to remove CO2 from the atmosphere and store it underground. Soon after the fellowship ended, however, Stephens started to have doubts about the merits of carbon capture, and technological solutions to climate change more generally — a skepticism that extends to her views on solar geoengineering.
She began to fear that the technology she helped advance might have the opposite of its intended effect: that it would supplant, rather than supplement, efforts to transition away from fossil fuels. The hope of scalable carbon capture technologies allowed companies to have it both ways: to at once acknowledge the reality of climate change and continue emitting CO2, only to later suck it back up and spit it into the ground. Ultimately, as she recalls, she decided to “quit playing the game,” putting the carbon capture research aside and focusing instead on social and political interventions to climate change.
Today, Stephens finds striking parallels between the field of carbon capture and solar geoengineering. In her mind, solar geoengineering is a “techno-fix” which could allow the powerful to tighten their hold on wealth and status while harming the planet — and disproportionately, the vulnerable people living on it.
She asserts that solar geoengineering research distracts from and actively discourages viable approaches to the climate which center social justice, like those highlighted in the Green New Deal. A popular argument in favor of research is that we will fail to go carbon neutral by 2050; to Stephens, this “constrains our imagination about what’s even possible,” encouraging us to embrace a radical technological intervention over the radical social change — change which has become ever closer to being possible.
She also worries that a narrow demographic funds most of this research, one with a vested interest in appearing philanthropic but maintaining power: rich white men from tech circles in the West.
“A handful of rich folks could get to decide what the temperature is, what the climate is, and play around with everybody’s realities,” she stresses.
She highlights that among the major donors to SGRP is noted philanthropist Bill Gates, to whom Keith serves as a scientific advisor. Stephens says Gates’ most recent book, “How to Avoid a Climate Disaster,” reveals his pro-technology ideology towards climate solutions, one that lends support to solar geoengineering efforts.
Even worse, Stephens notes, the harms of deployment could fall especially hard on one side. Solar geoengineering can have variable effects on the climate, particularly in the hydraulic system, and poorer countries might find it more difficult to adapt to sudden developments of drought, for instance, or crop resistance. They are also the least likely to have the technological skill to deploy solar geoengineering or the political sway to inform its use, which as of yet remains unregulated.
In an effort to be transparent with the public, SGRP lists all of its donors on its website and details its decision-making process for accepting donations. The program says it disqualifies prospective donors with ties to the fossil fuel industry unless it is clear, through a “strong track record of supporting efforts to address climate change,” that they do not have a conflict of interest. While Keith would prefer wealth to be more evenly distributed in society, he maintains that all current donors, billionaires or not, meet the program’s standards.
Knowing many of the researchers behind top solar geoengineering efforts does not put Stephens at ease. Although she believes the scientists are well-intentioned, she thinks they lack an understanding of the power dynamics at play in their field and lack humility about the complexity of the climate and the political nature of research. “There’s an arrogance to these scientists that literally think that they can come up with something that will control the climate in a way that will do good for society,” she explains.
Although they hold nearly diametrically opposed views, Keith curiously recommends Stephens as a critic he respects. The two have also had a number of private discussions about the subject, but Stephens claims their approaches to solar geoengineering tend to clash.
“He genuinely tries to understand but, I don’t know, it just doesn’t mesh,” she says.
According to Stephens, Keith has repeatedly offered her funding to conduct social science research on solar geoengineering for SGRP and invited her to join the SCoPEx Advisory Committee, but Stephens has declined. To accept either the funds or the position would be to enable the growth of the field — research could not minimize any of the risks of the technology, she says, only legitimize it.
She argues that the researchers at SGRP “strategically respond” to criticisms she and others raise. They acknowledge the concerns, but either fail to act on their stated principles — she points to the issues with SCoPEx’s implementation) or aim to resolve a tension they feel is inherent to the technology.
But choosing not to accept the money also comes with a cost. Stephens says the gulf in financial support, status, and coordination creates a “stark imbalance of power” between advocates of research and skeptics. One side continues to collect data, write peer-reviewed papers, and refine its points; the other doesn’t have the same luxury.
If this imbalance exists between Stephens and Keith, it becomes magnified with regards to the Saami. The Saami do not write their own scientific papers or conduct studies. To rise to the level of the researchers’ discourse, they must rely on the few peer-reviewed papers by solar geoengineering skeptics and try to interpret them — an uneven playing field.
Compared to the scientists in favor, “the voice of resistance is not as loud, at the end,” says Stephens.
Though SCoPEx is just one experiment and the Saami just one people, the impasse between the two could have terrifying implications. If there is no channel for communication and criticism between scientists and the public for a small-scale experiment, what hope is there for larger experiments? Solar geoengineering is a technology of immense scale: it has the potential to change the climate for every person on earth, making communication and criticism all the more important — and yet, these channels don’t seem to exist. Currently, discussions about solar geoengineering remain insular and academic, proceeding from the same handful of people.
Keith is one of the few people trying to bridge that gulf between scientists and society — he says public education is a “significant part” of his work. But the results are polarizing. In a 2007 Ted Talk, his best-known talk, Keith stands in front of an image of Archimedes’ lever — of “Give me a place to stand on, and I can move the earth” fame — discussing the cost of solar geoengineering. “You could create an ice age at a cost of 0.001 percent of GDP,” he says gravely. “It’s very cheap. We have a lot of leverage.”
A few audience members laugh; the rest look on with some combination of disbelief and fear. The comments below the video are also split. “EXCELLENT talk. Necessary.” reads one. “Thank you for tackling this serious topic. Here's hoping it will start some more open and honest discussions about what our future holds.” reads another.
But the majority are negative. Some people worry about the idea of solar geoengineering — “uh...I kinda like the sun, could you give it back please?” reads one. But most mock Keith himself: “Foolish beyond belief; doesn’t care how many people die” one user writes. One user mocks his fast, intense presentation style; another compares him to a “mad scientist.”
In his 2013 appearance on the Colbert Report, Keith acknowledges the risks of solar geoengineering; he calls it “horrifying,” “a totally imperfect technical fix,” and says he “wake[s] up sweating” about its risks. Colbert responds: “Well, it’s your goddamn idea!” and the studio audience laughs.
It isn’t Keith’s idea, but in the eyes of the public, it might as well be. In the absence of third parties, scientists like Keith become the de facto communicators for the strategy — and they don’t always succeed. Armed with statistics and counter arguments, Keith sometimes comes across as condescending, or worse, as pushing a dangerous and unethical technology forward, even as he attempts to distance himself from it.
Keith’s public education efforts don’t translate into opportunities for public dialogue or debate, as exemplified by SCoPEx. Keith speaks in Ted Talks and peer-reviewed papers; the Saami speak in open letters posted online. The two don’t speak to each other.
Keith says he’d stop research if enough people wanted him to. “I would change my mind, almost completely, if I saw consistent data from these surveys we have on public judgement that said people opposed it,” Keith says. “I mean, I don’t want to do something people don't want.”
The Saami certainly don’t want solar geoengineering research — at least not until there’s “full, global consensus on its acceptability,” as they write in their letter — an impossibly high standard.
But what about everyone else between these two extremes? Keith references several small studies that he says demonstrated reasonable support for solar geoengineering research among the public. The short answer may be that we just don’t know yet. But when we do, it’s not clear how the public will voice their support or dissent — and if it will make a difference.
Another barrier to the “global consensus” the Saami want may be the structure of the technology itself. Solar geoengineering is dangerously easy and uniquely powerful: just a few airplanes, deployed from just one country or even one city, could change the climate of the entire globe. Is there any way such a technology could be used democratically?
Despite the current barriers to public feedback, research is nonetheless proceeding, and could be scaling up soon.
If Congress adheres to the NASEM report’s recommendations, direct funding for solar geoengineering — and not just the basic science underlying it — could increase substantially.
The push to expand research has also moved beyond the bubble of academia. At least one advocacy group, the nonprofit SilverLining, has emerged to lobby U.S. policymakers on climate intervention options and it takes an extreme stance: that solar geoengineering experiments should be subject to even less regulation. (Executive director Kelly Wanser argues that concerns about governance and societal impact are irrelevant in basic science research; current models like the SCoPEx experiment’s “politicize things too early on.”)
SCoPEx currently remains postponed, pending review from its Advisory Committee. A final recommendation on whether or not the scientists should run the experiment in Kiruna is expected to come as soon as 2022. In April, Keith told the Times that the team was considering moving the test stateside, but a new location has yet to be confirmed. If the project launches again, Keutsch says it would likely include several particle-releasing flights.
Keith is largely undeterred by the pushback to the experiment. Driving his commitment to the research is a solemn, if not grim, assessment of the climate.
Atmospheric CO2 concentrations have now passed 400 parts per million — their highest concentration in at least 2 million years. In essence, we’ve been conducting an experiment of our own for the past few centuries: pumping carbon dioxide into the atmosphere with no abandon — 2.6 million pounds of it each second — and waiting to see what happens.
Keith speculates that some of the opposition to solar geoengineering, then, stems from “ignorance.” He believes that many people who dismiss the concept outright simply haven’t taken the time to read the scientific literature and therefore assume the risks greatly outweigh the potential benefit to the planet.
In his mind, the worsening climate has created a sick new calculus, where every decision, even indecision, comes with a dangerous consequence. If we were “sitting around a campfire a thousand years ago,” he imagines, we could simply pit the benefits of cooling against the risks of deploying solar geoengineering. But at the current precarious moment, he claims we are tasked with making a difficult risk-risk calculation: weighing the potential risks of deploying solar geoengineering against the risks of not doing so.
For Keith, the inescapable uncertainty brings clarity.
“You only have one world,” he states. “You’ve got to make a choice.”
— Associate Editor Maliya V. Ellis can be reached at maliya.ellis@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @EllisMaliya.
— Associate Editor Saima S. Iqbal can be reached at saima.iqbal@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @siqbal839.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Paul F. Toner grew up hearing stories about how Cantabridgians rallied to take care of his family after his great-grandfather died, and saw it up close after his father passed away when he was 15.
“Our neighbors all were there to help support us and help keep us on the straight [and] narrow,” he said. “That’s just the kind of place that we grew up in.”
For Toner, whose family has been in Cambridge for generations, running for City Council is just the next step in giving back to the city that has meant so much to him and his family.
“What I love and what so many long-term residents love about Cambridge is the community that’s about supporting one another and helping each other’s neighbors and giving back,” Toner said.
Toner began his career as a teacher, and then got a law degree and started working with teacher’s unions, eventually becoming president of the Massachusetts Teachers Association. He fell short in his first campaign for City Council in 2017.
Since running in 2017, Toner said, his core values have remained consistent: voicing everyone’s concerns and shedding light on structural issues.
Toner believes that the council should focus more on communication with Cambridge residents, pointing to the handling of a recent cycling safety ordinance that calls for the installation of bike lanes throughout the city.
Toner argued that the current leadership did not involve Cambridge residents enough in making decisions about the ordinance.
“They have not done a very good job of engaging the people in the neighborhoods they’re impacting and that has led to some pushback,” he said. “I really wish we had started with a different process because it has gotten very challenging to have civil conversations about this.”
Toner said some people approach political issues already set in their stances, which he finds problematic.
“It's okay to have your own ideas, and your thoughts on what a solution might be, but you really can’t come in with the fix and the final idea, and then expect people just to accept it,” he said.
Toner said that instead he is “coming to the table with an open mind on the issues.”
“We have to take these issues and look at them carefully and come up with what the best solution is for the residents of Cambridge, and not just approach every problem with our positions already in place,” he said.
Toner believes his experience in politics and organized labor have equipped him well to give Cambridge residents more of a voice.
“I’m not coming as an ideologue to Cambridge City Council — I’m coming as someone who has had 30 years of trying to work with a broad, diverse population of people and try to find solutions to the problems we all face,” he said. “I’m really running as hopefully a problem solver and a consensus builder.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Alanna M. Mallon, Cambridge vice mayor and third-term candidate for the City Council, describes herself as a “committed and passionate leader,” who does not just “sit behind a desk at City Hall,” but actively engages with residents to create policies that improve their lives.
Mallon, a self-proclaimed “anti-poverty advocate,” is running to defend her seat on the council. In an interview, Mallon pointed to her track record expanding employment opportunities, increasing affordable housing, and rolling out a basic-income pilot program.
Born and raised in Brockton, Mass., Mallon entered public service in Cambridge in 2013, when she founded the Cambridge Weekend Backpack Program to provide food-insecure children with meals outside of school.
In 2015, while working in the mayor’s office as the education liaison, she said she mulled running for elected office to get to the root of systemic issues.
“I started to think, ‘I could just put food into kids’ backpacks for the rest of my life, or I could run for office and really start working on those deep structural issues that cause hunger,’” she said. “Working on issues of safe, affordable housing, workforce development, and closing those economic gaps has been a real priority for me on the council, and it was what drove me to run.”
Mallon said she is particularly proud of her efforts to help pass the Affordable Housing Overlay, which the council passed in October 2020 to support the development of affordable housing in Cambridge.
Mallon described how her original interest in combating hunger led her to advocate for affordable housing.
“If people are overly rent burdened, they are making tough choices around whether to pay their rent or put food on their table,” she said. “So affordable housing and creating and maintaining affordable housing has been a huge issue for me.”
To create more inclusive opportunities for young people in the city, Mallon said she worked with the Cambridge police and fire departments to launch cadet programs, and supports Building Pathways, which helps train low-income residents in the Boston area for jobs in the construction industry.
To tackle income inequality, Mallon worked with Cambridge Mayor Sumbul Siddiqui and City Councilor Marc C. McGovern to launch a basic income pilot program in April, which provides 120 eligible low-income families $500 per month for 18 months. Cambridge is the second city in Massachusetts to experiment with a guaranteed income program.
While Mallon’s campaign this year resembles her previous council bids in 2017 and 2019, in 2021, the city is recovering from the public health crisis caused by the coronavirus.
Noting the moment, Mallon said her fight against inequality is more important than ever before.
“We saw during the pandemic how close to the edge so many of our residents are, and how it became a public health risk to have so many residents be housing insecure, to be food insecure, to be working multiple jobs,” she said. “We have a once in a lifetime opportunity to really close some of those gaps that exacerbate public health crises.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
In their bids to claim a seat on the Cambridge City Council, 11 non-incumbent candidates have proposed plans to resolve the ongoing housing crisis, amend the city charter, and reduce the city manager’s power.
The challengers come from a wide variety of occupations, ages, and backgrounds. These candidates, along with eight incumbents, are vying for nine open seats elected at-large through Cambridge’s ranked choice voting system.
Several challengers said in interviews that housing remains the largest and most pressing issue in the city, as did several incumbent candidates.
Candidate Nicola A. Williams proposed a “50/20” plan to expand affordable housing in the city by increasing the proportion of homeownership to 50 percent and the amount of affordable housing in Cambridge to 20 percent by the year 2040.
Candidate Theodora M. “Theo” Skeadas ’12 also argued for permanent homeownership — specifically for families.
“​​The growing wealth gap in Cambridge is further dividing our residents,” Skeadas said. “Gentrification has contributed to a lot of displacement of multi-generation minority families in Cambridge.”
Candidate Dana Bullister said she is concerned about a lack of representation in local politics. This led her to focus her campaign on equity in political influence, and how income often determines who can show up to vote, voice their opinion at council meetings, or run for office.
“It’s discriminatory, it’s dysfunctional, and, of course, it creates a spiral that causes those who are less wealthy and less able to influence elections to not be heard as much,” Bullister said. “It’s no surprise that the wealthiest get their policy priorities pushed forward at the expense of everybody else.”
Bullister added she would combat this issue by funding a team to research “representative views” in the city and relay their findings to the council. She said she would also take steps to reduce the financial contributions that council candidates receive, especially from large corporations.
Candidates also proposed ideas to reform the city charter in order to reduce the power of the city manager, a position currently held by Louis A. DePasquale. Cambridge operates under Plan E, a form of government where the city manager — who is appointed by the city council — has full executive power.
Some candidates, such as Robert Eckstut, said they are concerned about what they see as lack of accountability for the city manager. In the past, city council legislation has been blocked by the city manager, as with the council’s municipal broadband feasibility study in May.
“The city council can make recommendations, they can cut budgets in certain cases, they can make different petitions, but they’re actually quite weak,” Eckstut said. “[The city manager] is the one who really has the power in the city.”
Eckstut argued Cambridge should switch to a mayor-council system of government in which residents directly elect both the council members and the mayor. Currently, the city council appoints a mayor and vice mayor from among themselves in the first council session of the term.
Candidate Burhan Azeem said each of the candidates this election are “ideologically different” on a local level, even though they are usually grouped as liberal and progressive on a national level.
“There’s also a huge difference in not only what we want to do, but how we plan to get there,” he said. “A lot of candidates care about climate change, but our plans to address climate change are really different, and I think that that has pretty big implications.”
Candidate Joe McGuirk said that though his career as a bartender is not typical for a member of the council, any Cambridge resident should be given a chance to run and govern.
“Every resident, no matter what their background, should have an opportunity to serve,” he said.
McGuirk added he wants the council to be more representative of the Cambridge population.
“The council has often been made up of land-owning or property-owning people who mostly are white-collar,” he said. “They have the leisure time and the energy to do this, and I think that that isn’t truly representative. I thought, ‘If not me, who?’”
—Staff writer Sarah Girma can be reached at sarah.girma@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @SarahGirma_
— Staff writer Jennifer L. Powley can be reached at jennifer.powley@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @JenniferlPowley
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Cambridge Uncommon, a local e-commerce start-up, opened its first ever pop-up shop on the second floor of the Cambridge Savings Bank building on Oct. 21.
Cambridge Uncommon sells “uncommon goods” with a focus on apparel, though the store also sells housewares and accessories, according to co-owner Nicola H. Wodlinger.
Wodlinger and fellow co-owner Jessica Good grew up near Cambridge Common and have known each other since they were four. The pair chose to open their first store in Harvard Square because of their familiarity with the location and the customer base.
Good, a former member of the Harvard Square Business Association, previously owned Passport Boutique at 43 Brattle St., which is now occupied by women’s clothing store Mint Julep.
“Cambridge Uncommon is designed to be a store where you can find something that will make you smile,” Wodlinger said. “Or someone will ask you, ‘Hey, where did you get that?’”
Good added that one of the main reasons they chose to open Cambridge Uncommon was to “put a smile on people’s faces.”
“After last year, I think everyone needs a little bit of happy in their life, and we feel like we’re bringing it to the people of Cambridge,” she said.
The pop-up store’s opening coincided with the Head of the Charles Regatta.
“We were crazy busy during the Head of the Charles, which we were hoping for because we are familiar with the Head of the Charles,” Wodlinger said. “We didn’t know if being on the second floor and having to go into a bank was a little bit like a speakeasy kind of store situation, but people found us and have been so nice and so welcoming.”
Good said the foot traffic has “definitely exceeded” the duo’s expectations.
“It’s been really amazing,” she added. “The customers in Cambridge and Harvard Square are just wonderful, really supportive, really positive, and really love the store.”
Denise A. Jillson, executive director of the Harvard Square Business Association, said Good reached out to her a few weeks ago for assistance in finding a space for the pop-up store. She said Daniel E. Fraine, senior vice president for facilities at the Cambridge Savings Bank, offered Good and Wodlinger a space above the bank for their venture.
“It’s just another example of local people working together,” Jillson said. “From a big bank to a tiny little pop-up, they’re making it work for the benefit of the Square. It’s just wonderful.”
“One more fun opportunity in the Square for people to show up,” she added.
—Staff writer Tracy Jiang can be reached at tracy.jiang@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @_tracyjiang_.
—Staff writer Davin W. Shi can be reached at davin.shi@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Dennis J. Carlone is running for re-election to his fifth term on the Cambridge City Council on a platform prioritizing affordable housing and environmental sustainability.
Carlone’s goals include addressing the housing crisis, increasing educational opportunities in Cambridge, increasing tenant protections, reforming local elections, and collaborating with design groups in Cambridge.
“We do not have to choose between good urban/neighborhood design and affordability – we can and must demand both,” Carlone wrote on his blog.
Carlone moved to Cambridge to study at the Graduate School of Design and has lived in the city for over 45 years. Carlone worked as an urban design and architecture consultant before running for city council eight years ago.
The American Institute of Architects recognized Carlone with an award for his implementation of the East Cambridge Riverfront Plan, adopted in 1978 to connect the river with the surrounding residential areas and transform the decaying land into a neighborhood, according to the City of Cambridge website.
“My background in architecture and urban design taught me how to bring people together, how to understand all the issues and then come up with a scheme or a philosophy that addresses most, if not all, things,” Carlone said in a 2017 interview with the Crimson.
As a part of his affordable housing effort, Carlone named zoning and construction reforms as some of his priorities.
“I’ve worked with 15 different neighborhood groups in my eight years, working on rezoning, working on fighting zoning, working on design review, working on getting more open space,” Carlone said in a Mid-Cambridge Neighborhood Association interview on Oct. 23. “I think the City Planning Department should be doing that, but I love it, and so I keep it up.”
Carlone also said he intends to expand the Cambridge pre-kindergarten program if re-elected. In previous terms, Carlone worked towards educational equity with programs such as “Universal Pre-Kindergarten” and “Say Yes to Education.”
Carlone is also a social justice advocate in the realm of immigrant protection. He introduced the ACLU-sponsored Welcoming City Ordinance that limits information local authorities can provide to federal authorities regarding undocumented immigrants, according to his website.
Carlone is also a proponent of a transparent budgetary process. His budget-related proposals include allocating money in the city’s 2021-2022 budget towards racial and social equity.
Carlone co-sponsored an amendment in February to restrict City Council campaign donations by people “seeking to enter into a contract, seeking approval for a special permit or up-zoning, seeking to acquire real estate from the city, or seeking financial assistance from the city.
Carlone called for campaigns to be publicly financed in this election as well.
“I am proud to be the first candidate to refuse money from developers and special interest groups,” Carlone wrote on his website.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Mohammed El-Kurd, a Palestinian poet and journalist from East Jerusalem, spoke about the intersection of violence and law Wednesday at an event organized by Harvard Law School’s Middle Eastern Law Student Association.
Co-hosted by the Law School’s International Human Rights Clinic and HLS Advocates for Human Rights, the talk’s location was moved to First Church in “solidarity with the Harvard Graduate Student Union strike,” which is scheduled to last until Friday.
El-Kurd became the Palestine correspondent for The Nation in September. El-Kurd and his twin sister, Muna, emerged into the spotlight for their grassroots activism and online advocacy for Palestine. The siblings were named two of TIME Magazine’s most influential people of 2021.
Mohammed El-Kurd — whose debut poetry collection, RIFQA, was published earlier this month — argued Wednesday that rather than serve as an overly intellectual, inaccessible form of art, poetry could be employed as a “didactic tool.” It can highlight the lives of ordinary people and share candid thoughts about everyday struggles and sufferings, he said.
El-Kurd also described poetry as a way to demystify the law. He cited one of his favorite poets as a writer who “translated” difficult legal codes through his own verse for “people who didn’t understand legal jargon.”
Censorship had always been a “part of [his] reality,” El-Kurd said. His mother, who was one of his chief creative inspirations, also experienced the regular censorship of her poetry.
“She adopted this game with my father where she would read him the poems, and they would bet on which lines would be censored,” he added.
Nicole L. Khamis, co-president of the Harvard Middle Eastern Law Student Association who led coordination of Wednesday’s event, said the idea for the event emerged this summer amid an escalation in violence between Palestine and Israel.
“This was at the height of the war, during which Gaza was being bombed — Gaza is one of the most populous places on Earth,” she said. “I engaged with the Law School administration on ways that we could start to allow another narrative about Palestine into the Law School.”
Khamis said she was appreciative of El-Kurd’s ability to remain humble in the spotlight while using his public platform to speak openly about critical issues and continue advocating for ordinary Palestinians.
“The most rewarding part of this is seeing the crowd and seeing how excited people are to meet Mohammed, and also how humble Mohammad is about everything,” Khamis said. “He really is somebody who isn’t changed by the fame that he’s been given and uses it.”
She said she hopes events centering Palestinian voices will continue to happen throughout the year.
“This is going to be the beginning of many events that we hope to have in the Law School,” she said. “We hope that this is a conversation that really starts allowing people to shift the narrative and allow people to see the other side.”
As somebody who identifies as Palestinian, Khamis said she believes it is her responsibility to spread awareness about the politics of the region, particularly in American institutions such as Harvard Law School.
“There’s such a lack of Palestinians in general at a higher level,” she said. “As someone who is Palestinian, I feel like it’s my obligation to continually challenge the narrative. Doing that at Harvard is a huge privilege, and we’re going to keep on doing it.”
El-Kurd argued that international observers frequently overlook the plight of ordinary Palestinians despite photographic and testimonial evidence of displacement and violence inflicted on ordinary individuals.
He said Palestinian identity does not solely depend on geography or national borders, referring to the territorial conflicts between Palestine and Israel.
“We are all Palestinians, no matter our legal status,” El-Kurd said. “This geography is fabricated, and they tell us that we’re not allowed to go here, we’re not allowed to go there — this is just cement. These colonial borders do not extend to within our minds.”
El-Kurd said he would continue to remain optimistic about the future and exercise his voice to effect change.
“It’s my obligation to feel hopeful,” he said. “I remind myself that I need to be hopeful in order to survive.”
—Staff writer Emmy M. Cho can be reached at emmy.cho@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
City Council candidate Dana Bullister never thought about public office until a friend and former Cambridge City Councilor urged her to consider the council. Bullister’s lack of political experience informed the staple of her running platform: equity in political influence.
By trade, Bullister is a data scientist. Bullister has experience in computer science, economics, and development policy, and says she believes her data analysis skills will bring a new set of ideas to the city council’s table.
“Fundamentally, I think that a really successful city council is a diverse city council, both in terms of the demographic backgrounds of the city councilors, but also in terms of the skill sets of the city councilors,” Bullister said.
Bullister’s graduate work at Northeastern University would be particularly useful for the council, she added.
“I basically launched this initiative on how to effectively use data gathered from community insights, and really effectively form them into better local policy,” Bullister said. “That's kind of been my life's work for the past few years.”
Bullister said that her research makes her particularly well-equipped to identify the needs of the city.
“How do you get all voices at the table in a way that accurately informs the real needs of everybody in our city?” Bullister said, describing the central question to her research.
A Boston area native and Wellesley College alumna, Bullister said she would have likely continued to work in research had she not developed deep roots in Cambridge — where she has lived for seven years.
Her time in Cambridge and interactions with residents surfaced her interest in equity in political influence — the pillar of her campaign.
Bullister says that equity in political influence “directly underpins” many of her policy priorities — such as housing affordability, sustainable transit, and investing in youth.
According to Bullister, equity in political influence is a problem “across the board.” The role of money, however, is a prime example of systemic problems concerning political influence, she said.
“Someone who's a millionaire or a billionaire can contribute anything that they want into this local election, if they're, say, the CEO, or a top executive at one of these companies, and they can absolutely put it into the campaign and try and buy the election,” Bullister said. “So nothing at all is stopping these people from doing it.”
Bullister said local elections can be influenced easily, citing a recent case in which Amazon attempted to sway the Seattle City Council elections. She said the same thing could happen anywhere.
“Elections are to be sold at this very moment,” Bullister continued. “Cambridge is up for sale.”
Bullister sees potential for Cambridge to be a leader on ensuring equity in political influence.
“I think that Cambridge can not only address its own problem with equity and political influence, it can inspire and lead the way for other cities, and other governments, to address this problem in a deliberate and hopefully, fresh and new way,” Bullister said.
Bullister said she hopes she is just the beginning of a new set of faces in politics.
“I hope to inspire more people like me, who generally never think about going into politics, as I never did, to actually take an interest,” Bullister said.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Shouts of “What do we want? Contract! When do we want it? Now!” echoed across campus Wednesday as Harvard’s graduate student union launched a three-day strike, its second walkout in two years.
After failing to reach a contract agreement with the University Tuesday, Harvard Graduate Students Union-United Automobile Workers began its strike with delivery pickets at the Science Center at 6 a.m., and picketing continued in the Yard and the Longwood campus until 4 p.m.
Student workers and their supporters called on Harvard to increase compensation, add more third-party oversight to discrimination and harassment complaint procedures, and agree to an agency shop, in which all students represented by HGSU-UAW would be mandated to pay dues to the union.
Despite stormy weather, simultaneous picket lines formed after 9 a.m. in front of William James Hall and Johnston Gate. Before 10:30 a.m. classes began, striking workers and their supporters picketed the Science Center and Sanders Theatre, later moving to Matthews, Massachusetts, and University Halls.
At 12 p.m., strikers flocked to the Science Center Plaza, where prominent union members and elected officials delivered speeches to the crowd. A large, inflatable pig smoking a cigar with dollar bills lining its pocket loomed over the rally.
HGSU-UAW President Brandon J. Mancilla said in an interview that the pig represents “Harvard’s greed.”
During the rally, Environmental Sciences and Engineering professor Marianna K. Linz ’11 said she cannot participate in good conscience in diversity outreach and student recruitment events on behalf of Harvard while the University lacks “a mechanism by which they can deal with racial harassment.” HGSU-UAW is currently demanding third-party arbitration for discrimination and harassment claims not related to Title IX or gender and sex, as well as other protections for Title IX-related cases.
“As part of the [University of California] postdoc union, when I was at UCLA, this procedure existed,” Linz said. “It exists for other unions: for NYU, for University of Michigan — it’s not radical, it’s rational.”
Harvard spokesperson Jason A. Newton declined to comment on the union’s proposal, but noted that HGSU-UAW’s first contract provides the union representation on University working groups to address race-based and other types of discrimination.
Other speakers included Mass. State Representative Michael L. Connolly and Cambridge City Councillors Jivan Sobrinho-Wheeler and Mark C. McGovern, who told the cheering crowd that the Cambridge City Council went on record supporting HGSU-UAW.
Afterward, strikers moved into the Science Center, blocking entrances to large classes such as Chemistry 17: “Principles of Organic Chemistry,” Math 21a: “Multivariable Calculus”, and Psychology 1: “Introduction to Psychological Science.” They later picketed Emerson Hall, Smith Campus Center, and 124 Mt. Auburn St., where the Office of Labor and Employee Relations is located, before ending at Science Center Plaza.
On Wednesday evening, HGSU-UAW sent an email update to members after its bargaining session with the University.
“At our mediated bargaining session, the university arrived without a counterproposal and made clear that they have no intention to move,” the email reads. “Our bargaining team made clear that at this time our membership will not accept any contract that doesn’t have significant movement.”
—Staff writers Kelsey J. Griffin, Kevin A. Simauchi, and Mayesha R. Soshi contributed reporting.
—Staff writer Cara J. Chang can be reached at cara.chang@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @CaraChang20.
—Staff writer Kate N. Guerin can be reached at kate.guerin@thecrimson.com.
—Staff writer Meimei Xu can be reached at meimei.xu@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @MeimeiXu7.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Some students who frequent the new Science and Engineering Complex in Allston complained about a lack of variety in food options available during lunch.
Most engineering students have class several days a week at the new SEC, which cost $1 billion to build and opened to students this fall for lectures, seminars, and labs.
Students seeking lunchtime dining options at the SEC can choose options from the FlyBy station — which contains soups, salads, wraps, and soft drinks — or use their $65 BoardPlus credit to access a wider variety of food at the SEC Café, including sushi and a salad bar. There is no full-service dining available under the undergradate meal plan at the new building.
Victor W. Chen ’22 described FlyBy as a “second lunch” and said he likes to “grab and go” to evade wait times.
Other students who rely upon FlyBy for lunch were less pleased.
Engineering concentrator Vladyslav “Vlad” Ivanchuk ’23 described the SEC FlyBy as “much better” than the FlyBy station located in Annenberg Hall in Cambridge, but said the options are still “pretty limited.”
“I’ve been eating the same sandwich for lunch two weeks in a row every single day almost,” he said. “That just was kind of a signal to me that I have to start going to the normal [dining] hall and get normal food.”
Lauryn Wu ’23, who said she stays at the SEC for lunch every day, said she has a turkey sandwich and plain yogurt nearly every day.
“I’m here pretty much every weekday, and it’s the same food every day,” she said. “If I want to get food that’s basically what they serve in the [dining] halls, we have to pay for it.”
Dakota L. Passage ’23 said he believes the SEAS FlyBy has “good options,” but added that he wishes there were hot food options.
“It’d be obviously better if there was a full service, but it’s just cold food except for the soup,” Passage said.
Other students who do not eat lunch in Allston as frequently said they do not mind the smaller variety.
Robert D. Newman ’23, who said he only dines at SEAS on Tuesdays, said he considers FlyBy to be “pretty good” but acknowledged it would be difficult to eat there more often.
“Every once in a while it's fine, but I would be pretty annoyed if I had to do it every day,” he said.
Harvard University Dining Services spokesperson Crista Martin wrote that HUDS has extended dining hours across campus in an attempt to help students “in accessing their meal plan equitably.”
“Our hope is that in this way, students can employ a range of these means to support their dietary needs with options before they depart their residence, and at extended campuses, including Allston, Longwood and at commitments beyond Harvard’s gates,” Martin wrote.
One solution suggested by Wu was allowing undergraduates on the meal plan to eat at the SEC cafeteria for free.
“Either they should make the food for free,” Wu said, “or have something different every day for FlyBy.”
Ivanchuk also said he believes making the food in the cafeteria part of the meal plan would be a “reasonable decision.”
“They have a grad student cafe here, which has food that is more similar to the dining hall — food that is freshly prepared,” Ivanchuk said. “They could make it possible for us to get food there as part of the undergraduate meal plan.”
—Staff writer Natalie L. Kahn can be reached at natalie.kahn@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @natalielkahn.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
As Alfonso J. Godinez Aguilar ’24 sat in a LPS A: “Foundational Chemistry and Biology” lecture last week, he took notice of the chorus of phlegmy coughs that rang across the lecture hall.
“In my lecture hall, my 9 a.m., I swear it literally sounds like an infirmary from the amount of coughing I hear,” he said. “I was sitting in the back, and I was like, ‘Why is everyone coughing?’ Then I go to my Orgo lecture, and it’s the same thing.”
Though undergraduate Covid-19 case counts on campus remain in the single digits for the fifth consecutive week, the sounds of coughs and sneezes resound through classes across campus as undergraduates fight off an array of respiratory infections.
University spokesperson Jason A. Newton wrote in an emailed statement that public health experts have noted a rise in viral respiratory illnesses other than Covid-19. He added that many of those illnesses share very similar symptoms to Covid-19.
For several students, the similarity in ailments caused initial worries over whether their symptoms were the result of a Covid-19 infection.
Alexis J. Boo ’22 was the last in her suite to start coughing around the time of the Harvard-Brown game on Sept. 24. After each tested negative for Covid-19, Boo said she suspected another illness.
“I definitely had anxiety over it,” she said last Wednesday, which marked the 18th day of her symptoms.
As a senior, Boo has experienced her share of college sicknesses. However, she said this cough has stood out as particularly “inconvenient and annoying” because of its sheer longevity.
“Even in high school or throughout my entire life, I don’t think I’ve ever had an illness for this long,” she said.
Still, Boo admits that regularly testing negative for Covid-19 and following safety protocols like mask-wearing have lulled her into a sense of security.
“I have not helped my cause I think at all by just pretending like I don’t have the cough and going about my life normally. I’m not taking as much rest as I probably should because I [have] been testing negative for Covid-19,” she said. “I know it’s not Covid, so I probably have not been staying in as much.”
Unlike in previous years, Harvard University Health Services now advises students to call and make an appointment instead of walking into the clinic as part of its coronavirus protocols. Primary care and urgent care appointments cannot be made online through the patient portal.
Earlier in the semester, Boo said HUHS placed her on hold “a couple of times” — once lasting for 20 minutes — when making appointments. She said these experiences contributed to her delay in seeking help.
“I’ve been sort of dreading going to HUHS because I feel like it’s just sort of inconvenient,” she said.
After losing her voice over the weekend of Oct. 2, Harini S. Kannan ’24 began to panic when she checked herself for a fever.
“I checked my temperature, realized I have a fever, totally freaked out because I thought it was Covid, which is I think everyone’s first instinct now — that whatever sickness you have, you have to make sure it’s not Covid,” Kannan said.
Kannan reported her symptoms on Crimson Clear that night and received a phone call from HUHS the next morning. The HUHS contact made her an appointment to test for strep throat later that day, which came back positive.
“I didn’t realize how much HUHS would do, but I thought it was really nice that they called and they kind of instigated it,” Kannan said. “I didn’t feel like I was totally in the dark.”
Two weeks after moving from Miami to campus, Folukemi O. Olufidipe ’25 said she started experiencing a sore throat and runny nose which morphed into month-long allergies.
Though these symptoms have not inhibited Olufidipe from attending class, she said she has avoided studying in public places to ensure others do not confuse her sneezing with Covid-19.
“It can get a little embarrassing at times. I would sneeze in public or cough and have to look around at people and be like ‘Well, no, I’m negative,’ or have to go back to my room,” she said. “Not everyone necessarily believes it. It just kind of creates a weird environment.”
CORRECTION: October 30, 2021
A previous version of this article contained a quote which stated Harvard University Health Services is closed on weekends. In fact, HUHS is open from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. on Saturdays and Sundays.
—Staff writer Claire H. Guo can be reached at claire.guo@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @clairehguo.
—Staff writer Christine Mui can be reached at christine.mui@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @MuiChristine.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Deputy White House National Climate Advisor Ali A. Zaidi ’08 discussed the United States’s approach to combating climate change and detailed how global warming can disproportionately affect low-income groups at a Harvard Kennedy School event Wednesday.
The event, which was held virtually as part of the HKS “Road to Glasgow” series, took place just days ahead of the 2021 United Nations Climate Change Conference, which will be held in Scotland starting Sunday. The conference, called COP26, brings together representatives from around 200 countries to discuss global climate policy.
Rand Wentworth, an HKS lecturer who helped organize the series, said in an interview he hoped event attendees could “feel the absolute existential urgency of addressing climate change.”
He added that it is important for young people to see “that there could well be a way forward to avert planetary catastrophe.”
Zaidi began the discussion by explaining how climate change has become one of President Joe Biden’s top priorities. He said that low-income groups are often more adversely affected by rising sea levels and heat waves.
“When we talk about climate change, we’re not just talking about something that proportionally impacts all Americans or all inhabitants of this planet, but really one that disproportionately impacts the weak and the vulnerable — the lower income and the disenfranchised,” he said.
Zaidi, who also served under President Barack Obama, said numerous government agencies — including the Department of Labor, the Department of Transportation, and the Environmental Protection Agency — have cooperated to create effective climate policy under the Biden administration.
“This administration has been firing on all cylinders,” he said.
Kennedy School professor Joseph E. Aldy, who formerly served as a climate advisor to Obama, moderated the conversation along with HKS Center for Public Leadership fellow Hana N. Rouse ’14.
Zaidi said decisions made under President Donald Trump were hurtful to the U.S.’s climate efforts, but added that he is optimistic about future policy goals.
“We can acknowledge that President Trump pulling out of the Paris Agreement was an incredible setback to the United States’ standing on climate internationally,” he said, referring to Trump’s move to withdraw the U.S. from the 2015 Paris Agreement on climate change.
“At the same time, it can be true — and it is — that the United States continued to move as a country in the right direction,” he added, citing the Clean Power Plan enacted under Obama.
Zaidi serves under Gina McCarthy, who served as a professor of the practice at the Harvard School of Public Health before being appointed by Biden as the White House National Climate Advisor.
He closed the event by calling for urgent climate action.
“I just would invite and encourage literally everyone to bring whatever talent, whatever time, whatever treasure they have to this task because this is the moment of truth,” he said.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The first day of the Harvard graduate student union strike disrupted undergraduate courses Wednesday, as some professors canceled their classes to support the student workers and the union formed picket lines to discourage students from attending class.
Wednesday morning, student workers and their supporters picketed William James Hall, Sanders Theatre, and the Science Center to disrupt 10:30 a.m. lectures. Upon seeing the picket lines, some students in Economics 10a: “Principles of Economics (Microeconomics)” and Economics 1010a: “Intermediate Microeconomics” did not attend class.
In the afternoon, some students did not attend Chemistry 17: “Principles of Organic Chemistry” in the Science Center because they did not want to cross the picket line.
Chem 17 student Stacey D. Fabo ’24 chose not cross the picket line Wednesday for ideological reasons, but she said she is concerned that her support for student workers’ demands could come at the expense of her midterm grade.
To ensure course continuity, course heads — the professor and a preceptor — will be holding sections, which are traditionally run by graduate students.
“It puts me in a tough position because I want to do well on this midterm, but it also compromises all my beliefs to cross the picket line and go to these course head-taught sections,” Fabo said.
Some professors moved class to Zoom Wednesday so students would not “be forced to decide between crossing the picket line or missing class,” per an email sent to students in Religion 40: “Incarnation and Desire.”
Other professors postponed events or canceled classes altogether in support of the union. The History and Literature department closed its physical offices and staff shifted to remote work. The department also plans to reschedule its fall celebration and toast for second-semester seniors.
In a department-wide email Monday, History and Literature director of studies Lauren Kaminsky wrote that the department “support[s] our colleagues represented by HGSU-UAW.”
History professor Alison Frank Johnson — a longtime supporter of HGSU-UAW — canceled her lecture for History 1265: “German History from Bismarck to Hitler,” due to the strike. Though she would not lecture on Weimar Republic politics Thursday, she suggested alternative learning opportunities for students in the course, such as writing an optional response paper and studying union activism in person.
“Anyone who wishes to spend our usual class time studying the mechanics of labor organizing can do so by participating in the picket lines,” she wrote in a Canvas message to students.
Amid the logistical chaos, some students said they were confused about what constitutes crossing the picket line.
Confusion in part stemmed from an email from the Harvard Student Labor Action Movement and the Harvard College Young Democratic Socialists of America that circulated among undergraduates. The email claimed that “attending lectures, professor-led seminars, or a professor’s office hours is not crossing the picket line.”
Harvard Graduate Students Union-United Automobile Workers bargaining committee member Aparna Gopalan clarified in an interview, however, that the email is not entirely correct: if a physical picket line is outside of a building, attending classes in that building means “crossing the picket line,” regardless of who is teaching.
The HGSU-UAW bargaining committee sent an email to members Wednesday evening with picket line best practices. The email encouraged members to educate students about the purpose of a strike.
“Explain how crossing a picket line undermines our collective power, and by extension, these goals,” the bargaining committee wrote.
The bargaining committee also clarified what “crossing the picket line” entails.
“If there is a line of picketers outside of a class, we are attempting to cancel it. Faculty, staff, and students should not cross such a picket line,” the email reads. “If there is no active picket line (most courses), students may attend their class along with their peers regardless of who is teaching the class (TFs/faculty/others).”
The bargaining committee added that picketers should “stay respectful” to students and faculty as they advocate for “a harassment-free campus & good teaching/learning conditions for everyone.”
HGSU-UAW President Brandon J. Mancilla said the union asked professors to not move classes in a building blocked by a picket line to Zoom.
“That’s also crossing the picket line, because you’ve already decided to hold classes that were supposed to be canceled,” he said. “This is not a general policy for all classes, because it’s specifically about the places that are being picketed.”
Mancilla said that the confusion surrounding the picket line demonstrated the strike’s success in causing disruption.
“Having provoked different debates about what was or not crossing the picket line even if it might have been misinformed — that in itself is a show of the disruptive nature of our strike,” he said.
—Staff writer Cara J. Chang can be reached at cara.chang@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @CaraChang20.
—Staff writer Meimei Xu can be reached at meimei.xu@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @MeimeiXu7.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Incumbent City Councilor Patricia M. “Patty” Nolan ’80, seeking a second term, is running on a platform focusing on education initiatives and addressing climate issues around the city.
Nolan said her campaign focused on “good governance,” prioritizing police reform, public transportation, and the climate crisis. She said she spent her past year on the council working to mitigate the negative economic and social impacts of the pandemic, including creating Covid-19 testing centers and small business relief programs.
Less than two months after her election to the council in 2019, an epidemiologist alerted Nolan that Covid-19 would make its way to Cambridge. Urged to focus on the impending public health emergency, Nolan said she needed to redirect her political agenda.
“I got elected, I had big plans,” Nolan said. “Covid completely threw this out the window. We were all Covid, all the time.”
Nolan described the city’s Covid-19 response as “incredible in so many ways,” though she acknowledged she was once critical of the city’s outdoor mask mandate in the early stages of the pandemic.
To support local businesses through the economic crisis caused by the pandemic, Nolan credits the mayor’s Disaster Relief Fund for providing financial assistance to struggling local businesses.
Before her term as a councilor, Nolan worked at nonprofits and consulting firms and has run two companies, according to her campaign. She said she believes her “range of experience” sets her apart from other candidates.
Nolan also previously served on the School Committee — which oversees Cambridge Public Schools — for more than a decade. She said her tenure on the School Committee influenced her push to implement universal preschool.
Due to Cambridge’s city charter, which provides the city manager full executive power, however, Nolan said she believes she “had more authority and power” working on the School Committee than she does as a councilor.
This November, Nolan said she supports three ballot initiatives which in combination would award the council more oversight in city governance.
Affordable housing remains a central issue in this year’s race. Nolan describes herself as an advocate for affordable housing — such as supporting an end to single-family zoning in the city — but opposed the Affordable Housing Overlay passed in 2020.
Nolan said addressing the climate crisis is also a priority. She chairs a working group on climate issues in Cambridge and advocates for policies that reduce emissions, subsidize renewable energy, and improve alternative transportation options.
Nolan argued she stands out in her dedication to well-researched policies, and that she has been “pretty effective” in delivering on promises in her first term on the council.
“I really am someone who continually focuses on understanding, at a deep level, what it is that we need to be looking at, analyzing, and thinking about, and bring a nuanced approach to the issues that we face which are really complex,” she said.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Growing up, Theodora M. “Theo” Skeadas ’12 never thought she would run for public office.
“Politics was not on my radar at all,” she said. But now, for the first time, Skeadas is campaigning for a seat on the Cambridge City Council.
The New York native arrived in Cambridge as a Harvard undergraduate, residing in Cabot House and graduating in 2012 with a degree in Philosophy. Skeadas was a member of the student acapella group LowKeys, the Harvard College Hellenic Society, Institute of Politics, and Phillips Brooks House Association’s Mission Hill after-school program.
Skeadas said she has been interested in addressing wealth inequality for a long time. In high school, Skeadas built homes for unhoused people in Tijuana, Mexico, and was “very struck by the contrasting living standards between people in San Diego, California, just across the border,” she said.
After graduating from Harvard, Skeadas ran summer camps for refugees on the West Bank, worked for an NGO focused on conflict resolution in Morocco, and researched employment barriers for Syrian refugees in Turkey. Skeadas eventually became interested in being a diplomat so she could work on “building bridges across difference,” which led her to pursue a Master’s in Public Policy in 2016 at the Kennedy School.
Skeadas said she experienced a “moment of politicalization” while at HKS in the lead up to the 2016 presidential election.
“I realized that elected officials play a very important role in driving conversation and change,” she said.
Her prior interest in pursuing advocacy and non-profit work faded away as she noted “they’re not actually making decisions, you’re only advocating for change.” This led her to join the Women in Public Policy Program at the Kennedy School.
“By the end,” Skeadas said, “I was like, maybe a local office is something I could do.”
Skeadas considered running for City Council in 2017, but decided she lacked the experience. Instead, she ran Sumbul Siddiqui’s successful 2017 campaign for City Council and worked for Jimmy Tingle when he ran for lieutenant governor in 2018.
Now, Skeadas is running for City Council, noting that “it’s the place where you can have the most immediate change” on issues like climate change.
“I, Theo, cannot move the needle on the federal level, but what I can do is make Cambridge the most progressive city it can be on this issue,” she said.
In addition, what differentiates her from the other candidates, Skeadas said, is her “commitment to championing local businesses” and prior experience working on housing issues.
“Cambridge is facing one of the worst housing crises in the country — you have some of the worst wealth inequality of any city in the country, and increasing gentrification and displacement are huge issues,” Skeadas said.
With these specific policy plans, Skeadas acknowledged she could run into disagreements on the council, but said she is well equipped to manage any difficulties that arise.
“I come from a very deeply conservative and religious family and I lean quite left,” she said. “I’ve had to manage a lot of very difficult conversations across difference.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
North Carolina native Tonia Hicks is making her first bid for the Cambridge City Council as a progressive candidate campaigning under the slogan “We the Everyday People for Tonia Hicks.”
Hicks aims to amplify the voices of the poor and disenfranchised while ensuring that the City Council remains accountable for upholding their commitment to marginalized populations. Her campaign revolves around four central issues —housing stability, food security, youth investment, and environmental justice.
“For me, what progressive means is that I’m going to lead with integrity,” Hicks said. “I’m also going to keep people first. I don’t care how technologically savvy we become. Nothing matters if your brother, your sister, or your neighbor is hurting. People should always be first.”
Hicks said she hopes to make an impact on the Cambridge housing crisis by providing housing stability through statewide rent control and affordable housing on public land.
“If people don’t have stable housing and they don’t have food, nothing else really matters because you can’t function without those two,” she said.
There is a need to implement environmental policies more equally across Cambridge neighborhoods, as well as making understanding environmental issues more accessible to the general public, according to Hicks.
“When we talk about how people have diabetes, high blood pressure, and how lack of access to healthcare is environmental, people can relate to that,” Hicks said. “If we talk about equity, then we need to be equitable in our conversations.”
Hicks said she strongly advocates for young adults to have the freedom to do what they are passionate about and said she does not believe that four-year colleges are the only viable path available to young adults.
“Too many times we have stigmatized people who are interested in “trade jobs” right? Like they're not important or they're less than us, when in fact, they're the things that keep us going,” said Hicks.
Hicks underscored her dedication to “voiceless or disenfranchised” populations in Cambridge and said she hopes to make the City Council an elected body that places its constituents before all else.
“There's a quote that says when you're not not at the table, you're on the menu. And quite frankly, I'm tired of being on the menu,” Hicks said.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The water of the Charles River once again radiated with the sharp calls of the coxswains and glistened with the reflection of the oars with the return of the 56th Head of the Charles Regatta. This world-class competition brought in 2,231 boat entries from 619 different clubs across the globe to compete in 69 different events. Despite being a little over two years since the last time the regatta was held, the restoration of the annual race provided for a busy Harvard Square and thousands of spectators on the banks of the Charles.
All four of Harvard’s crew teams were well represented in the historic regatta throughout the weekend. The Radcliffe Lightweights had three boats in competition, the Radcliffe Heavyweights had five, and both the Harvard Lightweights and Heavyweights had six boats.
Men’s Heavyweight and Lightweight
The Harvard Lights had two boats in the Men’s Club Fours event on Saturday. One boat, led by Lars Caspersen ’24, took an astounding fifth place overall in the event. The five-man team rowed the three-mile course in an impressive time of 17:12.771. The other boat, steered by coxswain Justin Han ’24 and led by Benjamin Roberts ’23, finished in 39th with a time of 19:05.091.
The Harvard Heavyweights also had a boat compete in the same Men’s Club Fours event. Led by coxswain Haley Kwoun ’24 and comprising of rowers Patrick Plunket ’24, Lachlan Roach ’25, Zane Carboni ’23, and Andrew Haimovici ’22, the team of five took first place out of 44 competitors with an impressive time of 16:36.642.
Additionally, on Saturday, the men’s heavyweight crew entered three boats in the Men’s Club Eights Race. The first boat of eight led by Benjamin Zeisberg ’24 finished in second place of 35 boats with a time of 14:29.443. The second boat, navigated by James Patton ’25 and with coxswain Benjamin Ray ’24, took fourth place, finishing in just over nine seconds after their teammates in 14:38.308. The final boat steered by John Weldon ’24 came in 17th place, rowing 15:42.274.
Sunday provided the championship division competition for both teams. The Lightweights entered two boats in the Men’s Lightweight Fours. One boat led by John Marlo ’23 had an impressive row of 16:30.903. The four took second place overall, less than a second behind first-place Penn. The second boat piloted by James Stevenson ’25 finished in tenth place with a time of 17:06.454.
Men’s crew also had two boats into the Lightweight Eights. One boat, led by Harry Schofield ’24 and with coxswain Michael Medaugh ’22, completed the race in 14:45.003, taking eighth place. In a time trial of just about 15 seconds later came their teammates, steered by Owen Niles ’22, finishing in eleventh place overall with a time of 15:05.957.
The Heavyweight team participated in only the Men’s Championship Eights, with two boats. The first boat of eight, led by coxswain captain George Cozens ’22, took fourth place of 20 boats after rowing in 14:07.615. The next team, steered by Matthias Fischer ’22, finished ninth of 20 in 14:27.135.
Women’s Heavyweight and Lightweight
On Saturday, the Radcliffe Heavyweights had one boat place in the Women’s Club Fours and two boats place in the Women’s Club Eights boat.
In the Club Fours, steered by Bridget O’Kelly ’23, the team took fourth place overall with a time of 18:36.936.
For the Club Eights race, one Radcliffe team, led by Monah Javidan-Nejad ’24 finished in an impressive fifth place in a time of 17:02.361. The second boat, just over one minute later, took twenty-sixth place with a time of 18:19.531.
For the Heavyweights, the Sunday championships made way for two boats to take notable placement out of many teams. One team of four led by Bridget Galloway ’25 and with coxswain Sophie Haugen ’23 rowed in 18:54.136, taking sixth place overall in the Women’s Championship Fours.
The other Heavyweight team competed in the Women’s Championship Eights and took 14th place in the race with a time of 16:42.707.
The Radcliffe Lightweights had three boats take placement on Sunday. One crew led by Sophia Campbell ’23 placed sixth overall in the Women’s Lightweight Fours in a time of 20:15.349.
Two Radcliffe Lightweight teams gripped top-five placements in the Women’s Lightweight Eights. One crew directed by Amy Butler ’23 took third place overall with an impressive time of 17:07.238. The other boat came in nearly 24 seconds later at time 17:31.692 to take fifth place.
Up Next 
The Princeton Chase Regatta on Lake Carnegie in Princeton, N.J., is next on the docket for Men’s Lightweight rowing. Both the Lightweights and Heavyweights will close out their fall season with the Foot of the Charles Regatta on November 13.
Radcliffe Lightweights will also head down to Lake Carnegie next weekend to compete in the Princeton Chase Regatta. The Lightweights and Heavyweights will also end their fall season at the Foot of the Charles Regatta.
— Staff writer Mairead Baker can be reached at mairead.baker@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Halloween is coming up soon and that means everyone is scrambling to think of a good costume. But why dress up alone when you can prove to the world that you *actually* have friends and dress in a super cool and stylish group costume? If you’re still struggling to think of ideas, here are a few, courtesy of Flyby (you’re welcome in advance).
House Mascots!
What do you do if your school's mascot is a literal color (or a pilgrim which...does not seem much better)? You make twelve smaller mascots to make up for it! You and your friends can each dress up as your respective house mascots or another one (it's okay; we won't tell), or you can all just cosplay the Blue Man group. And don't worry, twelve people are not necessary.
The John Harvard Statue & His Fans
The John Harvard statue is one of the most recognizable symbols of Harvard Yard, so it makes sense that it would be a great choice for a Halloween costume. But where does the group part come in? If you’re feeling adventurous, pick someone to be John Harvard, another person as the tourist, and someone else as a student who pisses on John’s foot. Because what screams Harvard more than public indecency? Plus, you get to fulfill one of the three traditions of Harvard College simultaneously.
The Chairs
What are some of the most underrated symbols of Harvard University? Extremely overpriced and yet still uncomfortable chairs. And the best part of this group costume? All of it’s free! Each of you must simply tape a chair from the Yard onto your backs and you’ve all become the chairs.
Scooby Doo Gang!
Get a group of five together and dress up as these meddling kids! Your Halloween can be spent investigating things like why Harvard WiFi sucks or finding who is behind all the changes in testing cadence (seriously, does anyone even remember their testing days?). If only the Harvard Evening Vans worked as well as the Mystery Machine. . .
The Turkeys
We see them crossing the street and halting traffic all the time. That could be you! Grab a group of friends and dress like Harvard’s famous and random (and thicc) wild turkeys! The perfect way to go full turkey mode is to cross the street as slow as possible, and ignore the honking of every Cambridge car on Mass Ave!
Whether you and your friends decide to dress as something on this list, or something ~less~ creative, just be sure to have fun this year. Since midterm season is ending, it’s fair to say that this Halloween should be an opportunity to relax and let loose (but not too loose, let’s not test the limits on those vaccines).
Trick-or-Treat from Flyby Blog!
