News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
What do you envision your future to look like? Some people have strict five-year plans, while others prefer to play things day-by-day. I only have a few definite plans for the future: see the world, get my parents a retirement, and inspire a short-lived TV show based on exaggerated details about my life. Most importantly, however, in no future scenario do I ever intend for myself or my friends to ever go without the support we need.
This column is about mental health — and something that is beneficial, if not necessary, for your mental health is a support network: ties to a set of people in which you all take responsibility for monitoring each other’s well-being and offering unconditional support.
Support networks are hard to come by in a time like this. If you’re a freshman, friends you knew from high school are likely more distant than they’ve ever been, and isolation isn’t making forming new friendships easy. I acknowledge this makes me a hypocrite, but, personally, I can’t be bothered investing the time and energy to get to know people I see only for a few hours each week. Still, I know I should change this, and that I have a lot to gain by doing so: The group of people with whom you’re comfortable speaking about your problems can never be too large, and it’s the relationships with these kinds of people that are well worth spending your limited time and energy developing.
But why even have support networks? There are some very flawed beliefs about support, beliefs rooted in the “toughen-up” mentality purporting that you have the most to gain when you head at something on your own, bite your tongue through hardship, and keep on going. This mentality is well-meaning, attempting to get people (especially the youth) to embrace difficulties rather than evade responsibility. In New Zealand — my home, where the lifestyle of the model citizen is solitary, tough farm work in the middle of nowhere — being a man involves talking about your problems as little as possible. But frankly, this idea of self-support has the opposite of its intended effect.
I reject this idea that you shouldn’t rely on other people; that you should be independent and try to deal with your issues yourself. When people are friends with you, they’re signing up for you to be able to rely on them, and for them to be able to rely on you.
Tell people you trust that you have their back, and chances are, they’ll have yours. Do what it takes to get yourself a safety net. You may have gotten this far using only your own resilience, but I've had enough breakdowns and burn-outs by now to know that any sense of self-sufficiency is ephemeral. Ultimately, resilience lies in relationships.
Life also only gets messier, and the sooner you can surround yourself with people who are willing to go the extra mile for you, to speak with you late at night, to shoot the shit with you, the better. A while ago my best mate reached out to me when he noticed something was wrong. Instead of doing something reckless, I spent the rest of the day with him eating extra-spicy fried chicken and talking things out. If any one moment illustrated to me the value of having people to support you, it was then.
I know what it’s like to have support, but I also know what it’s like to not. At times in the past, I’ve kept people out of the loop and shut myself out from whatever semblance of a support-network I had available to me at the time. I’m sure that if I had involved people I care about in those moments, I would have come out of the trenches much better, and perhaps even avoided getting that low in the first place. An agreement between a few friends to regularly check in on each other, to send a message from time to time asking how things are, is a great option when you’re unable to meet in person — and I believe that something as simple as that could have allowed me to avoid the situation I was in.
Knowing how crucial you are to the mental health of others can nonetheless be daunting. This might keep you from letting other people take this responsibility on for you, or be why you feel scared of taking on this responsibility yourself for someone else. But in a time where, whether you’re aware of it or not, your support network has taken a big hit due to isolation, expanding it by taking on this responsibility is necessary.
There is also the fear of being stood up. You won’t know for certain how people will act in a time of need until you find out. It’s a risk, a trust fall, but the chance of someone catching you is much larger than the chance of falling on your ass. If getting closer to other students, to people you see on a regular basis, means stepping out of your comfort zone or using up some of your time and energy, I think creating a support network around yourself — and in the process, adding to others’ too — is a good reason to do so.
James M. Heffernan '24's column appears on alternate Thursdays.
Have a suggestion, question, or concern for The Crimson Editorial Board? Click here.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
On March 9 of last year, there was an 800 percent increase in the use of the term “China Virus” and similar rhetoric in conservative media. This strategy — scapegoating China for America’s handling of the pandemic — has led to an increase in attacks against Asian Americans. So, why does there seem to be a lack of media coverage for these attacks? The obvious answer seems to be that the media is reluctant because they’re the cause. But, I suspect there’s more to it than that.
In 1882, following the California Gold Rush, the U.S. passed the Chinese Exclusion Act, banning all labor immigration from China. And by 1924, immigration from almost every Asian country was banned too. Asian Americans were portrayed as threats and faced constant violence. But things changed for Asian Americans at the end of World War II and the beginning of the Cold War.
The Chinese Exclusion Act was repealed in 1943. U.S. policymakers believed doing so would strengthen relations with China — both countries were fighting against Japan — and strengthen the U.S’s moral credibility in the fight against communism. During this time, Asian Americans went from being seen as a threat to being regarded as peaceful, hard-working citizens. And in 1965, the National Immigration Act was passed, allowing the U.S. to accept immigrants based on how they might potentially benefit the country. As the Civil Rights Movement continued, Asian Americans were used as proof that "hard work" led to success: an excuse for officials to ignore Black people’s demands for equality.
Even today, Asian Americans are still used as a wedge to deflect from calls for racial equity. In 2014, on his Fox News show, “The O’Reilly Factor,” Bill O’Reilly argued that white privilege did not exist. He pointed to Asian Americans’ high employment rates, median household income, and high school graduation rates to prove that Asian Americans were well-off and thus white privilege could not exist.
But this is precisely the purpose of the model minority myth. Framing Asian Americans as a minority group that achieved success through hard work and educational investments undermines calls for racial equality.
The model minority myth ignores the vast diversity in the Asian American experience. For example, while it might be true that educational attainment and household income for Asian Americans as a collective is high compared to other groups, this ignores that Asian Americans also have the highest level of intraracial income inequality as well. The model minority myth makes it impossible to know this because we are led to believe that all Asian Americans are successful. For Asian students struggling academically and poor Asian immigrants with limited resources, struggles often go unnoticed.
So of course, the media has no interest in reporting on the trend of hate crimes against Asian Americans because doing so would present a moral conundrum: it is in part the cause of the very issue, so why ultimately undermine their ability to scapegoat China and Asian Americans?
Even in the future, when Covid-19 is presumably not as pressing, reporting on anti-Asian violence will undermine the model minority myth. Still, the media, as the proliferator of the model minority myth, would be best served allowing Asian discrimination to remain in obscurity.
Though it is true that Asian Americans may sometimes benefit from the model minority myth’s proximity to white supremacy, it is essential that we do not fall into the trap of comparing one group’s oppression to another. We cannot compare the media response to the Black Lives Matter protests from last summer to the lack of a media response to the increase of attacks on Asian Americans today. As activist Janaya Khan states, “the experience of the model minority is invisibilized” and “the Black experience is hypervisible.” By competing, we would be playing right into the hands of those not interested in seeing racial equality become a reality.
We all have a role we can play in the fight for racial justice. The Crimson could always be more vocal. Our news reporting consists of issues that implicate Harvard, but with the platform we have, we cannot be restricted to Cambridge this way when the stakes are so high.
And Harvard’s role in this is always the same. When it comes to race issues, Harvard needs to make an honest attempt to do more. Today, the first tangible step Harvard could take is listening to student voices concerning Harvard Law School Professor J. Mark Ramseyer’s paper on Japanese comfort women. I’ve come to realize that asking Harvard to make substantial changes to how it handles issues of race is often fruitless. But, particularly in light of Asian people’s issues frequently being ignored, Harvard should change that by taking this small first step.
Joshua M. Conde '22, a Crimson Editorial editor, is a Government concentrator in Currier House.
Have a suggestion, question, or concern for The Crimson Editorial Board? Click here.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Thanks to the Cambridge City Council, Feb. 3 was a good day for those of us who like mushrooms – the kind that you won’t find at your local grocery store, that is. In a mind-bending 8-1 vote, the Council passed legislation seeking to help decriminalize the use, possession, and distribution of entheogenic plants. The measure asks specifically for a cease in the prosecution of all cases involving entheogens in Middlesex County, and it directs city officials to treat arrests on such charges with the lowest law enforcement priority.
This intoxicating step towards decriminalization, in all earnestness, is a move that we wholeheartedly support. Amongst our nation’s most disgraceful injustices is our unmatched rate of incarceration. With dozens of states imprisoning more individuals than entire countries, the need to implement swift, sweeping reforms — to pacify this raging war — is both burning and imperative.
Through its latest act of decriminalization, the Cambridge City Council has begun to answer to such pressing calls. Our nation’s sickening war on drugs is a chief contributor to our grossly inflated incarceration rates. The national paradigm of imprisoning individuals – predominantly those within marginalized communities – for minor drug offenses is both pervasive and perverse. It’s grounded in racialized stereotypes, and cemented by unsavory misconceptions about drug use and misuse. Indeed, even though countless studies have shattered the myth that imprisonment can help solve our country’s substance use problems, this unrelenting piece of fiction has still managed to prevail. But refreshingly, the Council’s recent ruling – which presents a critical move towards treating drug abuse as a health issue, rather than a criminal one – vows to help combat this toxic narrative.
Beyond that, the decriminalization of entheogens will also work to promote essential strides in the healthcare arena. Entheogens like psilocybin (also known as magic mushrooms, or shrooms) have been found to offer a host of potential health benefits, from reducing the debilitating symptoms of obsessive-compulsive disorder; to offering rare forms of relief to those experiencing treatment-resistant depression; to serving as a valuable treatment tool for patients suffering from post-traumatic stress disorder. This fact – coupled with the notion that the legalization and normalization of entheogens may enable medical professionals to further investigate health benefits – imbues additional import within the Council’s already uplifting decision.
That said, we must acknowledge the implicit racism embedded within the dialogue surrounding the use of entheogens. Many have been quick to embrace the idea that entheogen misuse should be addressed through a public health lens — and rightfully so. But it’s likely no coincidence that the psychedelic community is predominantly white, and that communities of color are also largely excluded from the pursuit of psychedelic therapy and research. Throughout our nation’s judicial and legal history — particularly when it comes to the perspective through which we choose to address drug-related cases — greater empathy has consistently been granted to white people than to people of color. This troubling trend is as deep-seated as our nation’s handling of powder versus crack cocaine, and we are perturbed to see that it continues to permeate our lived reality. The Council’s legislation does call for a halt in the prosecution of all cases involving any controlled substance cases without intent to distribute, which works to achieve decriminalization for communities more broadly, but not in as concerted an effort as we believe is necessary.
Beyond that, it’s important to acknowledge that the Cambridge City Council’s order carries no legal weight against the Middlesex District Attorney’s office. To that end, we echo the Council’s call and ask the Middlesex District Attorney to listen — to swiftly acknowledge and pursue Cambridge City Council’s recommendations and to serve the people they seek to represent.
The potential that the Council’s decision holds is tremendous – ultimately, we not only hope to see it pursued at the district level, but we also hope that other counties and states may begin to follow Cambridge’s lead.
We are, indeed, psyched to see Cambridge taking these small yet weighty steps towards pursuing entheogen decriminalization, helping to battle our incarceration endemic, and even working to secure vital medical advancement. This will be the beginning of a long and unmapped trip – but ultimately, one that every single one of us (mushroom lover or not) will decisively benefit from.
This staff editorial solely represents the majority view of The Crimson Editorial Board. It is the product of discussions at regular Editorial Board meetings. In order to ensure the impartiality of our journalism, Crimson editors who choose to opine and vote at these meetings are not involved in the reporting of articles on similar topics.
Have a suggestion, question, or concern for The Crimson Editorial Board? Click here.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Content warning: This essay contains descriptions of disordered eating, calorie counting, suicidal thoughts, and related behaviors.
If you scroll deep down through the Notes app on my phone, you’ll find a document titled “Food Tracker.”
It begins July 1, 2020. Breakfast: overnight oats (400 calories). Lunch: toast (130), ½ avocado (90), olive oil (25). And it continues like that for days and weeks, a meticulous mathematical inventory of everything I had consumed.
Even though I was a humanities student, it felt like I was doing three psets a day.
I started dieting in January 2019. I didn’t even know I was dieting at the time. All I knew was that many of the girls at my high school were skinnier, prettier, and cooler than me. Prom was in five months, and I wanted to look like them in my pictures. I bought a dress a size too small to motivate me toward my goal.
So I stopped eating rice, bread, and fried foods. I increased my vegetable intake and began working out every day. When people asked me about my new food and exercise choices, I called it a “lifestyle change” or “being healthier.” I said I felt “cleaner” and “more energized.”
Whatever coded language I used did not change the fact that I was cutting out entire food groups to starve myself into a smaller body.
It worked, at first. As I weighed myself each week, I saw the number on the scale get lower and lower. I got compliments from family members and friends. My prom dress fit me perfectly, maybe even a little too big. I felt confident. Beautiful. Loved. Sure, there were days when I lost control and ate an entire bag of Dove dark chocolates. But then I would cut back, and everything was fine again.
And then came quarantine. Fearing I would gain weight at home, I became even more militant with my dieting. I started running four to six miles a day. I refused to eat my dad’s home-cooked fried rice, a dish that used to be my favorite.
After dinner, however, I would check to make sure no one was around, open the pantry, and eat whatever I could get my hands on. I started thinking about food from the moment I woke up until the moment I went to bed, my brain constantly juggling numbers and ingredients and feelings of self-loathing. You might call my behavior “disordered.”
In August 2020, just two weeks before beginning my sophomore year of college online, I called CAMHS and asked to make an appointment with a therapist. I didn’t consider my problem to be particularly serious, but I wanted to be proactive with my mental health. I assumed I would only meet with a therapist a few times and get everything straightened out.
It turns out that sticking with recovery has required more willpower and strength than dieting ever did.
***
In most eating disorder treatment plans, the first step is learning to eat normal amounts of food again. My therapist put me in touch with a Harvard dietician. At our first meeting, my dietician asked me about my typical meal schedule. When she found out that I refused to eat carbohydrates except for oatmeal, she gave me homework: eat starches at every meal.
What had made me such a good dieter was that I was persistent and great at following rules. I applied the same diligence to recovery. I began eating rice and quinoa and bread. The improvements were astounding. Suddenly, my energy levels skyrocketed. I no longer felt cold all the time. I even started trying “challenge foods” like cookies, chocolate, and granola.
The honeymoon phase didn’t last long.
When I first began recovery, my biggest question was, “But will I gain weight?” For two years, I had fought tooth and nail to become smaller. And in my head, smaller meant prettier, cooler, better in every way. I didn’t want to let all my hard work go to waste.
My dietician said that my body could change during recovery, but I wouldn’t know unless I tried. And as the people-pleasing patient I was, I did everything I was supposed to do, from eating dessert to skipping workouts.
Naturally, I gained weight. Looking back, this is obvious — I had been basically starving myself and was now finally getting appropriate nutrition. But at the time, it felt like a slap in the face.
I felt self-conscious about everything. The waistband of my jeans fit tighter than it used to. My favorite boots no longer zipped all the way up my calf. I couldn’t pay attention in class because I kept staring at myself in the Zoom camera, wondering where the sharp angles of my face had gone.
I felt like I had failed. All my life, I believed that I could do anything if I just put my mind to it. But I had tried to lose weight, and in the end, my body couldn’t handle it. No matter how hard I tried, I couldn’t be beautiful or popular or worthy of love.
There were days when I couldn’t bring myself to look in the mirror. There were days when I just laid on my bed and cried. And there were days, darker days, when I simply felt tired of living. If it hurt this much to exist in my body, why should I exist at all?
***
I’m not alone in this. When I started talking about my recovery journey on Instagram, an astounding number of people reached out to me and told me about their own struggles with food and body image — people who were so gorgeous and kind and wonderful I had no idea they could ever be insecure.
When so many people are going through the same thing, it’s not a problem with the individual. It’s a problem with the system.
As I started following anti-diet activists, I learned the full extent to which weight stigma pervades our society. Fatphobia is a capitalist construct that fixates people on unattainable goals so they will be forced to buy useless weight loss products forever. In reality, health and happiness can exist at every size. But if everyone understood that, countless white male business owners would be out of a job, so naturally, we must stay in the dark.
Fatphobia is also extremely intersectional, sitting at a crossroads between racism, sexism, and colonialism. As a cisgender female who wears standard sized clothing, I must acknowledge that I still hold a great deal of weight privilege that shelters me from the nastiest acts that our friends in larger bodies face regularly.
For years, films have degraded and desexualized larger women of color to highlight petite, demure, white heroines. Magazines photoshop images of their models to create impossible beauty standards. This is part of our culture, our heritage.
I, like many Harvard students, consider myself committed to breaking down racist, patriarchal, and colonial structures. But by playing into weight stigma — refusing certain foods because “they’re so bad,” watching diet ads aired on New Year’s, posting “before and after” photos on Instagram — we perpetuate the very values we claim to despise.
And that’s not something I want to do anymore.
***
These days, I’m doing better. I am lucky to have a supportive treatment team, a loving family, and good friends. My disordered eating behaviors are under control, and I started working with a clinician outside of CAMHS to fine-tune some of the mental aspects of my recovery. Some days are definitely harder than others, and while I am not fully recovered, I am starting to imagine what a normal life might look like again.
Last night, I ate a scoop of ice cream for dessert. Caramel cookie crunch. A few months ago, I would have shamed myself for hours afterwards or panicked and eaten the entire carton.
But instead, I finished my scoop and went to bed, feeling a pleasantly peculiar sensation of lightness and peace.
— Magazine writer Callia A. Chuang can be reached at callia.chuang@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter at @calliaachuang.
Sections
I was settled into a bean bag, snug in sweatpants on my living room floor as Season 25 of The Bachelor played across the screen. When Matt James demanded that every one of the 32 glamorous women in the hotel lobby with him bow their heads in prayer, I took it a little personally. My father, my sister, and I all let out sounds of dismay at something we should have seen coming.
“If everybody could just bow their heads really quick, I’m going to pray for everybody,” began James, the lead in this season of The Bachelor. “Dear Heavenly Father…”
I remember the only Jewish contestant I have ever seen in the franchise: Her name was Jane, I was sitting on the same bean bag in the same living room in the summer of 2019, and she was eliminated from Bachelor in Paradise almost immediately. Her gold Star of David necklace still winks in my mind’s eye.
Matt James was not the first member of The Bachelor franchise to pray on national television since the first season of The Bachelor ran in 2002. But his prayer struck a chord because it was the most extreme in a recent series of increasingly Evangelical Christian scenes on a show officially billed, to an officially secular nation, as nonreligious.
The goal of the shows in The Bachelor franchise has always been for the contestants (mostly straight, cis, white, young, and stereotypically attractive) to meet, fall in love, and get engaged, over a period of about two months, while being filmed for national television. The pinnacle of each season is when a man gets down on one suited knee and presents a shiny Neil Lane diamond ring to one of the overjoyed women in a long dress and a full face of makeup.
But since the show’s inception, and particularly recently, contestants have gotten younger and (not without setbacks) more racially diverse. Their social media presences have gotten larger and their engagements have been shorter.
The Bachelor is morphing into something its producers apparently did not foresee when they created the show: A fame factory. Contestants go on the show, leaving behind their jobs, phones, and families, and, in return, gain massive social media followings that they can turn into lucrative professions. Therefore, how is the audience to know if a contestant (or lead, for that matter) is, as is commonly said in the franchise, “Here For The Right Reasons?”
Say I wanted to get married right now. I’m 21, I’m not dating anyone, so what should I do? I would probably reach out to my family and friends for recommendations, hop on a couple of dating apps, and make connections within my community. I would not — I repeat, would not — go on a reality show and explain why I need a husband.
Somehow, the contestants on The Bachelor need to make the audience forget the essential weirdness of going on a show to find love. They need to make them believe that marriage is the real reason that they’re there. There are the standard words: “We have a strong connection,” “I will follow my heart,” and “I’m falling in love with you.” But where those phrases sometimes ring hollow, professed religious belief might actually convince millions of fans across America that the contestants are genuinely looking for a man, and just so happen to be doing so on television.
Watching a couple fall in love on television is weird at best. There’s the cultivated drama, the awkward group dates, and the mic’d up makeout sessions. But social media adds another layer that didn’t exist 10 years ago. Viewers aren’t just reading about the show the next day in magazines — they’re also engaging with it via social media in real time. This interferes with the Disney-like reveal of the happily engaged couple at the end of the season, as the audience inserts themselves into the lives of the contestants well before the arc of the show ends. Producers are forced to find a source alternative to mystery in order to maintain the fantasy of the proposal, and the excitement of the show.
Using religion to justify the search for love is a strategy that seems to have worked. Not for the “finding love” part, but for convincing audiences of one’s sincerity. It also serves as a safeguard for those viewers who might disapprove of some of the more entertainment-based aspects of the franchise — dating multiple people at once, the Fantasy Suite dates, and the combination: group dates in bikinis.
The most beloved Bachelorette of all time (I’m going by Instagram followers here, of course) was then-23-year-old, former beauty queen, Alabama-raised Hannah Brown, who punctuated her season with a pithy: “I have had sex, and Jesus still loves me,” after a suitor accused her of breaking her covenant with God by partaking in the Fantasy Suite dates. The Twitter crowd went wild. And Bachelor producers took it as a sign.
America, for all of its separation of church and state, is in many ways a Christian institution. In public schools, students stand every day to pledge allegiance as “one nation, under God.” President Biden put his hand on a 127-year-old family Bible when he was sworn into office last month. And in 2011, a Pew Research study found that the United States has the largest Christian population in the world, with nearly 80 percent of the country identifying as Christian. Maybe because of this, much of the country seems to assume that Christianity is synonymous with morality.
Viewers witness the show’s lead engage in polygamy, as well as watching dates that encourage nudity and imply sex. But it’s okay, because some contestants talk about The Bible. Religion shouldn’t imply a political attitude — the current president is known for being more religious than the previous — but all-too-often The Bachelor weaponizes Christianity as a conservative shield against moral critique.
That the Bachelor, a show based upon the polyamorous action of dating multiple people at once, can still utilize Christianity to appeal to a more conservative audience, may be reflective of the symbolic nature of Christianity in America — all that one needs to prove that they’re a good Christian is to say that they are.
In the quest to make T.V. that lasts, Bachelor producers engage in a tradeoff: Christianity in exchange for “immorality,” religion in exchange for entertainment. And viewers — many of whom non-Christians like me — tune in every week in our sweatpants to eat it up.
— Staff writer Zoe B.R. Goldstein can be reached at zoe.goldstein@thecrimson.com.
Sections
In the time between receiving my Harvard acceptance letter and stepping foot on Harvard’s campus for the first time, I heard the phrase “impostor syndrome” more times than ever before.
When in-person Visitas was cancelled, the Class of 2024 clamored to make connections with each other online. Amidst the frenzy on GroupMe to impress each other with our sophisticated opinions on obscure topics, I was struck by how frequently I saw mentions of the infamous ~impostor syndrome~, frequently written exactly that way, in the cutesy tilde that deliberately suggests a demure air of self-deprecation. Often, this was casually thrown in with a sentence exclaiming, “I’m so excited to meet you all!”
My first reaction was relief. Everyone on the outside hears the wealth of rumors about the elitist East-coast snobs who supposedly inhabit this campus, the sweater-vest-wearing Harvard archetype who appears in the bar scene in “Good Will Hunting”. Heading into my freshman year, the domain battle with Yale (safetyschool.org still leads to Yale’s homepage) was hilarious and made me excited to join the Harvard fray, but didn’t do much to disprove the elitist stereotype. However, the unexpected deviation was the plethora of seemingly vulnerable posts in the GroupMe, in which people combined an oozing friendliness with surprising amounts of self-deprecation, claiming, “The impostor syndrome is already so real!” I was surprised to see how open students admitted to Harvard were about discussing their feelings of inferiority, given that popular opinion about Harvard would suggest a thriving culture of superiority complexes.
When I got to campus, I continued to see pleasantly surprising doses of humility. But as mentions of impostor syndrome became more frequent and less contextualized, and I felt myself being drawn into the cult of flippantly tossing around that phrase, I began to wonder if the subtext of such comments was suggesting something other than genuine insecurity.
One evening, as my friends and I sat around our Weld Hall common room like always, I was curious to see if I could distinguish between true and performative humility. Our discussion was nothing remarkable, as we had partaken in countless, similarly self-deprecating conversations before. Sometimes they are prompted by an encounter with someone whose LinkedIn page reads like a novel, or the casual mention from a professor that their freshman year roommate was Matt Damon (I’m looking at you, Jason Furman ’92). One of our most memorable conversations stemmed from a debate about Michael Sandel’s proposition that Harvard’s admission system should be a lottery to account for the element of luck that earned each of us our spots here.
However, distinguishing between authenticity and performance turned out to be easier than I expected because, on that night, I had asked my friends to take the subject matter more seriously. Everyone sat up straighter, phones were face down on the desks, and the usual quips about impostor syndrome were nowhere to be found. We were able to reconcile our feelings of inferiority with a sense of belonging — and with relative ease. All that it took was a more pointed conversation than usual, and suddenly the performance of inferiority fell away.
That is not to say that humility was immediately replaced by arrogance. We all eagerly embraced self-criticism and harped on our own flaws. However, the idea that any of us were frauds for not having the same accolades as those around us was not seriously suggested. Why, then, had we been tossing around the phrase “impostor syndrome” since before we even arrived?
A partial explanation can be construed from the unmistakable backdrop of that conversation. Weld was famously home to John F. Kennedy ’40. My suite was home to Rashida Jones ’97 when she was at Harvard, a fact that still floors me when I really think about it. As is always the case, our conversation had the cloud of Harvard’s reputation hanging over it — a reality manifested by the Harvard flag hanging on the wall behind us. The fact that Harvard as an idea permeates almost every conversation that takes place within its walls naturally makes Harvard students receptive to ideas that are seen as innate to the institution — such as the notion that we all have reason to feel like impostors around each other, or that we have to act like we feel this way.
But self-deprecation is not Harvard-exclusive. Adam M. Mastroianni, a fifth-year Ph.D. student in psychology at Harvard with a background in standup comedy, explains that, “when people use self-deprecating humor, what they’re doing is trading off competence in exchange for warmth and, in social psychology, we think of warmth and competence as the two fundamental dimensions on which people perceive each other.” He elaborates that there are two main strategies that freshmen use to ingratiate themselves to others. On one end of the spectrum, people can try to make themselves appear as impressive as possible, often accomplished by way of showboating and not-s0-subtle humblebrags. When someone finds a way to drop their SAT score into an unrelated conversation, they’ve abandoned warmth for a completely competence based self-presentation.
On the other hand, instead of making themselves seem impressive and intimidating to others, some people find ways to trade out competence for warmth. These people believe they will be perceived as more likable if they can make themselves less intimidating. This strategy is subtler, which is why I initially fell for the self-deprecatory performances on GroupMe.
The irony is that self-deprecating jokes only land if there is an element of fallacy to them. When a friend or performer makes a self-debasing joke that comes too close to a hard truth, we don’t laugh with them — we are uncomfortable. In the same way, references to impostor syndrome are popular not because they necessarily reflect a universal experience, but rather because they are universally exaggerated for the benefit of the audience, capitalizing on our strengths to imitate humility.
Just last week, I met an upperclassman who told me with a smile that she experienced impostor syndrome as a freshman. Without skipping a beat, I laughed with her and exclaimed, “I know, it’s so intimidating to meet everyone here!” That isn’t untrue, and it felt good to bond with her over the anxiety that accompanies starting school here. I don’t know if I should have stopped myself before I made that comment, but I heard it come out of my mouth before I could even process what I was saying.
— Staff writer Shelby N. Tzung can be reached at shelby.tzung@thecrimson.com.
Sections
At one point this winter, I decided I disliked seeing New England suburbia in Technicolor. Instead, I took black-and-white, 35mm film photos of my friends. We loitered at a playground attached to a primary school none of us had attended: a tiny, foreign kingdom of scuffed plastic and woodchips, neatly contained and strangely sinister. We might have visited the playground of my alma mater, but the school building was torn down 10 years ago and the lot feels like a graveyard to me.
I took photos of a grease puddle on the asphalt basketball court. I was curious about the little things: how the iridescence in the oil would appear in grayscale, if the scattered grains of pinkish salt would stay in focus. My friends climbed on monkey bars and swung over me, blocking out the overcast sky, then fell off, laughing. Where they landed on the pavement was the same no-color, ash gray of the clouds; the puddle on top was a rainbow, a nebula: ground in sky, sky in ground.
When I looked with one eye into the camera, cold fogged the lens so that everything was shrouded in mist. I aimed the viewfinder down so the top rectangle edge aligned with their throats and their heads ballooned above the camera. They exhaled clean white mist. In pixels, I knew it would look like candle smoke, and my friends would be gently luminous.
I finished the first roll of film. The lid of the new canister made a muted snap as it opened, same as a shutter pressed halfway. With another roll of film in place, I took pictures as my friends scaled a slide, and then I blurred them out of existence in photos of their glide down. I felt oddly envious, encumbered by the camera in my hand — I too wanted to go upside-down and backwards.
On my drive home from the playground, I listened to The Clash. Strummer sang about long-distance callers making long-distance calls. Snapchat informed me of my unopened messages, which I knew would be concrete faces. When I got home, the sky was already tar, and it clung to my boots.
***
I started learning film photography in high school — I was very lucky to attend a public school with a dark room, and more importantly, a wonderfully dedicated photography teacher.
We learned the basics of analog science. Film is a thin, curling strip of multilayered plastic. The layer that reacts with light is an emulsion: gelatin studded with crystals of silver. Light transforms the crystals irreversibly, blackening them, so the film is ruined if exposed completely to light. Photo paper is similarly sensitive and is kept hidden in opaque containers. Both film and printed photos must be treated with a series of caustic, pungent chemicals to preserve the images they bear. The process of developing photos is beautifully intricate, but as a consequence it is also resource-intensive, labor-intensive, time-consuming, and messy.
In my first year of college, when I no longer had regular access to a dark room, I stopped taking film pictures. Since moving home last spring, though, I have started taking them again.
The cynic in me thinks life is just more gray right now, especially compared to the saturation and vibrance of my freshman year: My dorm window looked out onto Harvard Square, lit red by constant traffic and the glowing letters of the Cambridge Savings Bank sign. But I have also been reminding myself that, although we see in color, it isn’t essential; color can distract and distort as much as it reveals. Recently, I looked through the photos I took for an art show at the end of high school. One of the more memorable pieces from that exhibition is a picture I took in late spring, of a strawberry in the lined palm of my mother’s outstretched hand. After developing the print, I painted the strawberry red. In contrast with the soft pale hand, it looks artificial, even menacing.
When I painted it, I was thinking about the movie The Wizard of Oz — how Dorothy’s rural, gritty life is depicted in black and white, while color film is used on scenes set in Oz. Color imparts a dreamlike, surreal quality to Oz; the shadows, textures, and depth of reality are better signified by shades of gray.
Compared to digital photos, film is also distinctly immutable: In film, I can’t shrink a waistline or a pore post hoc; I can’t enhance the colors of a perfectly vivid sunset. Even if I could do those things with film, I probably wouldn’t. I know I am just supposed to capture and appreciate. I no longer have the opportunity — or burden — to compete with the natural beauty of landscapes, bodies, and faces.
But valuing film for its faithfulness to reality might be misguided. My attachment to film over digital photography is just one aspect of my general anxiety about modern technology and how it constantly drives us to increase the quality and quantity of our work. When I take film photos, I convince myself that I am evading the demand to produce and perform because I’m doing it in an archaic, inefficient way. I tell myself that film photography, through its materiality and delayed gratification, connects me more meaningfully to other people than digital communication can — as if I’m subversive because I can hold a moment in time in my hand, rather than degrade it on a screen.
***
I removed Instagram, Facebook, and Twitter from my phone about a month ago. Out of my close friends from high school, I was the last to move away from social media.
Instagram in particular I was reluctant to delete. I was familiar with its harms — the quantifiable, comparable validation, the glamorous curation of artifice. Still, I told myself that the anxiety and longing I felt every time I opened the app couldn’t be FOMO; I was too self-aware for that. I told myself that social media was serving a special function during the pandemic, keeping me “in touch” with people I couldn’t be bothered to actually call.
But when I took film photos of my friends, I kept wondering which I would inevitably decide to put on social media — which platforms, in what order, whether including myself in any of the photos would make me seem self-involved or self-assured.
I hated the thought that these pictures were destined to be digitized and flattened. It felt corrupting, rendering my pictures more calculated than spontaneous. Why bother with the middleman of film, if all of these photos were going to end up on my phone anyway? It reduced the medium to a marketing gimmick for my personal brand, a meticulously cultivated, packaged quirkiness.
I didn’t want to participate in an endless stream of images detached from any physical meaning. With my friends at the playground, I realized I wanted my pictures to do more than broadcast a desirable image of my life. I wanted to pause time, to create a tangible relic of the people I love as a young adult, captured in the settings and modes of my childhood: a primary-colored playground, tinted in the grayscale of favorite movies, old techniques, and other beautiful, bygone things.
— Staff writer Talia M. Blatt can be reached at talia.blatt@thecrimson.com. 
Sections
The stakes for a TikTok trend had never been this high.
I deleted TikTok one year ago, but I came back for the new hashtag #BaylorDunkForTuition, because the premise of hundreds of high school seniors dunking and making trick shots for free tuition seemed too absurd  to be real. But it’s  true: around 300 people on TikTok and Instagram are competing in a dunk and trick shot video contest for one semester of free tuition at Baylor University this year , worth an estimated $25,000. The seniors in these videos usually wear  Baylor merch, and after introducing themselves, they score a dunk or cue up a trick shot montage. The professional ones have inspirational music playing in the background and film-grade camera angles. The endearing ones include stories about the students’ hometowns or upbringing.
Baylor University is a private institution in Waco, Texas, and its men’s basketball team remains undefeated for 2021 in the NCAA, earning 2nd place in the AP Top 25 this week. The #BaylorDunkForTuition contest for incoming and prospective freshmen began on Jan. 26 and closed Feb. 1. Members of Baylor’s men’s basketball team and coach Scott H. Drew judge the entries. They have not yet announced a winner.
The posts have created a sort of viral meme on TikTok. Though many submissions come from basketball players, volleyball players, and artists, other students have also populated the hashtag. In one video, a guy ends up throwing a basketball in a court with no hoop or net. In another, a girl made a short sketch animation of herself dunking.
But most infamous of all is “ballet girl,”  an incoming freshman dancer who posted herself shooting a basketball on pointe shoes in a video that now has 5.8 million views. At the end of the clip, she turns to the camera with her hand up in a bear claw and says, “Sic ’Em Bears,” referencing Baylor’s mascot. The video doesn’t look particularly cringey to me — in fact, when I first perused the hashtag, I didn’t even realize that this was the notorious video people were referring to. If anything, I might have been even more awkward than ballet girl if I had done the challenge.
What I found cringey wasn’t the video but the response it received. The comments are pretty ruthless; with over 300,000 likes, the top comment reads, “I hope they make you pay more now.”  Virtually every other post in the tag has at least one comment comparing the submission to “ballet girl” — “as long as it ain’t the ballet girl,” one wrote.   A video parodying “ballet girl” has received more than 880,000 views on TikTok and became the third video in the hashtag.
While the judges deal with weather-related delays, per the Baylor Admissions Twitter, the comment section has assumed the role of a de-facto judges panel; “i feel like an official judge for this competition i’ve seen like every one,” one spectator wrote.
The university hasn’t posted much indication about the criteria for judging submissions, and it’s entirely possible they will disregard comments and number of views when they select a winner. But many of these submissions are highly creative or personal and have little to do with basketball itself; these competitors seem to think that personality and presentation play a role in the judging of the contest as well. Comments like “boosting this because it’s better than that dancer” also suggest that commenters assume that this is, to some extent, a popularity contest.
I’ve always found that TikTok users are incredibly self-aware of the role they play in the market for virality — they’ll interact with or “boost” certain trends or posts to increase the chance of them showing up on someone else’s “For You” page. If the judges of #BaylorDunkForTuition are also considering personality or popularity, the contest would put a twenty-grand price tag on the power of TikTok users and the algorithm to influence virality. Any contest based on a temperamental app like TikTok is likely unfair. If the contest measures skill, it automatically precludes non-athletes and non-basketball players from a tuition-free semester. If the contest measures popularity, it precludes people who have fallen out of the good graces of netizens and the elusive algorithm — for any reason.
Should a 60 second video — especially one that privileges athletes and outgoing personalities — determine who deserves one fewer semester of student loan debt?
Merit scholarships have their place in higher education, and I would be remiss not to mention that Baylor has its fair share of academic, athletic, and need-based scholarships. They reward academic and personal achievement and create avenues that may not have existed otherwise for students.
Nonetheless, Baylor students are paying around $6,500 more in tuition per year than the national average. Given that the 2020 national average student loan debt is around $30,000, however, “slightly above average” doesn’t feel too promising, given that President Joe Biden is currently only considering student loan debt forgiveness up to $10,000. In the context of America’s student debt problem, high school seniors scoring trick shots and trying to be likeable for under 60 seconds for tuition feels like something out of The Onion.
— Magazine writer Meimei Xu can be reached at meimei.xu@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @meimeixu7.
Sections
It was the fall of 2016, and Doris E. Reina-Landaverde was trying to avert a crisis.
The contract between her union, 32BJ SEIU — which represents Harvard’s custodians and security guards — and the University was about to expire. Reina-Landaverde, herself a Harvard custodian, had been selected to assist with negotiations for a new multi-year contract.
She desperately wanted the new contract to pass. On the table were pay raises, more affordable health care, and more opportunities for full-time employment. Health care was a particularly pressing concern for Reina-Landaverde — her daughter needed treatment for her asthma, and up to that point, she and other custodial workers had been paying for a large part of their health coverage without the University’s assistance.
But Reina-Landaverde was facing a roadblock to that goal: Many of her co-workers, who had become disengaged from the union, seemed like they weren’t willing to fight for the contract. Without a critical mass of custodians, 32BJ wouldn’t have the power to pressure the University into an agreement. Bargaining tools like a strike or a protest simply wouldn’t be possible.
As contract negotiations began in October, the union decided to hold a rally for custodians. But in the days leading up to the event, very few workers indicated that they would come. The union representative — the liaison between Harvard custodial workers and 32BJ who had organized the rally — was afraid that nobody would show up at all.
Reina-Landaverde was horrified. “I was thinking, ‘How could my co-workers not show up?’” she says. “‘This is my contract. These are the benefits for my family.’ I couldn't sleep.”
Still, the union had chosen her for a reason. She began devising a plan. “I sent an email to my boss asking for permission to meet with my group the next day at 10 o’clock,” she recalls. “And he said yes. And I started texting [my coworkers].”
Reina-Landaverde continues, “The next day, I met with these people, and I said, ‘Okay, guys, if you’re not coming out, we will lose, because the only way we can win is if we go to the streets.’ I said I would be waiting for them at 12 o’clock. ‘We’re going to march all the way to the Science Center.’ And they agreed.”
When Reina-Landaverde got to the Science Center around 11:30 a.m., nobody had arrived yet. The union representative was pessimistic. “I told her that everybody would come,” Reina-Landaverde says. “I trust my people will come out.” She was right: 200 workers came, close to a third of all custodians at the University.
Throughout the rest of the contract negotiations, the custodians stuck together. That November, after the University remained obstinate, they voted to strike if Harvard didn’t accede to their demands. Days later, 32BJ and the University reached a tentative agreement. Reina-Landaverde and her co-workers had won.
Today, some of Reina-Landaverde’s colleagues call her the most powerful organizer at Harvard. It’s not hard to see why — in addition to working to consolidate union power around the University, she is also the face of one of the most visible immigrants’ rights organizations on campus, the Harvard TPS Coalition, which advocates for workers who hold Temporary Protected Status.
“I've never seen anybody like her,” says Edward B. Childs, a former chief shop steward in UNITE HERE, the union that represents dining hall workers. “She doesn't just stand by herself. She immediately organizes everybody around her.”
When she brought out hundreds of people to the rally that fall, Reina-Landaverde was just beginning to tap into a skill that she’d perfect in the years to come — through a combination of charisma and determination, she was able to motivate people to fight as a collective.
“It lit a fire in me,” she says. “I started to see life differently. I understood that I could do a lot. And so I started my life as an organizer.”
Reina-Landaverde was born in 1978 in the countryside of northeastern El Salvador. It was a serene early childhood, with cows, sheep, and horses scattered across her family’s farm.
“My father had a place [on the farm] with bees to collect honey. One time, my brother came with a big stick and pushed the bees and we had to run, and they followed us into the whole house,” she recalls. “These are the funny things, the memories that I always have in my mind. I can only remember it like a dream.”
It was a dream that didn’t last. Right-wing dictatorships had ruled El Salvador for decades, interrupted by intermittent conflict with left-wing insurgents. In 1980, the situation devolved into 12 violent years of civil war. By the end of the war in 1992, Salvadoran government forces, trained and funded by the U.S. government, had killed over 75,000 civilians.
The war, which had begun in the city, initially seemed like a distant threat to Reina-Landaverde. But the conflict eventually infiltrated the countryside, where guerilla forces could hide away in the forest. To stop the insurgents, the Salvadoran government began bombing the countryside.
For the next few years, Reina-Landaverde saw Salvadorans “fighting each other and shooting each other. Sometimes, the helicopters above would just throw bombs. It was like a nightmare.”
Desperate to find safety, her family moved to a new town and began anew with extremely limited resources. “We lost everything,” says Reina-Landaverde. “At that moment, I realized how much life had changed.” She was thirteen years old.
Six years after the war’s official end, Reina-Landaverde returned with her parents to the family farm to help her ailing mother. Life was far less idyllic there than she’d remembered. The economic devastation of the war, combined with their rural lifestyle, meant that the family could no longer afford essential goods. They found themselves struggling to finance Reina-Landaverde’s mother’s medicine.
El Salvador also remained extremely dangerous. When the civil war ended, thousands of Salvadoran refugees in the United States were deported, including members of Los Angeles-based gangs. Amid El Salvador’s economic desperation, the gangs proliferated. The threat of murder, rape, or kidnapping was ever-present.
Reina-Landaverde had had enough. She had several family members in the U.S. — immigrating there, she thought, would give her the kind of safety and opportunity that El Salvador could no longer offer.
In 2000, when she was twenty-one, Reina-Landaverde left El Salvador for America with her uncle and his wife. They paid $6,000 each, lent to them by family in the U.S., to travel in a caravan of 400 people organized by “coyotes,” smugglers who guide groups of immigrants across borders.
She soon began to feel that she had made a mistake. Because of their vulnerability and tendency to take the same routes, migrants are easy targets for criminals. Early on in their journey, high into the mountains that divide El Salvador and Guatemala, the group was shot at by robbers. A member of the caravan was hit and died right in front of her. “In that moment, I just wanted to return home,” Reina-Landaverde says.
But the coyotes, who wouldn’t be paid the full $6,000 until the group made it to the U.S., wouldn’t let her leave. They continued on their journey, trekking through Guatemala and then Mexico.
Salvadoran citizens can legally pass through Guatemala without a visa. Mexico, however, is much less friendly to migrants. To avoid immigration authorities, the coyotes used a number of tactics, she says; at one point, they hid people in the bottom of a truck filled with pineapples. At another, they put them in the cargo hold of a bus. Reina-Landaverde, who was always the smallest, was put at the very back; she would endure hours-long journeys with bodies piled on top of her. “I never felt anything,” she says. “I don’t know why. I think I just dissociated because I didn’t want to feel any pain.”
On the last stretch of their journey, she says, she thought that she was going to die. The group had been walking through the desert from Mexico to Arizona for five days, and her knees hurt unbearably. “I couldn’t walk anymore,” she says. “I told my uncle to leave because I didn’t want the police to catch [him].” Bizarrely enough, that night it began to hail. She used the ice to soothe the pain in her knees; it was enough to allow her to continue.
The coyotes chartered a van to pick them up in Arizona and take them to Los Angeles. From there, she flew to Boston, where she had relatives waiting to welcome her. In December 2000, her journey was over.
In the next few months, two catastrophic earthquakes hit El Salvador, leading the U.S. government to grant undocumented immigrants from El Salvador with Temporary Protected Status (TPS) on March 9, 2001. TPS is a program that grants legal residency to formerly undocumented immigrants, shielding them from deportation to unstable or dangerous countries. Reinda-Landaverde applied and was accepted; she could now begin her life in the United States.
Part of her still wondered if it was worth it, though. When she arrived in East Boston, where her relatives lived, she was unimpressed. “I almost died, and here I see all these houses together and so many buildings,” she says. “The first thought I had was, ‘I risked my life for this?’”
Reina-Landaverde’s first job in the United States was at a company that did laundry for Boston hospitals. They used industrial-sized machines that operated at high heat; the temperature inside the building was so unbearable that she regularly fainted. After four years, she quit.
Her next job was as a house cleaner for a small cleaning company. At first, she liked the work. Then, she realized that there was a substantial difference between what the clients paid and how much money she earned. The company’s rate was $40 an hour; Reina-Landaverde only made $8. Her boss pocketed the difference. She quit that job, too.
But it wasn’t the end of the problems that she’d endure at work. Eventually, the injustices she faced propelled her into union work and labor organizing — from her perspective, she didn’t have any other choice.
In 2004, she began working part-time as a custodian at Harvard Medical School. After eight years at HMS, she was able to move to a full-time position across the river at the Law School. She had high hopes; the job compensated her better than any she’d had before. However, she didn’t realize that she’d also become a target. Soon after she began working at HLS, Reina-Landaverde, who’d converted to Islam after she married her husband, Mohammed, started getting called a terrorist by her co-workers.
“I cried on my first day,” she says. It only made things worse. “When I cried, everyone laughed at me. Even the managers took part. I was terrified of going to work.” She began to physically shake every time she entered the building.
Reina-Landaverde felt a familiar sensation creeping up on her, one that had come and gone with the darkest periods of her life for years. Not only did she not want to work, she didn’t really want to do anything. She took a disability leave for two months and started seeing a therapist, who told her that she was depressed.
In fact, she had probably been depressed for several years. The trauma she endured in El Salvador, she realized, had left a permanent mark. It was the first time she truly understood the weight she was carrying.
When she returned to work, she was determined to make something change: “I wanted a place where I felt like going to work,” she says. Initially, she asked her manager to start implementing anti-harassment training. This didn’t go well. “He told me I couldn’t tell him what to do because he was the boss. And he told me that nobody, not even the union, not even me, could tell him what he had to do.”
“When he said that, I decided that I was going to prove him wrong,” Reina-Landaverde says. The first place she went was her union, 32BJ SEIU. She thought that it might be her best bet for changing her workplace.
However, when Reina-Landaverde became involved in 32BJ, she quickly realized she would have to do more than report injustices; she would also have to change the way that workers and the union interacted.
A lot of her co-workers, she says, didn’t know the power that unions could wield. “I wouldn’t say that the union was bad,” she says. “If workers aren’t active, the unions won’t be active either, because the workers have to push the union to do their job.”
Mirroring the decline of the national labor movement, union organizing at Harvard had been weakened over the previous decades, according to Reina-Landaverde.
Edward B. Childs, the former chief shop steward in UNITE HERE, began working at Harvard over 40 years ago. (Childs retired last year.) “It’s more difficult to organize today,” he says. “Back then we had the Civil Rights Movement. So we had a lot of workers who had participated in the Civil Rights Movement and watched it and had the spirit of organizing. Today, that’s not true.”
At the time, union organizing at Harvard was animated by the knowledge of a connection between racism and labor exploitation. Early on in his tenure at the university, in 1976, Childs staffed a party for faculty where a guest complained that something had been stolen out of her purse. “So what management did was get all the black men and line them up and say, ‘Who stole it?’” he says.
This wasn’t an isolated incident; tensions between dining hall workers and management over perceieved racist treatment had been rising for years. By the time of the party, the dining hall workers were fed up. In protest, over 100 dining hall staff walked off of their jobs, shutting down operations during lunch hour.
By the time Reina-Landaverde arrived at Harvard, most union leaders who had been trained during the Civil Rights Movement were gone. Further, Reina-Landaverde says that when she began her involvement in her union, immigrants’ rights weren’t a huge priority.
The result was a workplace where management felt that they could operate with impunity, she says. In 2016, she found out that a supervisor at the Law School had been comparing her Black co-workers to monkeys. “He showed them a picture of a monkey on his phone and said, ‘This is you, this is your family,’” she says.
Her co-workers were afraid to complain; they thought that they’d lose their jobs. Reina-Landaverde says they would tell her, “‘You see how they give you a hard time just because you’re in the union?’” She tried to encourage them anyway. “I said that if everybody came together, we could fight together.”
In fact, not everybody came together. Reina-Landaverde and some of her colleagues ended up reporting that supervisor to Human Resources, and he was fired. But her own manager made sure that she paid for it —Reina-Landaverde says he harassed her and the other workers who stepped forward while paying overtime to workers who had remained silent, encouraging them to harass her, too.
In an email responding to Doris Reina-Landaverde and her colleagues’ experiences with harassment in their workplaces, Jason A. Newton, a University spokesperson, wrote, “The University firmly rejects any and all discriminatory behavior and is fully committed to providing a positive and inclusive environment that is free from all forms of harassment.”
For Reina-Landaverde, the situation was scarring. Later that year, she left the Law School for good and began working at Harvard College.
Still, Reina-Landaverde hadn’t given up on organizing. That same year, she was asked to help negotiate the new contract between 32BJ and the University. Her job was to figure out what workers needed and drum up support for the new agreement. She’d learned a valuable lesson from her experience at the Law School: If she were to succeed this time, she would need to make sure that all of her co-workers stood with her.
Ultimately, Reina-Landaverde found that her most effective organizing tool was fairly simple: she listened. “People need attention,” she says. “It’s not like you can be an organizer and ask people to come out if they don’t understand why they’re coming out. You have to build that relationship. You have to build people’s trust.”
She became known for successfully intervening in disputes between her co-workers and their supervisors. Eventually, she says, custodians knew that “anytime they needed me, I would be there to support them.” In return, they came out when she asked.
Initially, she used this strategy to organize support for the custodians’ 2016 contract. But in 2018, when the Trump administration announced that it would end TPS for El Salvador, she realized that she would need to use it for a broader cause, too.
As is implied by the name, TPS is meant to be temporary. Yet for years the program had consistently been extended for a few months at a time. In the meantime, Reina-Landaverde, like almost 250,000 other TPS holders from El Salvador, had already built a life in the United States.
Reina-Landaverde was always aware that her life in this country was precarious. But it wasn’t until November 2017, when the Trump administration announced that it would end TPS for immigrants from Nicaragua and then Haiti, that she realized it might fall apart entirely. As the new year approached, she dreaded an announcement that El Salvador would be next to go.
On January 8, 2018, an innocuous-looking press release appeared on the Department of Homeland Security’s website:
“Today, the Secretary of Homeland Security announced her determination that termination of the Temporary Protected Status (TPS) designation for El Salvador was required pursuant to the Immigration and Nationality Act. To allow for an orderly transition, she has determined to delay the termination for 18 months. The designation will terminate on Sept. 9, 2019.”
When Reina-Landaverde heard the news, she was devastated. She now had a family; the thought of being separated from her three daughters was unbearable. “I was crying,” she says. “I didn’t want to go to work. I just wanted to sleep. I didn’t want to think about anything.”
If she returned to El Salvador, she would quite likely be in significant danger. According to the DHS’s statement, the Trump administration had decided to end TPS for El Salvador because “the substantial disruption of living conditions caused by the earthquake no longer exist [sic].” But Reina-Landaverde, like many other TPS holders from El Salvador, had fled to the United States before the earthquakes even happened. The conditions that caused them to leave still haven’t been resolved, and, in some ways, have worsened: San Salvador, El Salvador’s capital, has one of the highest homicide rates in the world.
In the days after the announcement, the only thing that helped Reina-Landaverde was the possibility of taking action — not just to keep TPS, but also to ensure that her fellow TPS holders had a path to permanent residency.
As unions across campus scrambled to protect their workers, Reina-Landaverde began speaking to Genevieve Butler, a faculty assistant in the Sociology department and a member of the Harvard Union of Clerical and Technical Workers. Butler had an idea: A group from around the University could band together to pressure Harvard into using its unique position in American society to lobby for TPS holders.
Not only did Reina-Landaverde and Butler want TPS protected, they also wanted the University’s help in pushing for permanent residency and a path to citizenship, which would ultimately make the lives of TPS holders more secure. From this idea, Reina-Landaverde, Butler, Childs, and two other workers at Harvard, Julio A. Perez and Martha I. Bonilla, founded the Harvard TPS Coalition.
First, the Coalition organized a petition urging then-University President Drew G. Faust to make a public show of support for TPS. When the petition garnered over 300 signatures, Reina-Landaverde personally delivered it to Faust’s office. Days later, Faust penned a letter in support of TPS to Congressional leaders.
From then on, Reina-Landaverde threw herself into the Coalition. “It helped me to be less depressed,” she says. “I don’t know what will happen to [TPS holders]. I don’t think about that. I just focus on working hard because I want permanent residency for me and 400,000 other people.”
But many TPS holders at Harvard were terrified of coming forward. “That’s understandable,” she says. “But we also know that we need to set [the fear] aside in order to earn permanent legal status. If we lose our TPS, we will be undocumented. We’ll live in fear every time we leave the house of being arrested by ICE and deported.”
Reina-Landaverde also knew that she needed a critical mass of the Harvard community behind her. By that point, she understood that if she showed up for other people, they would show up for her. So Reina-Landaverde began appearing everywhere.
She began with Harvard’s unions. In 2018, the major unions at Harvard aside from 32BJ SEIU were UNITE HERE Local 26, who represent dining hall workers, and HUCTW, which represents clerical workers. Historically, those unions had organized separately. But Reina-Landaverde made a point of showing up at picket lines and actions for each group. When the graduate students announced that they were forming a union, she was with them, too. Soon, she started organizing rallies that included all of Harvard’s unions in support of permanent residency.
“To win, we have to combine all these issues into one,” she says. “Everybody has to work together. That’s what’s been missing; we’ve been divided. People say, ‘Oh, I’m just fighting for workers,’ or ‘Oh, I’m just fighting for immigrants.’ But imagine if all those groups came together. We would win.”
She got involved with student groups, too. In March 2019, she stood in front of dozens of people at a rally for prison divestment. “As a TPS holder, it’s very important that Harvard has to divest from prisons,” she said. “Because for me, an immigrant, this [Trump] administration is targeting us as criminals.”
“She made the case that as a TPS holder, she was a future prisoner,” Childs says. “And she portrayed that prisoners are really incarcerated workers. And that floored everybody.”
The audience was rapt. “This is not right, what they’re doing, putting money in those companies,” Reina-Landaverde cried, her voice rising with emotion. “Because who are the targets? We are the targets. They want to fill those jails with us.”
“Why does the President of Harvard University not support TPS holders?” she continued, yelling into her megaphone. “We have 400 TPS holders, workers here at Harvard!”
Across campus, Reina-Landaverde continues to deliver speeches with a similar sentiment for different student-run social groups. “She’s able to step forward and share her story and make the Harvard TPS Coalition bigger,” Butler says. “She can speak to, ‘Why does this overlap with women’s struggle?’ Or, ‘What does this have to do with climate change?’ She’s so focused on involving everyone. It really is because of her that we have the coordination we have now.”
“We would be in tough shape without her,” Childs acknowledges.
In February 2019, the Harvard TPS Coalition joined thousands of others at a rally in support of TPS holders in Washington, D.C. Still, the Coalition never got much response out of the Trump administration. In October 2018, a federal judge in California temporarily stopped the administration from ending TPS for Haiti, El Salvador and Nicaragua. But in September 2020, an appeals court let them continue with their plans. As it stands, TPS for El Salvador will end on October 4, 2021.
But Reina-Landaverde isn’t discouraged. “The advice I give to everybody working on a campaign,” she says, “is that you always have to remain positive that you’ll reach your objective. My objective is to get permanent residency, and I’m so positive that one day, I will.”
Two weeks after Harvard shut down last March, Reina-Landaverde began to feel ill. The University hadn’t provided her with a mask in days; after learning that Reina-Landaverde had been going maskless, a student donated their own to her. In the meantime, she’d been forced to clean the same dorm with up to six custodians at the same time.
Soon after speaking to her doctor, she realized that her symptoms were consistent with Covid-19. She immediately began to quarantine. Across the University, dozens of other workers were also becoming ill, likely with the coronavirus. Reina-Landaverde herself remained at home for two weeks, resting. But her story went national.
Initially, Reina-Landaverde’s story was tweeted out by a former Harvard graduate student organizer, Marena Lin. From there, it was picked up by national news outlets, including NBC and Fox News.
Before founding Harvard TPS, Reina-Landaverde’s union activism had been mostly siloed within 32BJ. That word of her illness spread so quickly around the University and beyond was indicative of the broader ties between unions that she had cultivated in the process of organizing for TPS.
It was a level of organization that Harvard’s unions have come to rely on throughout the pandemic. Even after initial disputes with the University over PPE, paid sick leave, and other Covid-19 precautions were resolved, Harvard cut pay for some workers and began implementing layoffs in January.
In response, for the first time in a decade, Harvard’s unions made a conscious decision to organize together, likely in part because of Reina-Landaverde’s efforts. She is currently a shop steward and bargaining committee member with 32BJ. When she began contract negotiations last year, she leveraged the connections that she’d made with other union leaders through Harvard TPS to make sure that all unions were constantly in communication about what the University was offering them.
Recently, they all ratified contracts with the same anti-discrimination and harassment measures, in addition to union-specific benefits. 32BJ’s custodians have been guaranteed coverage of health care costs and a one-time bonus of up to $1,500. Likewise, 32BJ’s security guards ratified a one-year agreement with their contractor, Securitas, that also included health care benefits and a one-time bonus.
“Now, we have a good relationship between the unions. We can say what’s happening at the table and help each other,” she says. “I think this will be a good year, because it’s not just one group fighting — it’s the whole group.”
This isn’t the only thing that Harvard TPS has accomplished. After over a year of pressure, University President Lawrence S. Bacow finally made a public show of support for TPS holders in 2019 — he signed onto a letter to leaders in the House of Representatives and Senate urging them to act on legislation for TPS holders and DACA recipients. “When I saw the letter, I said: ‘Oh, this is because the job we’ve done in the Harvard community is working,” Reina-Landaverde says.
From February 21-23, hundreds of TPS holders and their supporters gathered in Washington, D.C., for a summit in support of permanent residency. Reina-Landaverde was there to march with them, and also to run for a spot on the executive committee of the National TPS Alliance. As an executive, she would oversee the Alliance’s strategy, planning national actions and campaigns for proponents of their movement.
She won, with the most votes of any candidate.
“Harvard TPS Coalition opened the doors for me … We’re the first place to organize a petition to the President of Harvard University and we got him to write three letters to Congress,” she says. “People recognize me.”
She has a lot of work ahead of her; the Biden administration, to her chagrin, still hasn’t acted either to provide a path for permanent residency to TPS holders or to extend TPS. To make time for it all, she will be stepping down from her position as 32BJ’s shop steward.
Still, she plans to remain an active member of the Harvard community; she knows that her organizing has always had its most enduring impacts on the lives of workers at the University. “I’m excited to continue the fight,” she says.
“When the workers move, you get anti-discrimination, you get benefits. The administration knows that, and they’re so afraid because Doris knows that too,” Childs says. “The presidents of Harvard cringe when they see her.”
— Staff writer Rebecca E. J. Cadenhead can be reached at rebecca.cadenhead@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @ibuprofenaddict.
— Staff writer Gabrielle J. Pesantez can be reached at gabrielle.pesantez@thecrimson.com.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Cambridge Health Department hosted a virtual town hall Tuesday during which public health officers, medical experts, and government officials provided updates on the Covid-19 vaccine rollout and discussed hesitations that some people of color may have about receiving the vaccine.
Moderated by Cambridge mayor Sumbul Siddiqui, the panelists included Cambridge Chief Public Health Officer Claude A. Jacob, Harvard Medical School professor and Cambridge Health Alliance-affiliated physician Michael C. Payne ’77, Cambridge Police Superintendent Christine A. Elow, and Cambridge Housing Authority Deputy Executive Director Brenda S. Downing.
To initiate the town hall discussion, Jacob updated Cambridge residents on the progress of the vaccine rollout, especially with regards to senior citizens and people experiencing homelessness. The city’s efforts to vaccinate its vulnerable populations demonstrates its ability to run a “robust city-wide vaccine program,” according to Jacob.
“To date, we’ve administered over 2,000 vaccines for those eligible in the Phase One group,” Jacob said. “We’ve also provided over 500 vaccines to area residents and staff from homeless shelters, and over 500 vaccines have been administered to the different senior buildings.”
Cambridge has been listed as a low-risk community by the Commonwealth of Massachusetts and is accordingly receiving smaller distributions of vaccines, Jacob said. However, the city is currently compiling a dataset to advocate for more vaccines for its disproportionately burdened communities.
The city has also deployed a neighborhood ambassador program to assist Black and brown communities and to gauge how the pandemic has impacted them, according to Jacob. A recent analysis found that two-thirds of first responders who received the vaccine identified as white, while 12 percent identified as Hispanic or Latinx, and nine percent identified as Black.
Jacob reiterated that the vaccine is safe and encouraged all eligible people to get vaccinated.
“We encourage folks to get vaccinated. We’re asking folks to be patient with the process, but really at the end of the day, it’s to protect yourself and your loved ones,” Jacob said.
Payne also urged eligible residents to get vaccinated and said he personally got vaccinated because he “didn’t want to die” — and didn’t want anybody he loved to die.
Payne conjectured that some Black and brown communities may be hesitant to get vaccinated due to historical exploitations of members of these groups, such as during the U.S. government’s Tuskegee study in the 20th century.
“The Tuskegee study was a study in which African American men who were diagnosed as having syphilis were deliberately not given treatment to see what happened to them. It was about as racist as you could get,” Payne said. “What I find incredibly ironic is that the racism from that study is reaching its hand forward in time about 75 years and causing people in the 21st century who are Black and brown to die from a preventable illness.”
Downing said she thinks a lack of access to information may also fuel distrust in the medical system.
“I’m painfully aware of the distress that exists with people of color because in the past, the healthcare system has failed us, and I think that there needs to be a lot to remediate that issue,” Downing said. “There are a lot of people that don’t get access to the information and that’s what gives us a lot of that hesitancy.”
Payne explained that vaccine side effects may include headaches, body aches, fever, swollen lymph nodes, and nausea. In severe cases, one may experience anaphylaxis — an acute allergic reaction. Recipients are monitored for at least 15 minutes after being inoculated.
However, the risks of remaining unvaccinated are far worse, according to Payne.
“The major risk of this vaccine is a sore arm, the major risk of Covid is a pine box,” he said.
—Staff writer Mayesha R. Soshi can be reached at mayesha.soshi@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Sherri A. Charleston, Harvard’s first Chief Diversity and Inclusion Officer, outlined her approach to creating an environment of “inclusive excellence” during a Tuesday webinar co-sponsored by the Harvard Alumni Association and the Asian American, Black, Latino, and Native American alumni groups.
The event, which drew over 500 people, was part of the HAA’s Unity Webinars program, a series of online programs that aim to reckon with systemic racism and promote social justice.
Charleston said her philosophy on issues of diversity and inclusion is that inclusion alone is “not enough,” and highlighted the importance of “inclusive excellence,” an approach that moves beyond mere non-discrimination.
Charleston said Harvard’s framework of inclusive excellence encompasses “anti-racism, inclusion, belonging, equity, and diversity initiatives.”
“We don’t want people to just feel as if they are included or invited to the party and invited to dance,” she said. “We want people to feel as if they are organizers of the party, that they are co-citizens with all of us, and that they have a shared sense of the way that they contribute to our mission and our vision as institutions.”
Charleston conducted a live poll during the webinar during which she asked alumni attendees whether they felt like they belonged during their time at Harvard. Nineteen percent strongly agreed, 53 percent agreed, 23 percent disagreed, and the remaining 6 percent strongly disagreed.
Charleston also stressed the importance of examining Harvard’s partnerships and influence beyond campus.
“Our community is really much bigger than Cambridge. It’s the country, it’s the world,” Charleston said. “And so our responsibility is to think about how we can identify areas where we have existing strengths and how we can use those existing strengths to benefit the broader world.”
Charleston said she has been focusing on “compositional factors,” like the diversity of faculty and students, as well as creating “safe spaces for learning, teaching, and co-curricular programming.” She also emphasized the importance of the “Harvard and the Legacy of Slavery” initiative, a research group examining the University’s ties to slavery.
“These are sort of deep cultural pieces that go to the heart of who we are as an institution that we’ll have to continue to examine,” she said.
According to Charleston, the University’s “incredibly decentralized” nature provides a “unique opportunity” to test diversity, inclusion, and belonging initiatives across its 12 different schools.
“If anybody has the right tools to be successful in this area, it’s really Harvard. We have 12 different petri dishes that we can work in. And we can test out the best thinking in the field.”
However, the University’s structure may make such progress “uneven,” and Charleston said she expects achieving inclusive excellence “will not be easy.”
“We are embarking on a journey here,” Charleston said. “It’s not one that will happen overnight. It will require us to be consistent, to engage over the course of the next five to 10 years, and evaluate our progress over time.”
—Staff writer Leah J. Teichholtz can be reached at leah.teichholtz@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @LeahTeichholtz.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Cambridge City Councilors voiced their frustration over a months-long delay in addressing two amendments to campaign finance regulations at an Ordinance Committee meeting Monday.
The first proposed amendment originated as a policy order in October 2020 and sought to restrict campaign donations by people “seeking to enter into a contract, seeking approval for a special permit or up-zoning, seeking to acquire real estate from the city, or seeking financial assistance from the city.”
This ordinance amendment was based off of Somerville’s campaign contribution ordinance “Pay to Play” and also includes language from similar ordinances passed in New Jersey.
The second proposed amendment would restrict annual donations to any individual candidate to $200 per person and was referred to the Ordinance Committee in November.
Councilor Dennis J. Carlone, who co-sponsored the first amendment, repeatedly said he was “frustrated” with the review process, arguing that the wording should have been worked out months ago. Carlone also pointed out that this process should have been expedited since the amendment was based on Somerville’s ordinance.
“If it doesn’t work, I’m all for refining it, I didn’t expect that in this meeting,” he said. “I think it’s really inappropriate. This meeting has been turned over now to not talk about substance, but to talk about details that should have been worked on months ago.”
Other Councilors agreed.
Councilor Quinton Y. Zondervan said he “deeply shares [Carlone’s] frustration,” adding that he didn’t “even know where to begin.”
Councilor Jivan Sobrinho-Wheeler also said he was confused why Cambridge did not reach out to Somerville for its legal analysis, given the Somerville campaign finance reform ordinance passed.
“This was passed by policy order a few months ago now,” he said. “We could have reached out if our legal department needed help. We could have reached out as Councilors to Somerville and gotten that analysis. It’s all public.”
Proposals for campaign finance reform have been in the works since 2016, Carlone said, but every policy order has fallen through or been met with “no response.”
Arthur J. Goldberg, the city’s deputy solicitor, said that under the state’s constitution, cities and towns do not have the power to regulate their elections, and regulating campaign donations would fall under that category. Goldberg recommended requesting a Home Rule Petition from the state legislature, which would allow Massachusetts to pass the necessary changes for Cambridge, given that the state has the power to regulate elections.
Massachusetts, however, does not approve many Home Rule Petitions, according to Carlone.
“I think if this goes into a Home Rule, forget it,” he said. “The Home Rule — I think — is dead in the water.”
Several Councilors, including Vice Mayor Alanna M. Mallon, said they were confused over why Cambridge’s proposed ordinance would violate the state’s constitution if Somerville passed a similar policy.
“This does have different provisions than the Somerville ordinance,” Goldberg responded. “But I can’t really speak for Somerville’s thinking on the matter, I can only tell you what we think.”
The committee unanimously passed Carlone’s motion to request the City's Law Department review the first ordinance and recommend any edits, while the second ordinance will be sent to the City Council with no recommendations.
—Staff writer David R. Shaw can be reached at david.shaw@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @davidrwshaw.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Genetics postdoctoral and graduate student advocates expanded a series of initiatives first launched last fall to help Harvard Medical School custodial staff gain access to key Covid-19 information as part of a larger plan to foster greater inclusion within the school’s culture.
Formed after the murder of George Floyd last May, the Harvard Medical School Genetics Anti-Racism Group strives to increase diversity and integrate anti-racist initiatives into the school.
In its mission letter published in September, the group called on the genetics department “to create a self-sustaining social infrastructure that can crystalize antiracist ideas and turn them into concrete actions that collectively change the culture of science at HMS Genetics and beyond.”
The group started teach-ins outside of the New Research Building at the Longwood Medical campus after the shooting of Jacob Blake in August, according to activist and genetics research fellow Marta Florio.
Jean I. Phane, a custodian at the Medical School and a shop steward for 32BJ Service Employees International Union — which represents custodial staff and security guards at Harvard — saw the activists outside of the New Research Building and approached them.
“We wanted to learn about Covid-19, the testing, things like that. The management wasn’t telling us anything about it. We didn’t know anything,” Phane said. “That’s the work we’re doing with the students because they provide us with an opportunity to speak out.”
Once Phane told the HMS Genetics Anti-Racism Group about the problems staff were facing, volunteer activists and union representatives helped them register for Covid-19 testing as well as answer questions, according to Florio and Phane.
“We realized that there were several problems,” Florio said. “One was how information was communicated to them. The second was what was taken for granted in the Color [Genomics testing] pipeline that involves language — the English language. Most of them need a mastery in technology that most of them may not have access to.”
Many custodians do not speak fluent English and need translation or further elaboration to understand Covid-19 procedures. HMS Genetics postdoctoral fellows Israel Pichardo-Casas and Yasmin Escobedo Lozoya led teach-ins in Spanish for custodial staff to help them understand Covid-19 testing and access test results through Color Genomics, the company that provides testing kits to the University.
“I’m glad that my friends ... have been really motivated into pushing for not only the educational part or the scientific part, but also this really humanitarian work that we’re doing,” Pichardo-Casas said.
The group also helped connect staff to essential online and technical resources. Organizers helped custodians set up Harvard email accounts to register for the testing program. In October, in collaboration with the human resources department, the HMS Genetics Anti-Racism Group helped staff secure access to computers to login into the Color Genomics website.
Besides the logistics of the testing program, the HMS Genetics Anti-Racism Group also addressed staff concerns about the privacy of their data, the nature of the virus and the tests, and job security.
“They initially had very little confidence moving forward with testing as a conceptual problem,” Florio said. “Once they got on board and realized that this was something important, then it became a matter of how to enable them to access the pipeline, helping them with language and IT.”
Once winter set in and meetings could not be held outside, activists gave out their phone numbers to stay in touch with custodians, according to Florio.
Medical School spokesperson Laura DeCoste thanked essential workers in an emailed statement and wrote that the custodial management team has been working to train and inform its custodial staff around pandemic guidelines.
“Our custodial management team has been committed to the direct and transparent training of and communication to—including adapting these materials to address known language barriers—our essential workers as new federal, state, and University policies and guidance have emerged over the course of the pandemic,” DeCoste wrote.
“We also acknowledge and thank the genetics anti-racism group members for dedicating their time, sharing their knowledge, and building important connections with fellow members of our community,” she added.
The HMS Genetics Anti-Racism Group is currently working on four new initiatives: formalizing structure, education outreach, streamlined communications, and cultural inclusion.
First on the agenda is formalizing workflow and holding more structured regular meetings in the spring and summer, Florio said.
Pichardo-Casas will lead an effort to create an educational outreach program for Black and Latinx public school students to foster their interest in science, while graduate student organizer Hasreet K. Gill and postdoctoral fellow Erkin Kuru plan to potentially collaborate with Project Success — a Harvard Medical School summer research internship program for local high schoolers — to create a genetics module and invite staff member’s children to participate.
“We want to make sure that the kids whose parents are custodial staff or dining workers or security staff at our school have the same opportunities that kids of scientists have,” Gill said.
According to Florio, the group will also continue to streamline information pipelines for staff through mailing lists and question and answer sessions with activists and faculty.
Florio added the team would like to promote an environment of cultural exchange and social inclusion among all HMS affiliates, including staff members, students, and faculty.
The HMS Genetics Anti-Racism Group will hold its second Town Hall on Friday.
“It’s going to be a call to arms,” Kuru said. “We’ll call for faculty and trainee volunteers to participate in these projects.”
—Staff writer Cara J. Chang can be reached at cara.chang@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @CaraChang20.
—Staff writer Meimei Xu can be reached at meimei.xu@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @meimeixu7.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Like many Harvard students, Madeline J. Ranalli ’23-’24 decided to take time off from the College this semester. While some of her peers on leave decided to volunteer for political campaigns, the 20-year-old Newton, Mass. native instead launched her own to serve on the local city council.
In her bid for the Ward One Councilor-at-large seat in the Newton City Council, which she launched in December 2020, Ranalli is advancing an agenda that promotes affordable housing, racial justice, climate action, and pandemic relief.
She is facing off against consultant John R. Oliver, 52, in the special municipal election, which will take place March 16.
Though Ranalli is less than half her opponent’s age, she brings experience in political organizing and legislative advocacy to her campaign. She served as the political director for the March for Our Lives organization, advocated for legislation against gun violence at the Massachusetts State House, and worked for U.S. Sens. Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.) and Ed Markey (D-Mass.), per her campaign website.
Ranalli said in an interview that she believes her age is an asset to her candidacy.
Ranalli said she would reinvigorate the council and draw more attention to issues that concern young people in Newton, such as access to mental health resources and voting age requirements.
“Newton has a 24-member city council, and of those 24 members, a supermajority of them — over two-thirds — are over the age of 50,” Ranalli said. “So by consequence, issues facing young residents in Newton do not get the time of day or the political deliberation they deserve because there’s no one there to bring them up.”
Students have previously served on Newton’s city council, Ranalli said. She added that she intends to remain a student at the College while serving on the council, if elected.
In addition to advocating for young people, Ranalli said she sees her candidacy as a way to realize the lofty progressive goals many Newton residents support.
“Newton, like a lot of affluent New England suburbs, is a city that talks a lot about our commitment to progressivism, to inclusivity, to diversity — fill in the blank,” she said. “We shy away from actually making that brave, bold change.”
Ranalli said she is passionate about creating more affordable housing in Newton. She said Newton ought to increase “public investment” in affordable housing, in particular for those residents who “cannot even afford 50 to 60 percent of [area median income]”
Ranalli said the town can find funds to subsidize housing by creating an affordable housing trust fund or implementing a real estate transfer tax.
Addressing housing affordability, according to Ranalli, also offers an avenue to combat racial injustice. She said she is in favor of redesigning Newton’s zoning codes to eradicate “decades and decades of very deliberate residential segregation.”
Another urgent issue facing Newton that Ranalli believes requires bold action by the city council is the coronavirus pandemic.
In Newton, 200 people — primarily seniors in congregate care facilities — have died from Covid-19, per a city website.
“I think we didn’t plan enough ahead for it, we didn’t communicate effectively,” Ranalli said. “What it’s about now is continuing to enforce the common-sense precautions, continuing to get accessible, digestible information about precautions and vaccines out to our residents as much as they can.”
Ranalli said she supports “reopening schools safely and as quickly as we can” and “helping our local businesses who have been struggling immensely through the winter.”
Ranalli’s foray into politics was disrupted at the start of 2021 when right-wing extremists allegedly harassed her campaign, even sending her a death threat, per reporting by the Boston Globe.
Ranalli said she believes the threats demonstrate hostility toward progressive women in politics.
“This is all too common, unfortunately, for a lot of women — specifically progressive women who run for political office — because you are controversial from the jump,” she said. “I’m so lucky to have an incredible team that I can depend on who supports me, and I think that’s all that you can really ask for in tough moments like that.”
Other female politicians in Newton have thrown their support behind Ranalli.
Newton City Councilor Andrea W. Kelley said she endorsed Ranalli for her “character, attitude,” and “positive collaborator approach.”
“After speaking with [her opposition] I realized that I share much more in common with Maddy on important issues like social justice, environmental sustainability, and particularly affordable housing, so I offered to endorse her enthusiastically,” Kelley said.
Newton City Councilor Maria S. Greenberg also endorsed Ranalli, describing her as a “mature” candidate who will bring a new perspective to the table.
“City council is a representation of our residents and we really do not have a representative of the youth,” Greenberg said. “She has the urgency and enthusiasm to face these real critical issues that our city, state, country, and world are facing, especially when it comes to climate change and housing.”
Greenberg added she believes Ranalli will become a very “effective and awesome city councilor.”
— Staff writer James R. Jolin can be reached at james.jolin@thecrimson.com.
— Staff writer Mayesha R. Soshi can be reached at mayesha.soshi@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard Business School is working to respond to a data breach that compromised students’ personal information, including some social security numbers and exam submissions.
HBS Chief Information Officer Ronald “Ron” S. Chandler initially announced the breach in an email to school affiliates on Jan. 11.
Chandler wrote that the Business School was notified by a software vendor of unauthorized access to its files on Dec. 29, after which the school launched an investigation. The investigation found that one or more “unauthorized third parties” had downloaded “files containing personal information” between Dec. 21 and Dec. 23.
In a follow-up email to affected students on Feb. 10, HBS Information Security Officer and Managing Director of IT Compliance Christopher “Chris” W. Pringle confirmed that some affiliates’ social security numbers had been compromised, in addition to other personal information — such as names, contact information, date of birth, course enrollments, and exam submissions.
Brian C. Kenny, a spokesperson for the Business School, wrote in an emailed statement Wednesday that HBS had been informed of the software vulnerability prior to Dec. 29, and had accepted a “software patch” that the vendor provided.
The vendor also notified HBS on Jan. 20 of another vulnerability in its software “for which there was no patch available,” which may also have exposed additional files, per Kenny.
“After applying a patch from the vendor in December, HBS has since discontinued use of the vulnerable software altogether and is coordinating with local and federal law enforcement to further investigate the incident,” Kenny wrote.
An MBA student affected by the incident who was granted anonymity by The Crimson due to the theft of their personal information, called the situation a “huge breach in trust between students and HBS.”
The student also said the Business School should be “more proactive and communicative” with affected students, noting that he has not yet heard back from the IT Department or the Student Association at HBS on specifics of the incident.
Kenny declined to comment on the scope of the breach, but wrote that HBS is “in the process of notifying individuals as required by law” and will make “certain voluntary notifications where it deems appropriate.”
The Business School plans to provide information about “what steps to take to safeguard against identity theft,” and will also offer 24 months of free credit monitoring services for affected students in the United States, per Kenny.
A second-year MBA student whose data was compromised, to whom The Crimson also granted anonymity, said that he was “a little bit concerned” about the breach, but ultimately didn’t “see the threat at the moment.”
He added that he has “a lot of confidence” in how HBS has handled the incident and in “how the school is run.”
—Staff writer Carrie Hsu can be reached at carrie.hsu@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Doctoral students from across Harvard’s graduate and professional schools penned a letter in support of Practice of Public Philosophy Cornel R. West ’74, who recently threatened a second departure from the University after he said the administration dismissed his request to be considered for tenure.
Published on Monday, the letter amassed over 150 signatures from doctoral students at the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, the Graduate School of Education, Harvard Medical School, the Graduate School of Design, and the School of Public Health as of Wednesday night.
In the letter, students wrote that failing to grant tenure to West — “one of the most important intellectuals of our time” — stands as “an urgent matter of equity and parity for the University.”
“The loss of Brother West, a towering intellectual and prophetic voice, on our campus would deal a devastating blow to an already near disenchanted community of color,” the letter reads.
Mafaz Al-Suwaidan, a doctoral student in Religion and African and African American Studies, said she started the petition shortly after reading a Boston Globe article in which West stated that he had been denied a request to undergo the tenure process.
“I was speaking to some friends and I was like, ‘We can’t just let this happen,’” Al-Suwaidan said. “So I drafted a statement and then I just sent it to a bunch of my colleagues and said, ‘Hey, this is a collaborative process, so everybody feel free to kind of edit, comment, add stuff.’ And a bunch of people did — people I know, people I don’t know.”
In their petition — which limited signatories to doctoral students — the students wrote that their perspectives as both students and instructors shed light on their assessment of West’s credentials.
“As graduate students we stand at a revelatory intersection; we spend a significant amount of time with both the student body and the faculty instructing it,” the letter reads. “We see what happens to both our students and our professors when Dr. West walks into a room.”
“It is not an exaggeration to say that Dr. West’s presence on campus is electrifying,” it continues.
Mark N. Kabban, a doctoral student at HGSE who signed and helped circulate the letter, said granting tenure to West “shouldn’t even be something that is up for question.”
“He was a University Professor before he left Harvard the first time, which is [Harvard’s] most distinguished academic position,” Kabban said. “So we all know that his scholarship corpus is not up for debate by Harvard's own standards.”
“So, I was led to conclude, if formerly Harvard made a decision based on their standards and their values that he was a tenured professor, then this decision has to be a political one,” he added, citing West’s outspoken criticism of Israel’s treatment of Palestinians.
Al-Suwaidan added that it was “really, really concerning” that West noted his political perspectives as a “driving factor” in the University’s decision to deny his request for tenure.
“We’ve heard from other professors who were not granted tenure in the past that they think that similar positions are what put them in a place where they were denied tenure,” she said. “It’s about Dr. West, but it’s also about this broader conversation in terms of the protections that are provided to academics to be able to say what they need to say.”
West — a professor of the Practice of Public Philosophy at Harvard Divinity School and in the Department of African and African American Studies in the Faculty of Arts of Sciences — said in an interview with the Chronicle of Higher Education published Monday that his treatment by the University is symptomatic of “a much larger crisis in higher education.”
“First, Black scholars and too many others are too often disrespected, devalued, or dismissed,” West said. “Second, the fundamental aims of the quest for truth, beauty, and goodness are too often trumped for the pursuit of donor money, public image, and consumer reputation.”
Al-Suwaidan said the doctoral student petition has yet to receive a response from the University or the FAS.
University spokesperson Jonathan L. Swain declined to comment on the petition. Swain previously said that the committee considering whether to reappoint West to his current posts did not have authority to conduct a review for tenure.
Doctoral student in Sociology Cresa L. Pugh, another signatory of the letter, said West’s departure from Harvard would mark the loss of “a true intellectual” and one of Harvard’s “greatest assets.”
“Professor West criticizes the darkness of the world around us,” Pugh said. “He challenges the status quo, he challenges Harvard, he is critical of the way in which our liberal institutions are failing the public, and that is something very difficult for people to reconcile.”
“But it’s through that critique that an institution like Harvard can become better,” she added.
Karlene E. Griffiths Sekou, a Ph.D. candidate in Religion who also signed onto the letter, said Harvard might face a “mass exodus of Black scholars” who do not see the University’s atmosphere as being conducive to their scholarship.
“Harvard is choosing not only to be on the wrong side of history, but to say that they are not willing to support this bold, this imaginative, this new possibility of a world of racial equity, of valuing Black lives, and of valuing the historical, present, and future contributions of Black scholarship,” she said.
—Staff writer Meera S. Nair can be reached at meera.nair@thecrimson.com.
—Staff writer Andy Z. Wang can be reached at andy.wang@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
UPDATED: February 25, 2021 at 9:45 p.m.
The anti-affirmative action group Students for Fair Admissions petitioned the United States Supreme Court Thursday to review a lower court’s decision upholding Harvard’s race-conscious admissions practices, marking the latest development in a nearly seven-year-long, high-profile legal battle that could determine the future of race-conscious admissions in higher education.
By filing a petition for a writ of certiorari, SFFA President Edward J. Blum said in a press release he hopes the Supreme Court will take up the lawsuit and side against Harvard.
“After six and one-half years of litigation, the hundreds of Asian-American students who were unfairly and illegally rejected from Harvard because of their race may soon have this lawsuit reviewed by the U.S. Supreme Court,” Blum said. “It is our hope that the justices will accept this case and finally end the consideration of race and ethnicity in college admissions.”
SFFA first filed suit against Harvard in 2014 in Massachusetts District Court, arguing that Harvard’s race-conscious admissions violated Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, which bans institutions that receive federal funds from discriminating “on the grounds of race, color, or national origin.” Harvard won the initial trial as well as an appeal to the First Circuit Court. The district court judge ruled in 2019 that Harvard does not discriminate against Asian-American applicants, and a pair of judges for the First Circuit affirmed that ruling in November 2020.
In a Thursday interview, Dean of Harvard College Rakesh Khurana defended the College’s use of race-conscious admissions practices in order to achieve a diverse campus.
“As earlier court decisions have confirmed, our admissions policies are consistent with the approaches that the Supreme Court has already outlined,” Khurana said. “We will continue to advance and defend the right of the College and other colleges and universities in this country to seek the educational benefits that come from bringing together a diverse group of talent.”
Should the Supreme Court accept SFFA’s petition, Harvard may find a new ally in the U.S. Justice Department under President Joe Biden. Former President Donald Trump’s Justice Department filed a brief in support of SFFA, but legal experts have told The Crimson they expect the Biden administration to reverse that position.
While experts have previously said they expected SFFA to appeal to the Supreme Court, they are less convinced that the Court will take up the case.
Harvard Law School professor Noah R. Feldman ’92 told the Crimson in January he believes it is “pretty unlikely” the Supreme Court will review the case. Feldman said past Supreme Court cases involving race in admissions have involved public universities, cases in which the constitutional issue is more clearly presented.
University of New Mexico law professor Vinay Harpalani and Dana N. Thompson-Dorsey, chair of education innovation at the University of South Florida, told the Crimson in January that if the Supreme Court were to take up the case, the practice of affirmative action could be endangered, noting the court’s conservative composition.
In a press conference Thursday afternoon, Blum explained that SFFA’s appeal presents two essential questions for the Supreme Court to consider: whether it should overturn the court’s 2003 decision in Grutter v. Bollinger — a case allowing universities to consider race in its admissions to promote student diversity — and whether Harvard’s race-conscious admissions practices violate Title VI.
“In essence, what we’re asking the Supreme Court to do is to revisit their jurisprudence that was handed in, like I said, 2003, when the Supreme Court allowed the use of race in university admissions,” Blum said. “Our argument is that that decision was wrong. And the court, as they often do, needs to go and overturn what they ruled two decades ago.”
Blum said SFFA’s second question in the appeal is focused more specifically on Harvard’s consideration of race in admissions.
“Is Harvard violating Title VI by penalizing Asian-American applicants, engaging in racial balance over emphasizing race and rejecting workable, race-neutral alternatives?” Blum said. “And the energy behind that question is, has Harvard stepped out of the bounds that Grutter allowed them to use race – that is, their use of race as it pertains to admissions of Asian Americans? Has it exceeded what the law allows?”
Four justices must agree to SFFA’s petition before the court takes up the case.
—Staff writers Alex Koller and Taylor C. Peterman contributed reporting.
—Staff writer Vivi E. Lu can be reached at vivi.lu@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Remember how Zoom updated back in September to allow participants to self-select into and move between breakout rooms? If that timeline sounds off, it’s because no one actually updated their Zoom until months after the update came out. So, you probably only remember the awkward few months where professors would manually place the technologically-challenged stragglers into breakout rooms themselves. Anyways, that update was a bust, except maybe for a few eager TFs.
And then the platform followed up by gifting us with filters to place sprouts on our heads? Not going to front, the sunglasses filter has its moments. But let’s be real, Zoom is ignoring the features that would actually be life-changing, and I guess I can help them out.
Automatic Popcorn-Call 
It seems like everybody has deemed icebreakers necessary to distract from the next hour(s) of one person droning on about ~insert here~ that really could have been condensed into an email. There’s only one thing I dread more than Two Truths and a Lie, and that’s coming up with a random person to go next. Zoom, please fix this, and make a button that “popcorns” between every person in the room until everyone has gone. You can even unmute people when it’s their turn to make it extra fancy. Even the cold-hearted professors who like to cold call could make use of this tool.
Tell Us How Many People Are in the Zoom Before We Join 
You know you’re late to adding a feature when even Google Meet has done it.
Locked Mute 
There are some meetings where it’s more of a “be seen and not heard” sort of deal, and having the option to accidentally press the spacebar is dangerous. Please save me from this constant fear.
Ability to Direct Your Cameras to Only the Host
I’m not entirely sure how this mechanism would work (clearly not a future software engineer here), or for how many circumstances this would be helpful. But imagine this: you turn on your camera, and only your professor (who requires all cameras to be on despite there being a couple hundred people in the Zoom) can see you. No one is creepily pinning you their screen anymore. Plus, for smaller sections, if you need to use the restroom, you won’t be subtly broadcasting it to your whole class.
Zoom Breakout Room Timer Needs to be Much Larger
Like, much larger. And flashing. Preferably in neon letters. Because it seems the people you get placed with in breakout rooms either can’t catch a clue that it’s time to wrap up, or they decide to not unmute from the start. And in that latter case, I just need a giant countdown of when I can be freed from the swallowing silence. Give me something to look forward to because it’s not the main room where, of course, I’ll get called on to share with the class what we discussed 🙃.
