News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
During Visitas, hundreds of newly accepted students pour into lecture halls for a chance to experience a preview of the opportunities that await upon their official arrival on campus. I noticed one of the most popular options for course shadowing throughout the weekend was unmistakably Introduction to African American studies, taught by Professor Cornel R. West ’74. However, both pre-frosh and current students will no longer have the chance to sit starry-eyed listening to one of West’s renowned lectures, as he recently announced that he will be leaving Harvard due to the University’s refusal to consider him for tenure.
For Black students, access to scholars like Professor West stands as an unprecedented opportunity in their educational journey. Most public and private institutions across the U.S fail to incorporate meaningful opportunities to explore Black histories and narratives into their syllabi, leaving young Black students without ways to locate themselves in history that go beyond normative discussions of U.S chattel slavery. This denial stifles the formation of our consciousness and self-identification.
As the professor of African and African American Studies 10: “Introduction to African American Studies”, a hallmark course for many Black students, West and his scholarship guided an immeasurable amount of traditionally marginalized students towards their first critical awakenings. From AAAS 10 to the various other courses West teaches across Harvard, the encounters and reckonings fostered within his classrooms were tools for students to carry into our daily struggles as we carve our way towards liberation.
Harvard, an institution birthed from settler colonialism and a contributor to the historical and present-day enslavement of Black people, understands the impact of West and his legacy on campus — which is precisely why I believe they decided not to grant him the opportunity to be considered for tenure. From owning slaves to perpetuating scientific racism to investing in private prisons, Harvard and its community’s ties to abusing Black people are deep-seated and unquestionable. As an outspoken and unapologetic force against white supremacy and advocate for human rights at home and abroad, West placed himself in immediate opposition to the systems of oppression that Harvard has demonstrated a dedication to preserving.
Despite its repeated verbal commitments to racial justice, Harvard denying tenure consideration to West and tenure to professor Lorgia García Peña (a pioneer in Harvard’s fight for Ethnic Studies) demonstrates that Harvard does not aim to inspire and empower future generations of activists and academics who are devoted to shifting the face of academia beyond just physical representation.
West’s denial of tenure consideration is the most recent chapter within a larger story of discrimination and gatekeeping within academia. Non-white scholars are disproportionately denied tenure at elite institutions. However, Harvard's decision in conversation with West’s laundry list of accomplishments and public prominence sends a resounding message: Regardless of distinction, any Black scholar who threatens to challenge the racist, colonial and capitalist status quo is not welcome.
The production of Black-centered knowledge is not a priority for Harvard because it promises to deconstruct the very white supremacist tables at which they have denied us a seat. By centering decolonization and the deconstruction of power, West invited us to pursue a “veritas'' that transcended academia’s pervasive and intentional whiteness and neoliberalism. Offering West tenure would equate to Harvard consenting to the dismantling of its own structural racism.
While West’s departure from campus will leave Black students feeling particularly isolated and underrepresented, his absence will be felt across many other communities on campus. As an ally to third-world struggles outside of the Black community, West knows that all marginalized people are directly connected in a united struggle against global forces of exploitation and oppression. In denying West tenure consideration, Harvard is attempting to incrementally disarm and discourage students from their individual and collective mobilization by robbing us of a supportive pillar and indispensable mentor.
Yet, even in his departure from campus, West continues to exemplify and stimulate resistance.
Though West’s departure has left many frustrated with the University, the continued organizing around his treatment by Harvard, condemning Harvard’s lack of meaningful measures for racial justice, maintains his spirit on campus. A petition calling for Harvard to reverse its decision surrounding West, change its process for tenure consideration, and commit to an Ethnic Studies department received over a thousand signatures. Now, student-led efforts persist in calls for retroactive justice for West, demonstrating that even though Harvard is withholding change, students remain hungry for it.
This year, as students attend Visitas virtually, Professor West’s absence will speak louder than his presence. West’s choice to leave Harvard is a lesson in self-respect to prospective students, teaching them to seek out institutions that respect, uplift, and recognize them and leave behind those that do not.
Marissa J. Joseph ’23, a Crimson Editorial editor, lives in Kirkland House.
Have a suggestion, question, or concern for The Crimson Editorial Board? Click here.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
I don’t like the term “toxic masculinity,” or the concept of “masculinity” in general. Masculinity itself perpetuates a rigid idea of what being a man actually involves, and its involvement in the term “toxic masculinity” further suggests that your very identity as a man has the potential to be damaging, as if your gender is an excuse for harmful behavior: “It wasn’t my fault for acting this way, because that’s what being a man, and being masculine, entails.”
If what makes a man different from a woman is his masculinity and lack of femininity, then it feels wrong to suggest that what makes a man a man can be something negative.
Of course, I understand that the context in which the phrase “toxic masculinity” is used is to critique certain behaviors associated with men rather than gender-distinctive personality traits. I don’t intend to argue that these behaviors aren’t “toxic,” but I believe it’s important to clarify what masculinity is, speaking from what I know as a guy, and knowing the impact this term can have on mental health.
Masculinity, the way it has been advertised to me, encompasses characteristics such as muscularity, aggressiveness, stoicism, etc., and it’s hard to come up with an argument against their inclusion. In my experience, I’ve witnessed many of these qualities more commonly in men than women, and if someone approached me on the street and randomly described a person who possesses these traits, I’d be much more inclined to guess they were describing a man than a woman in those few short seconds before I ran away, regretting having ever visited Australia.
But the problem I find with masculinity and femininity is that they’re (very) imperfect generalizations. The traits I mentioned are not exclusive to men, nor are they present in every man. So, the question is, should masculinity as a whole be defined by traits that are common but not universal?
If genders are to be differentiated by traits perceived to be common, then femininity, and by extension, being a woman might be defined by traits like beauty, passivity, sensitivity, and docility. As if a woman couldn’t possess the traits of strength or assertiveness. The same problem paints masculinity as incompatible with feminine traits. Which would be bad news for me as a die-hard Katy Perry fan (by the way, if you have a problem with any of her bangers, you need more than a mental health column). Even worse for a man who favors de-escalating and avoiding violence, or a woman who acts boldly and audaciously. Is he less a man, and she less a woman?
People should be defined by their characteristics, not by how these characteristics contribute to or infringe upon a person’s adherence to gender-based expectations. Being nurturing shouldn’t make a man less of a man because it contradicts the traits assigned to masculinity; it should just make him a nurturing person. And if a man cries, that shouldn’t make him less of a man; it should make him a real human being. Otherwise, I’d have stopped being a man 16 re-watches of Gladiator ago.
I realize I’m saying this to people who likely agree with me, and who are even stronger advocates against “gender-izing” than I am. But to tie this back to mental health, I think it’s important that people can act how they want to act, and appear how they want to appear, without feeling in conflict with societal expectations.
I see guys I know acting inauthentically just to conform to these expectations of “manly” traits, or becoming possessed by improving their appearance to more closely resemble the physical image associated with masculinity. If I ever speak with my friends about men’s mental health, inevitably the topic of masculinity arises, and how its expectations of resilience, toughness, and a “keep it to yourself” attitude make even just having these conversations harder to do, let alone actually talking about your issues.
I’m left worrying about the mental toll pursuing these ideals takes on the guys I know — contorting themselves to fit these expectations — knowing at the same time how the very same expectations affect me. I’d be lying if I said that when I talk to people, I’m completely comfortable being vulnerable, or that when I work out, it isn’t sometimes motivated by aspiring towards this image. After all, if that’s what it means to be masculine, that’s what you must attain in order to be a man. I expect the experience, in this regard, isn’t too different for women.
I believe you should aspire to be who you want relative to the attributes you value and those you don’t, to the best of your ability ignoring how these attributes would be distinguished in terms of femininity and masculinity. It’s an unnecessary pressure, and personally, I have a lot of respect for people bold enough to act in disregard of these distinctions. It’s the kind of person I’d like to be — and I hope one day, I can drive through the streets blasting “Firework,” window rolled down, and not feel like any less of a man for it.
James M. Heffernan ’24’s column appears on alternate Thursdays.
Have a suggestion, question, or concern for The Crimson Editorial Board? Click here.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
“The natural desire to save a cat is what it means to be a citizen.” - Ai Weiwei 
A woman in my hometown runs a shelter for cats that have been abandoned during tropical storms. My family adopted twins from her in late March of last year: two feral little beasties, gray and stripe-spotted. They bore identical markings along their cheeks — thick black lines curling from their lower eyelids down to their necks, like Horus eye symbols. They also had outsized ears, stumpy tails, and strange seams that ran down their bellies.
At first we could only tell them apart by examining their eyes. One cat had uniform, luminescent jade irises; the other had turquoise, gold-flecked rings surrounding her pupils. This ocular identification system worked fairly well when they stayed still and let us close enough to see their faces, which was rare. Later, we started using their vocalizations to distinguish between them: One cat warbled, low and guttural; the other yowled, high-pitched and trilling.
Once we could somewhat reliably tell them apart, we began debating their names. The subsequent deliberative process took weeks. We tried every electoral system imaginable — majority rule, ranked choice voting, executive veto, parental autocratic rule, etc. My mother started calling one of them Kishka — Yiddish for stuffed sausage — because she ate all of the other cat’s food. At some point Kishka became Kiki and “Other Cat” became Jiji, in reference to the Studio Ghibli movie “Kiki’s Delivery Service”, a film none of us had seen in more than a decade. We intended to come up with more dignified monikers eventually, but soon the kittens were responding to Kiki and Jiji, and the names seemed to suit their spirit and gracelessness.
We spent the first few months of feline cohabitation a bit like we were living with reality TV stars. “Did you see what Kiki did to Jiji this morning?” my brother would ask, the way someone in a different family might ask: “Did you see what Kim did to Kourtney last night?” Like the Kardashians, Kiki and Jiji had dramatic, property-damaging catfights. We lost plants, shelves, jewelry, family antiques, important documents, and various pieces of glassware to their jubilant rampages.
In some ways they are eternal toddlers, the younger siblings I never had. They cry when it’s time for bed, they act out when they are hungry, and they are terrified by thunder. I feel possessive and protective of them, the way I imagine an older sibling might. But I have also watched, uninterrupted, as they grew through cat adolescence. I can’t see their ribs when they breathe anymore, and there is a new fleshiness to their jowls that I press my fingers into when I scratch their chins. Sometimes, one will sit on the floor of my living room with all of her paws tucked in primly, like a little old lady. Google informs me that this first human year is 15 cat years. It is unsettling to baby a creature while watching it age faster than I do.
I think a lot about how they see each other. When they groom side-by-side, they become one entity; they don’t have any conception of personal space. One cat will walk around, on top of, through, or under the other like she is not there at all, or rather that her presence is an extension of a collective, continuous self. But they also fight viciously — over food, toys, or ostensibly nothing — as if to affirm their discrete identities. And they have nuanced, distinctive personalities, evident in their toy preferences, degrees of adventurousness, and modes of affection. They remind me of the chorus from a Crosby, Stills & Nash song I heard when I was little: “They are one person / They are two alone / They are three together / They are for-or each other.”
Earlier in quarantine (I’d say when, but I don’t remember, and regardless all of quarantine has been a temporal anomaly), my mom and I decided to take the cats on a walk outside. We thought they might relax if they could leave the house; it was also fun to do something admittedly absurd where we, for once, were in control of the absurdity.
My mom purchased two harnesses and leashes intended for very small dogs. We knew that strapping our cats into these harnesses would be a difficult and potentially excruciating task depending on their claw lengths, so we planned accordingly. We trapped a chipmunk in a large cage and positioned it right in front of our back door, to offer the felines a source of entertainment. This distraction worked magnificently on Kiki, who sat rapt and docile while we arranged her body into the harness. Jiji, however, lashed and squirmed; I had to hold her still while my mom pulled her legs through the correct limb holes.
We opened the door to a flood of sunshine. Neither cat moved. Kiki blinked up at me, uncharacteristically blasé. I remember thinking of Plato’s Allegory of the cave — how the cats had been imprisoned in our house, limited to only shadows of the outside world, but lost interest when reality was at their whisker-tips.
After a sustained period of inactivity, we decided to usher them outside. Kiki moved about two cat-lengths and then bunkered down in front of the chipmunk cage. On the way, though, she rolled languidly through a pile of pollen, triggering a minor allergic reaction in my dad, who had come outside to observe. Jiji, taking advantage of the upheaval, managed to squeeze through the neck hole of her harness, darted by me, and disappeared behind our house.
We lured her inside with treats. But when she was back in the house, she no longer recognized Kiki as her sister — something about the pollen had changed Kiki’s smell, and Jiji’s adventure in the wilderness had affected her perception. In addition to the anxiety of dealing with this new cat, Jiji also missed her sister. She let out pitiful wails, as if to say: “Who is this malodorous intruder? And on an unrelated note, where is my sister?”
After a few hours, they were sleeping side-by-side again, once more a unitary, amorphous entity. We still don’t know whether Jiji ultimately recognized Kiki, or if she just decided that this new cat was an acceptable replacement.
I have narrated this story like my cats are singular. But of course pandemic pets are a widespread phenomenon; adoption rates have skyrocketed during the past year.
At their worst, pandemic pets symbolize middle class escapism and privilege, an inward expression of compassion for the nuclear family that should be expended outwards. It also goes without saying that my family is immensely fortunate — new pets were our greatest change in the past year, while others grapple with immense loss and instability.
But my cynical take on pandemic pets as everything wrong with the American middle class is unnecessarily bleak and reductionist. Adopting Covid pets is not mutually exclusive with experiencing loss; much of the adoption craze is attributed precisely to the increase in severe depression and anxiety that Americans across the socioeconomic spectrum are enduring.
And pandemic animals offer benefits beyond the uptick in appreciation and jobs for veterinarians. In my cats I see a microcosm of the animal kingdom: I see deer in the branching, antler-like architecture of their white whiskers; minnows in how they dart and nip at our ankles; bears in their heavy-limbed huffing and wrestling. I hope that for other people, new pets are also inspiring broader respect and love for nature.
As we arrive in this March when the other one never seemed to end, my cats, with their minute-to-minute mood shifts and rapid growth, have become the way I measure time. They embody the pandemic experience: chaos and joy, boredom and frustration, hunger and exuberance. They have never known a world without the pandemic, and I’m beginning to feel like I’ve never known life without them.
— Staff writer Talia M. Blatt can be reached at talia.blatt@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @talia_m_blatt
Sections
I started writing this letter as a tribute to all the things that ended before they had a chance to begin. Sweater-clad at 1 a.m., absorbed in my post-midnight angst, I opened my laptop and began:
Dear Harvard,
This is for the water bottles never dropped in Widener, the all-nighters never pulled in the sallow fluorescence of Lamont. This is for mystery HUDS meat and Mike’s cannolis, for aimless philosophizing along the Charles and the hushed magic of a Yard sugared in snow. All the ordinary moments that never came to pass.
When I tell people I’ve never stepped foot on campus as an enrolled student, they react with a range of understandable emotions — pity, outrage, disbelief. My high school self would have been speechless, too. I would have been incensed at the thought of spending what was supposed to be one of the most formative years of my life in the sleepy suburbs of northern Illinois.
There was nothing obscure about the way I envisioned the start of college. I imagined everything with painstaking clarity and an unwavering sense of purpose. The days and weeks following my admission were euphoric — I thought about you incessantly.
I knew writing would be an important part of my life in college. I imagined going through drafts at Darwin’s, gazing off into the haze of a rainy October morning. When it came to concentrations, I vacillated between English and History & Literature. I thought I knew exactly what I wanted to do, who I wanted to become, and how I’d go about doing it.
Then came March. Things changed — slowly at first, then all at once.
The vision for college I had rehearsed countless times over dissipated, lost its shape. It’s not that my plans were no longer valuable. They were just incompatible with my new reality.
***
I should preface all this by confessing I’ve visited you before. In fact, I was born a few miles from you.
The night my parents brought me and my twin back home from Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, the car almost got snowed in. Imagine: a raging blizzard, two newborns cradled in the nook of my mom’s arms, my dad juggling tupperware and creased blankets as he fumbled with the iced-shut doors of a Honda Explorer.
Somehow, they managed to bring us back home. But I’m sure that complex feeling — of immense exhaustion, of holding something so valuable while clawing open a closed door — lingered well past that January storm.
When my twin, my older sister, and I fell asleep that night, my parents’ real work began. I imagine them bleary-eyed as the night darkened into cobalt, exhausted from being graduate students on top of raising kids. My mom starting a new chapter of her dissertation while stifling a yawn, the word processor bathing her face in a bluish glow. My dad poring over court cases, underlining furiously, his leatherbound English dictionary an arm’s length away.
Surrounding all of this was you. You were always there, a permanent fixture. If there were days my parents forgot, it’s precisely because you were ubiquitous — in the air I breathed, the buildings I touched, the lawns I learned to crawl on. I don’t remember it, but there you were, at the beginning of my life.
***
Throughout my childhood, we visited from time to time. I remember you in glimpsed fragments: My parents’ apartment on Prentiss Street. The Chinese restaurant across from the Law School. The winding roads, so different from the orderly highways of Illinois. How I’d lean against the cool window of the rental car, nodding off as I gazed at the fast-moving Charles.
Then came high school. We visited a few weeks after I sent in my application. Why we thought that was a good idea, I still don’t understand. I remember overhearing students commiserate over “Gen Eds” as I weaved through book shelves at The Coop. I remember tiptoeing through an eerily silent Law School library, whispering with my dad (to the annoyance of exam-period 1L’s) as we tried to translate the Latin phrase inscribed on the ceiling. I remember people-watching while sipping a hot chocolate at Burdick: He’s pre-law, she’s comp sci, they’re definitely dating.
I’d be lying if I said I didn’t imagine, pre-admission, what it’d be like. Racing to class, skipping a stone across the Charles, trudging up a narrow stairwell as the sun spilled over treetops.
On some nights, after I finish my homework or exit a Zoom call, I still do. Now, in my childhood home, I still imagine what it would be like to be where you are, to breathe your city’s air. To see you.
***
The other day, I went through old photos with my dad.
We crouched in the basement and sifted through the past: My mom smiling in her red cap and gown. My dad dwarfed by the crashing Massachusetts surf. My parents holding me and my twin sister, their youthful faces animated against a backdrop of shelves — books, court cases, discarded theses. I gawked at the disheveled mess. My dad shrugged, chuckled. “It was the graduate student life,” he said, gazing down at that lapsed moment in time.
Had this been a normal year, I would have embarked on a new beginning alongside new people, new buildings, a new city. It was strange — surreal, almost — to still be in the place I’d called home for over a decade. Here I was with my father, mulling our path from Boston to Chicago over easy silence.
After a while, we forgot what we were looking for. The fading sunlight cast purple shadows on our hands. Between us, there was everything and nothing to say.
***
I started writing this letter to mourn the first year of college I had lost. But inevitably, that gave way to what this letter always was: an account of everything that remained with me as the world turned away. My family. My love of words. My conviction that this, too, would eventually meet its end. That one day, the world would open — gingerly at first, as though afraid of peeling open a scabbed wound. And we’d start to remember every ordinary and exceedingly good thing: walking barefoot on the beach, sitting in cafes beside strangers, reveling in that hushed thrill as the theater lights start to dim.
Someday, I’ll arrive at your doorstep. I’ll heave my luggage into one of your cramped dorms. I’ll follow my parents to their favorite spots, see if this shop is still there and that restaurant is still open. I’ll order mint chocolate chip ice cream at J.P. Licks. My parents will insist they pay because they’ll be leaving soon, and then we’ll become unbearably sentimental as our ice cream puddles into soup.
We’ll explore the Law School library, just like we did before. Before Covid-19. Before my admission. Before everything ended and began, rudely and astoundingly and all at once. Before — I’m not sure if there’s a more fraught word in the world. At least, not anymore.
Heads tilted toward the towering columns, we’ll forget about parting for a moment. I’ll ask my dad if he remembers the Latin we couldn’t translate on the ceiling.
He does.
***
I’m going to be devastated when they leave. I’ll wander along the river, wallow in broody indie music, stay up too late with friends to distract from my grief. But eventually, that ache will dissipate. I’ll grow busy. I’ll call home. I’ll calibrate to what’s ahead.
People say life happens when we’re not paying attention. I think that’s the one cliché I throw my weight behind. Because it’s true — the moment I don’t think to look, everything starts to change.
It’ll happen when I least suspect it. I’ll be racing to class or snapping a photo or frantically skimming a book in the Yard. I’ll turn my head, and you’ll be there. You’ll be there in all your entirety — your throngs of students and storied corridors, the bleak beauty of your midwinters. The gray swell of the river. The imperceptible hum of thousands of searching minds. As you coalesce, what I had taken for granted so long ago will dawn on me in an irreversible way:
I’m here. 
Brick by brick, road by road, you’ll materialize, as though for the first time. I’ll stare blankly, stunned by the private enormity of that moment. I’ll think to myself then that this is a place I could fall into, even call home. That this is a place I could love.
— Staff writer Isabella B. Cho can be reached at isabella.cho@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @izbcho.
Sections
I kept a lot of secrets when I was a kid. I faked being sick ahead of field trips because I was nervous about finding a bus buddy. I cried before all of my birthday parties because I was afraid nobody would show up. And I loved the movie “Twilight” enough to quote the script word-for-word by the time I was 10.
I don’t remember how it happened — I must have seen it at a sleepover, worlds away from the strict PBS broadcast regimen of my house. But something in that blue-tinted, wide-angled pan shot of the Pacific Northwest lit up my little soul. It was vampires and werewolves and a pasty girl named Bella who fell all the time and bit her lip incessantly. If anyone had asked me, I would have denied it, but what was not to love?
As I grew older, I stopped avoiding field trips and (for the most part) crying on my birthdays. I became interested in film, and I spent my high school years trekking through lists of classic cinema and art house indies. I could talk about anything from “Casablanca” and “The Godfather” to “Donnie Darko” and “Moonlight,” and, much to the annoyance of everyone around me, I did. Film was an entirely new world to explore, and I never wanted to stop making discoveries. I still kept “Twilight” lovingly folded in my back pocket, but I was convinced that I had moved on to more important artistic pursuits. At least, I thought so until the pandemic hit.
I left Harvard in March of my freshman year, and although I was devastated to be apart from the campus community and my friends, I begrudgingly accepted the situation. I went to my Zoom classes, wrote a few papers, scrolled through TikTok. I read “Normal People” and hung out with my mom. I didn’t feel the hopelessness of quarantine yet, and when I clicked play on “Twilight” for the first time in years, I did it for a laugh. I watched Edward sparkle in the sun, and I actually giggled aloud. I marveled at the ridiculousness of a movie I had once loved, and when I went to bed that night, I thought I was done with it for another five years.
In July, I found out that I’d be home for the fall semester, and I moved into my parents’ basement. It was fun at first to paint the walls and string up lights, but as more of my hometown friends left for their college campuses, I began to dread a year online. When school started in September, I felt lonelier than ever. Covid-19 cases were spiking in my community, and my parents didn’t want me to leave the house. I stared at a computer all day and barely slept at night. I told myself that I just had to ride it out, that I had it better than so many other people, but I couldn’t shake the feelings of aimlessness and isolation. I wanted to feel light again, if only temporarily.
Enter, as if on cue, “Twilight.” It began again in October, when I decided to make fun of Edward and Bella in the spirit of Halloween. I chuckled through Kirsten Stewart’s deranged lip biting and Robert Pattinson’s dialogue (“This is the skin of a killer, Bella!”), but as I watched, I realized that I was enjoying myself beyond the mockery. Something had changed. The blue-tint, the high school antics, the endless forests: it all felt suddenly warm. It was safe and familiar, like I was wrapped in an imaginary blanket, cradled by the images on the screen. I sat on my sofa for 10 minutes after the movie was done. The next night, I watched it again.
During November alone, I watched “Twilight” six times. I was too embarrassed to tell anyone, but it was the only thing that made me feel good. I couldn’t explain it. I had once dedicated entire summers to watching new movies, and now I was compulsively viewing a single one about teenage vampires. I was 20 years old and trapped in a secret infatuation from my childhood.
In 2014, Derek Thompson wrote an article for The Atlantic about why people watch the same movies over and over again. He discusses what the philosopher Martin Heidegger called “redreging,” or the act of recalling past experiences to feel better in the present. Now known as “regressive re-consumption,” the idea is that entertainment can transport us back in time to certain memories and feelings. We rewatch old movies to rekindle our nostalgia for happier or simpler times, and as Thompson points out, “using nostalgia as a kind of therapy isn’t uncommon.” Regardless of how much the world changes, our favorite films remain the same, and we know exactly what to expect when we watch them. We can anticipate a film’s exact emotional map because we’ve seen it before, and in difficult times, that might be the most we can handle.
If you search “rewatching movies in quarantine” online, you’ll come up with at least 10 articles about why it’s normal and why it’s okay. I did, too, after I watched “Twilight” for the sixth time and began to question my sanity. I came across an Esquire piece from May, an article by Dave Holmes titled, “I’m Stuck in the Quarantine Time Machine. So Are You. And That’s Okay for Now.” I thought, sure, maybe I’m stuck, but for how long is that really okay? How long until it just becomes pathetic?
I kept a lot of secrets when I was a kid, and I never fully kicked the habit. Secrets have tiers, and last semester, it was easier to watch “Twilight” than admit to myself that I was miserable. I lived off of nostalgia because I knew I could do it quietly. I didn’t have to tell anybody or explain anything; I could just turn on the television and feel whatever I wanted.
As I write this article in March, it’s easy to reflect on my behavior in the fall with concern. I know that I was unhappy, and I know that I used the childlike familiarity of “Twilight” to cope. But I am hesitant to make any scathing statement about the “regressive re-consumption” of my quarantine. I live with friends now, and I haven’t watched “Twilight” in months, but I can’t deny that it made me feel better when I needed it to. Perhaps it was regressive, a bit obsessive, and definitely embarrassing, but I won’t hold it against myself. While I don’t recommend that anybody watch “Twilight” on a loop to forget themselves, I won’t judge them if they do. Last fall, I wanted so desperately to understand my behavior, to define it and fix it, but maybe there was never anything to fix. Maybe I was just a college student alone in a basement during a pandemic, and I did what I did because it made sense at the time. Whatever it was, it feels good to get off my chest.
— Staff writer Vera E. Petrovic can be reached at vera.petrovic@thecrimson.com.
Sections
I’ve never been known for my dishwashing abilities, and I told the chef this much the day he hired me. At home, I was exceedingly thorough, too slow — a terrible trait for any dishwashing professional trying to keep a kitchen going — and repulsed by my family’s leftover food. This time around it was the residue of strangers, contaminated, maybe, by a virus.
I didn’t work any service jobs in high school. I’d been a docent at the Museum of Math, donning a marigold polo and getting my feet trampled by the museum’s famous square-wheeled tricycle; I’d spent a summer shelving books at a local library. But I’d never really had to treat a customer as if they were always right, my voice reaching a false, cheery register.
In the last days of August in Delaware County, I began working as a host at a sleek Asian fusion restaurant. I worked the lunch shift. I’d take the commuter rail a few stops, climb up a steep hill while batting away invasive lanternflies, and get paid $10 an hour to sit, read, and ask people to please put on their masks. It was a popular gig for local 15-year-old girls; my spot opened up because their summer vacation was ending. The few hours I worked were nearly as lonely as quarantine.
Browsing Craigslist on a slow Tuesday, I found a listing for a dishwasher and prep cook at an “American bistro” opening across the street from my apartment. I printed out my résumé at work and delivered it the same day; I quit the hosting job a few days later.
I was the bistro’s first employee, and I spent the first of my 11- or 12-hour shifts peeling stickers off the bottoms of bowls, plates, ladles, pans. The kitchen was around the size of a three-stall public restroom. My world was the sink, partitioned into three basins. Left: pink, soapy water, and a few floating sponges. Middle: empty, for rinsing down with a spray gun. Right: blue sanitizing liquid. I liked that one: you’d drop a couple tablets in the water at the start of the day, and measure the concentration on a slip of paper.
I wore thick yellow gloves, designed for much larger hands, which often tore on steak knives, flooding the gloves and pruning my hands. By my feet sat a bus tub for dirty dishes. (Health codes, as you might have realized if you’re familiar with them, were not followed closely.) By the end of every shift, my socks were soaked with cold dish water, and my back shot with pain.
Once the restaurant opened, the slow hours of the afternoon transformed entirely. I scurried back and forth through the kitchen, hauling tubs of dishes with chewed up steak and spilled crème anglaise and barely-touched mousse, sneering at the slow pace of the busser when I was in a really bad mood, and wiping plates off with my gloved hands in a single swipe. I would occasionally get so hungry that I felt tempted to eat off the plates, though I never did — if not for the pandemic, I’m not so sure what I would have done when faced with an untouched crostini. My dad, who had worked as a dishwasher in his twenties, semi-joked that steak was the best, since “you can cut around the bites.”
Everyone else working at the restaurant was also white, and also college-educated. The $11 I made each hour were survivable, but for another person, it might have been unlivable. (Hazard pay was a distant dream.) I had a dual sense of the precarity of the job: I needed it, but I could (and did) leave for a tutoring gig, and I struggled to feel like my labor was valued. Though I took the job on the promise that I’d learn how to cook, whenever I held a knife I received skeptical glances — no one had actually taught me the proper form. I craved the kind of assurance and confidence in my ability I was used to, at school and in other jobs. Dishwashing is deemed “unskilled labor,” something anyone could do — yet, in a sense, I could not. After a few months, I quit and went back to virtual jobs with shorter hours. Better pay, less work.
There is truly nothing exceptional about a 20-year-old working a vaguely unpleasant low-wage job. Yet I had to explain to college friends what I was doing, calling them after work to detail why tolerating burns from seeding ghost peppers was a victory. I’d go to virtual talks hosted by the College, where students in the audience would go around and describe their quarantine — they were writing plays, interning at tech companies, attending classes — and upon explaining my job, I would sometimes receive consolation from professors or, more often, tones of approval, as if I’d made the choice to build some character on my gap year.
I grew to resent the front-of-house management as most in the back-of-house tend to: I was grubby and always tired, and they came in around 4 p.m., mostly sitting at the bar drinking glasses of wine. The town was wealthy and not at all densely populated, and these two things made it easy to forget that a pandemic was going on — you could walk its suburban streets for miles and encounter only one person, walking their dog. At the town center sat an organic grocery store, where my roommate worked as a cashier. She came home once to tell me that an older woman had thanked her for “risking your life to feed me.” At the restaurant, the owners would commend those of us in the kitchen, saying, “You work so hard, you deserve so much.” We laughed about it later. “If I deserve more,” one cook said, “why don’t they pay me more?”
I remember seeing a picture of the restaurant taken when the owners began to renovate the space. Walls were torn down, walls were constructed, and light filtered through the storefront in unfamiliar patterns. The owners, who had little restaurant experience and didn’t know any better, had chosen the dimensions of our cramped kitchen. It was hard to forget what the chef told me my first day: If the kitchen had been any bigger, they’d have bought a dishwashing machine, rendering me obsolete.
— Olivia G. Oldham is the Magazine Chair of the 148th Guard. Follow her on Twitter at @olivia__oldham.
Sections
Jillian A. Sharples ’21 knows that she doesn’t have all the answers.
Sharples is the co-founder of the Harvard Undergraduate Ethics Bowl team, which analyzes questions of morality at competitions around the country. The purpose of Ethics Bowl is to examine the ethical facets of real-world cases without the emphasis on speed, one-upmanship, or dogmatism that characterizes traditional debate.
“The process has just given me a lot of humility,” Sharples says. “At this point I don’t even have a very cemented stance on any moral issue, because I always know that there’s something I’m not aware of and a perspective that I’ve not accessed.”
Sharples began competing in Ethics Bowl in high school, drawn to the inclusive community and opportunity for in-depth discussion. When she got to Harvard, she was unable to find a similar group that “embodied the spirit” of collaboration amongst people from a wide variety of backgrounds.
“After trying organizations such as Model UN, or even the John Adams Society at one point, I realized that there’s really no way to replicate Ethics Bowl,” Sharples says.
She founded the Harvard team in the spring of 2020, and it currently has around a dozen members. The onset of the pandemic has not hindered the club’s success — last month, seven members competed and placed in the quarterfinals of the Association for Practical and Professional Ethics’s 2020-21 national Intercollegiate Ethics Bowl, which was adapted to a virtual format.
For Craig W. McFarland Jr. ’24, co-vice president of the team, the team’s early success against schools with years of experience was “so incredibly insane.”
In advance of an Ethics Bowl competition, participants receive a casebook of morally ambiguous scenarios. Each match in the competition poses a question based on one of these cases; one such question asks, “Is the fact that an op-ed is written by a member of Congress sufficient grounds for publishing it, regardless of the merits of the claims made in the op-ed?” Both teams are then given time to discuss the question amongst themselves in breakout rooms, present their cases, respond to arguments made by the other team, and answer questions posed by the judges.
“You have to discuss issues in a manner that is both collegial and collaborative,” McFarland says. “It’s not necessarily about picking one side; it’s about doing the research and looking at all the intricacies.”
The resulting dynamic is as civil as one would expect — opposing teams frequently agree with each other and even give compliments for raising strong points. “In traditional debate you have to tear apart the other person’s argument,” says President Katie M. Sierra ’23, “whereas Ethics Bowl is more so about listening to them […] and offering critiques and edits instead of criticisms.”
In preparation for competitions, the team meets weekly and splits into small groups to probe each case from all angles. For members new to Ethics Bowl, the club offers a three-day training that teaches them ethical frameworks, such as consequentialism or virtue ethics. Sierra says that the club plans to bring philosophy education to younger students in the future, either through a lecture series in Cambridge-area schools or even via its own high school Ethics Bowl conference.
Sharples hopes that the growing presence of Ethics Bowl, both at Harvard and beyond, will work to “really make philosophy accessible and to help people understand how it is applicable in our daily lives.” Indeed, the ethical cases the team analyzes are highly relevant to current events: How do we balance the rights of the accuser with the rights of the accused? Is it possible to separate the Harry Potter series from J.K. Rowling’s transphobic comments? When should we reopen the economy amidst a public health crisis?
“One of my favorite things about Ethics Bowl is [that] the conversations that we have as a team are conversations you can have with quite literally anyone,” McFarland says. “There were many times where I talked about these cases with my suitemates, with my friends at dinner.”
The broad appeal of moral philosophy is reflected in the diverse interests of the Ethics Bowl team members, whose concentrations range from Integrative Biology to Social Studies to Physics. McFarland, who plans to obtain an M.D. and J.D., particularly enjoys discussing bioethics cases. Sierra is on a pre-veterinary track and believes the speaking and reasoning skills she’s gained will be applicable to discussing treatment plans with pet owners. And as a cadet in the Army Reserve Officers’ Training Corps, Sharples anticipates that her Ethics Bowl experience will help her reason through the moral dilemmas she’ll face as an officer in the military after graduation.
“It’s never been about winning for us,” Sharples says. “It’s just been about getting the most out of our discussions and really figuring out what we believe.”
—Magazine writer Sophia S. Liang can be reached at sophia.liang@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter at @totalPHIAsco
—Contributing reporter Arjun Bhattarai can be reached at arjunbhattarai@college.harvard.edu
Sections
The oblong purple case refused to nestle into the cardboard box. Frustrated, I pulled it out and pushed it back under the bed where it had sat for the past six months. Surrounded by piles of clothes and bags of trash, I crouched down in the few feet of available space and ran through a dwindling list of options, but to no avail: my violin case wouldn’t fit anywhere.
Eight years of learning, practicing, and performing violin had been neatly tucked away in this case. And so, after the fateful email on March 10, 2020 that shut down campus, my violin was just another item swept into the flurry of condensing and packing. That Saturday afternoon, I squeezed it into a car trunk, drove 250 miles home, and returned it, now dust-free, to its shelf.
In quarantine, I came face-to-face with a shut case. Day after day, its silver zippers glinted and danced in the sun as I walked by en route to the kitchen. A beat. Then I walked on, feeling torn with the lingering thought of what once was.
***
I squinted at Mozart’s Concerto in D Major, the black lines covered with stars, circles, and arrows. The metronome ticked away and flashed as my teacher tapped her pencil in double time. Mozart should be rhythmically even, sparkling, and elegant, yet for the past 10 minutes I had blundered through the same five measures with awkward, beleaguered strokes. Slowing down, playing the notes in isolation, and trying a different rhythm had all yielded the same heavy results.
Our valuable hour-long time slot was slipping away with every failed attempt. My teacher shook her head and waved her hand, signaling for us to move on, and I made an umpteenth mental note to return to this measure when practicing at home. The audition was just two weeks away, which meant practicing, polishing, and nailing every last detail on repeat.
And faceless, back-turned judges were looking for more than the right notes and rhythm: they wanted your playing to align with their vision of the appropriate dynamics, technique, and style for the excerpt. Then they would package each performance into neat little checkboxes labeled intonation, tone, and musicality and accompanied by a handy point scale.
There was a whole world of possible slip-ups: a few notes a sliver flat or sharp, the piano not piano enough, a tempo taken a few clicks too slow. Each spelled elimination from the competition.
Nine months in advance, the clock would start ticking. Pick up the notes and the rhythm, follow the dynamics, listen to the masters, drill the articulations, phrase the melody, run through each section. I dissected and stitched together challenging excerpts, pored over the manuscript to explicitly notate dynamics, and agonized over my clumsy fingers that refused to articulate properly. My teacher and I examined and re-examined every last detail, always through the lens of making the end product: a two-minute excerpt in an audition or a nine-minute movement in a recital, immaculate and show-stopping.
For eight years, I raced through scales, études, and concerti with the same blinders on. Through auditions and recitals, I was constantly seeking validation in a clean performance, proof that I could call myself a musician. I strived to fit in, hopping from school to music lesson to orchestra rehearsal to practice, squeezing through crowds with my purple case, and making fun of violists (as violinists do).
But even after a successful audition, I could not rest because my peers pushed on. During breaks in our six-hour orchestra rehearsals, other violinists a few rows ahead of me would erupt into passages filled with complex techniques. They would push each other to go faster, be more expressive, or play a more challenging piece. I looked up to them as stars I could never even dream of sharing the stage with. With stars like them shooting across the sky, would there ever be room for me?
This doubt reached a breaking point when I came to Harvard. Freshman fall, I fell flat on a scale during an audition and didn’t make the cut. I suddenly realized my peers were international and national competition winners. I stopped playing. My world fell silent, my violin case slipped under the bed, and my sheet music lay untouched.
***
Nearly a full year into the vacuum of quarantine and isolation, I hopped online in search of classical music to play while studying. I clicked on the first link and found myself listening to 105.9 FM WQXR, New York’s classical music radio station. The familiar notes brought on a rush of nostalgia as I leaned back in my childhood bedroom chair, soaking in the music riding over the airwaves.
Tuning into WQXR online or on the app soon became a ritual. Seven a.m. on Saturday is reserved for listening to Grieg’s “Morning Mood” played to the sunrise and the Piano Puzzler quiz show. Four p.m. calls for the “Score at Four” featuring movie scores, while 11 o’clock evenings dive deep into analyzing and exploring diverse pieces.
For the first time, I take a seat in the audience and listen to others perform over the airwaves.
WQXR’s hosts are up all night and day as a listening companion, ready to introduce a piece and share a tidbit about the composer or the music. Free from the pressure of delivering the final polished product of a performance, I can now appreciate music for all its nuances, rich in texture, story, and history. Mozart’s Concerto in D Major is more than a minefield of delicate ornaments potentially destroyed with a shaky bow, but a collective breath of fresh air, an optimistic melody in these bleak times. Manuscripts I had scribbled on and overanalyzed break free of the past and come alive as music.
While simply enjoying classical music may seem like a regression from my many performances of the past, I am content to just listen. It took distance and acceptance, two gifts of this quarantine, to unlearn the old habit of listening to music only with my next performance in mind. Now, I welcome each piece with its own infinite world of interpretations and strive to better understand music as a whole, beyond a series of timed bow strokes.
I ache for more connections to the music beyond the staff, to learn more about the context, the composer, the vision, to learn what eight years of playing could not teach me. I am reading memoirs about re-discovering music, comping WHRB’s Classical Music Department, and taking a music theory class — activities I thought I had scattered into dust long ago — to make these connections. Music is more than a performance; it is a story that can be enjoyed as the storyteller or the listener.
As I walk by the oblong purple case basking in the sun, I hear the muted tones of a violin. Tentatively, I step forwards and feel the cold zipper in my hands: pull left and pull right. Inside, the violin lays flat, the metallic strings loose, and the rosin long dried on the bow.
With newfound strength, I begin to tune.
— Staff writer Felicia Y. Ho can be reached at felicia.ho@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @HoPanda007.
Sections
From bread-baking to TikTok-dancing, Harvard students have picked up all kinds of new hobbies over the last year of quarantine. But while most students have picked up these new activities alone, from wherever they are weathering the pandemic, one group has stitched together a community: The Harvard Knitting Circle.
Allison K. Tu ’23, a co-founder of the Knitting Circle, says the trend of taking up new hobbies has helped boost interest in the group, as according to Tu, more people have become intrigued by the “fiber arts.”
“Everyone was bored during Covid and needed something to do, and needed something to keep their hands busy while they were in Zoom school, so a ton of new people ended up joining,” Tu says.
The Knitting Circle meets via Zoom on Friday and Saturday nights. The group also provides free yarn for participants through a grant from the Undergraduate Council — as Tu points out, yarn can be “shockingly expensive.” The group is also applying for funding to pay for supplies for students to make hats, scarves, and other cold-weather garments for members of Cambridge’s unhoused residents.
Tu says that building community has been a key component of the group since its inception. When Tu learned to knit in her senior year of high school, she found “It was really fun — it’s almost like combining engineering with art, to make stuff — so it’s just a really fun craft and I wanted to discover other people who did fiber arts at Harvard,” Tu says.
She did just that, while eating dinner with friends in Annenberg one night, Tu met her co-founder, Clara V. Nguyen ’23, who, fittingly, was wearing a scarf she had knit herself.
After discovering their shared interest in knitting, Nguyen and Tu began organizing groups of their friends to knit together: at first in person, then on Zoom, once campus closed.
The pandemic has prompted a sharp rise in membership. Tu says that the stress of midterms has caused a drop in attendance, but that usually, three to 12 people attend the twice-weekly meetings and that there are more than 120 students in the Knitting Circle’s GroupMe.
Tu says that the club has “more members than I was ever expecting,” adding, “There's always new people who either do the fiber arts that haven't discovered Knitting Circle yet, or who haven't learned how to knit or crochet but might really enjoy it as a hobby.”
On a recent Saturday night, five Harvard students worked on their fiber arts projects and discussed everything from psychology research topics to a crochet pattern for a stuffed alpaca. Meanwhile, a certain FM writer tried — with mixed results — to start the crochet-a-penguin kit she ordered off of an Instagram ad at 3 a.m.
Ultimately, Tu sees the Knitting Circle as a positive, tight-knit addition to Harvard’s often-stressful climate.
“I think it enables everyone to chill out a little bit, take a break, and relax, but I think it can be really challenging at Harvard generally, and on Zoom especially,” Tu said. She hopes that Knitting Circle “brings together the campus,” to share “a fun hobby, so we can all hang out and relax.”

—Staff writer Ellen M. Burstein can be reached at ellen.burstein@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @ellenburstein.
Sections
No one can see me when I pull my hood up over my face. Not Serena, not Alex, not my teacher. My teacher, she says, “What are you doing? You’re so silly, Fin.”
But I’m not that silly, and when I walk into the wall my head goes bang, bang, bang.
“Serena, have a seat please. Fin, are you okay?” I can’t see Ms. Mikel, but I hear her voice. I walk my fingers up the side of my face and push against the little bump on my forehead. I’m okay. I’m better. “Fin?”
“Yup, yup, yup.”
“Will you come back to the table so we can see you again, please?”
I hold my elbows in tight, tight, tight to my sides except for my claws and take big, T-Rex steps back into the kitchen. On the screen of my iPad, Serena is jumping in front of a huge rainbow picture of her face, and Alex is singing Happy Birthday again, but I can tell Ms. Mikel is looking right at me. I stick out my tongue at her, and she copies me, then smiles.
The neck of my hoodie gets stuck on my nose when I try to take it off but I pull and pull until it shoots over my head and I’m all sweaty.
“I know the answer,” I say, wiping my forehead with my fingers. It throbs a little, my fingers coming away damp.
“What’s the answer, dude?” Ms. Mikel says. Her eyes are all twinkly like she has a secret, like we’re sharing a secret because I know the answer and no one else does, not even Serena.
It banged right into my head from the wall; the wall is a lot smarter than me because it’s been here for longer. Maybe even longer than Ms. Mikel. Longer than Grandma, even. Grandma always said that the people who have been here the longest know the most.
“I don’t live with my grandma anymore,” I say.
“Thanks for sharing that, Fin!” Ms. Mikel says. She smiles even harder, just like she used to in the classroom, only now I’m at home. “Did you say you had the answer?”
“Yes. It goes 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, 12, 14, 16 —”
“Thank you, my friend —”
“18, 20, 22, 24, 26, 28 —”
“Why don’t we give the rest of our friends —”
“30, 32, 34, 36, 38 —”
“A chance to help me out as well?”
“40, 42, 44 —”
“Fin?”
“46, 48 —”
“Fin!”
“50. Yes, Ms. Mikel?”
“That was some great counting you just did! Why don’t we let someone else have a turn now?”
“We visited her in the hospital.”
“Who?”
“My grandma.”
“Oh! Is she still in the hospital now?”
“No.”
“That’s good!” She pauses and stops smiling. “That’s good, right?”
“Tomorrow, Mama is taking Naro and me to the store to find a suit.” Serena is changing her background and I can’t hear Alex but his lips are moving so I know he’s singing again.
“Wow! I’m sure you’ll look very handsome in a suit.”
My hoodie was on the back of the chair before, but now I can’t find it. Where is it?
Aha! I dive under the table and scoop it up.
“Serena, it’s your turn. Would you like to try to count by twos?” Ms. Mikel says.
I stick my head through the head hole of the hoodie and then my arms, and then I put one of the strings in my mouth. It’s already wet, and I can taste a little bit of sweetness I think.
“AND I’m getting a bike!” I yell, because I just remembered. My hoodie string swings out of my mouth and leaves a wet spot on the front of the sweatshirt.
“Fin, remember. We have to take turns speaking. If you have something to share, you can raise your hand.”
It’s my first bike ever. We looked it up last night on the Target website, dark blue with yellow stripes and black wheels, and Mama says I can get a bell, too. I don’t know how to ride a bike, but I know how to ride a scooter. And I know how to ring a bell.
I push the black and red button on the screen on my iPad so Ms. Mikel and Serena and Alex and everyone else can’t hear me, and then I go back over to the wall. Bang, bang, bang.
Mama is in the room. “Finley, what on earth are you doing, honey?”
She squats down so her face is right in my face and puts her ginormous hand on my forehead. “Oh sweetie, there’s a bump. How long have you been doing that?”
I push my shoulders up toward my ears and then they fall down.
She looks around. “Aren’t you supposed to be in class?”
“I am.”
She looks over at the iPad. We can hear Serena’s voice: “92, 94, 96…”
“Let me get you an ice pack, honey. Then it’s back to class. No more of that head-bonking, okay? Don’t want to lose any of those special brain cells of yours.”
I put the hoodie string back into my mouth.
When we visited Grandma, the nurse held the iPad up so we could see her on Facetime. She couldn’t talk to us because had a blue tube in her mouth, but she blinked her eyes at us a bunch of times, and Naro started crying but I didn’t.
Mama isn’t our real mom. Before we lived with her, we lived with Grandma. But when Grandma went to the hospital we couldn’t stay in the apartment all by ourselves. We couldn’t stay with our real mom, either, because Grandma always says she’s off getting herself better, which Naro says is code for we don’t know where she is.
As we watched Grandma blink, Mama put her arms around us and said if there’s anything we want to say to Grandma, we should say it. I put my face up close to the screen and I said “Grandma!” And Grandma didn’t say anything, because she had the tube like a ginormous pacifier in her mouth, but I paused anyway just to make sure I had her whole attention. “Grandma! Next Christmas, I think I’m ready to learn how to ride a bike!”
And then Mama started crying, even though she doesn’t know Grandma, so maybe she’s scared of hospitals or something. Grandma blinked a bunch more times, which the nurse said meant, “I love you.” After we hung up, we went to IHOP, and I got birthday cake pancakes which are my favorite, and the syrup on my plate kept getting caught in the strings of my hoodie every time I moved.
Mama comes back with an ice pack shaped like a basketball. It burns cold against my forehead, but the bump hurts less now. I didn’t even realize it was hurting before.
“If you have any more of those feelings, honey, like you want to bonk your head on the wall? Come find me.”
I bob my head up and down.
Mama walks over to the iPad. “Hi, Ms. Mikel? Finley’s going to take a quick break and then he’ll be right back with you all.”
“Okay, great!” Ms. Mikel says, her voice quiet and tinny through the iPad. “Alex, would you like to practice your counting?”
Mama and Ms. Mikel had a meeting when I moved in here, to talk about me, Mama said. But I never said anything and I don’t think Mama did, either, about what happened to Grandma last week.
With one hand I hold the melting basketball to my forehead, while the other hand swoops down and gathers up my hoodie string. I put the string into my mouth and chew. It tastes like syrup.
— Staff writer Zoe B.R. Goldstein can be reached at zoe.goldstein@thecrimson.com.
Sections
Abby Roth (née Shapiro, sister of right-wing commentator Ben Shapiro) is a “classic woman.” If that term seems meaningless, don’t worry — she defines it on her website: A classic woman loves fashion, even at the expense of comfort. A classic woman loves marriage and preparing food for her husband. Most importantly, a classic woman holds classic political views, which Roth loosely defines as conservative. If you’re still confused, she has hundreds of videos outlining the necessary steps to join her “classic crew™.”
Pretty much every girl I know has seen advertisements for these videos. Her ads are like the Shen Yun fliers of YouTube: ubiquitous, pretty, and vaguely cult-like. All of her thumbnails somehow look identical, even though she is wearing slightly different hairdos in all of them. Beyond her YouTube channel, Roth has an active presence across social media platforms — a necessity for her self-proclaimed status as the “first conservative influencer.”
It’s her early content that most aligns with the standard “influencer” concept: dozens of banal videos about make-up, fashion, and music. Compared to other influencers, she was poorly viewed: Most of her videos received only a few thousand views; just two out of her first 60 videos cleared 500,000 views. One of those two was entitled: “CONSERVATIVE WOMEN, IT’S OUR TIME.”
The “influencer” side of her brand — aesthetics — serves one obvious purpose. It extricates her from the other creators who preach her messaging, but are less palatable to conservative women: PragerU, for example, and her brother — assuming she is not actually Ben Shapiro with a better skincare routine, as some commenters on her videos have hypothesized.
So Roth’s “influencing” might be a marketing strategy that beautifies and sanitizes reactionary ideology. But if aesthetics are her main influencing tool, then she’s only being received as an influencer by a few thousand people. Her most-viewed videos have been slammed: “CONSERVATIVE WOMEN,” for example, has nearly four times as many dislikes as it has likes; top comments include “Ma’am this is a Wendy’s” and “When your trust fund is being spent on YouTube ads.”
In sum, there’s a puzzling disconnect between her brand’s stated goals and the reality of her online presence, to the extent that one wonders what she’s really trying to do here, and whom — if anyone — she is truly trying to influence.
The first Classically Abby video I ever saw, titled “If You Care About Women, Be PRO-LIFE,” was posted last August and has since accumulated almost a million views. As with most of her provocative videos, Roth spends the duration staring into the camera (I don’t think she blinks at all in this video, but I’d have to rewatch it to check, and I’d rather avoid the nightmares). She is unsettlingly static in the center of the frame for all six-and-a-half minutes. Behind her, she has her usual array of flowers, perfume, dresses, and mirrors, spiced up with some emotional background music that swells aggressively as she approaches the finish line. She doesn’t so much speak as intone: “You don’t get to choose what happens with someone else’s body.”
Obviously, this is deeply ironic. More interestingly, anti-abortion content puts her in line with other online personalities such as GirlDefined and members of the “Christian mommy blogger” phenomenon. GirlDefined is a particularly apt comparison, comprising two traditionally attractive (read: thin, white, and blonde) women who make videos about love, work, and faith in a bedroom that could be from a Sears Catalogue.
But GirlDefined is distinct from Roth in two central ways: First, GirlDefined does not seem to receive the degree of vitriol that Abby does. GirlDefined’s book trailer video, for example, received roughly 100,000 views, and more likes than dislikes. Meanwhile, “If You Care About Women” has received quadruple the number of dislikes as likes.
Second, both GirlDefined and the big mommy bloggers are explicitly, forcefully Christian, while Roth is Jewish. When I think about why I initially clicked on one of Abby’s ads, beyond morbid curiosity, I think that her Jewishness had something to do with it. I don’t typically associate influencers with Judaism, largely because I know personally that Jewish women rarely fit beauty standards promoted in influencer trends — our hips, noses, and hair get in the way. But unlike most influencers I’ve encountered online, Roth looked strikingly Jewish, which is to say she looked just a little bit like me.
So I was hoping subconsciously that Roth’s Jewishness would make her different and somehow more relevant to me. It was disappointing and unnerving that I found in her a presentation of Jewish womanhood eerily similar to models espoused by the Christian right.
That’s not to say that Abby shies away from her religion. On the contrary, many of her political and advice videos explicitly link her faith to her content, including the absolute banger “LADIES, STOP HOOKING UP || A Jewish wife's message about sex!”: a monotonous sermon on the horrors of casual sex that alternates between Roth’s eyes, widened a la “Clockwork Orange,” and strangely angled stock photos of women in pain.
This embrace of Jewishness may put off the strongly Christian contingent of GirlDefined fans: Despite the similarity in most other aspects of their content, GirlDefined has almost 70,000 more subscribers than Abby. It’s no secret that the Christian right remains a hotbed for anti-Semitism.
At a deeper level, though, Roth’s use of Judaism is fundamentally a contradiction. In a video titled “5 Things You DIDN’T Know About JUDAISM,” she says that Jews don’t proselytize. Theologically, I’m inclined to agree, as Judaism doesn’t actively seek converts. But it’s a bizarre thing for her to say, when the content of her videos, her entire strategy, is proselytization.
Religion is notably absent from her anti-abortion video. I can hypothesize a couple reasons for this. First, the Hebrew Bible and the Talmud can be interpreted as far more accepting of abortion than she is. This is interesting to me because I study comparative religion, but a more objective reference is simple math: According to Pew Research, the proportion of Jews in the U.S. that supports legal abortion is higher than that of every other religious group, including non-believers.
So if we return to the question of Abby’s desired audience, it would be silly to pinpoint Jewish people, when she’s spouting ideas that fly in the face of the vast majority of American Jews. (As my grandparents might have said, she’s a shanda far di goyim — a Jew who embarasses other Jews to non-Jews.) It seems instead that she’s promulgating a version of Judaism aimed at fundamentalist and evangelical Christian women, who aren’t all that interested in what she has to say.
She’s thus not “influencing” the Christian far right, or Jews, or people who just want makeup advice. Her brand is running on fumes — literally, people fuming.
And ultimately, I think that’s what she wants. I don’t think her true goal is to be an influencer. As the comment sections on all of her videos substantiate, Roth’s ads are not targeting style-challenged right-wing Christian women. Instead, they are widely received by me and girls I know: feminist, left-leaning college students who loathe every aspect of Roth’s content.
Essentially: Roth’s ads are deliberately designed to repulse people, not influence them. And YouTube’s algorithms prioritize total views, rather than like-dislike ratios, so Roth may have monetary incentive to engage in this hate-proliferation.
But she also likely has a deeper project. Cancel culture is one of Abby’s greatest bugaboos. Again, for her it is a religious issue — in July, she tweeted: “Cancel culture goes against the very idea of repentance. You can't cancel someone for their past mistakes if you’re a religious person who believes in redemption.”
Her video stats and deliberate provocations may then be a means of martyring herself — a self-cancellation. And she has made herself the perfect cancel culture victim. The more that the ‘woke mob’ comes for her, the more potent her piety and banal aesthetics become as proof of her innocence and goodness: She’s a white woman who’s modest, opposes abortion, and warns against premarital sex; the far right couldn’t ask for a better symbol.
The real question is where she goes from here. Maybe she’ll simply continue to clutter our YouTube feeds with noxious ads. But perhaps she has bigger goals: Last year, at the Conservative Political Action Conference, she sang the national anthem — a performance that sounds wonderful in comparison to this year’s astonishingly awful rendition. This year’s CPAC also rallied ambitious rightwingers around cancel culture. Given Abby’s strategy, it wouldn’t be surprising to see her at CPAC and other national stages as a speaker rather than a singer — and maybe even as a candidate.
— Staff writer Talia M. Blatt can be reached at talia.blatt@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @talia_m_blatt.
Sections
The irrational fear that I am becoming less of a woman began long before my period stopped. I was already indifferent to sophomoric forms of girl-power-girl-boss rhetoric; where I had once nursed feminist excitement, I was numb.
I paid a visit to my gynecologist when I grew suspicious that my detachment from womanhood was permanently screwing up my insides. She assured me that my period loss was due to an ordinary hormone imbalance, likely exacerbated by the stress of a global pandemic.
Oh.
This seemed reasonable: My body has always absorbed its surroundings to its own detriment — grasp my arm hard enough and you’ll leave bruises behind — so it was inevitably going to react to the trauma of this year. But even after my appointment, the timing unnerved me. Was my uterus paying attention, catching up?
It was an absurd idea, rooted in panic — my period loss was coincidental, a symbol rather than a symptom. Periods are not a decisive factor of womanhood, nor femininity, and it is misguided to use menstruation as a rigid gender qualifier. There are plenty of women who don’t get periods for a myriad of reasons — and plenty of people who do get periods who don’t identify as women. Femininity and womanhood are porous concepts, hardly definable by whether or not you bleed.
I like to think of my femininity as a muscle, one that requires feeding and flexing. During Covid-19, I’ve starved this muscle to the point of atrophy. I’m separated from my girlfriends and spared the awkwardness of meeting new people — without an audience, I forget what presenting myself as a woman even feels like. I lack the special tone of voice, angled gaze, and movement to my spine that composed my experience of feminine physicality. It took the pandemic isolation for me to realize that this notion of gender is basically a performance.
In the absence of a mirror, I’m just a tangle of thoughts. It takes an itch on my ankle or a gust of cold air to force me back into my body. I search my reflection for something inherently female, but all I see is dark hair, broad shoulders, a scared face. When I’m alone, I cease to recognize myself as a woman at all.
****
A lady ahead of me in the CVS check-out line evaluates my oversized T-shirt and flattened hair, then calls me “little man.” I’m plunged too deep into a mental spiral to correct her. I haven’t considered that as my femininity wanes, I might be becoming something else: more masculine? Wouldn’t I have noticed? That isn’t what I want. It’s a nagging contradiction — I question myself in private, yet bristle at the assumption that I’m perceived as anything but a woman.
When it’s my turn to walk to the register, I’m defensive; I pop my hip out and unknot my hair, then knot it again. I’m sure it was an honest mistake (I’m wearing a mask, after all), but I walk out with my coconut shower gel on full display.
I Facetime a high school classmate that evening. After the unsettling encounter at the drugstore, there’s relief in connecting with another girl. We catch up on the past few months until the topic unavoidably shifts to our old chemistry teacher — we are reeling from the disturbing discovery that he’s an alleged sexual predator. We recount how fond we were of frequenting his classroom at lunchtime. We’re shocked, but behind our disbelief is a heaviness. It seems like even memory is an unsafe place. I suggest forming a support group for women who survived his company. She chokes up at the idea or at my expression — I’m not sure which.
Looking at each other, we are both aware of something lurking, trying to erupt from the static. Our pixelated videos crackle with an energy, an empathy, which is transmittable even through screens. Then she smiles, exhausted, and the moment shatters sweetly.
“Sorry, I’m, like, totally PMS-ing,” she says.
But that’s not what this is. I remember what PMS feels like. I fumble around for it internally and come up empty; there is only rage. Then I understand that she’s offering me a kind of kinship: I am like you. I feel what we women feel. I hadn’t grieved for my period before that point, but her choice of words makes me cry.
What I’ve really lost is my scapegoat. There are an immeasurable number of things to hate as a woman — your period is just the easiest.
****
I exit Safeway with my hands full, receding into my hoodie to escape a sudden wind. As I’m waiting to cross the street, a teenage boy on his phone collides with me. My bags fling from my arms into acrobatics before spilling across the pavement.
“My bad, bro,” he says.
I might convince myself that it was a slip of the tongue or a blanket phrase used to address all strangers, but when my voice squeaks out a reply, he tries to conceal his surprise. As I bend over to pick up my scattered groceries, he makes a series of half-gestures like he can’t decide whether to help me collect them. He’s nervous about contaminating my vegetables.
He finally decides to retrieve a bunch of carrots, closest to him, which are coated in a fine layer of asphalt dust. He leans forward to place them into the bag as I simultaneously reach in to right the milk. We audibly knock heads; both of us swear, loudly. The milk topples over again. Sheepishly, he squints up at me, cradling the carrots like a baby. A pure and joyous laugh bubbles up in me at our ridiculousness. It’s a small comfort to know that despite my contradictions, I am still every bit as human.
Sections
The months, semesters, and years before Covid-19 forced us all away from our campus, friends, and families are often referred to as the “before times.”
The “before times” are bullshit. There was then, and there is now. In our minds, the “before times” have become some idealized version of a world where we could party and hug one another, which only appeals to us now because we know how it feels to be without it. We never remember the nights we braved the shuttle ride to the Quad only to be disappointed, the misery of awkward social functions and uncomfortable introductions, the horror of the Igloo’s bathroom, and the banality and bitter cold of every Harvard football game that isn’t against Yale.
What we lacked was selectivity. We were too eager to say yes, and we were too naive to dream of anything bigger. We never stopped to ask ourselves, am I about to do something surreal? Am I making the most of my college experience? If this night were posted on YouTube, would people want to watch it? Probably not.
What Covid-19 has given us is perspective. It has shown us what is to be without: without friends, without parties, without White Claws, and without stability. What we must do now is not reminisce about the before times, but consider the after times. We should not take as given the previous fixtures of the Harvard college experience. We should no longer be content with sweaty parties in Quad basements or lackluster football games.
Our mission must be to imagine a life at Harvard that is much stranger and more captivating than the one we left 12 months ago. The mission before us is difficult, some would say impossible, but a vision of what this future looks like exists — it’s the 2006 MIT Integration Bee.
The Integration Bee is preserved in amber on YouTube. It is three hours and 13 minutes long and has more than 1.6 million views. The competitors and audience members look exactly like you would expect: they wear dated ill-fitted clothing, glasses, and look a little too excited to be there. These people are my heroes.
I first came across this video in my freshman fall, while I was up late watching YouTube, procrastinating an impending problem set. I knew no calculus when I first watched the Integration Bee, but my ability to enjoy the video is in no way related to my ability to understand the mathematical wizardry employed by the contestants. The beauty of the video is the energy of the commentators, the excitement of the crowd as audience members follow along with the competitors in their notebooks, and the wonderfully dated aesthetic of the broadcast.
Despite being one of the most unique videos I have ever seen on YouTube, everything feels oddly familiar. The commentators sit in an elevated booth with chunky sportscaster headphones and give us, the captivated audience, the play by play, describing the contestants’ strategy, making jokes, and speculating about what the final answer will be.
In the audience of the Integration Bee, there are two shirtless men, their chests and face covered in large integral symbols artfully done in bodypaint.
You can’t help but shake the feeling that the entire event is both doing too much and wholly unaware of exactly how captivating it is.
The Integration Bee was co-hosted by the MIT Departments of Mathematics and its Department of Athletics. There are prizes, an audience, judges, competition, all the hallmarks of the events we miss so much from the “before times,” but wonderfully weirder and more memorable. It is as if someone took a boring college football game and stuck it through a David Foster Wallace novel, and decided that the event that came out the other side still didn’t embody enough absurdity.
This is what keeps bringing me back to the Integration Bee: its absurd dream-like quality. At the end of the three-hour saga, the champion is crowned with a gift card to “Amazon.com” and a “special prize” trucker’s hat that says “Grand Integrator”. The third place competitor had left the building before he could receive his gift card to a local ice cream shop, so one of the judges accepted it in his place. After the winners were crowned, in a medal ceremony that is supposed to look like the Olympics, according to an event organizer, the cameras pan back and slowly show an empty auditorium. Chills, every time.
I hope we can find it in ourselves to return to something greater than we left. For me, the Integration Bee is a salient reminder that life should not be taken for granted. Parties shouldn’t be taken for granted, sporting events shouldn’t be taken for granted. None of it should.
If you ever take the time to watch some portion of the Integration Bee, I hope it is a reminder that no facet of the lives we left on campus should be taken as a given. If the entirely volunteer operation of the 2006 MIT Integration Bee has taught me anything, it is that we all have the ability to lead a much more memorable version of the lives we left behind.
Go to Mather Lather. Shoot your shot. Day drink on a Tuesday. Do Primal Scream. Call the John Harvard statue a piss baby. Those four years will be up too soon.
— Staff writer Harrison R. T. Ward can be reached at harrison.ward@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter at @Hurrison_.
Sections
My first existential crisis happened in eighth grade. We were watching “King Kong” in history class when I found myself making the long and painful trek up to the front of the room, where my teacher was grading papers in silence. I asked him verbatim — no prelude, no introduction — “What is the meaning of life?” He smiled a funny little smile and put his grading down.
The next day, he brought me “the meaning of life” — a paper-clipped, 70-page folder from Wikipedia. I was flabbergasted, as anybody would be after being handed the meaning of life; thumbing through Cicero, Kierkegaard, and the ancient Greek philosophers, I thought, I am only thirteen years old. I was immediately seized with panic and vertigo. Would this be the rest of my life, forever grappling with this awareness of death? Unfortunately for me, yes.
Not much has changed since then. I still experience existential dread every hour, every day of the week. But during quarantine, for the first time, I wasn’t the only one spiraling in the cereal aisle of the grocery store, thinking about our inevitable descents toward death. It hasn’t just been me; it’s been everyone.
We’ve all been there: from ignoring a text or an email because responding just doesn’t feel worth it, to finding ourselves not wanting to participate in a Zoom class as much as usual. It’s just all so much of the same. Some days I just want to throw my hands up and scream, “When will this end?” We like to call it “Zoom fatigue,” but I think it’s something more. When classes, interviews, socializing, and family bonding time all take place on the same screen and can all be stopped with a click of “End Meeting,” it becomes difficult to discern anything’s intrinsic value.
In Buddhism, there’s the belief that you can arrive at deep and meaningful truths if you spend enough time sitting alone. (That’s the idea behind meditation, isn’t it?) I guess, in a way, that was lockdown. Sitting in our homes all day, we’ve had to confront the insides of our brains and work out what we actually think about our lives without the busyness of the day-to-day to distract us.
It’s funny. In lockdown, I felt like I was better able to see some things for how they were, but I was not always happy with the realities I had to confront.
For example, my respect for politics has crumbled — perhaps in part due to the fact that it has become too polarizing and too negative, but I think largely because, over time, my distrust toward the system has collapsed into neglect. Something changed in me when I saw the Capitol getting overrun, senators hiding behind desks, rioters carrying out flags and clutching loaded weapons — it struck a chord more personal than ordinary mistrust. I felt violated. We are taught from a young age to associate our government with freedom, with democracy. We paint little pictures of those famous buildings on our worksheets. Seeing the Capitol overrun soured that idealism.
I mourn for the time in fifth grade when I watched Obama’s inauguration with an awe for our government that has since faded. Over the course of the past three years, I feel like a torch has been taken to institutions we held sacred. And now, in the midst of the coronavirus pandemic, I wonder if I am capable of attaining any sort of reverence for politics at all.
Another, less bleak realization I’ve had to confront over quarantine has been the illusion of celebrity. After seeing celebrities filming music videos from bathtubs in their bathrooms and conducting Zoom interviews in sweatpants and a full face of makeup, I just don’t think I can ever view them the same. It’s not in a bad way, or even in a way where I’ve lost interest in those particular celebrities. But I am more aware of the ways in which society has carefully cultivated the mystique of money and status around them, from talk shows to profiles in magazines, that have since been stripped away.
There was a Zoom interview I was watching in which Peter Dinklage had a full-out beard, a weird angle on his webcam, and the biggest expression of disinterest on his face — one that said, What’s the point? We’re all at home in our sweatpants in bed, anyway.
That’s been my quarantine mood.
— Magazine writer Heidi Lai can be reached at heidi.lai@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @hiheidz.
Sections
When Rebecca J. Nunziato — the creator behind the “Decolonize Everything” podcast and a first-year graduate student at the Harvard Divinity School — thought about living in a recreational vehicle, she envisioned it would progress naturally from her growing interests in leading a nomadic lifestyle. In an RV, she could move with the seasons and learn, as Nunziato describes, “what it means to share the ground, to not have to own the ground,” by only renting water and electricity access as needed.
But now Nunziato finds herself in a furniture-filled, book-lined, snug apartment in Cambridge. She shares it with her partner, dog, cat, and hedgehog. And yet she shakes her head, red earrings catching the glowing light, at the very thought of calling this her home.
“I’ve never been this far northeast in my life,” she says. “I have no idea where I am.”
From 2017 to the fall of 2020, Nunziato and her partner lived in an RV on the outskirts of Denver, Colo. An acceptance letter, a pandemic, and a 10-day, 2,000-mile road trip later, Nunziato finds herself at Harvard, living in an apartment once more and working toward a Master’s in Theological Studies at the Divinity School. Even as she is grateful for the newfound space to study and grow, she hopes to one day soon pull out the RV and hit the road once more.
The thought that she would be free to move from one place to the next and explore the United States was in fact a romanticized view of reality. “I was working full time, my partner was working full time, and we were getting evicted [from the property where the RV was parked],” she reflects. “We were living, but it was just so hard.” As a result, Nunziato and her partner spent most of the 2020 summer living in their RV in a friend’s backyard.
While these practical challenges gradually lessened with time and patience, Nunziato grappled with larger questions about her future. The main debate was “settling” versus living in “nomadic motion.” After working in community organizing for many years, she had developed strong opinions on the housing market, and has tried to resist suburban sprawl and settling down.
This process, of questioning comforts and assumptions, is a familiar one to Nunziato. At the Divinity School, she studies the decolonization of spiritual consciousness through ancient indigenous practices. When applying the pillars of decolonization to her spirituality, the ideas of interconnectedness and of questioning everything are central to her thinking. In her podcast, “Decolonize Everything,” Nunziato strips away assumptions and standards. She hopes to explore how ancient peoples have “learned to live with the Earth for thousands and thousands of years.” In comparison to this long-standing history, “our U.S. American project is very young and childish in lots of ways,” she says.
As Nunziato spent more time living in the RV, though, especially during the pandemic, she recognized the small joys of staying in one place: she could appreciate the rhythms of nature, from the jumping grasshoppers to the flitting birds to the sprouting weeds, and take necessary, valuable time to understand the land and speak to its people.
“There is just layer upon layer to understand about each person, let alone each neighborhood,” Nunziato notes. She often wonders about tracing the history of the land: “How do we excavate neighborhoods and understand all the social implications? Maybe you start with gentrification or homelessness, and then you go deeper. Who was here before that, how did that play out, what kinds of plants grow here or don’t grow here?”
Rather than settling and staying content at rest, Nunziato aspires to be “rooted,” what she calls a more active form of settling that integrates ideas from an open, nomadic lifestyle. “Becoming rooted,” Nunziato describes, “is a very active process of pushing down into the dirt and questioning our own comforts. Part of being rooted is trusting that there’s something good here in the soil, but there might be other things going on above.”
“In my experience, in a lot of Christian spaces, so much has been set up with this separation between humans and all other types of creation,” Nunziato says. “The kind of ancient deep rooted connectivity of this decolonial path is one that actually decenters the human in a really uncomfortable shocking way that maybe we’re not above any other form of life.”
The scope of points of inquiry is wide, ranging from manifest destiny to lavatory layout. Nunziato finds herself wondering, “Why do I have an assumption that I should be able to do a whole host of things just in the bathroom,” thinking back to the time when her RV’s shower housed both her work clothes and her hedgehog.
When Nunziato considers her unconventional pandemic living situation, questions of privilege and agency abound. As a community organizer, Nunziato became friends with a lot of unhoused people. “Most of them had very nomadic lifestyles, not by choice,” she says. “So I always have to contend with the fact that I had a lot more privilege in the way that I lived the nomadic lifestyle.”
Within the RV community, Nunziato has always seen herself as wedged between “Instagram van life” and those who are nomadic out of necessity, not choice. When Nunziato and her partner first moved into their RV in 2017, they — like Denver’s homeless community — did so as a result of a hot housing market. But in the end, they were able to move into an apartment in Cambridge, parking the RV elsewhere.
Nunziato is not sure what to do about that privilege, but she knows for certain what she should do with the RV: provide housing to people in need. “So often they literally sit in storage units,” she says. “I cannot tell you how often now I started to notice the amounts of RVs just in storage.”
In an attempt to “decolonize” the discourse in her podcast, “Decolonize Everything,” Nunziato works towards amplifying stories from marginalized communities. In this process, she has found that “the funny thing is when you turn the mic off and stop recording, someone says something brilliant. And you say, ‘Wait a second, I knew there was more.’ How do we stay longer, earning trust of the place and the people to hear those stories?”
— Staff writer Felicia Y. Ho can be reached at felicia.ho@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @HoPanda007.
Sections
Before cannabis had been legalized in any state, Staci Gruber was already studying it in her lab.
Currently a psychiatry professor at Harvard Medical School and the director of McLean Hospital’s Marijuana Investigations for Neuroscientific Discovery (MIND) Program, Gruber has studied the effects of cannabis for roughly three decades. She has recently turned her attention to a project focusing on the effects of cannabidiol, or CBD, the semi-mysterious compound heralded by health bloggers and celebrities for its supposed alleviation of pain and stress.
That project is a partnership between McLean Hospital and Charlotte’s Web Holdings, a CBD company that sells hemp-based products like oils and gummies. Gruber cites their reputation as “one of the most recognized names in industrial hemp-based products,” as a key factor in her decision to work with them. “They really were the very first to bring [medical cannabis] to the nation’s consciousness,” she says. She also recalls an earlier study conducted by MIND in which she tested the cannabis products used by study participants and noted the high quality of those made by Charlotte’s Web.
Gruber’s partnership with Charlotte’s Web includes two projects related to the effect of cannabis on different medical conditions. One evaluates a hemp-based product’s impact on people with moderate to severe anxiety, while the other examines a different product’s effect on anxiety in patients with dementia and Alzheimer’s disease.
While this partnership is unique in its link to an outside company, in most ways the research process is the same for Gruber as it was in past projects. Charlotte’s Web helps with the choice of study and the products used, but the actual research is up to Gruber and her team. This distinction, Gruber says, is key to ensuring the integrity of the results. “I think that’s also incredibly important [that] we don’t do anything in which we are beholden to an outside organization with regard to how we do the study [and] what the data will say,” she says.
Her research with cannabis began about 30 years ago as she studied the neurological effects of recreational cannabis on college students. Around that time, she also was studying various psychiatric disorders, and her work with bipolar disorder in particular was a “turning point” in her approach to cannabis.
Gruber noticed that patients with the disorder would report using cannabis to combat feelings of depression. “I thought, ‘That’s really interesting — I’ve never heard that before,’” she recalls. She secured a grant in 2008 to study the effects of cannabis on people with bipolar disorder.
As she began to look into medical cannabis, Gruber noticed a lack of available research and particularly a lack of long-term data. She started the MIND Program in 2014 to combat this problem. Its first project was a long-term study to observe participants’ medical cannabis habits and examine the products they used.
That study has led to a variety of current projects, including research into chronic pain, cannabis use among veterans, and clinical trials. Those trials include the “first-whole plant full-spectrum” solution, containing not only CBD but all compounds found in the cannabis plant, designed by Gruber to treat moderate to severe anxiety.
While cannabis is the general subject of Gruber’s research, she feels the term is often misplaced. “We tend to use one term, cannabis or marijuana, to define the entire landscape, that is anything that comes from the plant,” she explains, “which is unfortunate because it’s a misnomer.” That landscape actually includes hundreds of compounds, such as the commonly known CBD and psychoactive tetrahydrocannabinol, or THC, and the more obscure terpenoids and flavonoids. These compounds exist in various combinations: some cannabis products include all compounds, some are THC-free, and others are a single compound.
The climate around cannabis research can be difficult to navigate. “In many ways, it’s much like the Wild West because there are very few guidelines and regulations for certain types of [products],” Gruber says. Strong opinions about cannabis and its potential risks, as well as its Schedule I status under federal law — the most restrictive status for substances — complicate the ability to get funding and study cannabis. “You have to be tenacious if you want to do research in this area,” she adds.
Gruber’s future research “may very well” include more work with Charlotte’s Web, but she also intends to develop the types of studies and programs currently running at MIND. She still sees her current goals guiding future research. She’s focusing on “how you can possibly use this for addressing symptoms and conditions, and health and wellness, but reduce the risk of potential liabilities, and I think those things are equally important,” she says.
Gruber hopes for increased government regulation in the future of cannabis. Based on current guidelines, some CBD products are not subject to any regulations. “Everyone deserves to know what they’re taking,” she says. As the government and general public become more educated about cannabis and its various forms, however, Gruber believes more oversight and quality assurance will follow.
She adds that people are currently interested in cannabis-based products not only to treat medical conditions but also to promote general health and wellness. “I think the future is likely headed towards greater numbers of individuals exploring the use of these products,” she says.
As a scientist, though, she would still like to see more research, regardless of the public’s increasing confidence in cannabis. “It would be great if we had a little more data,” she says, “to help people make good decisions.”
— Magazine writer Tess C. Kelley can be reached at tess.kelley@thecrimson.com.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Mass. Sen. William N. Brownsberger ’78 — a key player in the passage of the state’s recent police reform bill — spoke virtually to the Harvard Kennedy School as part of its Reimagining Community Safety Speaker Series on Wednesday.
Brownsberger is the State Senator for the Second Suffolk and Middlesex District, representing Belmont, Watertown, and parts of Allston, Brighton, Back Bay, and Fenway.
His work focuses on criminal justice issues, and he previously held positions in Harvard Medical School’s Division on Addictions, the Kennedy School’s Program on Drugs and Crime, and Harvard’s Interdisciplinary Working Group on Drugs and Addictions.
Gov. Charles D. Baker ’79 signed the bill, entitled “An Act Relative to Justice, Equity, and Accountability in Law Enforcement in the Commonwealth,” into law on Dec. 31.
“There is a lot of thought given to use of force and the existing municipal police training council had a body of training on what circumstances police could use what types of force,” Brownsberger said. “Most of them are ultimately founded on case law. But there have been no statutory constructs. And so we moved the needle in some significant ways here.”
Brownsberger said the legislation emphasizes de-escalation, and bans the use of chokeholds — the technique a Minneapolis police officer used in the killing of George Floyd in May 2020.
“There’s a question about what is a chokehold — that is a complicated question. But we definitely said, ‘You can’t do what you did to George Floyd,’” he said. “Most police officers would say they’d never use that kind of technique, even for one minute, never mind eight minutes, which was murder.”
Brownsberger said another important part of the law places restrictions on police officers shooting individuals in the back.
“I think that one of the most significant changes is this idea that you can’t shoot somebody in the back because they’re running away. Escape is not a reason to shoot somebody unless they’re about to hurt somebody else,” he said.
The legislation also bans no-knock warrants unless issued by a judge and deemed necessary for safety purposes. No-knock warrants allow police to enter buildings without warning, and have been at issue since Louisville police officers with a no-knock warrant killed Breonna Taylor in March 2020.
The legislation also created a Peace Officer Standards and Training Commission, which Brownsberger described as “an agency that actually has the authority to say whether somebody is good enough to be a police officer.”
The commission will conduct initial background checks on police officers and continue to monitor officers and respond to complaints about police conduct. It will be composed of three police officers and six civilians who have never been in law enforcement. Three of the six civilians will be appointed by organizations — namely the Massachusetts Commission Against Discrimination, the National Association of Social Workers, and the Massachusetts Bar Association Civil Rights and Social Justice Section.
“This is a very strong, independent agency, with authority over all aspects of policing. The training function — and this is a compromise with the governor — is preserved within the executive branch,” he said. “But the standards are subject to joint approval with this civilian post.”
The legislation gives the commission the ultimate say in the removal of police officers from the force.
“If this commission finds that you should not be a police officer, you’re not a police officer, no matter what any of those other agencies think,” he said. “No matter what your hiring authority thinks, no matter what your civil service board thinks, no matter what your arbitrator thinks — you’re not a police officer.”
—Staff writer Isabel G. Skomro can be reached at isabelskomro@thecrimson.com or on Twitter @isabelskomro.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Responding to vigorous campus support for Professor Cornel R. West ’74 — who said last month Harvard declined to consider him for tenure in part due to his outspoken criticism of Israel’s treatment of Palestinians — Rabbi Jonah C. Steinberg, executive director of Harvard Hillel, criticized West for having “egged students on” in “scapegoating and demonizing” Jewish people.
In an email to Hillel affiliates Friday, Steinberg wrote he believes a student petition condemning Harvard’s alleged decision to not consider West for tenure is based on “an anti-Jewish conspiracy theory.”
The petition cites West’s belief that he was denied tenure consideration due to his opposition to “the settler colonial violence of Israel’s occupation of Palestine” and references Zionism in a list of ideologies it says West has critiqued, alongside “white supremacy, racial capitalism,” and “the military-industrial complex.”
As of Wednesday night, the petition had amassed the support of more than 90 student organizations and more than 1,800 individual signatories.
“It is painful to see representatives of so many student organizations maneuvered into signing a petition that attaches itself to a long chain of demonizing anti-Jewish libels through the centuries,” Steinberg wrote in the email. “Student leaders who have signed the petition likely do not realize how the words ‘Israel’s occupation of Palestine’ are used to suggest that the entire country of Israel is illegitimate, and perhaps they are not sensible of how eliding ‘white supremacy, racial capitalism, Zionism, and the military-industrial complex,’ as the petition does, is a dangerous ethnic slander.”
Steinberg also wrote West’s claim that politics played a role in the denial of his tenure consideration is “absurd on its face.”
In a Tuesday interview with The Crimson, West defended and elaborated on his belief that Harvard denied his request to be considered for tenure because of his vocal criticism of Israel.
Pondering Harvard’s decision, West — who was tenured and held Harvard’s highest faculty rank, University Professor, during his first stint at the University — explained that he ruled out his academic merit and age as “grounds” for tenure denial, leaving politics as the only other explanation.
“I don’t think my support of brother Bernie Sanders would have been that controversial. I don’t think my support of Black Lives Matter would have been that controversial,” he said. “I do think the support of this critique of Israeli occupation is a plausible hypothesis, given what I know about earlier candidates who have been denied.”
“It’s not as if I’m just grabbing this out of the sky and saying, ‘Well, there’s 191 countries in the world, and I’m gonna accent this one country because I’m having trouble trying to undergo a tenure process,’” West said.
West said he “appreciate[s]” Steinberg’s concerns about “anti-Jewish prejudice.”
“I share that concern,” he said. “But I will not allow charges of anti-Semitism to somehow trump a serious discussion about the Israeli-Palestinian situation.”
West also pushed back on Steinberg’s assertion that he has “egged students on,” noting he was not involved in the writing of the petitions.
“People are responding in their own ways,” West said. “I don’t have to agree with every formulation they have, but I appreciate their support.”
Jeremy Stepansky ’21 — a member of a student coalition that drafted the petition — wrote in an emailed statement that the group rejected Steinberg’s claim that their petition perpetuated anti-Semitic tropes, writing that they “vehemently reject the conflation of the Zionist state of Israel with the Jewish people.”
Stepansky also wrote that the coalition believes Steinberg’s critique obfuscates what they understand to be the underlying issue at play: Harvard’s treatment of Black scholars and academics who are critical of Israel’s treatment of Palestinians.
West said on Tuesday he welcomes having a conversation with Steinberg.
“If he wants to have a public discussion about Israeli politics, Israeli occupation, let’s have it — respectful,” West said. “The students at Harvard deserve to be exposed to a variety of different views.”
—Staff writer Alex Koller can be reached at alex.koller@thecrimson.com.
—Staff writer Taylor C. Peterman can be reached at taylor.peterman@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @taylorcpeterman.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
UPDATED: March 11, 2021 at 2:15 p.m.
Eighteen Harvard affiliates — including Cornel R. West ’74, Steven A. Pinker, and Ronald S. Sullivan Jr. — signed on as founding members of a new nonpartisan nonprofit dedicated to defending academics’ freedom of expression.
The Academic Freedom Alliance, which officially launched Monday, arose out of conversations among professors at Princeton University about free speech on college campuses. By invitation, 17 current Harvard faculty and one incoming Harvard Law School professor joined the initiative.
Keith E. Whittington — a professor of politics at Princeton who formerly taught at HLS and serves as the chair of Alliance’s Academic Committee — said the association’s founding was motivated by a “steady drumbeat of faculty who found themselves under threat because of something they had said or done or taught.”
The organization’s primary goal is to defend the academic freedom of its members, who espouse diverse political and ideological positions. Its leadership consists of two main bodies: the Academic Committee and the Legal Advisory Council.
According to Whittington, the Academic Committee will make final decisions regarding whether the organization will assist a member and what kinds of actions the group will take, such as issuing statements, offering legal assistance, or providing financial support.
The Legal Advisory Council seeks to provide legal services to scholars whose academic freedom is challenged by institutions or other officials, according to Jeannie Suk Gersen, a professor at HLS who serves on the Council. The Council includes law professors and professional lawyers, including a former United States Solicitor General and partners at several major firms.
Pinker, a psychology professor at Harvard and founding member of AFA, said he joined the nonprofit because he saw a need to protect freedom of opinion at universities, which he said is “indisputably under threat.”
“Much of the intellectual repression comes when there is a noisy group of activists who pressure university officials who just don’t want trouble,” Pinker said.
Penalizing someone for holding a minority viewpoint “corrodes the credibility of the university,” he added.
Pinker said he hopes AFA will push in the other direction and back up administrators who stand up for intellectual diversity.
Randall L. Kennedy — another founding member and professor at HLS — gave an example of an academic freedom case in which a professor was penalized for “enunciating” a slur as a part of their “perfectly sound” pedagogy.
“They had a pedagogical reason for enunciating the slur but nonetheless they have been subject to discipline,” Kennedy said. “These episodes, if they’re not challenged, they grow roots.”
Whittington noted the purpose of AFA is not to support “people on one side of the aisle.”
“Our goal is not to evaluate the merits of whether or not people are committed to things we agree with,” he said. “Our concern is to protect people’s rights to be able to explore those topics and speak out on the truth as they understand it.”
Gersen described the organization’s membership as a “politically diverse” group of scholars.
“There may be people on the list that may seriously disapprove of me. And there may be other people on the list that I know that I wouldn’t agree with,” Gersen said. “But that’s part of the point.”
The association began reviewing potential cases earlier this week, Gersen added.
AFA will hold its launch event — a virtual panel discussion featuring Gersen, Whittington, and several other founding members — on Thursday.
CORRECTION: March 11, 2021
A previous version of this article misspelled Steven A. Pinker's name.
—Staff writer Ariel H. Kim can be reached at ariel.kim@thecrimson.com.
—Staff writer Simon J. Levien can be reached at simon.levien@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @simonjlevien.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
At least 13 Harvard student organizations launched a coalition this week aimed at fostering collaboration between undergraduate and graduate student organizers to advocate for racial justice initiatives on campus and demand action from Harvard administrators.
Ericka “Ricky” R. Sanchez, a member of the Harvard Graduate Students Union-United Automobile Workers and a Ph.D. candidate in English, said demands for anti-racist action across many student groups following the murder of George Floyd last year sparked the idea for a broader coalition.
“We, as a union, believe very strongly in collective power,” Sanchez said. “We just wanted to come together as a space, and from there we just started reaching out to folks that we were aware of and trying to spread out the network.”
At its inaugural meeting on Sunday, the Racial Justice Coalition discussed the effectiveness of different protest strategies.
Though each group in the Coalition will retain its individual goals and demands, organizers said they believe their collective power will provide leverage to achieve racial justice at Harvard.
Jade O. Woods ’22, a member of Fossil Fuel Divest Harvard, said the aims of the different groups represented in the Coalition are “intertwined” and “connected.”
“We are demanding that the University disclose, divest, and reinvest from the fossil fuel industry,” Woods said. “But in addition to that, we’re also an environmental justice campaign, and so we believe that climate justice is super intertwined with racial justice and in ending the prison industrial complex.”
While the group has not yet outlined its formal demands, Azani A. Creeks — a student at the Divinity School and an organizer for the Harvard Prison Divestment Campaign — said future demands will include holding the University accountable to its anti-racist commitments.
“We want to take Harvard to task and hold them accountable for their own commitments to racial justice that they have said they’re committed to, and we just actually want to see some kind of meaningful change,” Creeks said.
Chloe Koulefianou ’23, the political action chair of the Black Students Association, said the group decided to join the Racial Justice Coalition to mobilize with other organizations in support of Professor Cornel R. West ’74. In February, West said that he was denied a request for tenure consideration and he has since announced his departure from the University.
“We came to the decision that it would be better to combine our efforts in this situation,” Koulefianou said. “Some of the graduate students put together the Coalition for Racial Justice specifically for situations like this in the future, where we would need to mobilize quickly and involve a lot of people.”
Woods said she was “heartbroken and outraged” by West’s tenure feud and added that it was just one example of the University demonstrating the “lack of commitment to racial justice.” Woods also cited the lack of an ethnic studies department and multicultural center, two longtime student demends.
“There are a lot of critiques that can be leveled at Harvard,” Woods said. “That’s not to say that it doesn’t also do good in the world, but there are definitely things that can be changed.”
Harvard spokesperson Jason A. Newton declined to comment on the formation of the Racial Justice Coalition and organizers’ criticisms of the University.
Sanchez said that, in its nascent stages, the Coalition must become a “centralized” platform for student activism groups before churning out specific demands.
“I am very excited for the sort of creative ways that we’re going to be able to position those demands and make sure that those demands are put into place,” she said.
—Staff writer Audrey M. Apollon can be reached at audrey.apollon@thecrimson.com.
—Staff writer Leah J. Teichholtz can be reached at leah.teichholtz@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @LeahTeichholtz.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Two high-ranking officers have left the Cambridge Police Department in recent months after they were involved in controversial social media incidents in 2020.
CPD spokesperson Jeremy C. Warnick confirmed in an email that former Lieutenant Shawn Lynch is “no longer with the department,” and former Superintendent Jack Albert retired from CPD after 33 years.
Lynch departed CPD following a department investigation into a now-deleted Twitter account which a city resident suspected might belong to Lynch in September 2020. Warnick wrote that CPD determined the account did, in fact, belong to Lynch, but did not specify the terms of his exit.
The account handle carried the lieutenant's name and badge “@CPD496,” and contained posts that seemingly made light of police brutality. For example, a tweet replied to a news article about police brutality with a GIF of applause from actor Will Smith. Another post — in reaction to a tweet about the police shooting of Jacob Blake, a Black man in Kenosha, Wisc. — included a GIF of actor Jerry Seinfeld, remarking “That’s a shame.” A different tweet referred to the Democratic Party as “American Jihadists.”
In a statement in September, CPD said that while the Department does not monitor its officers’ accounts, the account in question was “deeply disturbing.”
“While the Department recognizes that employees have a right to free speech under the First Amendment, the Department will not tolerate statements that are inflammatory, discriminatory and/or disrespectful to any individuals, races or ethnicities that are linked in any way to an Officer’s employment as a Cambridge Police Officer,” the statement read.
Albert, meanwhile, retired in February. In May 2020, he mistakenly sent a tweet from the official Cambridge Police Department Twitter in which he called Sen. Ed Markey (D-Mass.) a “clown,” and Rep. Joe Kennedy (D-Mass.) a “liberal fucking jerk.”
CPD apologized for the tweet, calling it “inappropriate and unprofessional.” Albert subsequently issued an additional statement, apologizing.
Warnick wrote in an email last week that CPD had revised its social media protocols, limiting administrative access to the social media accounts to the Director of Communications and Media Relations.
“Also, it has been reinforced internally that all Department personnel should assume that their speech and related activity on social media sites will reflect upon their office and CPD,” Warnick wrote.
Donald J. Mihalek, a retired senior Secret Service agent and ABC News contributor, said in an interview that while every law enforcement officer has a right to free speech, those rights have restrictions considering an officer’s public service occupation and how it may affect their ability to testify in court. For that reason, he said most agencies have guidelines regarding officers’ social media conduct.
“It all comes down to credibility and your credibility is what is called into question on a witness stand — it either sustains a case or can destroy a case,” Mihalek said. “And that’s basically what the social media policies all try to do, is ensure that the officer’s credibility is sacrosanct.”
Richard M. Frankel, a retired FBI special agent and ABC News contributor, said discriminatory social media posts can offer fodder for trial lawyers to question a police officer’s bias in court.
“It goes to your moral character, which is something that they are allowed to take into account with the job that you do because of the engagement you do with the public and how you’re perceived by the public, but also how you perceive the public,” Frankel said. “They can come at me and cross-examine me, basically, that I arrested them because of my prejudice, not because of what they did and because of the job I'm doing.”
Mihalek said he advises members of law enforcement about the dangers of social media, warning officers to “stay off it.”
“Whatever you post, someone is going to look at,” Frankel said.
“And whatever somebody else posts that you potentially 'like' or comment on, somebody is going to look at,” Mihalek added.
“Think of social media as a billboard that’s out on the side of a road. And whatever you put on it is on display for the public to see,” Mihalek said. “So you want to make sure that whatever you’re doing on social media is not something that’s going to be embarrassing to you, to your family and to your department.”
—Staff writer Raquel Coronell Uribe can be reached at raquel.coronelluribe@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @raquelco15.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
In an interview with The Crimson on Tuesday, Professor Cornel R. West ’74 said Harvard changed course following public pressure and offered to consider him for tenure, but the fact that this reversal came only after external scrutiny merely solidified his decision to leave the University.
West also offered previously unreported details about the tenure controversy that led him to announce his departure, saying that it was a faculty committee’s recommendation that he be considered for tenure — not his own request — that was turned down by the University.
West — a Professor of the Practice of Public Philosophy at the Harvard Divinity School and in the Department of African and African American Studies in the Faculty of Arts of Sciences — announced Monday that he would return to Union Theological Seminary, three weeks after he publicly threatened to depart over the tenure issue. He first told the Boston Globe in February that the University had dismissed his request to be considered for tenure.
Early in the semester, a faculty committee composed of professors from the Divinity School and FAS was tasked with evaluating West’s scholarship and teaching activity for reappointment to his nontenured Professor of the Practice seat. In the FAS, Professors of the Practice are considered for reappointment by such committees every five years; the Divinity School does not publicize its faculty appointment procedures. Neither school publicizes procedures for conversion from a Professor of the Practice position into a tenured role.
West said, however, that the faculty committee issued a report that called on the University to “immediately initiate” a review considering West for a tenured position, in addition to recommending his reappointment as a Professor of the Practice.
The University subsequently denied the committee’s request to initiate the tenure process for him, West said.
“The response was, ‘We accept renewal. We deny a tenure process,’” West said. “When the report put forward tenure, and it was then rejected, then I raised the question, ‘What was the reason for rejection?’”
West said he then approached FAS and Divinity School leadership, who offered him an endowed — but still untenured — chair position.
“When I spoke with the deans, they told me, ‘There is no possibility of a tenure review, but we could give you money and a prestigious chair,’” West said. “I said it was not about money or prestige.”
“I don’t know if you all have ever heard of any professor who’s had a chair without tenure, but I can rest be assured that it’s very, very, very rare for any professor in the history of Harvard,” he added.
University spokesperson Jonathan L. Swain declined to comment on West’s characterization of the events. After West initially threatened to depart in February, Swain told the Globe that the faculty committee solely had a charge to review West’s reappointment and lacked the authority to itself conduct a tenure review.
Three members of the faculty committee considering the reappointment wrote in an emailed statement that they could not comment specifically on the contents of the confidential report but that the University’s characterization was incomplete.
“While the statement of the university spokesperson that the review recommended Professor West’s reappointment as Professor of the Practice is technically accurate, it is neither a full nor a forthright characterization of [the] report’s contents and recommendation,” the statement reads.
“We have written separately to the University administration asking that they instruct their spokespeople to represent the content of the report accurately, or to cease representing them at all,” the faculty added.
The statement was signed by Walter Johnson, a professor of History and African and African American Studies, who chaired the committee; David L. Carrasco, a professor of Anthropology and at the Divinity School; and Jacob K. Olupona, a professor of African and African American Studies and at the Divinity School.
Following West’s interview with the Globe, Harvard affiliates organized in support of West, launching several petitions to demand his immediate tenure. West said that after facing increasing public pressure, the University changed its position on tenure consideration.
“After the public outcry, the administration changed their minds: they said, ‘Now we’re open to a tenure review,’” West said. “You can’t impose and force people to respect you in that sense. That’s another reason why I knew I had to go.”
“I’m the same guy that I was before and after the public outcry,” he added.
Swain also declined to comment on whether the University eventually offered to consider West for tenure.
The New York Times reported Monday that shortly after West’s initial interview with the Globe, the faculties of the Divinity School and of the Department of African and African American Studies voted to initiate a tenure process for West.
In an emailed statement, Divinity School professor David C. Lambert did not dispute the Times’s account.
“Appointment discussions in the Faculty are confidential, and so I can’t comment on the details of those, but I certainly won’t contradict the Times,” he wrote. “For myself, I can say that I never have had a thought that Cornel was not and does not continue to be deserving of tenure.”
Carrasco declined to comment on a Divinity School faculty vote but wrote in an emailed statement that “the faculty supports West’s request.”
“I support Cornel West, and the manner of his departure seems to be unmasking something troubling in our beloved university,” he wrote. “The question is why is it that from one side of the mouth we hear support for African American studies and scholars while the other side of the mouth refuses to address Cornel West’s request and this situation directly.”
Michael P. Naughton, a spokesperson for the Divinity School, declined to comment.
In the week before West announced his departure, Dean of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences Claudine Gay expressed her committment to supporting Black scholars at the University.
“It took generations for us to arrive at where we are right now. It’ll take time — hopefully not generations — to change,” Gay said in a March interview with The Crimson. “Change takes time. It doesn’t seem like a profound statement. It just seems obvious.”
West said he had a “wonderful talk” with Gay after he had already decided to leave Harvard.
“I told her that I want to do all I can to make sure that she’s able to push through to get high quality candidates of color and gender,” West said. “I can do that at a distance. I don’t have to be at Harvard to do that.”
West said as soon as he threatened to depart Harvard, he began to receive offers from several other top universities.
“This is why it just makes it so difficult for people to understand why initially there was no possibility of a tenure review when you have these kinds of voices coming at you around the country,” West said. “Like what is going on here?”
West said while he is departing now for Union Theological Seminary, which he has always considered his “home,” he retains fond memories of his years — as a college student, fellow, and University Professor, the highest academic honor — at Harvard.
“Those are the highest levels of joy that I experienced in the profession, in the academy,” West said. “That will always be the case.”
—Staff writers Alex Koller and Taylor C. Peterman contributed reporting.
—Staff writer Meera S. Nair can be reached at meera.nair@thecrimson.com.
—Staff writer Andy Z. Wang can be reached at andy.wang@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
They call it the “People’s House” for a reason. With a great social scene, you’ll be sure to enjoy Quincy’s very own Lip Sync Battle, nerf gun game of Assassins, and of course, the famous eight-person Balcony party suite. At Quincy, you’ll never run out of things to do or people to meet.
Does the People’s House live up to its social life expectation? It seems like it does. Whether it be during one of the festas (Quincy’s name for steins) hosted every two weeks with food and drinks, or one of the various themed dinners held for any holiday, you’ll be sure to meet many new Penguins (as Quincy residents are affectionately called). It’s these common social events that led HoCo co-chair Katie F. Barkin ’22 to say that “coming out of my sophomore year I just knew the majority of the other people in Quincy.” Take advantage of any of these events to finally go up to the Quincy crush you might have been too scared to talk to before.
If you can’t make it to the festas or dinners, there’s a multitude of other fun events for you to attend. In the first few weeks of classes, you’re welcome to attend Field Day, where students and staff compete in fun events like the balloon stomp. In case you lose at Field Day, you can win your honor back during Quincy’s Lip Sync Battle, which always brings in a large crowd.
Perhaps the most competitive Quincy event, however, is Quincy Assassins — Quincy’s annual Nerf War. Be prepared, though, as Penguins are known to be hardcore during the competition. One of the rules states that you can’t be taken out if you’re fully naked, so a quick tip that HoCo co-chair Liam Matthew Fenton Hall ‘23 recommends is wearing nothing but a towel just in case you have to use your “nudity immunity.”
Quincy has taken on these unprecedented times in style, keeping the Penguin spirit alive and well. This semester, Barkin noted, Quincy HoCo focused on revamping events to create incentives for people to hang out with the people in the House. As residents can attest, one of the best parts of frequent virtual movie and bingo nights are prizes, which include JBL and ECHO Dot speakers, custom T-shirts emblazoned with “I won Bingo Night,” gift cards, signed headshots of legendary resident tutor Aaron Hendricks, items from the Amazon stocking stuffer section, and old pieces of Quincy gear. Who doesn’t like free stuff? Future Penguins have more to look forward to than just giveaways, though — the People’s House is really all about, well, the people! Of her decision to become involved in HoCo, Barkin said, “I always loved having a team to root for, and I think that’s one of the things that’s so special about the House system. How the intramurals are run, how everything’s run, you really have a team to root for always.”
Quincy housing varies for sophomores, but most live in either DeWolfe or hallway doubles or bigger suites in Stone Hall that are, according to Barkin, “really, really nice.” As a junior or senior living in Quincy, you’re guaranteed to be placed in a single room in a suite with a spacious common room — an upgrade from whatever your living situation on campus was freshman year.
One of the most beloved places to hang out and study in Quincy is the dining hall. It’s the ideal place to meet and talk to people; there are always people wandering in and out, picking up a delicious brain break snack, or attending office hours for Ec1010A. For quieter, more secluded, Lamont-like study spaces, the Qube — a cube-shaped library full of large windows with a view of the courtyard — is the perfect place for a long study session. As for other noteworthy locations in Quincy, “the Grille and the Pottery studio really are [our] calling cards,” Barkin revealed. Clearly, you’ll never be out of things to do in Quincy.
For the extroverts out there, you’re in luck: Quincy doesn’t disappoint when it comes to parties. The infamous Balcony Suite is a spacious, eight-person suite that leads out onto a balcony, which is actually the roof of the Qube library, overlooking the courtyard. Residents of the Balcony Suite usually host weekly parties for the entire House and larger community. Barkin acknowledged that “if you want to study on the Qube on a Saturday night, you’re out of luck!” But, hey, you win some, you lose some. For more sophisticated and elegant social affairs, Quincy hosts events including Champagne Toasts and Open Houses in the faculty deans’ PentHouse with a beautiful view of the river. Last but not least, Kates Tobin’s room (which is surprisingly not a room owned by one Kate Tobin) is another notable party spot, with comfortable seating in the basement of Stone Hall. The best part of Quincy’s party scene? You never have to walk far from your room to get to a party or go on a long walk to return home after a night out.
Still eager to know about what life as a Penguin is really like? Just need to know what HUDS dish best matches the People's House? Look no further!
What Hogwarts house would Quincy get sorted into? 
LMFH: I would say that we’re a more modern version of Gryffindor. Quincy has more glass than Gryffindor I imagine.
What is the biggest misconception about Quincy?
KFB: I think people think that New Quincy is ugly. But, I am here to say that decoration is really easy and it’s hard to beat these room dimensions. *pans room with her computer screen*
If you could describe Quincy as a HUDS dish, what would it be? 
KFB: Red Spice Chicken because it’s my favorite!
What should freshmen who get put in Quincy look forward to?
LMFH: I mean, everything. I guess we forgot to mention earlier that before Field Day there’s an exorcism every year, where you use the real Josiah Quincy’s cane to banish evil. We give everyone whistles and noise makers and stuff, so that’s really fun too. I think freshmen can just look forward to being in the best House on campus.
What is one thing you want freshmen to know about Quincy?
LMFH: I think the Quincy community is incredibly inclusive and welcoming. I would tell them that it doesn’t matter what freshman hall you lived in or where you’re from; Quincy is big enough that you can find somebody who is from the same state or country as you, and if not someone who actually lives in Quincy then someone who takes their meals or goes to office hours at Quincy, like I did!
KFB: I think that Quincy has incredible housing in terms of dimensions: big rooms, easy to get singles, easy to be with your friends in suites and also singles not in suites. We have an incredible community. We call ourselves the “People’s House” and everyone just really cares about each other and about Quincy. If you put even the tiniest bit of effort into Quincy, Quincy will give you its whole heart back. You don’t have to really search to find community, the community is there waiting for you! Incredible housing, incredible community, incredible location — you’ve got it all. I don’t think you could ask for a better House.
Sections
Adams’ location is just perfect: close enough to the Yard and Harvard Square that the walks to class, Starbucks, and Kung Fu Tea (rip my bank account) don’t take too long, but also far enough away from the Yard and tourists that you no longer have to worry about always keeping your shades down and closing your windows. At Adams, you get to claim presidential alumni, gold-painted (yes, actual gold!) walls, and underground tunnels.
You might think that Adamsians are represented by the iconic acorns on their House crest, but that’s actually not their mascot. Though Adams might not have an official mascot like other Houses, that doesn’t mean they don’t have House pride. According to Adams HoCo co-chair Tiffany L. Gonzales ’22, Adams House’s spirit can be summed up in one word: welcoming. “People from all walks of life are welcome here. And people go out of their way to get to know each other and to form relationships, whether it’s with students, tutors, or custodial staff or dining staff,” she said. But a welcoming environment isn’t all that Adams has to offer. After all, this is the House where “all the action happens,” Chung Y. See ’22 wrote in a Harvard Political Review article. If you don’t believe See, familiarize yourself with this legendary 2019 Housing Day video. Even at a place as old historic as Harvard, Adams still stands out with its rich traditions and history.
Perhaps the most famous Adams event is Carpe Noctem (Carpe for short), a weekly stein where students from all over the House come together to enjoy great music, food, and refreshments, and generally have a good time. Carpe, which features a different theme every week, makes Thursday nights not just a typical day but rather “a highlight of the week.”, according to Gonzales. Another equally important tradition is Winter Feast — a fancy black tie dinner in December after which a group of seniors perform a reading of Winnie the Pooh.
It would be a missed opportunity to also not mention the most Adams-esque events of the year: the House’s annual Drag Night, which embodies “Adams’ spirit of inclusion and community,” according to Gonzales. She shared a special memory of Drag Night two years ago where Faculty Deans Sean and Judith S. “Judy” Palfrey ’67 (power couple!) dressed up as Lady Gaga and Bradley Cooper from A Star is Born and performed “Shallow” for the House to enjoy. Drag Night is also a reflection of Adams House’s history of supporting the arts, social activism, and the LGBTQ+ community on campus. The message of social justice doesn’t just end with Drag Night. Adams House administrators take their commitment to diversity and inclusion seriously, regularly hosting cultural events celebrating the diverse backgrounds of House members. HoCo co-chair Minjue Wu ’22 provided details on this year’s Lunar New Year celebration at Adams, where students on and off campus alike enjoyed the festivities with virtual red envelopes, special snacks packages, and thoughtful gifts from the Faculty Deans and tutors. At a time when hate crimes targeting Asian Americans are at an all time high, Wu said she found it “really gratifying” and “awesome” to enjoy the celebration with members of the House.
Of course, Harvard’s shift to remote operations due to Covid-19 has made staying connected a challenge. But it’s going to take more than just Zoom fatigue to erode the bonds of this community. Wu said Adams has exhibited versatility in adapting to this year’s unusual circumstances through its events, such as Carpe. Especially for this year’s virtual Chocoholica — Adams’ annual Valentine’s Day celebration featuring swing dance, champaign, and erotic (yes, erotic) chocolate — there were also non-virtual elements, such as mailing Cookiegrams to House members. Gonzales also said HoCo has sent UberEats vouchers and merch to Adams residents over the past year. Clearly, incoming Adams sophomores have a lot to look forward to!
Adams is currently undergoing renovations, making it one of most sought after Houses for the near future. With that said, it is likely some Adams affiliates will have to reside in swing housing next semester, which Gonzales assured us will be high-quality, including large bedrooms and in-suite kitchens. In that case, who wouldn’t want to experience swing housing?
At Adams, sophomores are spread out throughout the House in either doubles or triples that boast spacious common rooms, high ceilings, and in-suite bathrooms! Adams is known for their underground tunnels, which connect four of Adams’ five buildings, allowing students to move between the buildings without having to go outside (which will definitely come in handy during Cambridge winters). Other amenities include a gym, pool tables, a theater, and a printing press! Post-renovation amenities will also include additional elevators in Claverly Hall, which will come as a relief for those living on the top floors.
As common spaces reopen, students can rely on the Lower Common Room for a relaxing space where they can make new friends and hang out after a long week of essay writing and or psetting. For people looking for new study spaces, Adams has all your study needs covered: the Adams library is always inviting, the dining hall is a more social place to get your work done, and there are also different rooms around the House — like the Seamus Heaney room — that provide the perfect studying ambiance. And if you’re looking for a post-Covid party, you can check out the Lower Common Room where Carpe is held every week; this room can hold hundreds of people.
Want to know more about what it's like to live in the place where all the action happens? Read below for the scoop!
What’s your favorite place in Adams?
TLG: The courtyard just outside of the Conservatory room, which is a room in Adams. It’s very cute and they have some metal chairs and tables out and some greenery and you can eat your lunch there. It also has good sunlight in the middle of the day.
MW: I have a special fondness of the tunnels! Because I really liked paintings everywhere. And so just being able to trace back the history of the corners is really nice! Just being able to see history walking from my dorm to the area with the dining hall everyday is really special.
What type of Youtube video is Adams House?
TLG: We actually have a few videos on Youtube started during Covid. We have a test kitchen so people in the House have been testing out different recipes and they put together videos and post them on Youtube. It’s really funny to see people mess up the recipes. So, I guess it would be the side of Youtube where they make recipes in a funny way.
Sections
If the Classics concentration at Harvard could be one of the upperclassmen Houses, it would be Lowell. From weekly tea-times and poemicals (readings and discussions of poetry hosted by the Lowell House Poemical Society) to mascot Bacchus — Roman god of wine, agriculture, and fertility — Lowell House stands out in more ways than their almost offensively beautiful bell tower (which has all the other Houses quaking, whether they want to admit it or not). 
Suffering from a tragically poor sleep schedule? Not to worry: at 1 p.m. every Sunday when the Lowell bells ring, you will be woken up to the reality check you always needed as you attempt to remember where the half-eaten Jefe’s laying in your lap came from.
But that’s not all — Lowell is overflowing with quirky features and traditions. For instance, HoCo Treasurer Jonathan Z. Zhang ’23 mentions he loves how “... randomly in some of the hallways you just have study nooks, and the walls themselves can be written on with markers and erased.” He adds, “Lowell also yearly hosts an opera...that’s one of the things that sets them apart.” So not only can you draw on the walls, but you can do so under a live performance of “Don Giovanni”? Say less, we’re on our way to bribe the Dean of Students office right. now.
Lowell is also known for it’s lavish social events, like Glowell, Yule Ball, and Bacchanalia. These parties are equal parts grand and ~spicy~, and Zhang sums it up as Lowell being “sassy, bougie, and nasty,”, like a certain TikTok anthem.
The past year has been, well… “it’s just different.” Normally we would all be on campus drawing on the walls and watching the opera together, but alas, sometimes life has its own plans in mind. To remedy the transition to a virtual world, Lowell House has been cooking up many creative and exciting adapted events. For instance, every spring Lowell hosts an iconic formal event called the Bacchanalia, which is normally a very festive event with lots of traditions including togas, wine, and bells (hopefully you can experience this in person yourself later). This past year, though, Bacchanalia was hosted virtually over Club Penguin. Picture this: a disco floor, music, and, well, many (virtual) penguins.
Hooked? You should be. Lowell is constantly innovating ways to host new virtual events, whether this be pumpkin carving, virtual tea-times with speakers (which normally would be held weekly in person, baked goods included), and a myriad of other events such as Super Bowl andor Valentine’s Day parties.
Oh, and one other thing — the Lowell HoCo chairs provide a grant fund for student-led events, which can be put towards anything from movie-watching parties to actual in-person hiking trips. “That was a really good way to allow flexibility for students” to explore and adjust to the virtual format, mentions Lowell HoCo co-chair Bridger J. Gordon ’22, a former Crimson News editor. Future Lowellians can rest assured that they’ll be a part of the tight-knit community and can even organize fun events themselves.
Renovated just two years ago, Lowell boasts a beautiful interior that easily makes it one of the most aesthetically pleasing residencesbest deals on Harvard’s campus. With new bathrooms, amazing lighting, and none of the questionable Canaday carpets, Lowellians truly live in luxury. When it comes to sophomore housing, although there are many possible configurations for rooms, Lowell is most notably known for its high proportion of singles. Upperclassmen suites house up to ten people, however, so fear not if you wish to live a more chaotic lifestyle.
As for common spaces, not only does Lowell have the iconic belltower (which, by the way, has a mezzanine-level Tower Room that overlooks one of the courtyardslookout room with large windows), there is also a gym, movie theater, art studio, music practice rooms, grille, and an entire underground study space, in addition to the library that’s open 24/7 (for that 5 a.m. work sesh trying to finish the pset you knew you should not have procrastinated on). As for party suites…Gordon says, “Since the whole House got re-renovated I guess it’s still yet to be determined which is the most elite party suite… that leaves it up to future years to decide.” Take that as you will.
Interested in learning more about the Lowell way of life? We asked the HoCo chairs a few final questions:
If Lowell House was a character from The Office, who would it be?
BJG: I want to say Jim.
JZZ: I was gonna say Pam, because she’s more put together than Jim.
BJG: Okay that’s fair. Pam.
What’s the most ~romantic~ spot in Lowell?
JZZ: I mean… because last semester the only “public” place where people could meet was the laundry room…
BJG: *laughs uncomfortably*
What is one thing you want freshmen to know about your House?
JZZ: The people who work in the building are really awesome. For example, one of the HUDS workers, June, knows that I ask for a packet of nutritional yeast every time I come, and one day she just stopped me and told me to wait a minute. She then came back with an ENTIRE BOTTLE of nutritional yeast.
BJG: The community itself is very wholesome and supportive; everyone feels welcome. Definitely get to know the faculty deans, they’re a crucial element of the community and help build that wholesome community I mentioned.
