News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Synesthesia is a condition where the senses overlap so that they’re nearly indistinguishable from each other. For instance, upon hearing a sound, a person with synesthesia might immediately think of a color. This concept has always fascinated me — particularly because I believe we all experience some innate crossovers between our senses. Indeed, a classic debate online has revolved around what colors people assign to each school subject. (For example, math is red, science is green, and English is purple).
Enter: The connection between sound and taste. Perhaps this is an idea better left in the darkest depths of my Notes app, but in the true holiday spirit, I am charitably sharing it for the world to see. In honor of the recent holiday, here are my interpretations of the sonic identities different Thanksgiving foods might take on.
Turkey: “Here Comes The Sun” By The Beatles
Dare I say that the traditional Thanksgiving staple is overrated? Turkey takes a very known and loved concept — chicken — and miserably fails in imitating it to an almost offensive degree. With inferior flavor, turkey makes you question how eating it each year even became a tradition. (“Does the U.S. government subsidize turkey farms?”, you wonder.) Not to mention that turkey is also dry no matter how you slice it. You may be itching to object and tell me that I just haven’t had a good turkey by someone who knows what they’re doing. I assure you, my grandmother and my mother are fantastic chefs, but even the most moist turkey is dry compared to the driest chicken.
“Here Comes the Sun '' by the Beatles is nice. But I beg the question: Would you like it quite as much if it wasn’t something that you grew up listening to? (Relatedly, would you like it as much if it wasn’t in the “Bee Movie?”) Considering that the Beatles and indeed much of early rock music were derivative of jazz stylings, and that contemporaries like Pink Floyd were taking much bigger artistic leaps, I struggle to understand why the Beatles achieved quite the level of reverence that they have today. In this way, the two classic staples are not all that different.
Gravy: “White Ferrari” By Frank Ocean
Now, this is an interesting case. Even though turkey as a whole is a huge disappointment with few redeemable qualities, gravy manages to take the best parts of turkey and turn it into a sauce. Gravy is delicious, so it is hard to imagine that it comes from turkey. It succeeds in all of the ways that turkey fails.
Frank Ocean’s “White Ferrari” samples “Here, There, and Everywhere” by the Beatles. I don’t think that it’s controversial to say that the two are quite different — the main difference being that “White Ferrari” is something I will voluntarily listen to. The existence of gravy is nevertheless dependent on turkey. As reluctant as I am to admit it, without the Beatles, “White Ferrari” wouldn’t exist.
Stuffing: “I’m The One” By DJ Khaled
Of course, stuffing is delicious. It takes only the most popular bits of many dishes and combines them together into one complimentary concoction. Who could say no to the combination of bread, butter, and onions? However, stuffing isn’t doing anything new, provocative, or particularly interesting. What risks does it take by combining everything that people love and leaving out what they don’t?
Exclaiming “we the best music,”DJ Khaled attempted to make the summer blockbuster’s musical equivalent with his 2017 song “I’m the One.” In the song, DJ Khaled totes an impressive lineup of big names (arguably the bread, butter, and onions of 2017 music): Justin Bieber, Quavo, Chance the Rapper, and Lil Wayne. Still, “I’m the One” has a debatable amount of artistic merit. Like stuffing, “I’m the One” is an enjoyable experience. However, because DJ Khaled doesn’t take any meaningful artistic risks in “I’m the One,” its legacy fails to extend beyond Spotify’s “US Summer Hits of the 10s” playlist.
Mashed Potatoes: “Africa” By Toto
Ye ole’ reliable: a nostalgic dish that can’t help but remind folks of youth and home-cooked meals. With no real texture other than smoothness, even the pickiest of eaters can appreciate the dish as something that agrees with everyone and everything. Sure, it’s not exactly pushing the envelope, but sometimes that's alright. You can’t go wrong with this one.
Science would call “Africa” by Toto the best song ever because of its widespread appeal. Now, this is a bold claim. However, with its strange yet compelling lyrics and upbeat melody, the infamous track is hard to hate and easy to like, much like the Thanksgiving staple in question.
Cranberry Sauce: “Immaterial” By SOPHIE
Cranberry sauce is a series of contradictions: Its bold flavor is an immediately recognizable sensation despite its gelatinous and unstructured body. It is tangy and sour, but also has an underlying sweetness that makes one consistently come back for more. It’s bold and provocative, with the potential to instantly transform any dish, as its sourness cuts through fat and gives dimension to the rest of the palette. Some may not like it, and that’s okay. It is a luxury only to be appreciated by the most sophisticated palates.
Certainly “Immaterial” by SOPHIE also packs a bold punch. The song is four minutes of electric hyperpop synthesizing that propels it forward. However, this is all in conjunction with a consistent beat and low reverb that creates a light sonic texture. You may not like it upon initial hearing, but there's an undeniable appeal that keeps you coming back for seconds.
Sweet Potato Casserole with Marshmallows: “All Caps” By Madvillian
A distinctive flavor that people either love or hate, sweet potato with marshmallows plays on the most peculiar balance between sweet and savory, almost as though someone combined whatever leftovers that they had laying around and — by some grace of God — it worked! Something about this dish is also emblematic of childhood. Its sweetness presents an undeniably nostalgic quality, but its unique combination of flavors gives it an air of sophistication.
Opening with a sample from a vintage movie’s soundtrack, “All Caps” by Madvillian takes the aesthetics of nostalgia and throws them out the window. Like marshmallows in a casserole, the track is fun, exciting, and itches the brain in a surprising and unexpected way.
Apple Pie (À La Mode, naturally): “In A Sentimental Mood” By Duke Ellington And John Coltrane
Smooth and sweet with an unexpected crunch, some would say that dessert is the best part of the meal. At the very least, I propose that it is certainly a part of the meal that everyone looks forward to. Apple pie is no exception. It is as American as blue jeans and the Kardashians. “In these divided times, apple pie can help to bring us together,” one can almost hear the president say.
Imagine it: eyes closed, taking a bite of warm apple pie with cool, melting ice cream dripping off the spoon. Almost without exception,“In A Sentimental Mood” by Duke Ellington and John Coltrane is playing in the background of an imaginary scene with this amount of sensuous pleasure. It’s the perfect conclusion to any meal.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Forty-eight seniors learned Monday that they had been inducted into the Harvard chapter of the Phi Beta Kappa honor society, joining the “Junior 24” selected in the spring.
The academic honor society is the oldest in the country, and election signifies that a student’s coursework exhibits “excellence, reach, originality, and rigor,” per the chapter’s website.
Nominated students generally have received mostly As in classes and strong letters of recommendations. One final round of seniors will join the “Senior 48” and “Junior 24” in PBK shortly before Commencement, bringing total membership to no more than 10 percent of the graduating class.
The cohort represents all twelve houses and the Dudley Community. Of the 35 different concentrations represented, the greatest number of inductees are concentrating in Applied Mathematics, closely followed by Social Studies.
Lauren G. Fadiman ’21-’22, who is concentrating in Folklore and Mythology and Women, Gender, and Sexuality, shared the news with her family soon after receiving the email.
“I did call my mom, and she was excited about the news. I think the first thing she said was ‘Congratulations,’ but I think the second thing she said was ‘You get it from me,’” Fadiman said. “It’s a win for the whole family.”
Economics concentrator Stella R. Feder ’22 learned that she had received the honor while packing her bag for Thanksgiving break. She wrote in an email that the first thing she did was call her grandparents.
“It meant a lot to them in particular — they have always been proud of academic achievement in the family,” Feder wrote. “Telling them was the most fulfilling part by far.”
Ruth H. Jaensubhakij ’22 texted her parents, who live in Singapore and were asleep when the news came out. Though they didn’t know what PBK was at first, they were “really excited” once they learned more, per Jaensubhakij.
Jaensubhakij added that she and other seniors have had an experience that has been “fragmented and so difficult” due to the pandemic, making induction into PBK especially meaningful.
“It’s a really good feeling to know that the time and heart that we’ve put in doing the whole virtual year, that it’s paid off,” Jaensubhakij said. “We can still be recognized for the time that we’ve spent working.”
Chloe E. W. Levine ’22, a Crimson Arts executive studying English and Music, said she feels “really grateful and very lucky” to be inducted into PBK.
“I’m also very cognizant that as much of an honor as it is, there are so many exceptional students at Harvard in my year, and that this is not an ultimate verdict on intelligence or talent or anything else,” Levine said. “It’s just an exciting opportunity, which I’m very grateful to be part of.”
History and Literature concentrator Michael B. Baick ’22 said receiving the honor is a result of an “incredible amount of support” over his years at Harvard. Baick added that he hopes to apply his education by helping others.
“I want to use what I’ve learned about making meaning and telling stories to make meaning and tell stories in this increasingly fragmented world that we’re inheriting,” Baick said. “I hope that no matter where I go, I’ll have the opportunity to keep learning and sharing.”
A complete list of the members of the Class of 2022 elected to the “Senior 48” is below:
Alia Abiad, Comparative Literature (Kirkland)
Richard R. Allen, Physics, Mathematics (Cabot)
Michael B. Baick, History and Literature (Kirkland)
Otto Barenberg, Social Studies (Mather)
Marian “Mari” Bothner, Philosophy, History (Lowell)
Anna E. Cambron, Classics (Quincy)
Roshni Chakraborty, Social Studies (Quincy)
Youmna Chamieh, Government (Adams)
Candice F.Z. Chen, Earth and Planetary Sciences (Currier)
*Kevin R. Chen, Applied Mathematics (Leverett)
Maggie S. Chen, Human Developmental and Regenerative Biology (Cabot)
Alexander K. Chin, Computer Science, Mathematics (Leverett)
Prasidh H. Chhabria, Applied Mathematics (Eliot)
Tomasz Cienkowski, Human Evolutionary Biology (Winthrop)
Hannah L. Cole, Molecular and Cellular Biology (Kirkland)
*Annie C. Doris, Engineering Sciences (Quincy)
Lauren G. Fadiman, Folklore and Mythology, Women, Gender and Sexuality (Dudley)
Stella R. Feder, Economics (Winthrop)
Alexander L. Friedman, Statistics (Winthrop)
Graham L. Friedman, Integrative Biology (Adams)
Sarah I. Goldfarb, Engineering Sciences (Kirkland)
Winona H. Guo, English, African and African American Studies (Mather)
*Alina Hachigian, Psychology (Quincy)
Coleman R. C. Hooper, Electrical Engineering (Currier)
Ruth H. Jaensubhakij, Social Studies (Eliot)
Anna M. Juul, Comparative Study of Religion (Mather)
Nicole Kagan, Economics (Mather)
Robert P. Kennedy, Chemistry (Pforzheimer)
Benjamin T. Lafond, Linguistics, Classics (Leverett)
*Chloe E.W. Levine, English, Music (Winthrop)
Shi Le Wong, Applied Mathematics (Quincy)
William J. Matheson, Government, East Asian Studies (Kirkland)
Mason G. Meyer, Computer Science (Quincy)
Ton-Nu Nguyen-Dinh, History, East Asian Studies (Eliot)
Ramiz A. Razzak, Applied Mathematics (Eliot)
*Eva K. Rosenfeld, Visual and Environmental Studies (Dudley)
Elizabeth G. Saoud, Neuroscience (Eliot)
Pratap Singh, Computer Science (Leverett)
Lavanya Singh, Computer Science, Philosophy (Dunster)
*Andrew S. Ham, Neuroscience (Pforzheimer)
Kristen E. Stawasz, History and Science, Women, Gender and Sexuality (Kirkland)
*Paul D. Tamburro, Anthropology, History of Art and Architecture (Lowell)
Justin Y. Tseng, Social Studies, East Asian Studies (Currier)
Raluca Vlad, Mathematics, Computer Science (Winthrop)
Kenneth T. “Taylor” Whitsell, Government (Cabot)
Tristan Yang, Mathematics (Kirkland)
Michael Yin, Applied Mathematics (Winthrop)
Yibin “Ben” Zhang, Molecular and Cellular Biology (Cabot)
*Denotes a current Crimson editor
—Staff writer Leah J. Teichholtz can be reached at leah.teichholtz@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @LeahTeichholtz.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
A three-day strike, a second strike threat, and eight months of negotiations later, Harvard’s graduate student union ratified a four-year contract with the University in a vote that ended Saturday, with 70.6 percent of voters in support.
According to Harvard Graduate Students Union-United Automobile Workers President Brandon J. Mancilla, 1,917 out of 2,615 total union members participated in the vote, which opened Nov. 18, marking a 73.3 percent turnout rate. The union represents more than 4,900 student workers at Harvard.
This marks the union’s second contract with the University and its first four-year contract. Its first contract — which lasted one year — was ratified in June 2020.
The HGSU-UAW bargaining committee wrote in an emailed statement that the union is “excited” to implement the contract.
“Now that the contract is ratified we enter a new phase in our union’s history,” they wrote. “Though a majority of voters have affirmed the Tentative Agreement, we still have a long road ahead of us. We are excited to enforce our contract on the strongest terms possible.”
Harvard spokesperson Jason A. Newton wrote in an emailed statement that Harvard is “pleased” that the contract is ratified and plans to work with the union to carry it out.
“This contract reflects the University’s ongoing, strong commitment to our student workers and we are pleased to see it ratified,” he wrote. “We look forward to working with union leadership on its implementation.”
The contract includes an initial 5 percent raise retroactive to July 1, 2021, with 4, 3, and 3 percent raises in the following years of the agreement. Other benefits include an increase in health care funds, 75 percent preventative dental care coverage, pay parity for School of Public Health students, and legal funding that student workers going through the University’s Title IX process can use.
Compared to the nearly 97 percent “yes” vote for its first contract, the second contract’s 70.6 “yes” vote is significantly lower. The tentative agreement lacked two longtime union demands — third party arbitration and agency shop — which created contention among members.
Gregory J. Kehne, a Ph.D. candidate in Engineering and Applied Sciences, said he expected that the contract would have “fairly robust” support but felt “heartened” to see the number of “no” votes.
On Nov. 17, the eve of the ratification vote, some HGSU-UAW leaders and members began a campaign to rally the vote against the contract.
Denish K. Jaswal, a co-chair for the Contract Enforcement and Education Committee who campaigned against the agreement, said she was initially “disappointed” at the contract’s ratification, but started thinking about future plans for organizing.
“We still have to do a lot of work to build our union, and we're going to need all hands on deck,” she said.
Kenneth S. Alyass, a union steward in the History Department, declined to disclose how he voted, but said he believes the union’s non-discrimination and union security demands will be attainable in the future with an expanded membership.
“I think that in the next four years, if we can get to a place where we have over 50 percent membership — really big commitments, especially from the professional and engineering schools — I can imagine a strike that could pressure the University to give in to these demands,” he said.
Oscar Rodrigo Araiza Bravo, a Ph.D. candidate in Physics, said he voted no, but was “happy” to see a clear majority decision from the union.
“We are in a unique position now to run the experiment as to what it means to build union power without having a contract looming on our heads,” he said. “Having consistency and a long-term vision will be a very powerful tool — not only for the bargaining in three years, but also for the future of our union. So I’m very happy that 70 percent of the people agree that this is the experiment that we need to run.”
—Staff writer Meimei Xu can be reached at meimei.xu@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @MeimeiXu7.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
The return of Harvard Crimson basketball competition at Lavietes Pavilion for the first time since pre-pandemic kicked off on Oct. 15 as both the men’s and women’s programs battled their teammates in two intrasquad scrimmages following an assortment of pre-game activities and food.
Junior Chris Ledlum launches t-shirts into the stands as players are introduced onto the floor before the games begin.
Half of the women’s team huddles as they prepare to hit the court again.
Junior guard McKenzie E. Forbes shoots a jumper over first-year guard Elena Rodriguez. Later on, in her season and career debut for the Crimson on Nov. 12, Forbes dropped 20 points, eight rebounds, and seven assists against Massachusetts.
Crimson faithful pack the stands and cheer on the teams and Harvard’s dance team from the stands prior to their halftime performance.
Sophomore forward Lindsey S. Lawson connects from the charity stripe on her second free throw attempt.
First-year guard Elle E. Stauffer fires from three as Rodriguez contests.
Junior guard Idan C. Tretout pulls way back for a narrowly-missed monster slam as sophomore forward Justice U. Ajogbor and senior forward Kale Catchings watch during the men’s team warm up.
Senior co-captains Catchings and Mason T. Forbes battle it out in the post, waiting on the rebound off Ledlum’s shot.
Harvard’s cheerleaders cheer from the baseline mid-scrimmage.

Ledlum goes up to slam home a dunk off the pass from senior point guard Spencer Freedman on the fast-break as Tretout and junior guard Luka Sakota stand back.
Tretout lays up an acrobatic shot through contact against Ledlum, maintaining body control and finishing the basket, as Freedman battles Katchings under the basket.
Sakota pulls a three-point jumper from the right wing over the contest from first-year guard Tyler Simon. Sakota’s range has looked good in the last few games, as he buried buzzer-beating threes in both the Nov. 13 game against Iona and the Nov. 24 game against Colgate to send each contest into overtime.
Tretout fades away on a jumper as Sakota guards him closely in the paint.
The stands erupt in anticipation of t-shirts being launched into the crowd in a break from the scrimmaging. It’s safe to say players and fans are both excited that Harvard basketball is finally back.
The women’s program is currently 2-4 in non-conference play after its thrilling 82-79 victory over Boston University on Saturday, while the men’s team moves to 5-2 after last Wednesday's overtime win against Colgate and a great comeback win over the Northeastern Huskies on Saturday night.

—Staff photographer and writer Zing Gee can be reached at zing.gee@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @Zing401.
