The last time I called Harvard a colonizer, it was a joke. Mostly. This time it’s not.
In early September, I wrote an op-ed discussing how Harvard’s lack of course offerings in Tagalog — the most-spoken language in the Philippines, the fourth most-spoken primary language in the United States, and the native tongue of my mother’s family — and the absence of courses on Philippine history were aligned with a legacy of U.S. colonialism in the Philippines. In my view, this collision of damages was already bad enough. I didn’t think it could get any worse.
When it came to U.S. empire and education, I saw a smoking gun. What I didn’t realize was that Harvard itself would be the one holding it.
The origin story of the Philippine-American relationship is one steeped in brutality. Immediately following the U.S. victory in the 1898 Spanish-American War, which featured Manila Bay as the scene of several decisive battles, the United States claimed the archipelago of the Philippines as its own. Philippine nationalists, who had just thrown off the yoke of 300 years of Spanish rule, soon found themselves in a second war for independence against a power who had appeared as an ally only days earlier.
The war against the U.S. invasion of the islands, which the United States framed as a struggle to suppress insurrection, was incredibly violent and racialized — enough so that concepts like the Colt .45 revolver, water torture, and the White Man’s Burden are all counted among the Philippine-American war’s distinct offspring.
The dissolution of Philippine resistance forces in 1902 meant the start of America’s foremost overseas colonial experience, which, despite forming an integral part of U.S. global identity in the twentieth century and beyond, is hardly ever taught in schools.
The tenuous nature of academic memory with regards to this period in history occurs by design. Education itself was an essential tool of the U.S. colonial policy of “benevolent assimilation,” a term which served as merely a facade for an especially pernicious form of subjugation. General Arthur MacArthur, the U.S. Military Governor of the Philippines, himself recommended that investment in education in the islands occur “primarily and exclusively as an adjunct to military operations, calculated to pacify the people and procure and expedite the restoration of tranquility throughout the Archipelago.” The purpose of the U.S. education system in the Philippines was thus inseparable from the aims of U.S. empire: subordination, control, and exploitation.
American soldier-teachers, as they were known in their double capacity, formed an integral part of a system that mirrored domestic projects of education as a form of racialized assimilation for Black and Indigenous students. In the colonial education project, nationalist tellings of Philippine history were villainized or recast as mere folklore; the memory of the brutality of American conquest was subsumed in a narrative of white civilizing benevolence; and the imposition of English as the national language of instruction severed the final links between the people of the Philippines and their own past. Historian Renato Constantino, writing in his landmark essay “The Mis-education of the Filipino,” makes the point of these initiatives clear: “The most effective means of subjugating a people is to capture their minds […] The Filipino had to be educated as a good colonial.”
Recognizing the historical role of education as a site of erasure, colonialism, and global white supremacy is enough to raise eyebrows when confronted with the kinds of gaps that exist in Harvard’s curriculum. But the reality is much worse.
Harvard was specifically responsible for the design of this system.
Upon recommendation from Harvard University President Charles W. Eliot, Class of 1853, Harvard graduate Fred W. Atkinson, Class of 1890, was appointed by Governor of the Philippines William H. Taft to serve as the director of education in the Philippines. Atkinson, who viewed the people of the Philippines as inherently child-like and unfit for self-rule, dismissed his contemporaries’ concerns that changing the national language of instruction in the islands would lead to cultural destruction and became the primary architect of English hegemony in schools.
To Atkinson, the role of his education system in maintaining the U.S. overseas empire was a source of pride. “The influence of this American teaching body,” he wrote in 1905, “has been a profound one in the work of pacification which our government has been fostering.”
History, in all of its blur and crookedness, has at least made one thing clear. Harvard administrators and affiliates held a primary investment in not only the conception of the U.S. colonial education project as one of racialized subjugation but also in its material implementation and outcomes. Of the jagged wound that is U.S. colonialism in the Philippines, a gun is smoking in Harvard’s hands.
***
This is what scar tissue looks like:
Skin whitening creams, shame over accented speech, self-denigration of ethnic characteristics. Taken together, these elements are the basis of colonial mentality, a well-documented phenomenon of internalized racism in the Filipino American community that is considered a direct consequence of centuries-long colonial rule.
Illusory debts that cannot be escaped: the assumed imperative of gratitude for U.S. civilizing benevolence, for the blessings of English, for the promise of immigration. Silence as a form of currency. Paying for what was never consensually purchased.
Ahistorical bodies marked by racial confusion: Catholic and colonized by Spain, but not Hispanic. Academically classified under Oceania and located within islands of the Pacific, but not Pacific Islander. Census-defined as Asian and brutalized accordingly during the surge of Covid-19 anti-Asian hate crimes, but not quite the Asian that counts in mainstream representation.
Preordained apologies: When I first saw my grandmother after getting admitted to Harvard, at our annual family Christmas party in Los Angeles, her initial reaction was to squeeze me into a hug and tell me how proud my family was. Her second reaction was to relay a conversation that she’d had with some of our relatives: “We’d never heard of a Filipino going to Harvard!” I predicted that the inertia of this school would tend towards academic and cultural erasure; I accepted this guilt and loss before I even set foot on campus.
Or so I thought.
Since learning about Eliot and Atkinson, I cannot look at this setting the same way. What was once an unresolved discomfort has now become a clearly defined wound, the instrument of which I see clearly in Harvard's hands. I am haunted by specters of loss in the classroom: mouths rounded by the erosion of soft English words, a history crushed and discarded, the figure of obligatory gratitude always watching at the door. In this space, the silence makes my bones ache; history weighs heavy on my throat.
A confession: I’ve been failing to write this op-ed for three months. I cry every time I sit down to write this piece.
***
Relationships are fluid and bidirectional; what happened “over there,” spatially overseas and temporally in the past, is undeniably linked to what is happening “here,” in the domestic setting of the present.
Harvard’s investment in white-U.S. empire continues in the educational setting where it began. The College’s silence on the Philippines through gaps in course offerings in Philippine history and the Tagalog language was more than just an accidental oversight, a coincidence of losses. In an objective sense, these gaps are illogical given the practical value of teaching Tagalog and the significance of the Philippine-American relationship throughout U.S. history. The only explanation is that there is more practical value in keeping this knowledge hidden — and in the context of U.S. empire, there is.
This void was preordained. The tool matches the scar.
***
While researching for this piece, I visited the Pusey Library stacks for the first time. Tucked away in the deepest corner of the sprawling Widener Library complex, Pusey Level P3 is sparse, white, industrial; to access the archives, you have to unlock the shelves on a keypad and wait as the towering rows mechanically groan apart, like stones unrolling at the mouth of a tomb. Alone in the Oceania section, I may as well have been holding a kerosene lamp in the dark, surrounded by something sacred.
I found Atkinson’s book and understood instantly: I was holding an archive that was designed to never touch my hands. I was seeing something that I was never meant to see.
Harvard’s legacy of empire and education is one haunted by loss; the instrument used to create this wound lies directly in the University’s hands. But without Harvard, I wouldn't be able to begin putting some of these pieces together. I am pained by generational loss in this space and yet cannot help but feel joyous at what I have the resources to know, to learn and unlearn, alongside others in the Philippine American community at this school — those petitioning repeatedly for the addition of a Tagalog language tutorial, those teaching courses on Philippine history through Cabot’s ExCo program, or even those contributing in spirit as the hands who interrogated Atkinson’s archive before me, the authors of the annotations in the margins.
The moment to address this wound is now. The recent gift of $45 million dollars to expand the Asian American Studies program, combined with the administration’s own intention to diversify faculty, means that the opportunity to rectify the lack of Tagalog and Philippine history courses has all but fallen into Harvard’s lap.
Harvard is indisputably a leader in education, both within the United States and abroad. If it can begin this process of decolonization in the academic setting, and commit to it as more than just a metaphor, imagine what else is possible. If it chooses to maintain this silence, imagine what this signals about the kind of Veritas that the institution, and education as a whole, should truly pursue.
There is no way to efface a scar, to un-embody the memory of a wound and to forget the agent responsible. When it comes to the legacy of U.S. colonialism in the Philippines, the educational setting may always be marred by ragged edges, tangled tissue, the discomfort of illinear healing. But loss and new growth are intertwined. There is potential here, at the site of erasure, for forward imagination. And it is time for us — and Harvard — to intentionally begin this work.
​​Eleanor V. Wikstrom ’24, a Crimson Editorial Comp Director, is a Social Studies concentrator in Adams House.
Have a suggestion, question, or concern for The Crimson Editorial Board? Click here.
This semester was a homecoming. The pandemic’s hold on our college experience, while loosened, is still felt — we wear masks to lecture and Editorial Board meetings, and stick Covid tests up our nose bi-weekly. But campus has undeniably roared back to life after a historic pause to life as usual.
Picking up our lives at Harvard, or starting them, however, came in fits. After a year of loss and estrangement, we want to pause and ask: How has it felt to come together again this semester, and what carried you through it?
What does it feel like to return to a different place than the one you paused in?
We didn’t just return to a different place than we left in March 2020; we ourselves are different people. I returned to campus expecting to neatly pick up where I had left off as a freshman, but too much time has passed and too much has happened for me to neatly put the puzzle pieces back together. I see the world differently than I did. This semester has been one of change — of a switch from pre-law to pre-med, of a clarification and reordering of my priorities, of new friendships. I will forever wonder what the ending of my pre-pandemic Harvard story would have been, but I’m eternally grateful for everything I’ve regained in our return to campus.
—Orlee G.S. Marini-Rapoport ’23-’24
Deep into summer 2020, a thought wafted over my mind, so gentle that it shocked me. “Where’s Remy?” Freshman year, the campus cat found me almost exclusively at my lowest; shaky with sleepiness in a deserted library, or weeping behind doors he’d inexplicably entered. My orange Houdini. Magic, definitely. But once campus de-densified, every wayward soul scattered. So how, then, did our patron fill his days?
Of the four classes on campus when Covid sent us packing, only two returned. Remy, though, hasn’t graduated. When I see him, I can’t help but think that I'll probably never see most of them again.
—Hana M. Kiros ’22
I left Harvard as a sophomore and returned a senior; coming back to campus was like getting a job I was unqualified for, but really eager to do well. My blockmates and I poured ourselves into trying to be like the seniors who made Harvard — our House, our classrooms, our clubs — the place we had missed so badly the year prior. Three months later, we are absolutely exhausted. But I think that’s a good sign.
—Chloe A. Shawah ’22
For upperclassmen, this semester represented a return home, but as a sophomore who had never lived on campus, I had the opportunity to discover a new home. At first, the unfamiliarity felt overwhelming, but I learned to find joy in the undiscovered. From climbing on the roof of my dorm to reconnecting with friends I had only met online to taking biology field trips near the Charles River, each day held a new experience that taught me about myself, others, and the Harvard community. Not every experience was what I imagined, but constant change was what I needed.
—Libby E. Tseng ’24
What carried you through this semester?
Cinnamon toasties from the Kirkland dining hall from 10 p.m. to 1 a.m. The sweet and crunchy cereal has carried me through the semester before, but this one was different. I ate cinnamon toasties in the loneliness of my house the past virtual semester, but this semester when I ate that ridiculously sweet cereal, I was surrounded by friends that I haven’t known for more than six months, but I couldn’t imagine my life without them. Cereal nights in the weaning hours of the night carried me this semester, and I wouldn’t have had it any other way. C-entryway, I love you guys. Cereal?
—Markus I. Anzaldua-Campos ’24
The Charles River glittering under the morning sun as the Red Line passes over the Longfellow Bridge is forever ingrained into my mind. Sharing that moment with a train car of strangers reminds me that we are more than a singularity — we are connected by living in this city, sharing a community. Boston used to be unfamiliar to me. Now, it’s home. There’s joy and endurance in these brick-and-stone streets, a new microcosm of the city to get to know better, a new day to see the Charles River ebbing and flowing as it outlines the city.
—Shanivi Srikonda ’24
I got a job in the Classics department this year. In the mix and the craziness of the year, everyone kept asking me why. Why take on more responsibility? Why put time into a job if you don’t “need” it? I didn’t have a good answer then, but now I know. The ability to walk into a space in the chaos of college and be focused on one specific thing, working with and helping people you like, is invaluable. It’s like meditation, bringing a breath of stability into my life.
—Ivor K. Zimmerman ’23
My Harvard interviewer left me with these words: forge strong female friendships. My blocking group girls have been by my side through the semester’s swings. The 5 a.m. conversations, the stick figures on pink Post-it’s, the group hug after blowing the candles out, the six wingwomen “acting normal” when it counts. Screaming “All Too Well,” reminding me I’m stronger than I know, braiding my hair as if I were a princess. Never dropping my hand in crowds, giving the best nicknames, bonding over Bo Burnham, answering any thought experiment. Thanks to them, I’ve loved more than our 613 photos together can capture.
—Anuksha S. Wickramasinghe ’24
What got me through? Crunchy leaves in the Yard. No reason why. That’s all.
Just kidding. This semester to me has been about forcing myself to acknowledge small happinesses: memes I reacted with more than a nose crinkle at, mirrors in opportune places for too many selfies, all 24 hours of sunlight through my bedroom window. Arguably, happiness is to be felt without conscious thought; like a joke, it dies on the operating table. But I find when I leave happiness to passive feelings, the little ones slip away. You have to snag that kind of happiness in a butterfly net.
—Christina M. Xiao ’24
This semester, I was carried on the backs of my friends and by the strength of my own shoulders — what I used to see as incompatible, I now see as twin flames. I have cried with friends and danced alone. I have journaled in community and sang in solitude. I have lived three lifetimes within this semester, each one guided by both the immensity of my own tenacity and the unrelenting support of those with me along the way. Through others, I have found my own strength. Through others, I am celebratory of my own messy, beautiful life.
—Ellie H. Ashby ’24
Unexpected friendships develop at just the right time. Right when you feel smothered by your work or invisible to the people you trusted the most, there’s always an accidental introduction to save you. At least, that’s what propelled me through this semester. I took refuge in my casual acquaintances and watched them effortlessly transform into stronger bonds. Rejecting the “no new friends” mentality awarded me with safe social spaces, and allowed me to never settle. —Ebony M. Smith ’24
My roommates and I laughed when we first saw it in our common room. I mean, who puts a white pleather couch in a college dorm? We didn’t know, at the time, that we’d be spending at least an hour every night on those cushions — debriefing, psychoanalyzing, crying, confessing, 1 a.m. snacking, existential crisis-ing, laughing until our sides gave out. It sounds silly, but I made it through this semester because of that couch and the people it held. And call it a miracle (or call it having exceptionally clean roommates), but three-and-a-half months later, the white pleather is still spotless.
—Eleanor V. Wikstrom ’24
On a random Monday in the middle of September, I begrudgingly left the comfort of my dorm and made the trek up to Memorial Hall expecting to audition for an acapella group – that’s all. Nothing life-changing, just another opportunity to get more music into my day-to-day. What I didn’t expect was to meet my on-campus family and make some of my closest friends here at Harvard. Joining the Opportunes was one of the best decisions I have made this semester. Now, every Sunday, Tuesday, and Thursday, I get to do what I love with people who make Harvard feel like home.
—Nicole B. Alexander ’24
Between new friends and old, family, and even strangers, I was held tightly when I could feel myself slipping away. I was seen when I felt invisible. I was loved in moments when I felt unlovable. I had shoulders to cry on alongside hands to hold as we danced together under neon basement lights. And so, I owe this semester's triumph and survival to one thing: community.
—Kyla N. Golding ’24
The walk by the Charles River cradling a bouquet from Trader Joe’s. Handwritten letters with faded constellations of ink stains and a scraggly smiley face. The teddy bear I walked past on the street. The uproarious laughter of friends, the kind that incites a string of giggles for the next couple of minutes. I can’t say that there was a singular object or entity that motivated me to push through, but I woke up every day with at least one thing I looked forward to.
—Ruby Huang ’24
How has the pandemic changed how you relate to others?
It’s been the deep, meaningful conversations and moments that have comforted me upon my return to campus. After so much time at home — and the loss of a loved one this semester — I realized my relationships on campus lacked the commitment and self-sacrifice I aspire to possess. Since this realization, I’ve taken a few people close to me and asked them life’s hard questions: about themselves and who they’ve become. I’m looking for a community of people truly committed to each other and I’ve become more willing to share my own vulnerabilities to arrive at that goal.
—Sterling M. Bland ’23
On my first day of class last year, my history professor said that “we were all hurting and fragile.” I think about this a lot. We’ve been with this virus so long that it doesn't feel strange or novel anymore and with every new mutation it feels like it’s going to be forever. I’ve spent so much time behind a surgical mask that the thought of masking my feelings or pretending to be someone I’m not is too much now. I’m still pretty wound up but I like to think I say how I feel more often.
—Gordon J. Ebanks ’24

Have a suggestion, question, or concern for The Crimson Editorial Board? Click here.
Sections
Fall 2021 marked the return of full in-person operations at Harvard, more than 18 months after campus first de-densified in response to the coronavirus pandemic. Here’s a look back — in animation form — at what the fall had in store at the University.
Students arrive in waves back on campus as Tropical Storm Henri arrives in Massachusetts.
Some members of the Class of 2025, which boasts an unusually large class size, end up moving into overflow housing.
Students attend their first day of in-person classes, while adhering to new safety protocols, such as masks.
Persistent campus wifi outages disrupt the first week of classes.
There is a rise in Covid-19 cases during the first couple weeks after students arrive, forcing some students to isolate or quarantine while taking classes.
The College, ahead of Labor Day weekend, increases the undergraduate testing cadence from once a week to three times per week.
The gates of Harvard Yard are closed in the evening to the public through mid-October to encourage public health, drawing some criticism from students.
Some local Harvard Square businesses which closed during the pandemic, such as Blue Bottle Cafe, reopen amid students’ return. Other local businesses are inundated by customers due to staffing shortages.
With cases coming under control on campus due to student observance of public health protocols, the undergraduate testing cadence drops down to twice per week.
—Descriptions by Yuen Ting Chow and Meera S. Nair
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
More than 500 Harvard affiliates signed on to an open letter to Visa CEO Alfred F. Kelly, Jr., urging the company to adopt policies they argue will curb the spread of illegal pornographic materials, such as child pornography and those that result from sex trafficking.
Harvard Kennedy School students Pallavi Khare, Ethan Lyle ’13, and Christopher A. Musser penned the letter and sent it on the anniversary of a New York Times report documenting the spread of illegal content on the website Pornhub.
The letter asks Visa to implement a preventative policy similar to that of Mastercard’s, which requires sellers to obtain “clear, documented, and unambiguous consent” for all individuals depicted in adult content, as well as establish a “content review process prior to publication.”
Following New York Times article, Visa discontinued payments to Pornhub. The letter argues, however, that such policies do not address the extent of the issue.
“The problem is systemic,” the letter reads. “Criminal sexual abuse is facilitated by many user-generated pornographic sites because they do not systematically or credibly verify the age or consent of the individuals in the videos they distribute and from which they profit.”
Musser wrote in an email that he was inspired to write the letter by a class assignment encouraging students to make an “ask” of their peers based on their personal values. Upon circulating the letter across his class section, he decided to try to collect more signatures.
In an interview, Khare and Musser said they spent hours collecting signatures around the Smith Campus Center, Harvard Business School, and other places around campus before hanging up flyers with a QR code that allowed passing individuals to view and sign the letter.
Though Khare and Musser said they received much support for their efforts, the letter has not received unanimous approval across Harvard.
After seeing a flyer highlighting the letter in a bathroom stall, Jessica E. K. Van Meir — a Ph.D. student in Public Policy at HKS — raised concerns to Khare, Lyle, and Musser that their recommended policy would amount to “financial discrimination” against sex workers and force mainstream pornographic websites to shut down, making sex trafficking and child pornography more difficult to “identify and combat.”
Van Meir said in an interview that much of the child sexual abuse material online is transmitted on social media and messaging apps, not just pornographic websites. She added she offered to provide Khare, Lyle, and Musser with her arguments and supporting data at their request.
Before she could provide them with the information, she said, the group sent the letter to honor the anniversary of New York Times article.
Van Meir said she was “disappointed” by their decision to send the letter due to its exclusion of the “stakeholders involved,” such as experts on anti-trafficking and advocates for sex workers.
Lyle wrote that the letter was sent with the consideration of Van Meir’s input, as well as expert perspectives.
“We evaluated numerous arguments and sources provided by Van Meir, and we also sought out additional perspectives from a variety of subject matter experts at HKS, [Harvard Law School], and beyond Harvard,” Lyle wrote. “Ultimately, we remain convinced that requiring verification of age and consent is a common sense standard that would do far more good than harm for people impacted by sex trafficking, rape, and abuse.”
“We decided to send the letter as planned, in keeping with our promise to the 500+ signatories,” he added.
In response to the original letter, Van Meir decided to pen a counter-letter to Visa to outline her concerns, focusing on the proposed policy’s potential harm to sex workers.
“Many survivors of sex trafficking, who are excluded from many economic and social supports through trauma, criminal records, marginalization, and discrimination, rely on these platforms to stay out of their trafficking situations,” Van Meir wrote. “When sex workers lose the platforms they rely on to survive, they are unable to support themselves and their families.”
“This economic vulnerability may force them into riskier situations such as street-based sex work and put them at greater risk of exploitation and trafficking,” she continued.
The Feminist Working Group, a part of the Harvard Graduate Students Union-United Automobile Workers, announced on Friday that it would sign on to Van Meir’s Letter, joining 78 other signatories, as of Sunday night.
Following Van Meir’s counter-letter, Khare, Lyle, and Musser published a set of responses disputing Van Meir’s claims, noting that “as with many complex issues, experts do not all agree.”
“We believe that if a website cannot implement safety protocols to avoid hosting illegal non-consensual content and operate profitably and pay its workers/contractors, it needs a new business model,” they wrote.
Lyle highlighted the support the original letter has received thus far and reiterated the complexity of the issue.
“We have received inspirational messages of support, including from survivors. We appreciate Van Meir’s engagement and hope to work together with her and other stakeholders on this complex issue going forward,” he wrote.
Visa did not respond to a request for comment on either letter.
—Staff writer Joshua S. Cai can be reached at joshua.cai@thecrimson.com.
—Staff writer Eric Yan can be reached at eric.yan@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
As former Harvard Chemistry chair Charles M. Lieber goes on trial on federal charges beginning Tuesday, law and trade experts speculated that his case’s outcome could decide the fate of the Department of Justice’s China Initiative.
Lieber, charged in January 2020 with making false statements to U.S. government officials regarding his involvement in China’s Thousand Talents Plan — and four subsequent tax-related felonies — is the latest person to be brought to trial as part of the DOJ’s China Initiative. The program, launched in 2018 under the Trump administration, aims to curb “trade secret theft, hacking and economic espionage.”
Derek Adams, a partner at the Potomac Law Group and a former DOJ trial attorney, said Lieber’s case is likely “the most high-profile” to come out of the China Initiative’s investigations thus far.
“It may have a real impact on the future of these cases being brought under the China Initiative,” Adams said. “If Lieber ends up being found not guilty on this one, then I think it’s just going to increase the pressure of some folks in Congress to shut down the initiative entirely.”
A recent analysis of the China Initiative by the MIT Technology Review found that only a quarter of defendants charged under the initiative have been convicted, while the initiative’s focus has shifted away from hacking and espionage cases to instances of “research integrity,” commonly involving researchers failing to disclose ties with Chinese universities.
The study also found that more than 90 percent of China Initiative defendants are of Chinese heritage.
Mark A. Cohen, an intellectual property law expert at the University of California, Berkeley, said that perception of racial targeting may hinder important collaboration with researchers from China.
“As it was phrased and described, particularly at launch, [the initiative] really seemed to be targeting individuals who were of Chinese descent, and possibly those who worked with China,” he said. “The U.S. has benefited so much from Chinese talent in the U.S. and I think we need to keep up those open doors to researchers in collaboration, particularly now.”
In this case, he also said it is “unusual” for the FBI to pursue a investigation into Lieber, given he is not a Chinese national.
In a September open letter to U.S. Attorney General Merrick B. Garland ’74, a group of 177 Stanford faculty members called for an end to the China Initiative, citing a “chilling effect” on incoming scholars and researchers, particularly from China.
Nearly 100 Yale professors have also signed onto a letter circulating in New Haven that entirely adopts the language of the Stanford letter.
In a LinkedIn post, Andrew E. Lelling, the U.S. Attorney for Massachusetts until February and one of the original members of the China Initiative’s working group, linked to the MIT Technology Review’s study and wrote that the initiative needs reform.
“When we created DOJ’s China Initiative in 2018, we were responding to long-term concerns about economic espionage involving an emerging geopolitical rival,” wrote Lelling, who was U.S. attorney when Lieber was charged. “This was sound policy, but the Initiative has drifted and, in some significant ways, lost its focus. DOJ should revamp, and shut down, parts of the program, to avoid needlessly chilling scientific and business collaborations with Chinese partners.”
The Department of Justice did not respond to a request for comment.
Claude E. Barfield, a former consultant to the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative, said that regardless of its recent track record, the China Initiative is still necessary.
“Otherwise, you’re throwing yourself open to — as you already have — wide-scale theft of a country being able to catch up not through their own means but through stealing what you have,” Barfield said.
Lieber’s trial is set to begin Tuesday.
— Staff writer Brandon L. Kingdollar can be reached at brandon.kingdollar@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter at @newskingdollar.
— Staff writer Andy Z. Wang can be reached at andy.wang@thecrimson.com
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Nearly one month after becoming eligible to receive a booster shot within the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, some Harvard students said they are holding out to get the shot until the conclusion of the fall semester, though public health experts recommend people get the shot as soon as possible.
As of Nov. 18, individuals 18 and older in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts are eligible for a Covid-19 booster shot six months after getting the second dose of the Pfizer or Moderna vaccines or two months after getting the single-dose Johnson & Johnson vaccine.
The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommends eligible individuals receive a booster shot, especially with the emergence of the Omicron variant.
In an email sent to affiliates Dec. 8, University Provost Alan M. Garber ’76, Executive Vice President Katie Lapp, and Harvard University Health Services Executive Director Giang T. Nguyen urged eligible students to “make a booster appointment as soon as possible.”
Still, seven students said in interviews this week they still have not gotten the shot, citing inconvenience and concerns about experiencing side effects during finals period. Many said they will make an appointment to receive the booster shot over winter recess, which stretches from Dec. 19 to Jan. 23.
Abigail M. Fennelly ’24 said she chose to not get the booster shot during the fall semester to avoid symptoms she had experienced after getting her second dose of the Covid-19 vaccine.
“I got really sick after my second shot,” Fennelly said. “I just don’t have time to be out of commission for a day right now, but as soon as we’re on break and I can afford to be in bed for 24 hours, I’m going to do it.”
Ye Rim “Grace” Chang ’21-’22 also said she is waiting for the semester to finish before receiving her booster shot.
“I’ve been really busy and I don’t want to be in bed, because I need to study for finals and work on my final projects,” Chang said. “I’m waiting until I finish all my finals to get the booster shot.”
Megan C. Coram ’23 said she got her booster shot last week and strategically scheduled the appointment at the start of finals period because her exams fell toward the end of the period. Though it was too early to tell, Coram said she thought it would be “fine” if she was “out of it” for a few days.
Coram added that if she did have finals at the beginning of the period, she would have postponed the booster shot until afterwards.
Can Yeşildere ’23, who is from Turkey, said he is waiting to get the booster when he returns home. He said he believes he will have an easier time scheduling an appointment back home than in the Boston area.
“Back home, I can just go to the hospital and they’ll give me a jab,” Yeşildere said. “I’ll have all my information about all of my vaccines registered in the Turkish system, and so it’s just easier to get that back [home] and then update Harvard accordingly.”
The University is currently not offering booster shots as it focuses on providing Covid vaccines to affiliates who still need their first or second doses, per a Dec. 6 email from HUHS. Harvard has not yet indicated whether it will require affiliates to receive a booster shot.
—Staff writer Justin Lee can be reached at justin.lee@thecrimson.com.
—Staff writer Vivi E. Lu can be reached at vivi.lu@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Mother Juice, a plant-based cafe with Boston roots, is set to open a fourth location in the Smith Campus Center in March 2022. The cafe will join Blackbird Doughnuts and Sally’s Sandwiches and Las Palmas Restaurant & Catering as recent arrivals to Smith.
Mother Juice’s menu boasts a variety of smoothies, plant-based breakfast bowls, salads, and cold-pressed juices.
Ellen C. Fitzgerald and Laura E. Baldini founded Mother Juice in 2012 after noticing a lack of cold-pressed juice bars in Boston. The pair sold their first juice at a farmer’s market that year, soon growing their operations from a farmer’s market stand to a “juice truck on wheels.”
“We saw a need in the market, and we really liked getting into the neighborhoods, so we started as a food truck so we could check out all different parts of the city,” Fitzgerald said.
Fitzgerald added the cafe’s local sourcing of ingredients helps maintain ties to the Boston area.
“We use local produce as much as possible, so that was really exciting for us to be able to work with farmers that were at the same farmer’s markets as us, and use their produce and make juice,” she said. “It just gave us an opportunity to interact with our customers.”
After the success of their food truck, the duo opened their first brick-and-mortar store in Kendall Square in 2014. The plant-based cafe now has two additional locations, one on Newbury Street in Boston and another in the Boston Public Market.
Fitzgerald said Mother Juice’s mission is to make plant-based eating “fun and accessible.”
“The idea is that healthy food doesn’t have to be sterile,” she said. “We want it to be fun and vibrant and colorful, and really welcoming.”
Denise A. Jillson, executive director of the Harvard Square Business Association, said Mother Juice would be a “nice addition” to the Square.
“It’s always wonderful to welcome new businesses, especially ones like this,” she said. “We don’t have anything quite like it in the Square, so that’s always good to have a different kind of offering.”
Fitzgerald said she and Baldini chose the Square as the location for Mother Juice’s fourth shop because of its “vibrant community.” She noted that opening a location in the Smith Campus Center would allow the pair to return to their Cambridge roots.
“When we got started, we worked out of the kitchen in the Unitarian Universalist Church right in Harvard Square, so we’re back to our roots,” she said. “We love students and all the great energy that they bring, so I think it will be a great fit for us.”
“We’re so excited to be in Harvard Square. It’s always been a dream of ours to get on a college campus, so we couldn’t picture a better one,” she added.
—Staff writer Tracy Jiang can be reached at tracy.jiang@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @_tracyjiang_.
—Staff writer Davin W. Shi can be reached at davin.shi@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Former Harvard Chemistry chair Charles M. Lieber is set to stand trial Tuesday on six federal charges related to his ties to the Chinese government, nearly two years after his initial arrest. Throughout the proceedings, Lieber has maintained his innocence. Here’s what you need to know before opening arguments begin.
Lieber was arrested on campus on Jan. 28, 2020 for “making materially false, fictitious and fraudulent statements” to the Department of Defense and the National Institutes of Health about his relationship with the Chinese government and its Thousand Talents Program. Established in 2008, the TTP recruits scientists from across the world to promote Chinese research efforts.
While international talent recruitment programs are not uncommon, the U.S. government has designated the TTP a threat to national security. In fact, the Department of Justice describes the program as an initiative to “lure Chinese overseas talent and foreign experts to bring their knowledge and experience to China and reward individuals for stealing proprietary information.”
Lieber was released two days later after accepting a $1 million bail agreement, which included surrendering his and his wife’s passports.
November 2011: Lieber signs a five-year contract with the Wuhan University of Technology as a “strategic scientist.” In this role, he is obligated to propose projects for research institutes in China, publish papers in WUT’s name, accept WUT students as visiting scholars, and organize a Harvard-WUT joint research laboratory in Wuhan.
July 2012: Alongside his initial contract with WUT, Lieber signs a three-year contract with the TTP as a “One Thousand Talent High Level Foreign Expert.” In exchange, WUT offers Lieber a $50,000 monthly salary and living expenses of around $158,000 over three years. The contract also allocates $1.74 million for the joint Harvard-WUT research laboratory and related research.
November 2012: To receive his compensation, Lieber opens a Chinese bank account with the assistance of a WUT employee.
January 2013: Without consulting anyone at Harvard, Lieber signs an agreement on behalf of the University to establish the joint Harvard-WUT laboratory.
January 2015: Harvard independently becomes aware of WUT using its name and logo. Lieber falsely tells University officials that WUT is using Harvard’s name without his knowledge or permission.
April 2018: The DoD interviews Lieber about his active grants and foreign collaborations, to which he falsely tells investigators that he has never been asked to participate in the TTP. At this point, both of his contracts have lapsed.
November 2018: Harvard questions Lieber about his foreign affiliations and connections to WUT, following inquiries from the NIH.
January 2019: Harvard submits a written statement to NIH attesting that “Dr. Lieber has represented that he is not and has never been a participant” of the TTP.
January 2020: Lieber is arrested for providing fraudulent information to the DoD and NIH regarding his affiliation with TTP and WUT.
Lieber is going on trial this week on six felony charges.
In June 2020, a federal grand jury indicted him on two accounts of false statements to federal officials. Allegedly, Lieber provided false information about his TTP affiliation to investigators in 2018 and lied to Harvard, which led Harvard to misinform the NIH about his Chinese associations.
Later that summer, Lieber was also indicted on four additional tax offenses related to his income from the TTP. Lieber allegedly received income from WUT from 2013 to 2014 and held a foreign bank account from 2014 to 2015 that he failed to report on his federal tax returns.
The day of his arrest, Harvard placed Lieber on paid administrative leave and began its own review. At the time, University spokesperson Jonathan L. Swain wrote that Lieber would be barred from Harvard’s campus and his teaching duties until further notice.
In an interview with The Crimson last week, Faculty of Arts and Sciences Dean Claudine Gay declined to comment on the review and Lieber’s sanctions.
In March, 41 professors across seven American universities, including seven Nobel laureates, denounced the “unjust” criminal prosecution of Lieber, arguing it runs counter to a culture of global collaboration and impedes the open exchange of information necessary for scientific collaboration.
Moreover, they argued that Lieber’s incurable lymphoma heightened the urgency of the government clearing Lieber’s name.
In his trial brief filed last week, Lieber pleaded not guilty on all six counts. Lieber’s lawyers wrote that the government will fail to prove that the professor acted “knowingly, intentionally, or willfully” on each count, or that he made any “material false statement.” In its brief, the government argued that Lieber is guilty of providing “false statements and material omissions” to federal agencies.
The trial will begin with jury selection on Tuesday and is expected to last a week. The Crimson will be providing daily coverage of the trial.
—Staff writer Isabella B. Cho can be reached at isabella.cho@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @izbcho.
—Staff writer Mayesha R. Soshi can be reached at mayesha.soshi@thecrimson.com.
—Staff writer Andy Z. Wang can be reached at andy.wang@thecrimson.com.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard has authorized three faculty candidates specializing in ethnic studies for appointment, a significant step in its long-running cluster hire for professors in the field, Dean of Social Science Lawrence D. Bobo said in an interview Friday.
Faculty of Arts and Sciences Dean Claudine Gay announced the search for three to four senior faculty in Latinx, Asian American, and Muslim studies in June 2019, with a goal of completion by the end of the 2019-2020 academic year, but it has been plagued by delays.
Bobo said the FAS has “moved ahead” with four potential senior candidates, three of whom have been authorized for appointment.
“We’re in that complicated process of trying to persuade people to come and they’re all truly terrific people,” he said. “I’m optimistic we’re going to be successful with this, then we will begin to feel like a very different place and a really exciting place in this arena.”
“It’s taking a little longer than all of us would like, but we’re at a very good place,” Bobo added.
After a weathering a series of crises over faculty diversity and sexual harassment in recent years, Bobo said his division is “headed in the right direction.”
“Things are all at the moment, from my vantage point, headed in the right direction, though cultural transformation is an ongoing process,” he said.
Professors in the Economics, Government, and Anthropology departments have all been sanctioned for sexual harassment in the last three years.
Bobo said his office has supported departments in undertaking climate reviews and working through issues brought to light.
“All of our departments in the division have engaged in a process of climate surveys in order to take stock of where we stand now, where we seem to still have problems, and what we might do to now plan on strategies for moving forward and keeping this momentum toward a strong commitment to inclusive excellence as just a durable feature of our culture in all of our departments,” he said.
He highlighted the work of the Government and Anthropology departments to conduct “intensive self-study and examination.”
“The [Government] department has internally introduced some reforms to greatly mitigate, you know, mitigate against the possibility of any such trouble occurring again,” he said. “I feel confident that they are taking this — certainly absolutely the leadership of the department — takes the obligations here and the need to set a certain tone with the utmost seriousness and dedication.”
In July, Harvard permitted Economics professor Roland G. Fryer Jr. to conditionally return to teaching and research roles after a two-year suspension for violating sexual harassment policies.
Bobo said Fryer’s return to teaching — which is subject to certain restrictions — has gone “swimmingly well.”
“I think [Fryer] has handled it well for his part, so has the department, and to my knowledge at least — and I do regularly check in on this — there are no problems or concerns there,” he said.
Bobo also said he believes Harvard has progressed in diversifying its faculty, but that there is still work to be done.
The departure of Cornel R. West ’74 — after the University allegedly denied his request to be considered for tenure — generated controversy last spring over the treatment of Black scholars at Harvard.
“You’re talking about a university where essentially the CEO of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences — the crown jewel of Harvard University — is an African American woman, where we’ve had an African American Dean of the College, where we’ve had four African American women deans of the major units at the wider Harvard University,” Bobo said. “It seems to me, frankly, the criticism in many respects is overwrought.”
Still, Bobo said he does not believe Harvard is in a uniquely poor position to promote a diverse and inclusive culture within higher education.
“If you were to ask me, ‘Does Harvard face some acute problem and a problem that puts it in a more difficult position than, say, other institutions of higher education?’” Bobo said. “I would say no.”
“I think we feel, on the whole, fully included, full members of the team, recognizing that there's a lot of work to do to make sure all of our scholarly academic units better represent African Americans and the Latinx and Asian American experience,” he added.
Bobo said he feels “truly blessed” to be a part of the division, citing the recent hiring of two senior faculty members — Gabriella B. Coleman in Anthropology and Jesse M. Shapiro ’01 in Economics — as well as the division’s new podcast and symposia series.
“We’re still attracting, without a doubt, the very best scholars and providing the sort of leadership and impact that I think we can all certainly be proud of,” he said.
—Staff writer Kate N. Guerin can be reached at kate.guerin@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Teruo Yabe, the new general manager of Tessei — the company tasked with rapidly cleaning Japan’s bullet trains in seven minutes — was facing a series of challenges.
According to a case study authored by Harvard Business School in 2015, Tessei suffered from a “laundry-list of inefficiencies” which held the company back from cleaning the train cars effectively and promptly.
“Yabe believed that Tessei could do better, but how?” the case asked. “Which levers should he pull first?”
“Trouble at Tessei” showcases the dominant features of a Harvard Business School case study. By presenting challenges facing the company through its leader’s perspective, the 2015 case poses questions on how the company can improve. In a single 80-minute class at HBS, which centers its curriculum around the case method, students at the school would seek to answer those questions.
The first HBS case was written in 1921 by HBS graduate Clinton P. Biddle, 13 years after the school’s founding. Jan W. Rivkin, the senior associate dean of the MBA program and an HBS professor, said that because the school was founded as an “experiment,” HBS spent years discovering what was the most effective way to teach college graduates business, leadership, and management. Faculty believed the case method was the best infrastructure to fulfill that mission.
In 1922, by faculty vote, the method was named the “case system,” and 93 universities adopted at least one of the first five HBS casebooks. V.G. Narayanan, chair of the MBA Elective Curriculum — or second-year curriculum — and an HBS professor, said this “rapid adoption” was because the environment was “ripe” for the case method.
“How do you teach something that’s founded in practice?” Narayanan questioned.
Narayanan traced the origins of the case method to pedagogical approaches pioneered by law and medical schools.
“The idea that you can learn inductively from problems and then generalize — that idea had already started in law and perhaps even in medicine,” Narayanan said. “The Business School was standing on the shoulders of giants.”
Rivkin said the case method became a “magical artifact” for HBS — it was simultaneously a method for teaching, an opportunity for faculty to conduct research and connect with practicing managers, and an avenue to generate funding to develop more cases.
One hundred years since its inception, the case method has evolved into a cornerstone of the Business School. Through a series of events and interviews on their website, HBS is toasting the case method’s centennial year.
In developing each case, Harvard researchers and HBS faculty investigate a real dilemma that a company faced from the perspective of its business leaders. Based on interviews with company executives, media articles, and company financials, a case presents the business issue through a 10- to 20-page narrative.
For HBS professor Ethan S. Bernstein, a successful case consists of three components: 10 pages to brief individuals on information, a divisive dilemma, and a generalizable lesson.
HBS professor Hong Luo described sourcing cases as “exciting” from both an educator’s and researcher’s point of view.
Luo said that sometimes she begins researching for a case by speaking with company executives, while other times she starts by examining publicly available information on the company.
HBS’s pedagogy is centered on analyzing cases, which present dilemmas and pose questions but do not answer them. Professors then structure their courses around cases. Students discuss more than 500 cases during their two years at the school.
An important aspect of the case method is cold calling. Each case method class at HBS begins with a “cold call,” in which the professor selects a student at random to offer their opinion and initiate discussion.
Bernstein described cold calling as “punishment with purpose.” The purpose, he argued, is not to embarrass students but to push the class collectively, and professors are trusted to pull voices that will be useful to the discussion.
HBS professor Aiyesha Dey said that in her experience, students actually like cold calling.
“Often, you get students who might be more shy, and they may not always be, you know, either come from a culture or be ready to raise their hand,” Dey explained.
“So when you actually cold call, I’ve heard students often say, you know, ‘I’m glad you called on me because I was not going to raise my hand, and because you called on me, the spotlight was on me, and I had to speak and it actually made me think, and I was very happy I could contribute,’” she said.
Outside of Harvard, business schools across the world pay for access to the HBS “casebooks” to teach to their own students. In 2020, HBS sold more than 15 million cases, per the school website.
Case studies are like “boardrooms,” according to Bernstein.
Bernstein, who graduated from HBS in 2002 and subsequently worked at Boston Consulting Group, said his experience practicing the case method at Harvard prepared him for consulting.
“When I was at BCG, I came across a number of times, where it’s like, ‘Oh, this is a fill-in-the-blank-case-name moment,’” he said. “That signpost in my memory reminded me of how to think about resolving the issue, at least on the basis of the way that we had tried to do it in the class.”
“Of course, real life — the real world — is never quite like the classroom, but it’s a lot closer to a case conversation than it is to a lecture,” Bernstein added.
Second-year MBA student Ilana R. Springer said she is able to recognize the skills she learns through cases in her work experiences.
“Since it’s told as a story, you do kind of remember it when you find yourself in a similar position,” she said. “And you might not remember the case protagonist name or whatever, but there were multiple times over the course of the summer, for example, where I texted people from my section and was like, ‘I just experienced XYZ.’”
Springer called the case method “the most effective way to learn” for aspiring business professionals and said that she “can’t recommend it highly enough.”
“None of us are going to be going into jobs that are super clear-cut and where we know everything we’re expected to do,” she said. “It’s super important to learn about all of the tactical skills in the context of a greater ecosystem, and that’s what they’re teaching us to do.”
New York University professor Kevin M. Bonney — who conducts research on settings where the case method is effective — described it as a “versatile method of teaching.”
“It’s effective because it uses a narrative approach that promotes problem solving, and critical analysis while really engaging students,” he said.
HBS professor Rebecca A. Karp, who will teach the case method in a strategy class for first year MBA students in the spring, also said the case method hones students’ ability to form an argument using evidence-based analysis.
“As a student, it really forces you to support your perspective,” she said. “So you can’t just kind of have an opinion willy nilly, like you have to use the facts of the case to make your point. And that’s such an important lesson to learn in the world of business.”
Business School visiting professor J.S. Nelson — who began teaching at HBS this year — said professors place students in the position of the case protagonist to prepare them to make decisions in the real world.
“It’s that key of putting students in those positions — by virtue of making the situation and making them the protagonists, having them really have the experience of walking in those shoes for a while — so that when they are out there in the world, you feel like you have a little bit more to call on,” Nelson said. “You’ve seen so many things before so that you have some idea of how this world is going to work.”
Springer said the discussion-style structure of the classes allows her to get to know the strengths of her classmates.
“I have this entire network of people to call on whenever I have any questions,” she said. “If you’re sitting in a lecture hall, you wouldn’t know what everybody’s superpower is.”
Despite its venerable history, the Business School’s case studies have historically excluded certain races, genders, and regions.
William M. “Willis” Emmons ’81, who directs the C. Roland Christensen Center for Teaching and Learning, which trains HBS faculty on how to teach case method, said the lack of diversity in case subjects can be attributed to the makeup of HBS faculty and alumni who recommend companies to study.
“We’ve recognized that one of the dangers sometimes of having all of our case development being led by faculty, is that the faculty themselves are not very diverse,” he said. “You can end up kind of finding yourself with a pool of folks, without really intending to, to end up with a group of protagonists and cases and situations that don’t fully reflect the diversity of the situations that one might do cases on.”
Emmons said research groups who work on case studies are trying to diversify their subjects in terms of race, gender, socioeconomic status, and geographic location. He said diversifying the subjects of case studies is necessary, but not sufficient.
“We also need to make sure that our faculty are comfortable and able to lead discussions around cases and protagonists that may not be as traditional as in our curriculum,” he said.
Emmons added that it is important that authors of case studies ensure they are using sensitive language.
Second-year MBA student Keven D. Wang said he appreciated that his professor posed questions about the role of implicit bias in the drafting of case studies.
“These more nuanced questions are being incorporated into some of the relevant world of cases,” Wang added.
—Staff writer Carrie Hsu can be reached at carrie.hsu@thecrimson.com.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
As 2022 men’s lacrosse co-captain, senior Charlie Olmert has high hopes for his return to the field for the first time in nearly two years. Olmert will serve alongside senior Kyle Mullin, but the captaincy is not the only honor that Olmert has received recently as the midfielder and Annapolis, Md., native also became a Rhodes Scholar Finalist. Nonetheless, achieving the rank of captain holds a special place in Olmert's heart and has granted the senior a new perspective on his tenure on the team.
“[The captaincy] definitely means a lot. It’s probably the biggest honor of my life, just to have your peers recognize you for the things you contributed to the team, whether on or off the field, for the past four years, means a lot. And it means a lot also because it is a big responsibility,” Olmert said. “I have to show up as my best self every single day, no matter what is going on, because that’s my job, and that’s what my teammates elected me to do. So, it means a lot, and it’s not something I take lightly. It’s a responsibility I’m happy and proud to have.”
Olmert has played lacrosse since he was four years old. He said that it feels like the sport is of his DNA. The sport has meaning to him beyond just winning or losing and serves as a bond that he shares with his family.
“The sport means a lot to me because it’s kind of a part of my family and my community, having played since I was probably four years old. My dad and uncles all played in college, and my dream has always been to play lacrosse at a high level.”
Looking forward to the 2022 campaign, Olmert believes that the team gels because there is a sense of camaraderie between the players. He likened the support system to that of having a family while at school. Additionally, Olmert highlighted an additional tight-knit quality of the team given a mutual understanding of the squad’s objectives.
“I think that everyone that… was recruited here came here with the goal of building a program and taking the team to new heights,” Olmert said. “We all have to figure out how we are going to get there. What are we each willing to put into it? So, I think that everyone on the team is very driven. We are all trying to figure out how to set our goals, which is being at the top of the Ivy League and competing for the national championship.”
Olmert shared his experiences as a student-athlete, balancing pursuing academic excellence while also participating on the lacrosse team. He said that at times it can be challenging, but that ultimately the gratification that comes with performing well on both ends is worth the turmoil of balancing practice and school.
“There is an inherent tension there. Because I want to pour myself totally into the academic side of things, and sometimes that takes away from stuff I can do on the other side of the river. And then there are times where I stay late and practice and then am scrambling and behind on homework. So, there is a tension there at times,” Olmert reflected. “The balance comes because they're inherently similar. And they are sort of these competitive environments at the end of the day. Whether I’m playing lacrosse on the field and practicing against my teammates, or in a game against another team, I want to do the best I can possibly do, and put the best version of myself out there. And it’s the same thing with school. It stinks sometimes doing homework and whatever it may be, but if I’m going to put my name on an assignment, I want it to be the best work I can possibly produce.”
Olmert is high-achieving both on the field and in the classroom, so when asked about how he handles stigma that athletes are jocks, or not as bright as other students on campus, he said that he understands that there is a stigma around being an athlete even though athletes comprise about 20 percent of Harvard’s student body.
“I think that something that can be lost on people sometimes is looking at athletes as just these kind of big people, people who were born with talent. And because they ran fast, they had doors open for them. I think from the outside looking in that it can be really hard for people that don’t play sports to understand the amount of work and time and absolute hundred percent dedication that varsity athletes pour into their sports. I can’t speak for every team, but I know, on my team, the absolute amount of pouring one’s heart into the sport that every single person on the team has put in.”
Continuing, Olmert put student-athletes into the greater context of the pursuits of Harvard students.
“It’s similar to Harvard letting in the best trombone players, or the person destined to go to Broadway. People on the team have put in similar amounts of work, so I think that they bring something unique to campus. There are a lot of really driven, really smart, inquisitive guys here who learned a lot and grew a lot academically over the course of their four years. Harvard gives so much to them, and I think they provide a unique perspective that other student experiences don’t have.”
In the interview, Olmert touched on his status as a Rhodes Scholarship Finalist. When asked about his motivation for applying, Olmert admitted that at first he was intrigued by the selectiveness of the scholarship. However, he quickly realized that applying solely for clout would not get him very far in the application process.
“I went back and forth a lot of times on whether I wanted to apply, and even though I didn’t get it, I’m definitely happy I went through the process. When you’re writing the essays, you can’t make up your way through it the whole time. I had to think deeply about what I want to do with my life, what I want to do as a career, what I am genuinely interested in.”
Olmert, a Hist and Lit concentrator, is studying the Federal Reserve and economic policy. Writing his thesis on the topic, he came to admire Jerome Powell and the non-traditional career path that led him to lead the Federal Reserve.
Olmert said that he’s “interested in the Federal Reserve and economic policy. The whole [Rhodes Scholar] application process crystalized that for me.”
Olmert said that he does not have plans to attend graduate school now that he will not be studying at Oxford through the Rhodes program. During the Covid-19 pandemic, Olmert, who was initially slated to graduate in the class of 2021, took a year off from classes and preserved athletic eligibility.
“I think taking a fifth year… gave me a chance to back away and realize how special it is to go to school here and to have eight semesters to be an undergraduate and study whatever you want. It made me think critically about what classes I really want to take”
Transitioning away from his application, Olmert delved into how he thinks the team is shaping up for the upcoming season.
“I think the team’s looking great. We have a bunch of young contributors on both sides of the ball that are going to be stars over the course of their careers and stars right away as freshmen and sophomores. So that’s been really cool to see those guys come into their own over the course of the fall.”
In regards to the upperclassmen, Olmert admires his peers. He commented on the resilience they have shown bouncing back from an unconventional year with Covid-19 derailing the team’s season, and pushing many of the guys to take time off from school to preserve their eligibility.
“I think we have really strong leadership across the board with the junior and senior classes. Every single junior and senior here is a guy who has had an odd experience on the team, having taken a year off and having had the year canceled.”
When asked about which underclassmen he believes will make an immediate impact on the team, Olmert immediately named Sam King, Andrew Perry, Andrew O’Berry, and Owen Gaffney.
“Sam King is a total stud. … He will definitely be an impact player for us. … Andrew O’Berry is a two-way midfielder who’s just an athletic beast and plays hard and smart. … Owen Gaffney and Andrew Perry are two guys on the offensive side, people who contribute right off the bat.”
When asked about clearing, which is something head coach Gerry Byrne said the team needed to improve on after its fall scrimmages, Olmert said that the team has emphasized the concept, as clearing is something that they, if focused on, can tangibly refine before the start of the spring season.
In addition to clearing, Olmert gave his insight into how the defense is performing.
“Something that I can speak to about playing defensive midfield this year is our focus on being great at six-on-six defense, and how that really just starts with taking pride in playing hard defense and everything we do,” Olmert explained. “Our stance on ball and how we exit… comes from being dialed in every second that the offense possesses the ball. I think that the defensive team has gotten way better over the course of the fall, and I think that we saw that in our scrimmages. We played great in settled six-on-six defense.”
Even though he is playing defensive middie this year, Olmert has experience playing on both sides of the ball. He has had the chance to play with, and against, the attack, and is excited by how the team is performing as a unit.
“It looks like it is really gelling,” Olmert commented. “I think one guy who has been particularly instrumental… is Hayden Cheek. He’s an off-ball attackman, and he’s just a cerebral and smart player. … Over the years when I’d play offense with him, everything seemed to work better, and everyone all the sudden was open when he was on the field.”
Overall, Olmert believes that the team looks promising this season and is excited to see what the spring brings.
—Staff writer Katharine Forst can be reached at katharine.forst@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Believe it or not, winter break is almost upon us. You might be looking forward to going home and relaxing, but if you’re like me, you’re probably very worried about how to not let the ABUNDANT romantic options you’ve found this semester fizzle out during winter break. I’ve come up with a few resourceful ways to keep those romantic sparks lit throughout the month we’re apart.
Subtle Online Communication
Like their instagram posts. Maybe leave a fun comment (eyeball emoji? Or a “nice post!”) If you’re feeling really bold (or desperate) maybe add them to your private story so they can see all the crazy fun you’re having with your family.
Wrong Person Texts
These are one of my personal favorites! Text your romantic interest something along the lines of “Just met up with [high school ex] for coffee!” and hurriedly follow it with an “Omg oops wrong person.” This is a surefire method to get your crush thinking about you again, whether it’s in a jealous way or just a weirded out way.
A Startup!
This may be my most solid idea in this whole list, especially if your romantic interest is a man or an econ major or both. Approach your crush just before break with an absolutely killer startup idea that would make your peers’ LinkedIns PALE in comparison. He won’t be able to resist! You two will be forced to work on the startup over break and you can revel in Zoom and shared Google Doc sexual tension.
Hometown Fling
Sick and tired of the fairly intolerable Harvard dating pool? Unwilling to even TRY to maintain any romantic options from this place? Do I have the solution for you! Snap that guy you always thought was cute from AP US History. Pay a visit to your local coffee shop and see if that hot barista still works there! Maybe crack open a dating app and cringe every time you swipe by someone from high school. A hometown fling this winter may be the perfect way to keep your life flirty AND start relating to “tis the damn season” by Taylor Swift. Two birds with one stone!
Seriously though, the volleyball player you always see in the dining hall who doesn’t know your name or that pset buddy you swear you have more than one type of chemistry with probably aren’t pursuits worth putting a ton of effort into. So just chill and focus on yourself this winter break! Maybe read a novel for pleasure like you used to. The shitty romantic options will be here waiting for you after break.
