News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
CAMBRIDGE — As freshman guard Evan Nelson raced down the floor with senior captain Mason Forbes trailing right behind, the Harvard crowd jumped out of its seat in anticipation of yet another highlight reel dunk. A lob off the backboard followed by an emphatic slam cemented Friday night’s 62-54 victory over Columbia (4-19, 1-10 Ivy), bringing cheer back to Lavietes following a three game skid.
The Crimson (12-10, 4-6) picked up a much-needed win to remain in the hunt for postseason play. Looking to break the streak of playing from behind, Harvard came out of the gate aggressive on both sides of the floor. Senior guard Noah Kirkwood—whose shooting struggled during the recent losing streak—efficiently found his shot early on, going 5-5 to start the game. Despite his recent shooting woes, the Ottawa, Ont., native remained confident on offense, attacking his matchup and generating space using his crafty handle.
“I thought Noah’s offensive efficiency, with his shot making, really gave us a shot in the arm,” said coach Tommy Amaker of Kirkwood’s early surge. “When your best player starts to play well, it really gives our team confidence.”
Dealing with the missing offensive contributions from the injured Chris Ledlum, Idan Tretout, and Louis Lesmond, Kirkwood led the offense with his shot creation—ultimately opening up the floor for others to find their rhythm early on. As a result, the Crimson jumped out to a 13 point lead in the first half, feeling a lot more comfortable playing with ahead than it had been over the past couple of weeks.
Along with a strong offensive start for Harvard was an energetic effort on the defensive end, forcing turnovers and bad shots by Columbia—preventing the Lions from settling into a groove.
“Evan [Nelson] and Denham [Wojcik] started in the backcourt, picking up full court and making them a little uncomfortable,” said junior guard Luka Sakota on the defensive approach. “Then in the half court, we were just helping each other out.”
Wojcik, although struggling offensively throughout conference play, has found ways to impact the game without the ball in his hands. The freshman guard recorded a game-high six steals against the Lions, being a pest against whoever was bringing the ball up the court. Wojcik and Nelson’s efforts, along with the team’s anticipation of passes in the halfcourt, brought the steal total to a season-high 17.
Harvard’s big first half lead was met by offensive runs by Columbia, trying to claw its way back and keep the game within reach. Entering the second half up nine, both sides struggled to create offense early on. The Crimson, looking for a jolt offensively, found one in Sakota—who scored five points on back-to-back possessions in response to Columbia makes. The junior guard scored 13 points on the night, filling in the secondary scoring role behind Kirkwood. Just as important, perhaps, was his presence on the glass, following up a six rebound outing against Penn with another six boards against the Lions.
“I was just as impressed with his ability to rebound the ball,” said Amaker when discussing Luka’s scoring performance. “We talked about our perimeter [players] having to do a good job on the glass.”
Such rebounding opportunities came in part from the intense defensive possessions forcing poor Columbia shots. A concerted effort was made in rebounding the ball—something Amaker has stressed to his team with the absence of Ledlum, who averaged 9.3 rebounds per game prior to injury. Forbes and sophomore guard Sam Silverstein also had big nights on the glass, securing nine and eight boards, respectively.
Despite being down double digits throughout most of the second half, the Lions did not waver. Applying pressure late in the game, Columbia was able to force a couple of turnovers leading to baskets on the other end. Back-to-back three pointers by freshman guard Jaden Cooper cut the Harvard lead to seven with two minutes left to play, shifting the energy in Lavietes. Nevertheless, the Crimson remained composed, sinking three of four free throws to secure an insurmountable lead with twenty seconds remaining.
Harvard was in high spirits as the buzzer sounded, relieved to get over the hump and back on track towards their postseason hopes. The enthusiasm and support both amongst the five players on the court and their teammates on the bench served as a testament to the Crimson’s chemistry and perseverance throughout a tough losing stretch. Tretout and Ledlum—who have been sidelined throughout the majority of Ivy League play—were on their feet throughout the game, providing insight to those on the floor during timeouts and celebrating every Harvard basket.
“With Chris and Idan in particular, you have to feel for them because they’re great players who have to watch every game because of injury, and that’s tough,” said Kirkwood. “They’re competitors and want to do whatever it takes to help us win.”
Friday night’s win came with other good news outside of Cambridge. Dartmouth’s win over Cornell put the Crimson half a game back of fourth place, making Saturday’s matchup against the Big Red the biggest of the season. Coming in with some momentum on their side and a significant home court advantage thanks to a loud, passionate fanbase, Harvard looks to sweep the weekend and make a push for that final Ivy League tournament bid.
“We love playing in front of our fans at Lavietes, they’ve been absolutely amazing thus far,” said Sakota. “I think the mentality is to get some rest and play how we know we can play.”
Following Saturday’s matchup against Cornell, the Crimson will face second seed Princeton twice on Feb. 25 and 27th.

— Staff writer David Manikas can be reached at
david.manikas@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
On its final homestand of the regular season, the Harvard Men’s Ice Hockey team recorded a 4-3 win against the Princeton Tigers before defeating the No. 4 Quinnipiac Bobcats 1-0 on Senior Night at Bright-Landry Hockey Center. The victories clinched the Ivy League championship for the Crimson and secured a first-round bye for the ECAC playoffs.
“This was a great opportunity for us to make a statement,” said senior forward and captain Casey Dornbach. “Not only to go out with a bang in our last regular season home game, but to play a top-five team at the end of the year…we wanted to do this for our seniors.”
Harvard received reinforcements prior to Friday night’s game, as sophomore forward Sean Farrell and junior forward and captain Nick Abruzzese both returned from a stint on Team USA at the Winter Olympics.
“I wanted to make sure they felt no pressure to play,” head coach Ted Donato said. “As coaches, we’re in charge of looking out for their best interests, not only for this weekend but for the long term as well.”
HARVARD 1, QUINNIPIAC 0
Facing the Bobcats top-ranked defense, led by goaltender Yaniv Perets and his ECAC-leading 0.84 goals against average, the Crimson found offense to be at a premium in a tight first period. Backed by junior goaltender Mitchell Gibson, Harvard was able to withstand two chaotic net-front scrambles and survive the first few minutes unscathed. However, Quinnipiac continued to dominate offense, as forward TJ Friedmann split the defense for a breakaway but shot the puck high over the net.
“Looking at their record, all their games are one goal games, even though they’re as good as they are,” Gibson said of the Bobcats. “A bounce or two ends up being the decision maker.”
Halfway through the period, the Crimson started to get engaged offensively. First-year forward Matthew Coronato loudly clanged a wrist shot off the post, and the “Jersey Boys” line of sophomore forward Alex Laferriere, first-year forward Alex Gaffney, and junior forward John Farinacci generated several quality chances, including a two-on-one rush that was denied by Perets. Despite the sluggish start, Harvard was only outshot 14-11.
The Crimson’s strong end-of-period offense carried over into the second period. Gaffney made a flurry of strong moves to maneuver to the net, but he shot it just wide. Coronato had a pair of strong chances on a rebound and then off a beautiful behind-the-net feed from Abruzzese, but he missed both wide of the net. Quinnipiac’s best chance came when Friedmann hit the post on a wrist shot, but the Bobcats were otherwise kept outside of the prime scoring areas.
The game appeared to be heading to a scoreless tie at the second intermission, but Dornbach, playing in the last regular season home game of his career, had other ideas. After junior forward Baker Shore made a strong play at the blue line to keep the puck in the offensive zone, Dornbach collected the loose puck and skated to the middle, where he fired a wrister past Perets for the 1-0 Harvard lead.
“Baker made a really nice play,” Dornbach said. “I was just looking for a lane, thinking the goalie would be sliding that way. Just trying to get it back across the grain, and just got a fortunate bounce.”
The third period was another tight-checking affair, as neither team could generate much offense save for a golden opportunity for each side. Early in the third, junior forward Wyllum Deveaux received a perfect tape-to-tape cross-ice pass in front of the net, but Perets came all the way across his net and was able to get a piece of his shot to keep the game at 1-0. The Crimson were sent to the penalty kill after a controversial cross-checking call on first-year defenseman Jack Bar, but they successfully neutralized the Bobcats power play.
With five minutes to play, Harvard significantly tightened its defense. First-year defenseman Ian Moore made several outstanding plays blocking shots and disrupting cross-ice passes, and Gibson stood tall when he needed to. As time wound down, the Bobcats had one final opportunity when defenseman Zach Metsa had a wide open net to shoot at from inside of 10 feet, but his shot sailed high, securing a 1-0 victory for the Crimson and a 39-save shutout for Gibson.
“I knew that if we just continued at the same pace we were going at, we were going to shut down those last four minutes,” Gibson said.
Following the victory, the team honored its six graduating seniors with a ceremony on the ice, before posing for a team photo to celebrate the conference championship.
HARVARD 4, PRINCETON 3
With Harvard and Princeton entering Friday night’s matchup narrowly separated in the conference standings, the game would go a long way to deciding the 2021-2022 Ivy League title.
The first period began ominously for the Crimson. Only two and a half minutes into the game, Bar was whistled for cross-checking while fighting for possession behind the Harvard net. Although the Crimson were able to kill off the penalty, the Tigers continued their strong early play, which culminated in a goal by right wing Finn Evans on a shot from the point through heavy traffic just shy of six minutes into the period, putting Princeton up 1-0.
Play evened out after the Princeton goal; however, unlike the Crimson, the visitors were able to capitalize. Harvard’s offense was driven by a series of strong shifts from the “Jersey Boys,” while on the Princeton side, both forward Spencer Kersten and defenseman Nick Carabin had shots ring off the post and out. Eventually, the Tigers were able to double their lead to 2-0 when defenseman Matthew Thom’s shot from the point ricocheted off a Crimson player in front of the net and past Gibson.
“This is a process, especially when you have 15 guys on the roster playing college hockey for the first time,” Donato said.
Towards the end of the period, Farrell was skating into the offensive zone with his head down when he was violently upended by Princeton forward Joe Berg. Farrell stayed down on the ice for several minutes being attended to by the medical staff until he was helped off the ice by his teammates. Farrell did not return to the game due to an upper-body injury, and Harvard went to the locker room down 2-0.
Despite Farrell’s injury and the poor first period results, the Crimson returned to the ice in much stronger form for the second, as they finished the second period leading the Tigers in shot attempts 55-28. Only 15 seconds in, senior defenseman Marshall Rifai rang a point shot off the post, and junior forward Austin Wong had a strong look as well. Coronato thought he had cut the deficit to 2-1 when he deflected Abruzzese’s shot past Tigers goaltender Andrew Porter, but the goal was waved off due to a high-stick.
Harvard’s momentum continued on two power play chances later in the period. After Abruzzese was taken down by Princeton defenseman Mark Paolini, the Crimson were strong on the man-advantage, with Coronato generating two high quality scoring chances from around the net. On a later power play opportunity, Harvard generated even more offense, with Coronato, Abruzzese, and Laferriere all sending shots wide of a partially open Tigers net, while Coronato’s attempted between-the-legs deflection was denied by Porter’s right pad.
Facing the prospect of entering the third period down 2-0, senior forward Jack Donato continued his recent clutch goal-scoring to saw the lead in half. After he and Dornbach combined to force a turnover as Princeton was attempting to exit the defensive zone, Jack Donato fed a pass from the wing to Dornbach, who was cutting to the net. Dornbach’s initial shot was denied by Porter, but Jack Donato collected the rebound and banked the puck off Porter and into the net, slashing the Crimson deficit to 2-1 at the second intermission.
After getting its offense into gear in the second period, Harvard emerged from the locker room in attack mode for the third. The Crimson began the period with a flurry of chances, and Coronato tied the game less than 90 seconds into the third after he took the puck coast-to-coast and slipped a wrister through Porter. Two minutes later, the “Jersey Boys” delivered a go-ahead score when Farinacci lofted a perfect pass to a cutting Gaffney, who accelerated through the slot and snuck a backhander past Porter.
The “Jersey Boys” wouldn’t stop there. Four and a half minutes later, on a power play, Farinacci executed a nifty series of moves to maneuver through the Tigers defense and find Laferriere, who finished the play off in front of the net to stretch the Harvard advantage to 4-2. Princeton would answer back four minutes later on a power play of its own, as a poor decision by Shore led to a turnover and a goal from Tigers defenseman Pito Walton, cutting the Crimson lead to 4-3. However, Harvard locked down on defense after that, and the Crimson was able to withstand a prime Princeton scoring chance as time expired to secure the victory.
“Early on in the season, we were having some success, but we weren’t playing in a lot of close games,” Ted Donato said. “We lost some games where in some ways we beat ourselves. We’ve been in some close games recently…had some real tough lessons that we’ve learned.”
The Crimson are back in action next weekend to close out the regular season with a three-game road set against Union College, the Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, and Princeton.
-Staff Writer Aaron B. Shuchman can be reached at aaron.shuchman@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
I’m no psychic, but I’m willing to bet my BoardPlus that since the start of the semester, “ugh, I never leave the Square” and “how has it gotten to the point that the my main source of joy is scrolling on Tik Tok for 30 minutes before I go to bed” are thoughts that have crossed your mind. If you’re saying no to this, I’m willing to bet that “I’m lying” is a thought that is crossing your mind right now instead.
Look, this isn’t to call you out. It’s more to point out that there are too many of us who get caught up with life at Harvard and think the entire world lies between Mather and the Quad (which, I’ll admit, at 1.2 miles is an impressive distance, but very clearly, not the whole world). So it would be pretty not-cool of us to let another long weekend pass without bringing you another list of ways to burst the so-called “Harvard Bubble.” Keep reading, because before ~midterm season~ begins, this may be your only chance to ride the redline into freedom.
Boston Bruins vs. Colorado Avalanche – TD Garden, Monday
As a California gal, the words “ice” and “hockey” were never really in my vocabulary before college. But I’ll admit it — it’s entertaining and second-hand cathartic to watch people skrrt like angels on ice while viciously attacking a puck (and each other) with sticks.
Immersive Frida at Lighthouse ArtSpace at the Castle – The Castle (130 Columbus Ave)
First the Immersive Van Gogh Experience, and now the Immersive Frida Experience? What does it really mean to be immersive? Does the quality of being immersive make art that much more interesting? How much are they spending on advertising this stuff because it’s everywhere. Are the differences between the Immersive Van Gogh Exhibit and the Immersive Frida Exhibit enough to satisfy the Harvard College Honor Code? All very important questions. Check out this event and let us know.
Billie Eilish: Happier Than Ever, The World Tour — TD Garden, Sunday
Gen Z’s favorite artist is in town this weekend, performing in TD Garden on Sunday evening. It’s probably difficult to buy tickets online since this is very last minute, but we figured we’d put this on your radar for when that poor soul emails your entire house mailing list tomorrow with tickets that need snatching up.
Open Studios at SoWa — SoWa Market, Sunday 
If you’ve recently been conscious of the fact that your common room isn’t decorated to the extent possible, this Sunday (February 20th) and next Sunday (February 27th) you can check out work from local artists in the South End, whether you end up just browsing or deciding to buy a one-of-a-kind piece that’s on sale!
Hava Saturdays — Hava Nightclub, Saturday
Have FOMO about missing the Quincy X Winthrop House Formal in the fall? Hoping for a party where you don’t run the risk of being recognized by the Datamatch you ghosted (or the Datamatch that ghosted you)? Fear not, because Hava Nightclub promises an exciting night of music and good vibes — not just during formal season, but every weekend from now until March.
This list is far from comprehensive, but hopefully, at the very least, is inspiration to venture out beyond the red brick road of Harvard Square at some point during this long weekend. A night out, in my opinion, seems like a pretty good way to celebrate The Presidents. Would George Washington really want you to be psetting on a Saturday night? We live close to a cool city. So let’s make use of it.
