News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Year after year, we ask Harvard to do more to combat the issue of sexual misconduct that pervades this institution and its culture. Year after year, another professor’s misconduct comes to light. We’ve written about this in 2011, eight times in 2018, five times in 2019, three times in 2020, three times in 2021, and three times in 2022, only three months into the year. We’ve written so much on this topic that it is difficult to find a new angle to address. The overwhelming, despairing feeling is that it just shouldn’t be this complicated.
Thirty-nine years after the first formal complaint against former Government professor Jorge I. Domínguez, Harvard released a report detailing the circumstances that had enabled Domínguez’s actions. This report outlined 10 recommendations to improve the University’s sexual harassment protocols. More than a year later, Harvard has failed to fulfill three of them. The most urgent obstacle to progress, then, seems not to be the complexity of the problem or the impenetrability of potential solutions. Instead, it’s a lack of urgency.
What we have repeatedly asked of Harvard, and what we now ask again, is to institute the concrete policy changes that are needed to prevent sexual assault. When the University fails to do this, we are left with mistrust in a system that should be designed to keep us safe. The policy recommendations are there; Harvard needs to find the urgency required to move faster.
In addition to policy change, it is important to remember that an anti-harassment culture is our ultimate goal. Policies may help prevent incidents and offer help to victims, but we need to focus on the root of the issue as well: How can Harvard prevent a culture that has spawned so many harassment incidents in the first place? The University, to its credit, recognized the role of an anti-harassment culture in its recommendations, and we hope it takes that commitment seriously.
One crucial step in doing so is to find a way to convince students that the University feels deep and genuine regret for its failure to institute adequate preventative policies and for allowing a culture of apathy to fester for so long. Apologies can only meet that standard if they are paired with a greater urgency toward making concrete changes than the University has so far displayed.
As students, we, too, have a role to play in resisting apathy. When we see headline after headline surfacing new misconduct, it can be tempting to become acculturated. When we only think about sexual misconduct in its aftermath, it is tempting to focus on reactive policy changes rather than proactive steps to dismantle our toxic culture. We all need to actively play a role in changing our harmful culture of indifference toward sexual harassment.
To the student and faculty leaders of departments, houses, and student organizations, we ask that you think carefully and articulate explicitly the standards, expectations, and cultural norms that you want to govern your organization on issues of sexual assault and harassment. Having this conversation openly can help kick-start a new culture of change, one with an urgency commensurate to the immediacy and tragic stakes of the problem at hand.
Time and time again, we have written about this topic. It seems simple. Don’t sexually assault or harass students. Don’t sexually assault or harass peers. Don’t sexually assault or harass co-workers. Don’t sexually assault or harass people. But to solve a problem of this magnitude, whatever its complexity, we have to care.
Students, faculty, organizations, administrators: We all need to feel an urgency adequate to the problem at hand.
This staff editorial solely represents the majority view of The Crimson Editorial Board. It is the product of discussions at regular Editorial Board meetings. In order to ensure the impartiality of our journalism, Crimson editors who choose to opine and vote at these meetings are not involved in the reporting of articles on similar topics.
Have a suggestion, question, or concern for The Crimson Editorial Board? Click here.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
“I see you have adjusted well and picked up their language.”
I let out a slight chuckle, struggling to find words to fill the awkward silence that engulfed the Zoom call. I had not realized that I was overemphasizing my r’s and my medial t’s to sound like d’s, but her comments reeled me back in. My aunt is happy to talk to me, but she is not pleased by the American accent I am picking up. I promised her, and myself, that I would not adopt an American accent. However, here I was on this call, pitching my voice higher, tilting my a’s and t’s, and quickly gliding over my vowels.
If I did not have to, I wouldn’t change my accent. It is a habit I have picked up to be able to make conversation — few people can understand what I say and even fewer have the courage to ask me to repeat what I have said. Not many people have the bandwidth for the discomfort that comes with asking me to say something again, so they find it easier to go with neutral conversation fillers. Just to hurry things up and end the conversation.
I get it. For most of my schoolmates, it is their first time interacting with someone from Kenya. I understand that it is difficult for most of them to make out what I am saying. I am aware that it is not their fault that they can’t easily comprehend what I say in my accent. If anything, had I not grown up consuming so much American media, I probably wouldn’t understand what  Americans say, either.
However, this does not stop me from feeling a little bit of resentment. Resentment because while I am putting in the effort to understand others, they do not seem to be putting in the effort to understand me. I feel resentful because my accent prevents me from fully participating in class, resentful that people fail to acknowledge my contributions during class discussions, not because my contributions are wrong, but because of my accent. I feel resentful because British and Australian accents do not seem to be a challenge for my peers, but my Kenyan accent — the one that goes through all the vowels, enunciating everything clearly — is difficult to decipher. I feel resentful because I know if people took the time to listen to me — if people were willing to listen to me — then my accent would not be such an issue.
Although I struggle to sound American, I fear I will pick up an American accent at the expense of my Kenyan one. It often crosses my mind that perhaps at some point I will not be able to code-switch; I will have a full-on American accent and there will be no traces of my Kenyan accent left. That there will be one less thing that helps me identify with my country, and that perhaps after a few years, I will go back to Kenya and be considered a foreigner in the place I call home. That my hard r’s and softened t’s will reek of Westernization.
Despite all this, I take delight in having an accent. It is an identity; that thousands of miles away from home fellow Kenyans can spot me on the T or even the subway in New York. The conversations with my Kenyan friends, our deepened vowels, stressed medial t’s, and soft r’s, are a piece of home that I have here with me. Most importantly, having an accent has made me a better listener. Having to put in extra effort to make my point has made it easier to put in the effort to understand others’ points. It has made me realize that I did not often listen actively to what others said. Now, I listen to understand, not merely to respond.
I hope that I will learn the American accent. It will make flirting at parties much easier and will give me back my sense of humor. I also hope that I will not lose my Kenyan accent; that I will be able to revert back to it when I need it. I hope once I land at the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport, I will fit right back in; that the place I call home will not think of me as foreign.
Joshua Ochieng ’24, a Crimson Editorial Editor, is an Economics concentrator in Quincy House.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
HACKER ALERT. HACKER ALERT. What would you do if faced with this warning? Call random American pre-teens to save the day?
In every episode of “Cyberchase” on PBS Kids, The Hacker will attempt to gain power in some way, accompanied by his cyborg henchmen Buzz and Delete. It will be up to Digit, a cyberbird, and Matt, Jackie, and Inez, three nine to 11-year-old “Earthlings” from “the real world” to save the day. They adventure in Cyberspace, the universe of the show that seems to be an amusing representation of the burgeoning internet when the show premiered in 2002. Woven throughout the show are clever references and wordplay, such as The Hacker’s ship the Grim Wreaker. They jump instantly from site to site using portals, with each site having a different culture, population, and even fundamental rules of physics. The different rules that govern each site imbue the show with an opportunity to teach children concepts such as fractions and Venn diagrams through the Earthlings’ adventures; and also captivate them through the fantastic world-building.
Why, then, do the show’s creators include sites that are more human-centric than the rest, using entire cultures as themes?
Some details are small, such as a woman on The Hacker’s side working for “Henchmen-R-Us” having a broadly Eastern European accent compared to the main characters’ American accents, and a mischievous genie coming out of an unassuming bottle in a closet sporting a turban and pointed shoes. These details stick out compared to the heavy New York accents shown off by Digit, Buzz, and Delete, and the Southern accents found in minor characters on the Earthlings’ side. They suggest a stereotype of the evil foreigner compared to the American main characters.
Most of all, the episodes centered on culturally-themed islands demonstrate an idea of the “other” with absolutely no nuance. When the Earthlings journey to Shangri-La to outwit The Hacker, our first glimpse of the setting is a group of warriors in uniforms clearly coded as Chinese stereotypes. They move silently, bearing flags, and to make their identity absolutely clear, a stereotypically Chinese theme plays upon their appearance, with what sounds like a dizi, or Chinese flute. The warriors’ faces are also reduced only to eyes and Fu Manchu mustaches, which is a departure from the level of detail that goes into the other characters. The warriors then bow to their leader, Master Pi, which the Earthlings imitate, but crudely. Master Pi himself speaks with an accent and in maxims, sports a robe, and seems to know all, in an example of the “Magical Asian trope” found in works that stereotype East Asia. The usual playful details of other cybersites like geometrically-shaped characters are absent, with attention instead diverted to capturing a Chinese setting through overused stereotypes. The Western media conception of China as a mystical and warrior-filled place is only reinforced through this children’s cartoon.
What brings our protagonists to this land, anyway? The locals are portrayed as helpless and unable to stand up to The Hacker’s plots in almost every episode, sometimes even calling on the American Earthlings for help directly. The Earthlings swoop in via their portals and save the day without fail, and the locals shower them with praise.
A colonialist theme congratulating America runs through these episodes. The cultures local to each cybersite are not simply stereotyped in exposition; they also fail to save themselves from The Hacker and require the help of American children.
On Pyramida, the Earthlings encounter an evil mummy in a pyramid, and Digit rides in on a camel wearing a Fez. The Hacker appears in Indiana Jones garb, complete with the musical theme from the movies, making the colonial, white savior connection all too real. In Tikiville, the episode opens with the blowing of a conch shell, and the locals sport Hawaiian print and speak with accents. Their leader proclaims that he will pass his crown to the winner of the “Kahuna Huna Race-A-Runa,” with the name of the race riffing on the Hawaiian word kahuna, meaning expert. The misappropriation of this term in popular culture is considered offensive.
Each of these worlds being framed as a website creates the interesting world-hopping nature of the show, as if the characters can instantly load any site and experience the rules that apply there. The invented worlds of Radopolis, featuring skateboarders, Poddleville, featuring anthropomorphic shapes, and more are proof that the show’s creators can craft fascinating worlds for the Earthlings to explore. The Americans come and go from cultural island to cultural island, sometimes leaving a mess in their wake as they thwart The Hacker once more, and purportedly save the day for the locals. Although the Earthlings themselves are diverse, they are undoubtedly American and impose this upon other cultures.
Colonialism extends to multiple cultures that the creators have chosen to profile as “others” for our entertainment. The show is so clever in the way it plays with words and fantastical settings, but real-life cultures are not settings that can be played with to further a narrative. The end of each episode features a non-animated segment called “Cyberchase For Real.” Perhaps the show’s creators should stick to depictions of cultures “for real,” and not promote cultural stereotypes in children’s media.
Nour L. Khachemoune ’22-’23 is a joint concentrator in Chemistry and Anthropology in Dunster House. Her column “Nostalgia: What’s it Hiding?” appears on alternate Thursdays.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
“Caring for myself is not self-indulgence, it is self-preservation and that is an act of political warfare,” wrote Audre Lorde, a self-described “Black, lesbian, mother, warrior, poet” and radical activist, in 1988. Carving out time to “[treat her] body,” she maintained was “political work.”
Lorde wrote these words toward the end of her life, in a collection of essays titled “A Burst of Light.” She was fighting to survive not only a cancer diagnosis but also the hostility she faced from society as a Black lesbian: “Battling racism and battling heterosexism and battling apartheid share the same urgency inside me as battling cancer. None of these struggles are ever easy, and even the smallest victory is never to be taken for granted.” Lorde’s struggle catalyzed and motivated her “self-care” — tenderly caring for herself was radical in a society that would’ve readily discarded her.
Since then, the idea of self-care has been co-opted by beauty corporations, “wellness” gurus, and social media influencers to the point where it now resembles self-indulgence. Public, consumable demonstrations of self-care are endemic to visual platforms: videos tagged with #selfcare on TikTok collectively boast almost 20 billion views; on Instagram, #selfcare posts number over 60 million. These posts and videos often offer detailed morning and nighttime routines; influencers catalog the numerous products they use to achieve their immaculate looks and document their rituals with soothing, lush visuals. The posts are often in the style of daily vlogs depicting an idealized self: one with a disciplined physique, blemish-free face, hyperproductive work life and thriving social life.
This optimized image is an infinitely marketable notion. Idealized “routine” videos send an implicit message that if we do the same things as the person on the screen, we can look and be like them too: flawless. If we use the same face creams, our skin will clear and glow. If we just take out the time every morning to write out our intentions for the day, our productivity will skyrocket. And don’t we want that? Don’t we want to be the most optimized versions of ourselves?
The sad irony, though, is that these images of a “day in the life” constitute something very, very far from an average day — not just for the viewer but also for the influencer, who expertly curates their content to strike just the right chord. The tacit instructions of these videos are that you should emulate (the image of) the influencer who makes them. Sure enough, the comments sections are filled with viewers begging for the names of the products they use. These reactions point to a sense of inferiority — when we compare ourselves against the idealized influencer, we come out feeling lacking. Of course, this is the goal of influencer marketing, a growing strategy in which brands pay influencers to promote their products.. The desire to emulate the influencer image and buy the products they hawk, stems from this intentionally generated sense of not being good enough.
Perhaps in a society where burnout from overwork is so commonplace that it triggers mass resignation, where real wages in the US have stagnated or declined each year since at least the late ’70s, and where long work hours at the expense of sleep are seen as an accomplishment, the popularity of self-soothing routines is unsurprising. Becoming the influencer doesn’t just mean succeeding according to societal standards: it means escaping the daily grind. It means being able to make involved recipes every day, to start mornings with sunrise yoga, to have a “job” that seemingly involves very little other than being your own hot, successful self and having tons of fun doing it. It means having the societal power to even have influence, and the confidence (the narcissism, really) to believe that you have the right to tell others how to live their lives.
This is an alluring goal in a society where most people have to spend the majority of their time working or caring for others, with little time to devote to the activities that influencers seem to spend their entire lives doing. That’s why the promise of self-care content — that by going through the same routines they do, we can succeed at capitalism, too — is so compelling. But it's all a lie. Emulating influencers might make us better workers and consumers, but copying their routines or buying their products does not translate to success or happiness. Instead, it translates to profit for the people who have actually succeeded at capitalism: not the influencers putting their lives on display but the executives of the companies advertising through them. We are being told, in other words, to aspire to be profitable.
Lorde practiced self-care as a tender thing to do in a time carved out of the day — an action that went against the capitalist status quo. Self-care has now been co-opted into something to reinforce that status quo. Lorde’s self-love and self-care was radical. She asserted her worth in a society that was intent on destroying it. By striving to become the influencer, we do the opposite.
So how do we move forward, and how do we care for ourselves in a way that isn’t so harmful to others? In Lorde’s words: “I want to live the rest of my life, however long or short, with as much sweetness as I can decently manage, loving all the people I love, and doing as much as I can of the work I still have to do ... I’m going to go out like a fucking meteor!”
The “work” she was referring to was radical self-expression and activism, a life-long calling that her self-care supported. Perhaps the greatest act of self-care we can practice, then, is to reject the status quo that pushes us to keep optimizing towards an empty goal. The unfortunate truth is that our society doesn’t reward true self-care. We need a revolution of values if we’re to prize the nourishment of the soul, not just the skin.
Sections
David R. Foster has always felt a connection to trees, and it isn’t just because his last name is an anagram of “forest.”
Foster developed a deep interest in nature while growing up in rural Connecticut. He continued to pursue this passion throughout college, studying botany and even building a log cabin in Vermont. In graduate school, he did field work in Northern Labrador, Canada, and earned a Ph.D in ecology. In 1983, he started teaching courses as an assistant professor in Cambridge and worked full-time at the Harvard Forest, where he eventually became the director for 30 years, from 1990 to 2020.
The 4,000 acre Harvard Forest is located in the secluded woods of Petersham, Mass., 65 miles from Cambridge and has served as a field laboratory and research center for the University since its founding in 1907. Ecologists live and conduct research on-site; their projects range from cataloging New England’s lush biodiversity to exploring the impact of climate change on Northeastern woodlands. The forest, Foster says, “is one of those kinds of resources that no other university has, so it’s something that Harvard should really cherish.”
Under Foster’s tenure as director, the forest became more deeply rooted in its original mission to study and conserve New England’s flora and fauna. Foster also pushed the forest to branch out, expanding its reach within the University by encouraging students across disciplines to come interact with it.
When Foster started working at Harvard, the forest was undergoing a period of transition. At its founding, when the land was donated to the University by James W. Brooks, it was meant as a site for research. But by the 1980s, most ecologists working at the forest were doing research that was not specific to the site itself. “It was excellent science, but it could just as easily have been conducted in Cambridge,” Foster says.
As a result, during Foster’s second year at the forest, he learned that he might have to move from Petersham to Cambridge. The then-director announced that the forest would no longer be an active base for faculty, as it had been for the past seven decades, and would transition to a satellite research site instead.
“That was a devastating announcement to hear,” Foster says.
But just in time, the forest received a grant from the National Science Foundation’s Long Term Ecological Research Program, which allowed the forest to stay open as a key location for field work.
Foster says that the forest aims to have a “science to action orientation.” In 2005, Foster helped create the Wildlands and Woodlands program. It aims to preserve 70 percent of New England as forests and seven percent as farmland, which provide New Englanders with recreational spaces as well as clean air and water. The program, he says, “is shaping land conservation and land management and policy decisions all across the region.”
The best way to translate research into tangible impact, Foster believes, is to encourage cross-disciplinary work with other departments at the University. “Ecology is the interaction of people and nature,” Foster says. “And so you need to have people who study physical processes and biological processes, and social and cultural processes.”
Foster has encouraged these interdisciplinary partnerships through the forest’s educational programs for undergraduates. The Harvard Forest’s summer internship program — which only had one participant when Foster launched it in 1985 — now hosts up to 35 undergraduates at the forest each summer. Foster also teaches a freshman seminar where first-years spend around four weekends during their fall semester at the forest.
The forest’s pedagogical mission has become even more urgent as the threat of climate change looms larger. It’s become “increasingly obvious” that nature conservation is “absolutely essential to the future of the world,” Foster says.
Since stepping down from the Harvard Forest directorship two years ago, Foster has continued to teach in the Organismic and Evolutionary Biology department. Once he retires, he plans to move with his wife to Martha’s Vineyard, a place he “fell in love with” while doing research there in the early ’90s.
Foster is modest about the legacy he’s leaving behind at the forest. Its success, he says, “really has nothing to do with me. It was the right time. From the ’80s to the present, and especially now, society has realized how important nature is.”
— Magazine writer Sage S. Lattman can be reached at sage.lattman@thecrimson.com.
Sections
The first time one of my friends tried to sell me on BeReal, I balked. A mandatory photo of my face at an unpredictable time each day? My first thought: I would have to do my makeup every morning.
Of course, that unscripted quality —the loss of control over how your friends see you, and when — is the whole point of BeReal, an app that bills itself as a way to “discover who your friends really are in their daily life.” Launched in 2020, BeReal first gained steam in Europe, then exploded across American college campuses this spring.
The idea is to strip away the curation, planning, and artificiality of other content-sharing apps like Instagram. Once a day, at a random time, the BeReal notification flashes on users’ screens, warning them that they have two minutes to post their daily photo. (You can choose to post late, but the app shows everyone else exactly how late you posted.) You can’t see your friends’ photos until you post yours, and once you’ve shared, you can comment and react to everyone else’s. The feed stays up until the next day’s BeReal alert, at which point the old photos disappear —a nod to Snapchat’s ephemeral stories.
BeReal self-consciously styles itself as a sort of anti-social media. Its App Store description warns, “BeReal is life, Real life, and this life is without filters.” Andrea Mach di Palmstein, BeReal’s head of growth, described the app’s selling points in a LinkedIn post as “no social pressure, no toxicity and no social comparison on social media.” Some of the app’s descriptions explicitly call out other platforms, like TikTok and Instagram, as the antithesis of what BeReal wants to do.
By the time I heard about BeReal, my screen time was already embarrassingly high. Adding another social media app to my repertoire of distractions seemed unwise. Fundamentally, I didn’t like the idea of being caught off-guard — of feeling social pressure to show myself at my worst, if necessary.
For Karen Chan ’22, though, that’s exactly what makes BeReal so much more enjoyable than other types of social media.
“I think a lot of times, you’re used to interacting with your friends in very well-chosen and specifically chosen instances and times of the day,” she says. “And unless they’re your roommate, or a really, really close friend, you don’t really get to see them beyond the public instances when you choose to hang out. And I think the fun thing about BeReal is that you get to see a side of their lives that you don’t normally see.”
Amina T. Salahou ’25 agrees, to an extent, that BeReal is more genuine than other apps.
“When I post on Instagram, it’s a process,” she says. By contrast, BeReal leaves no time to think about how you look or where you’re posing. Still, Salahou says the app is far from an unfiltered window into real life.
“Especially just with Gen Z and the way people are, there’s kind of no way for things to not be curated,” she says. She cites another feature where you can see the number of times a post was retaken. “I remember once me and my friends were on the app, and we saw some guy re-took a picture of his feet, like, seven times.” She’s planning to delete the app soon, she says; she doesn’t feel the need to see her friends out on a jog when she’s still lying in bed.
***
For the sake of honest journalism, when I was assigned to write this article, I decided to download the app and give it a fair shot, at least for a week.
Things started off well enough: On day two, BeReal blessedly caught me in the middle of an outing to the Boston Symphony Orchestra. I’m not the kind of person who goes to orchestra performances, but my friend had offered me a free ticket, so I got to post a photo of us in our regal outfits at intermission.
Saul A. Glist ’22-23, a devoted BeReal fan, says these daily posts make social outings feel more valuable.
“It makes you appreciate when you’re with people and when you’re doing something fun, because so many of the BeReals you get, you’re just in your room doing work,” Glist says. “The artificial scarcity of the app makes you appreciate social situations more.”
Of course, that artificial scarcity is a double-edged sword: if capturing exciting moments spent with friends makes us feel happy and grateful, then how does capturing all the mundane moments make us feel?
Emily Weinstein, Research Director at the Harvard Graduate School of Education’s Project Zero, has spent much of her professional career asking similar questions about young adults and their technology use. She first heard about BeReal in early February, during a panel discussion held for her Ed School class “Digital Dilemmas.” Weinstein emphasizes that the effects of BeReal, like every other social media platform she studies, are nuanced and personally specific, but she points out that the nature of the app can make users increasingly self-conscious about their daily lives.
“Another thing that came up in the early conversations was this kind of awareness of, ‘how many times I am getting the push to post that I’m alone?’” Weinstein says. “And does that elevate your own sense of when you’re with others and when you’re alone? And how does that make you feel?”
***
On the fifth day of my experiment, I was already late when I got the BeReal notification. I’d spent most of the past few hours alternatively panicking about an upcoming job interview and crying because I’m scared to be unemployed. My room was its usual level of messy, and I was attempting to work from my bed, which I hadn’t made in days. Both the front-facing and back-facing camera views felt a little too humiliating. I decided to wait until I’d at least gotten out of bed.
***
For Michal Goldstein ’25, a Crimson News and Magazine editor, BeReal makes her feel the opposite of alone.
“I think any social media that tries to sell itself as authentic and not a way to outwardly show your life is falsely advertising what it is,” Goldstein says. But she thinks BeReal’s authenticity is beside the point.
She and her friends started using the app as a way to stay connected over winter break; rather than call or text each other constantly, they could easily share little spontaneous snippets of each other’s lives every day.
For Weinstein, the uncurated aspect of BeReal is also not necessarily the app’s purpose. “I wonder if maybe it makes sense to flip the question, so that instead of judging if others are authentic, we focus more on questions about how we feel, and specifically questions that might signal whether we're being authentic in ways that matter for ourselves,” she says. “So I’m asking questions like, ‘How do I feel when I share on this app? What am I getting out of this?’”
After about a week on BeReal, I gave up on feeling bad about the unglamorous parts of my life. For three days in a row, I posted a picture of myself alone in my room, on my computer, doing homework. I posted several truly hideous back-facing selfies, the kind of photo I would rather die than put on Instagram. It helped that I only have 17 friends on the app — a common theme among everyone I spoke to is that BeReal doesn’t encourage building a vast, performative network of followers like other apps do. But I still couldn’t stop myself from retaking my pictures five times before they finally felt acceptable enough to show to my ten closest friends.
While the BeReals we post are temporary to everyone else, users can scroll back through their own archive, flipping through the random moments like a photo album. When I look back at my (now going on a) month’s worth of memories, I see what Glist meant. I’ve assembled a little mirror image of my life, more or less accurate despite the brief and random moments I captured, 90 percent of them intensely mundane: me in my common room with my friends, me working in my room, me on the shuttle to class. The remaining 10 percent (restaurants and parties and spring break by the pool) feel the way they should — special, unusual, precious, but not inherently better or worse than the millions of boring moments, like the 3pm sun beaming in through the windows on an ordinary Tuesday in my ordinary dorm with my beloved, ordinary friends.
— Magazine writer Tamar Sarig can be reached at tamar.sarig@thecrimson.com.
Sections
A painting of the Last Supper once hung in the People’s Republik, the beloved Soviet-themed bar in Central Square. In this rendition, the bar’s owner sat in the place of Jesus Christ, and the staff and regular customers filled the rest of the table.
When the People’s Republik closed its doors in December 2020 after 23 years of business, its owner took the painting home. L. Patrick Gallivan, the general manager, claimed most of the remaining artwork for his own bar — the recently-opened New Republik in Inman Square.
The New Republik is the “second generation” of Cambridge’s iconic neighborhood bar, and at least thematically, it remains true to its predecessor. Communist soldiers gesture to patrons from Soviet-themed posters — taken directly from the original People’s Republik — which hang on the deep red walls.
Regulars at the bar sit on bright red bar stools at black tables, alongside a lively group of young patrons who live down the street. This sense of community was Gallivan’s vision for the New Republik. “We really want to be the neighborhood bar that people can come in and know somebody,” he says.
In fact, Gallivan was first introduced to the People’s Republik in the late 1990s through a friend, the owner’s son. After their walks to the comic book store or the myriad of other small businesses that once covered Cambridge, Gallivan and his friend would stop into the bar for lunch — “before we were even 21,” he admits.
But it wasn’t the alleged presence of minors in the bar that stirred controversy. Cambridge’s licensing board originally refused to approve the bar’s name. Richard V. Scali, then Cambridge License Commison’s executive officer, said to The Crimson in 1997 that the name “was inappropriate and offensive” to soldiers who fought in “the Korean War, World War II or any war” nominally fought against communism. Despite its potential for controversy, the name was meant to be a play on Cambridge’s nickname, “The People’s Republic.”
Strong community was always what set the People’s Republik apart, Gallivan says. On his first day on the job at the now-shuttered bar, he swept the floors. “As soon as I started working, everybody took me in as part of the family,” he recalls. Gallivan quickly moved up to bar-backing and bartending before he was promoted to general manager of the People’s Republik, the position that he held when Covid-19 hit Cambridge.
James F. Rowe, a bartender there since 2008, recalls the businesses’ precarious position at the onset of the pandemic. “We knew any day could be our last. We were just hoping it would survive,” he says. When they finally received the call that the bar would be temporarily closed one day in December of 2020, Rowe and Gallivan had a feeling the closure might be permanent. They put the bar stools back up and walked out of the building forever. In February 2021, the bar closed for good.
Even though the bar had closed, Gallivan was not ready to walk away from his family at the People’s Republik. “We go on vacations together, we go to weddings together, we go out together. When we’re not working, we hang out together,” he says. “We wanted to continue the story.”
Gallivan and his co-manager and close friend of over 20 years, Maxwell A. Greene, opened the New Republik early this year and brought their former coworkers with them. “I’m happy to be able to employ all of the people that worked so closely with us over the last few decades,” Gallivan says, including their chef, bartenders, and the bar’s vendors. The staff are even familiar with some of the neighboring businesses from their time at the People’s Republik. “We’ve all been together for a long time, and we know how to work hard together.”
Many of their regular patrons from the People’s Republik have come to the new bar, too. “I’m happy that we got a bunch of regulars that want to come in here all the time,” Rowe, the bartender, says. “I think that’s what you need in a bar.”
Gallivan is now leveraging this strong community to raise money for Ukrainian refugees by selling t-shirts. “We felt like we have a good opportunity with a large enough fan base” to raise a significant donation, he says.
As my conversation with Rowe, the bartender, came to a close, a patron reached out and tapped Rowe’s arm. The older man, who sounded slightly intoxicated, thanked Rowe for babysitting, and the sincerity in Rowe’s voice when he responded made the metaphor of the New Republik’s community as a family feel literal.
Sections
Dear Mom,
We might have to donate another building. This was supposed to be the best day of my first year, but then the unthinkable happened.
I got river’d.
I know, I know — it used to be different. Back when you were here, everyone wanted to get river’d. But this isn’t the ’90s: Now, the Quad is the place to be.
According to Cousin Lowell, it all started when they quadded just about every first-year last Housing Day. When I got to campus last fall, the tide was just beginning to turn.
First the a cappella groups started meeting in Currier—all 67 of them. Then The Crimson staged a successful coup at the nearby Harvard University Press building. Rumor has it the Advocate now holds meetings on the roof of Cabot Hall, as they drink white wine and buy charms on Etsy to hex someone into finally reading their magazine.
By October, commerce started to follow. The Harvard Shop opened five new locations next to the Quad, all within a block of each other. The last nail in the Harvard Square coffin was when Jefe’s opened its new location just behind Pfoho. The Lampoon, always regressive, stayed behind.
By November, even the Dudley Co-Op was adapting to the influx of students, opening Dud’s: a vegan pizza joint operating entirely on the barter system. Their synthetic cheese pizza is in such high demand late at night that my Yeezys only bought me ten slices.
It should go without saying that I did everything I could not to get river’d. My blockmates and I partied exclusively at the Quad, but so does everyone else. We had to go even further.
Every Thursday since January, no matter the weather, we faithfully ate breakfast, lunch, and dinner in Cabot, all eight of us scootering there and back in perfect formation, like Canadian Geese clad in Canada Goose.
And with Housing Day looming, I made an offering to the Quad Gods. After the Sigma Omega CHi (SOCH) party got shut down Saturday night, I abstained from Ubering back to my dorm and stood valiantly in the freezing rain for 30 minutes. Yes, Mother, I waited for the “River Shuttle.”
After such a sacrifice (not to mention our family’s considerable donations), I was so sure of my housing status, I almost forgot to do Radcliffe Roach last night. I know you don’t approve of marijuana, but it’s much safer to smoke a joint out the window of three houses than to take shots at nine.
It was all for nothing. At 8:36 this morning, a knock came at the door, and suddenly the room was filled with cheering upperclassmen in moose costumes. I was dumbstruck. Dunster?
I barely saw the confetti and champagne bottles, barely heard the Dua Lipa Housing Day parody that a moose-person was performing a cappella on my desk. I held back tears as a costumed ballerina handed me the housing letter and a fresh pair of Nike Air Moose 1s. It was the worst dorm-storm ever.
But Housing Day wasn’t over yet. Remember my annoying roommate Simon? You know, the “divest” one? Of all people, he got Cabot. The smug look on his face as he sat in our GenEd section this afternoon made me want to scream.
Cabot was all I ever wanted. My dream house. And Simon stole it from me. How will I go on? Next year, I’ll have no choice but to wait in the cold by the SOCH every night. My whole life will revolve around those confusing River Shuttle schedules.
The River houses might have meant something to you, Mother. To generations of our family, even. But if I have to sleep in a rat-infested Dunster hellhole a single night, I will fill out a transfer application not just for Cabot, but for Yale.
Yours truly,
Phillip D. W. Leverett-Mather III
Sections
A new variant of Covid-19 has been popping up every few months, each time adding a new letter to the Greek alphabet soup: alpha, delta, and omicron are just the latest. With every variant comes a rise in cases and a delay to returning to normal life.
Researchers, too, are having a hard time keeping up. “You’re always waiting for the variant to appear and then pushing as quickly as possible to try to catch up,” says Dr. David E. Anderson, former professor of neurobiology at Harvard Medical School and the current chief scientific officer of Variation Biotechnologies Inc., a biopharmaceutical company headquartered in Cambridge.
Biotech giants like Moderna and Pfizer-BioNTech were able to make potent mRNA vaccines within six months of the outbreak in the United States — a feat Anderson says is “the equivalent of when we put a man on the moon.”
However, these vaccines won’t last in the long term. Current Covid-19 mRNA-based vaccines rely on recognizing a specific spike protein — the more a vaccine looks like the virus it aims to target, the more potent it will be. While this specificity has made vaccines incredibly effective against current strains, they cannot keep up with the quickly-evolving virus as it develops increasingly unrecognizable spike proteins.
As a result, many researchers are trying to develop an entirely different type of vaccine — a universal one. A pan-coronavirus vaccine would protect against strains of Covid-19, a future strain of SARS-CoV-3, or even a new coronavirus that might not yet have jumped from animals to humans. The idea has been endorsed by Anthony S. Fauci, chief medical advisor to the president and director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Disease. In a January 2022 New England Journal of Medicine op-ed, Fauci wrote: “our ongoing experience with the current Covid-19 pandemic, together with the ever-present threat of the emergence of other potentially pandemic coronaviruses, necessitates the expeditious development of safe and broadly protective coronavirus vaccines.”
Moderna and Pfizer’s approach “is a game where you’re playing catch up constantly,” Anderson says. “This pan-coronavirus candidate is to stop chasing the variance and get ahead of it.”
VBI’s team of 35 scientists are working on a pan-coronavirus vaccine that exposes the immune system to multiple variants at the same time, to “educate it.”
“We thought we could teach the immune system to be more broadly reactive,” Anderson says.
Human immune systems have two strategies for addressing threats — one is hardwired from birth to sense and respond to infections, while the other is made of T and B cells that respond adaptively to foreign invaders, including vaccines, by secreting customized antibodies.
As an analogy, Anderson says you can imagine the spike proteins from three virus variants — MERS-CoV, SARS-CoV-1, and Covid-19 — are red, yellow, and blue. The VBI team hypothesizes that after being exposed to different variants, the immune system could learn to recognize mixtures of these colors.
“If a B cell or an antibody saw the red, and then it saw the yellow, it might start seeing a shade of orange somewhere in between,” he says. “Or if it saw the yellow spike, and then the blue spike, it might actually see … a shade of green.” After seeing these mixed shades, antibodies would be able to target a greater variety of viruses for destruction by the immune system.
While the VBI team studies how the immune system might better identify these spike proteins, researchers at HMS are studying how to make it harder for the proteins to escape from the immune system.
Duane R. Wesemann, an immunologist at Brigham and Women’s Hospital and professor at Harvard Medical School, is leading this research. In September, his group received one of just three NIAID grants issued to search for a pan-coronavirus vaccine.
Wesemann’s team is interested in the maximal immune response that a vaccine could muster to protect against multiple strains of Covid-19 and potentially even multiple coronaviruses — though he notes that its potency against an unknown strain, whose spike proteins have not yet been characterized, would be much lower.
Immune responses are driven by neutralizing antibodies, which can block the entry of a virus into healthy cells. Wesemann’s team is manipulating several variables, including vaccine delivery methods, vaccine dosage, target regions of spike proteins from different variants, and the timing of spike protein delivery, with the aim of making these neutralizing antibodies as strong as possible.
Early results from both VBI and HMS are promising, suggesting that it is possible to optimize the immune system to recognize multiple variants. But only time will tell if a pan-coronavirus vaccine can prevent the next pandemic.
“You don’t want to over-promise when you have pretty early stage clinical development ongoing,” says Nicole E. Anderson, the Director of Corporate Communications & Investor Relations at VBI. “It’s encouraging, but it’s also early days, and we have to see it bear out in the clinic and see it put into humans, hopefully in the middle of this year.”
The approaches to developing a pan-coronavirus vaccine are just as diverse as the viruses they are targeting — and the process has revealed many gaps in our fundamental understanding of the immune system.
“We’re not quite masters of understanding our own immune system in terms of predicting what happens with a vaccine or how to make a proper response to a pathogen,” Wesemann says. “So is it possible to make a universal HIV vaccine or universal flu vaccine? Is it possible to make a pan-coronavirus vaccine that really is highly potent? We don’t know.”
– Akila V. Muthukumar can be reached at akila.muthukumar@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @akila29m. 
Sections
There seem to be two ways to go about it. You could spend all morning combing through old clothes — as one woman we spoke to did – trying to decide if that sweater you once loved is still oversized in a cute way or if it just plain doesn’t fit, before driving a basketful of your closet clutter across the Charles River to Somerville’s Warehouse XI.
Or if you’re like us, you could pick three pieces that you haven’t worn this semester, chuck them in your backpack, and walk to Union Square after missing the 86 bus.
Regardless of your mode of transportation, the No Frills All Fun Clothing Swap waits with open doors.
Held on March 27 and hosted by We Thieves, a women-run vintage boutique located in Inman Square, the No Frills All Fun Clothing Swap was organized to offer the community a more sustainable shopping option. To participate in the swap, attendees were encouraged to bring three to 15 articles of clothing. After checking in outside, swappers were ushered into the space. Some hung their assorted dresses and jackets — formal intermingling with casual — on the racks that lined the walls, while others found room on the blanket-covered floor. A fitting room stood in the back as an open, half-walled off space with about as much privacy as a window. Patrons tried desperately to shimmy on their new finds over the clothes they came in. One woman nearby, too busy to answer our questions, worked with intense concentration at a sewing machine, repairing garments in effort to extend their wearable life. Across the warehouse, a band picked at their guitars.
It was chaos, but there couldn’t have been a better way to spend the Sunday.
But the free shopping experience has a deeper story. “The real purpose of this swap,” We Thieves owner Sandra E. Rossi explains, “is just to keep garments in circulation as long as possible before they actually get donated.”
It may seem counterintuitive to fight against donation, often touted as an environmentally-friendly choice. But though the secondhand clothing industry claims donation is the lynchpin of the “circular” clothing industry, it is actually one step in the process of waste colonization. In reality, 84 percent of donated clothing is sent to landfills or incinerators, according to the EPA. And billions of these disposed garments are exported to the Global South each year, forcing local communities to manage literal tons of waste. These countries previously relied on vendors to resell those donated clothes — but now, they’re encountering a major roadblock.
“Since fast fashion has really taken off, they can’t resell the clothes,” Rossi says. “We’re basically placing our trash in other places.” As clothes aren’t built to last anymore, their once-circular path now ends in overflowing landfills.
Rossi is trying to intervene before this process begins. We Thieves is all about “conscious consumerism,” according to its website. Beyond its vintage clothing collection, the store has produced a conscious consumer resource guide with an extensive list of ways to shop more responsibly — most importantly, it suggests consumers buy fewer clothes and keep the ones in their closets for longer.
No Frills All Fun is another extension of this mission, providing the experience of shopping with the sustainability of a swap. In partnership with On The Rise, an organization that provides support for women and transgender or nonbinary people experiencing homelessness in Cambridge, the event also encouraged donations and sent any unclaimed clothing to their Safe Haven.
Back at the warehouse, attendees ducked, stretched, and apologized as they navigated the packed walkways like pirates in search of treasure. At the center of it all, Rossi darted back and forth in a red shirt with black undersleeves, green pants, and a long-sleeved floral print tied at her waist.
We even saw our own clothing pieces find new owners in real time. Jem brought a gray striped shirt, one of the first things she ever bought for herself during the summer when she got her first job, her license, and her first bit of freedom from her parents. A few minutes later, a woman with short, dark hair picked it up, examined it, and laid it across her arm. Just like that, it found a new home.
Perhaps someone else in that room had that exact same feeling as we picked out our own new closet additions — a velvet v-neck for Jem, a striped button-down for Francesca. “Conscious consumerism means only taking what you need,” read the sign in front of the clothing rack. Perhaps we didn’t need those new pieces, but we’re happy to take them home anyways.
— Magazine writer Francesca J. Barr can be reached at francesca.barr@thecrimson.com.
— Magazine writer Jem K. Williams can be reached at jem.williams@thecrimson.com.
Sections
It’s early morning in late July, and I’m standing outside a CVS in Rockland, Maine, waiting for the doors to open. It’s the summer of 2015 — the United States just legalized gay marriage, Fetty Wap’s “Trap Queen” is at the top of the charts, and CNN reports it to be the hottest summer on meteorological record. I’ll turn 13 in a week. For now, I’m focused on one thing only: picking up a copy of the latest issue of People Magazine with Kaitlin Bristowe and Shawn Booth on the cover.
I had been introduced to Bristowe that spring through a little show called The Bachelor, a reality show on ABC in which contestants vie for the protagonist’s hand in marriage. Alongside 29 other women, Bristowe competed for the heart of farmer Chris Soules during the show’s 19th season. She came in third place, and then went on to become the Bachelorette. I watched her season religiously that summer, and I haven’t missed a season of the show since.
It’s hard to explain why. It was always less about the show and more so about everything surrounding it. I think of times over the last seven years that have stuck with me from this franchise. Watching Chris Soules’s season with my older sister and her friends and thinking they were the coolest people in the world. Freshman year of high school, bonding with new friends over who from Nick Viall’s Season 21 would become the next Bachelorette. All the summers spent watching Bachelor in Paradise. Senior spring, sleeping over at my best friend’s house on Monday nights to watch Peter Weber’s Season 24 of The Bachelor just before the world shut down.
Recently, my mother, a high-strung, type-A, Aries lawyer who watches almost exclusively low-budget British detective shows, admitted something to me: while pregnant with me, she watched the first season of The Bachelor. I don’t count Alex Michel’s Season 1 of the Bachelor as one I’ve seen, since I was a fetus and therefore not able to appreciate the nuance in its portrayal of Americana and its grim reflections on the commodification of love. But in my developing stages, as I absorbed the oxygen and nutrients my mother consumed, maybe some of the reality TV she consumed snuck its way through the umbilical cord as well. Now, as a whole human being, I can say I’ve seen 12 full seasons of The Bachelor, 10 of The Bachelorette, and seven of Bachelor in Paradise.
Last Friday, The Bachelor turned 20. In a few months, I will too. Through my tumultuous and overly dramatic teenage years, The Bachelor has become even more tumultuous. In the last seven years, I’ve grown out of friends and towns and identities and oh-so-many hairstyles, but one thing has stuck with me since I was 12 years old. As I exit my teenage years, I’m realizing a chilling truth: The Bachelor is the longest relationship I’ve ever had.
If I’m being honest, it’s not one worth maintaining. It’s not a good friend to me — it’s unreliable, it’s a mess, it makes me angry and sad and confused and complicit.
Really, I cannot overstate how bad this show is. On an entertainment level alone, it is incredibly hard to watch. Production is sloppily heavy-handed, and the drama feels forced and unconvincing. On a cultural level, it has spent 20 years promoting thinness and whiteness as the ideal beauty standard. On a Marxist level, ABC executives are making millions off the exploitation and humiliation of their contestants, who are not compensated for their driving role in this multi-million- dollar franchise.
In recent years, viewership has been dropping off so sharply that production is trying to make every season the “most dramatic season ever.” That often means tear shots. And lots of them. The first night of this season’s finale included a 10-minute sequence of the finalists breaking down to their cores, crying on staircases and struggling to breathe through gasping sobs. Then, the camera panned out to the live studio audience watching the destruction, and the show’s host advertised more drama to come after a quick commercial break.
On the one hand, The Bachelor is and always has been escapism. But at the same time, the content I’m using as a fun distraction centers the emotional degradation of real people with jobs and lives and families. As I become a lucid adult, I start to wonder at what point I’m a viewer of reality TV, and at what point I’m a citizen in The Capitol of the Hunger Games, savoring suffering from the safe perch of my couch.
Society has progressed past The Bachelor. Why haven’t I?
I wish I could say I watch because I love the bonding that comes with it, but that’s no longer the case. All my friends with whom I used to watch and debrief now find the show boring and cheesy. I don’t blame anyone who can’t stomach it. I can barely stomach it.
Part of the diegetic appeal must be my competitive side that likes to watch competition applied to the wildly inappropriate setting of group dating. Part of it is probably rubbernecking. If I were to intellectualize it, I could call the show an anthropological study or a psychological experiment.
I still watch primarily because it would feel wrong not to at this point, and secondarily because I love to listen to recap podcasts. I love my internet friends in the Facebook corner of Bachelor Nation. I love listening to people who get me and my complicated feelings toward this franchise and who share my knowledge of the deep lore of Bachelor Nation.
Is it a problem that I spend three hours of my week listening to various podcasts review everything that happened in the two hours of TV I have also already seen? Maybe on the surface. But is consuming content about content not what sports culture is all about? What makes commentary on the game that is The Bachelor less valuable than commentary on the game of football? Why should analysis and critical fandom hold less merit for media marketed towards women?
I justify my behavior by classifying myself as a sports fan. In the online Bachelor circles I’m in, as we live scream our thoughts at each other via a Facebook thread, there’s a shared acknowledgement: this is super fucked, and our enjoyment of it is probably ethically questionable. I like to think that acknowledging this changes that, as if the way I’m watching is somehow more woke and enlightened. I’m sure football fans deal with the same dilemma as players of their sport continue to suffer concussions and other serious injuries at alarming and preventable rates.
The Bachelor is no longer a social activity for me but a parasocial one. I’ve always loved the discourse around The Bachelor — now, I just hear it from podcasters and strangers on Facebook instead of from my friends.
But this isn’t as lonely and sad and pathetic as it sounds. I don’t think my feelings about and dedicated fandom of the Bachelor are any less valid than those of Patriots fans who get rowdy at bars when the Pats lose or stats junkies who watch play-by-play analyses on ESPN. Such is the nature of cult media consumption — it’s addicting and polarizing and worms its way into you, whether you like it or not.
People Magazine no longer has the winning couple on its cover the week after a season wraps, because not even the readers of People Magazine are watching the Bachelor anymore. But still, I continue to buy those issues for the one- or two-page Bachelor/ette spreads that used to be the cover story. The small interview with the happy couple takes three minutes to read, and it does nothing to enhance my life or even my understanding of the season. But this is the sport I’ve put my heart into, the niche of American culture in which I’ve chosen to sit and watch the world burn.
— Magazine writer Sarah W. Faber can be reached at sarah.faber@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @swfaber. 
Sections
Benjamin B. Bolger never bothered to collect his diploma from Dartmouth College. He could easily retrieve his degree — a Master of Arts in Liberal Studies — from the administrative office, but he is satisfied with the symbolic green tube that he received during his 2004 commencement ceremony. At some point, Bolger explains, he’ll probably pick up his certificate when he returns for a Dartmouth football game. “I have the education. That’s what I’m most concerned about,” he says.
Bolger’s Dartmouth degree was just another addition to his veritable arsenal of academic qualifications. He has graduated from some of the world’s most prestigious institutions, including Harvard, Brown, Columbia, Stanford, Dartmouth, Cambridge, Stanford, and Oxford. He now lives in Cambridge, Mass., where he is the head teaching fellow for a course in Harvard College’s General Education Program. He is also working virtually towards his 17th degree — in writing for performance from the University of Cambridge.
“Other people might read a magazine article in The Economist,” Bolger says. “Maybe I'll do a master’s degree instead on the topic.”
Academic achievement did not always come easily for the perpetual student. Bolger says he was expelled from his preschool, called Noah’s Ark, because of his curiosity about the school’s namesake story. Unsatisfied with the teacher’s responses, Bolger kept asking follow-up questions. “The lions are gonna get hungry. I mean, how does this work?” he recalls asking.
Diagnosed with severe dyslexia as a child, Bolger struggled to find his footing in various elementary schools and finally dropped out in the third grade. Bolger’s mother, a teacher, decided to homeschool him. They would drive in their 1978 Ford pickup truck on field trips to Gettysburg or the Air and Space Museum. At age 12, Bolger enrolled in courses at Muskegon Community College near his home in Grand Haven, Mich.
Bolger’s childhood was also marked by personal tragedy. At age two-and-a-half, Bolger and his family suffered a devastating car crash that left both his mother and father in intensive care. Though his parents survived, defying doctors’ predictions, he witnessed their harrowing recoveries throughout his childhood. “I hope a lot of children have carefree childhoods,” Bolger says. “But, I really, at a young age, realized that I could have been orphaned. And so that really made me understand truly how fragile life is.”
Ever since the accident, Bolger has forced himself to sleep just four or five hours a night. “If I die at an early age,” Bolger says, “I will have at least experienced more life because I’ve been awake more, both literally and figuratively.”
While awake, he exerts a superhuman level of attention that showcases his extensive knowledge on wide-ranging topics. In just an hour-and-a-half interview, Bolger discussed telemedicine in rural communities, the prison system, gravity, Paulo Freire’s “Pedagogy of the Oppressed,” and brutalist architecture. Asked to select his favorite national park, Bolger mentions that he loves the Grand Canyon. But rather than admiring its beauty, Bolger emphasizes how water cutting through rocks “speaks to plate tectonics” and is a “metaphorically powerful statement,” especially given that “a big part of our bodies are water.”
Bolger constantly looks for opportunities to learn from his surroundings — be it the Grand Canyon and his professors or the laundry list of celebrities he has encountered. At Harvard alone, Bolger recalls overhearing the Winklevoss twins complain about Mark Zuckerberg and having many “unbelievably great conversations” with Amanda Gorman ’20. “I try to be humble,” Bolger tells us, before sharing a digital copy of his award from Harvard University’s Derek Bok Center for Teaching and Learning — his 13th distinction from the Center, he notes.
Bolger’s website features a repository of well over 100 pictures he’s taken with influential and famous people — including three former presidents, four Supreme Court justices, senators, governors, mayors, Syracuse University’s cheerleading team, Ben Cohen and Jerry Greenfield of Ben & Jerry’s, Yo Yo Ma, Fat Joe, IM Pei, and Robin Williams.
Bolger funds his unique lifestyle with revenue from Bolger Strategic, an admissions consulting firm that he describes as “highly successful” in an email. Bolger is quick to add that, because of his financial success, he holds an Amex Personal Black Card and an Amex Business Black Card, making him “one of a very select group of people in the world” with this honor.
Today, Bolger shares his passion for learning with his two children, seven-year-old Benjamina Brook Bolger and two-year-old Benjamin Blitz Bolger. (“We love ‘B’s,” he says.) Their education began long before their homeschooling, as Bolger read books to them from outside the womb. “From day one, we’ve been focused on a comprehensive education,” Bolger says.
Benjamina and Benjamin Jr.’s educations also include access to many notable figures, such as writer and activist Gloria Steinem, whom Bolger introduced to Benjamina so that she would learn not to “accept the status quo.” Bolger’s dedication to his children’s education has seemingly paid off. At age six, Benjamina published her first book, “Guri: The Very Friendly Owl.”
For Bolger, education is not a means to an end but the end itself. Bolger has a slew of qualifications, but if there’s one thing he can teach us, it is about the endless pursuit of curiosity. “Embrace being eccentric,” he says.
Sections
On Tuesday, March 8 — International Women’s Day — an odd assortment of protesters from the organization RiseUp4AbortionRights set up camp outside the CVS in Harvard Square. They wore green legwarmers and bandanas — a nod to the recent Green Wave of reproductive justice movements in Latin America. They had covered the walls of the nearby T-station elevator with black-and-white posters depicting women who died from illegal abortions before the procedure was legalized in 1973. Passersby could flip over the portraits to read each woman’s harrowing story.
The protestors, mostly middle-aged, held colorful, hand-made signs with messages like “Forced Motherhood is Female Enslavement” and “Abortion on Demand and Without Apology!” To anyone who would listen, they handed out free T-shirts with their organization’s name and a simple graphic depicting a clothes hanger crossed out with a red X.
Meanwhile, tourists and Harvard students walked past. Though organizers had handed out and plastered posters around campus over the previous weeks, of all the demonstrators, only three were Harvard students — two of whom were the authors of this article, there to cover the rally.
The striking absence of Harvard students that day was not an anomaly.
Most Harvard students are in favor of abortion rights — nearly 80 percent of college students nationwide say abortion should be legal in most or all cases, compared to about 60 percent of US adults. But despite — or perhaps because of — Harvard students’ above-average consensus, this support in principle does not always apply in practice to concrete action on campus.
This conspicuous absence has not always been the case.
Since Roe, activism surrounding reproductive issues has ebbed and flowed on campus, loosely mirroring the political climate of the time. In the ’70s, immediately following the Roe decision, Radcliffe women pushed to expand reproductive justice. In the ’90s, anti-abortion and abortion-rights student groups held fervent debates, swapped editorials in The Crimson, and posted flyers on dorm room doors. And in the mid-2010s, abortion rights groups revamped and evolved to center lived experience and equity concerns in their advocacy approach. But by contrast, today’s campus culture surrounding abortion-related issues is relatively quiet — leaving a vacuum all the more striking in the face of looming national threats to abortion access.
In June, the Supreme Court is expected to release a decision on Dobbs v. Jackson Women’s Health Organization, a case regarding a Missouri abortion restriction that directly violates Roe v. Wade, the landmark 1973 case that legalized abortion in the United States. Currently, over 40 million women live in states hostile to abortion — and without Roe’s protection, that hostility would translate into severely restricted access to the procedure.
Mary R. Ziegler ’04, a professor at Florida State University College of Law and a national expert on abortion law, is curating an exhibit at Harvard’s Schlesinger Library to celebrate Roe’s 50th birthday next January. But she is unsure whether the ruling will reach the milestone. When asked about the probability of Roe being overturned, she says: “It’s not really a question of if — it’s a question of when.”
This lack of activism on Harvard’s campus may be reflective of a larger national ignorance or resignation about how likely Roe is to fall, and the devastating consequences that change would enact.
According to George Stevens, one of the organizers of the Women’s Day rally in the Square, the public does not appreciate the gravity of the situation. “People have the capacity to come out in the hundreds of thousands, but yet it's not happening now, in part because they think somebody else is going to do it for them,” he says. “There's a need to sound the alarm — that this is an emergency here that needs to be responded to.”
But Harvard students perhaps also reflect a particular generational malaise. According to Kathy Lawrence, another organizer of the rally, unlike her generation — which grew up in the ’60s and ’70s — today’s would-be activists don’t remember the gruesome reality of pre-Roe abortions: “The younger generation don't know what it was like when abortion wasn't available. It was women using coat hangers, it was women committing suicide, rather than carry the pregnancy to term, women throwing themselves downstairs,” she says. Most Harvard students, along with the rest of Generation Z, have grown up in a world where Roe is doctrine. But that doctrine may very well change soon.
This generational complacency contributes to a lack of activism, which along with a culture of silence around abortion on campus, obscures the real ways in which Harvard students experience abortion — as well as their connections and potential contributions to the current national crisis around abortion rights.
How has a right codified into law nearly fifty years ago become more and more tenuous as the years have marched on — and what underpins the dissonance between students’ complacency and the urgency of their current reality? Let’s go back in time.
“Have You Gotten so Liberated That You’ve Forgotten How to Cook?” jokes a 1979 advertisement in Seventh Sister, a Radcliffe monthly journal. “Practice by Coming to Seventh Sister’s Pot Luck Dinner!”
Billing itself playfully as “not just another collectively run women’s newspaper existing as a positive alternative to competitive hierarchical journalistic institutions,” the radical publication was founded in 1977 to fill gaps in feminist discourse and coverage on campus. “This was the new journal, by women, for women at Harvard, and there was this real political commitment that we weren't going to do things the way men did things,” says Tanya M. Luhrmann ’83, a contributor to Seventh Sister. “We were going to be more collective, we were going to work together.”
Out of its office on the third floor of Phillips Brooks House, Seventh Sister published content ranging from opinion pieces on sexual double standards and the liberation of Black women to features on Salvadorian refugeee women in Boston to personal essays on feminist spirituality and ‘Exploring a Gay Lifestyle.’ The newspaper also published reported pieces on topics like the experiences of student mothers at Harvard, and notably on the recently established abortion right.
To secure a safe abortion before Roe, women in Boston with the means to do so often traveled to New York, where the procedure had been legal since 1970. But by February of 1973, just a month after Roe constitutionalized abortion, the Crittenton-Hastings House in Brighton was licensed to perform abortions, becoming the first free-standing clinic in Massachusetts. By April, the “Crit” started seeing patients. According to the 1974 Harvard Medical Alumni Bulletin, the clinic performed around 400 abortions in its first four months.
In addition to Crittenton-Hastings, a handful of other free-standing abortion clinics obtained licenses and opened within a few months after Roe — meaning that for those with the means to pay for it, abortion was largely accessible in Boston in the late ’70s and early ’80s.
Luhrmann and her Seventh Sister contemporaries recall the turmoil associated with illegal abortions pre-Roe — a cultural memory that younger generations lack. “We were much closer to the recognition of what happens when abortions were not available: back alley abortions, hanger abortions, and how hard it was for people without resources especially,” Luhrmann says. “So we really had a sharp sense of the importance of a woman’s right to choose.”
That understanding underpinned the urgency with which Harvard-Radcliffe women spearheaded abortion education and advocacy efforts on campus. For example, in the spring of 1978, Seventh Sister co-hosted “Abortion Educationals” with the Dunster House Women’s Issues Table, a group that aimed to foster conversation surrounding gender issues, and the Boston-based Abortion Action Coalition.
Occurring just a few years after Roe, these advocacy efforts took place in a culture where abortion’s legality was not particularly contentious. “It was kind of a sense of ‘we’ve won this, we have this, the Supreme Court has decided it,’” says Susan D. Chira ’80, the second female President of The Crimson.
That sense of security meant campus activists could look beyond abortion to issues like unequal access to reproductive healthcare and to forced sterilization, specifically of Native American, Black, and Latinx women. During the “Abortion Educational” meetings, speakers would introduce abortion legislation and related reproductive justice issues, and students would debate issues surrounding abortion: birth control, daycare, and forced sterilization among them. As one student quoted in Seventh Sister said, “the issue of abortion is not abortion.”
One contributor, Indigenous activist and then-undergrad Winona W. LaDuke, argued in an opinion piece for broadening the scope of “pro-choice,” noting that while the government should not force its citizens to become mothers by prohibiting abortion, it should not deny them the opportunity either through forced sterilization.
In another Seventh Sister article that spring, a student reported on the Department of Health, Education, and Welfare hearings in Boston about forced sterilization. One Native American woman, Dawn Gore, testified about being forcibly sterilized in Holyoke, Mass., while going to the hospital for a routine appendectomy. The Committee to End Sterilization Abuse reported instances of Spanish-speaking women being manipulated into consenting for the procedure in Boston hospitals.
Though there was scattered opposition to the reproductive rights movement, there was no unified or organized anti-abortion movement on campus at the time. In 1979, Luhrmann wrote an editorial titled “The Pro-Choice Argument” — one which, 50 years later, still makes the rounds of The Crimson’s top five most-read pieces online. “I remember thinking that abortion was so obviously a woman’s right that you just needed a good argument,” recalls Luhrmann, “not that people really and truly thought that it could be murder.”
But when someone sent the printed page back to her with a “red, baby-killing slur” on it, she reevaluated her belief that Harvard was majority in favor of abortion rights. “I remember thinking, ‘Huh. There’s more variety of opinion here than I thought.’”
Chira echoes Luhrmann’s inklings of growing dissent from pro-life voices. “At that point, the power of the anti-abortion movement was not clear,” Chira says. “We underestimated the power of sincere religious belief.”
It was not uncommon for Shannon E. Lowney to walk past anti-abortion protestors on her way into work at the Planned Parenthood in Brookline, Mass. — and the morning of December 30, 1994, was no exception. She had moved to Boston that fall to pursue a degree in social work, and she was working as a receptionist and a translator for Spanish-speaking women.
Around 10 o’clock that morning, a young man entered the clinic dressed in all black. He approached the desk and asked, “Is this Planned Parenthood?” Lowney smiled and replied that it was. The man then took out a semi-automatic .22-caliber rifle and shot Lowney multiple times in the throat before opening fire on the clients and visitors in the waiting room.
The man, John C. Salvi III, then went to Preterm Health Services, another abortion provider two miles down the road. “Is this Preterm?” he asked. The receptionist, Leanne Nichols, answered that it was. Salvi shot her five times.
Nichols died at a hospital that day; Lowney died at the scene.
In the aftermath, Bernard F. Law, then-Cardinal of the Archdiocese of Boston, called for a moratorium on protests outside of abortion clinics while urging the public not to conflate the shooting with the anti-abortion movement as a whole: “I would request that this tragic and criminal act of apparently one individual not become the occasion of universalizing blame.”
That a cardinal would respond publicly to the shooting signified a change in public discourse around abortion — by this point, abortion had grown to signify more than a medical procedure: it was a battleground for religious and moral issues, and increasingly polarizing ones at that.
Between the hopeful activism of the Seventh Sister era (the magazine published its last issue in March 1984) and the violence of the mid-’90s, a shift occurred in American political culture: the Reagan Era. Leading up to the ’80s, religious organizations like Moral Majority aimed to turn abortion into a litmus test for Republican candidates, using religion to associate abortion with murder and politicizing the resulting fervency to bring Evangelical voters to the polls. Reagan’s decision to make his opposition to abortion central to his successful 1980 presidential campaign solidified its place as a tenet of American conservatism.
In 1992, in Planned Parenthood v. Casey, the Supreme Court gave the green light for states to enact abortion restrictions that did not pose an “undue burden” for a woman seeking an abortion. With the first major legal modification to Roe, activism on Harvard’s campus turned to focus on the right to abortion itself as opposed to larger reproductive justice issues — and a formal anti-abortion movement took root.
In 1998, Harvard Right to Life, an organization focused on anti-abortion advocacy, launched its first major campaign. Borrowing an idea from Harvard Law Students for Life, HRL encouraged students on the University’s health insurance to request a refund for the portion of their Student Health Fee that funds abortions, arguing that students should not have to pay for a procedure they disagreed with on moral grounds. HRL ran the campaign each year until at least 2004, then again in 2008, and most recently, in 2019.
While HUHS does not perform abortions, its physicians can refer students to nearby clinics and reimburse the fees for those on the Student Health Insurance Plan. As a result of these campaigns, HUHS now reimburses students who request it the portion of their Student Health Fee that goes towards abortions: $1 per term.
The seventh year in a row that HRL ran its opt-out campaign, The Crimson ran an editorial criticizing the University for issuing such refunds — not because of the concession to the anti-abortion movement specifically but because of the slippery slope of its logic. Vegetarians, the writers argued, are not able to request a refund for the portion of their meal plan that goes towards meat, even though they might have moral issues with it; the policy of issuing refunds, therefore, “exclusively favors pro-life students’ moral obligations.”
In addition to the opt-out campaign, HRL members posted bright yellow posters of fetuses in utero on doors and walls around campus — accompanied by captions like “Did you know: my heart is already beating!” “‘A person’s a person no matter how small.’ — Horton Hears a Who!”. Arianne R. Cohen ’03 responded with a Crimson column criticizing the group's strategy. “The posters are astutely designed to pluck the heartstrings of a scared 19-year-old college girl who just found out that she’s three weeks pregnant,” she wrote.
Meanwhile, Harvard Students for Choice, the main abortion rights organization on campus, hosted speaker events and debates in accordance with their mission statement: “While the group will provide access to activist opportunities, its primary concern is education.” In 2003, to counter HRL’s anti-abortion postering, HSC organized its own campaign urging students to put a sign on their door stating they did not want “anti-choice propaganda” in their doorbox.
By 2006, though, the abortion-rights pushback to HRL’s opt-out campaigns consisted of scattered individual student efforts to tear down the posters in their own Houses. In an op-ed for The Crimson entitled “Have Pro-Choicers Aborted Ship?”, one student criticized HSC’s failure to mount an organized response to HRL’s campaign: “Harvard hardly seems to have a pro-choice lobby at all. While the official student group Students for Choice claims to ‘promote greater awareness and understanding of [reproductive] issues in the Harvard community by means such as publications, meetings, seminars, and debates,’ it would appear only to exist on facebook.com.”
HSC leadership responded with its own op-ed claiming that after a turnover in leadership, the club would be making a “strong comeback” with more events. However, it is difficult to find evidence of this resurgence, as HSC is notably absent from Crimson coverage of the abortion debate after 2006, and the HSC website has not been updated since 2003. Instead, it lingers on the internet as a relic from the turn of the century, its guestbook overtaken by spam bots — a nail in the coffin of the fervency that characterized activism of earlier years.
It wasn’t until the mid-2010s that a club devoted to reproductive justice was active again on campus: the International Women’s Rights Collective. Grappling with a student body neither hostile to nor proactive about abortion — and a campus culture largely silent on the issue — organizers worked to rekindle a ’70s-era urgency that would make the presence of abortion at Harvard more real in students’ eyes.
IWRC was founded in 2011 by Rainer A. Crossett ’14 and Kate J. Sim ’14, who told The Crimson at the time that she was frustrated by the “lack of radical feminist vision I imagined I would be getting involved with [at Harvard].” The collective aimed to organize events on issues ranging from educational disparities to climate change in the context of gender equity.
Over time, though, their focus narrowed. “As years went by, the issues that became the most salient and inspiring — [the events that] were most well-attended — were things around abortion,” says Caroline N. Goldfarb ’18, a member of the club at the time. In 2017, Goldfarb proposed that the group embrace this new focus and rename itself to reflect the shift. The ReproJustice Action Dialogue and Collective was born. RAD is the most recently active abortion-rights group on campus.
Reproductive Justice refers to a movement founded by Black women in the ’90s to broaden the focus beyond the upper- and middle-class white women to ​​whom the abortion-rights movement largely catered. Taking this ethos to heart, RAD focused on making sure women of color sat on the board and held events on intersectional issues like forced sterilization, deemphasizing the abortion right and centralizing access, contraception, autonomous childbearing, and parenting more broadly.
RAD consciously used language that moved beyond traditional abortion rights rhetoric. “The classic pro-choice language and approach wasn’t feeling as updated,” Goldfarb says. “The new framework was reinvigorating.”
Goldfarb says the transition from IWRC to RAD reflected a new sense of exigency engendered by the Trump administration’s overt antagonism toward reproductive health care. “The national mood was becoming more hostile to abortion, and [event] attendees were reflecting that,” she says. From cutting millions from teen pregnancy prevention programs to stacking federal courts with judges opposed to to abortion, attacks on access to abortion were becoming more visible on a federal level over Trump’s tenure as president.
IWRC and later RAD engaged in programming like phone-banking, visiting clinics, collecting signatures to overturn the Hyde Amendment — which bans the use of Medicaid funds to pay for abortions — tabling at the Science Center, and hosting movie screenings.
Members also worked to make abortion more visible, countering abstract discourse with concrete storytelling. Recalling a debate the Harvard Political Union hosted every year or two on abortion, former IWRC president Brianna J. Suslovic ’16 reflects that “people are inclined to make everything into an intellectual debate or abstract topic to converse on.” IWRC and RAD tried instead to be specific about the lived experiences of individuals getting abortions both on and off campus, grounding their rhetoric in a “humanizing and non-shaming and non-presumptive approach to understanding the experience of abortion as a medical procedure.”
These stories came to life during the groups’ annual “Out of Silence” performances, where student and community actors would perform a series of vignettes about real individuals’ experiences with abortion.
For Suslovic, “Out of Silence” was powerful because it reduced the stigma attached to abortion — especially at a place like Harvard. “There's a lot of racialized and class assumptions that mean that people don’t often think of Harvard students as being in scenarios with unwanted pregnancies,” she says. “So complicating that a little bit and offering some sort of real-life storytelling [was] really, really exciting to see.”
Goldfarb recalls that members of HRL would attend the events and participate in the open discussions afterwards, of which she was “totally welcoming”; open dialogue was key to the “Out of Silence” mission, she says, and the conversations never became hostile.
RAD and IWRC struggled to receive the institutional support they needed for programming like “Out of Silence,” relying heavily on external support offered by nonprofits like Advocates for Youth — whose 1 in 3 Campaign put on similar performances at hundreds of college campuses nationwide. Suslovic also recalls another external organization, the Boston Doula Project (now the Boston Abortion Support Collective), which offered a workshop instructing students on how to support a friend who has just gotten an abortion: “bring them a bag to throw up in, saltines and ginger ale, a heating pad to use when they get home.”
“We never felt like we were in a hostile environment, but [we weren’t in] an actively supportive environment either,” Goldfarb says, expressing her wish that Harvard administrators had been more enthusiastic to engage with reproductive justice issues.
RAD dissolved over the pandemic, and it has not been revived since. Goldfarb says that Harvard makes it very hard to have an official club — from creating a bank account to filling out paperwork, there’s “a lot of red tape.” Groups like the Institute of Politics have tangible resources like advisors, buildings, and funding to ensure the organization’s continuity. But activist groups do not receive the same support.
Meanwhile, HRL is still somewhat active — last semester, they hosted speaker events with leaders from organizations to end euthenasia and provided financial support to struggling mothers.
“Currently, we live in a pro-choice world,” says Ava A. Swanson ’24, one of HRL’s co-presidents, “So when a woman chooses life, our pro-life organizations need to be there to support her and her child.” Swanson cites financial support, adoption reform, and foster care reform as alternate options to abortion.
But HRL is nowhere near as visible a campus presence as in earlier decades, while RAD remains defunct.
“The problem with student groups that are not institutionally supported at the College is they’re very dependent on the people in them,” says Goldfarb. She adds: “It makes it really hard to run a sustained advocacy campaign on a campus through a student group.”
Even as activism has come and gone across Harvard’s history, one thing has stayed constant: Harvard students have sought abortions for almost 50 years — and no matter the prevailing political climate, the experience is intensely personal.
Abigail (a pseudonym) was 19 when she found out she was pregnant at Harvard, according to an anonymous account published in the April 1979 issue of Seventh Sister.
“Having an abortion at Harvard is simple and safe,” she wrote in a piece titled “Experiencing Abortion.” “It is so simple and so easy that I still haven’t been able to get over my terror and shock.”
Abigail walked into University Health Services to take a pregnancy test feeling “nervous and embarrassed,” she wrote. She had recently broken up with her boyfriend, and she came from a “loving but conservative” family.
The nurse delivered Abigail’s positive pregnancy test along with the phone numbers of social workers who could help her with her decision. But for Abigail, it was no question: “I knew exactly what I was going to do, and I was going to do it. And I felt guilty and miserable as hell.”
The procedure occurred just three days later, at the nearby Crittenton-Hastings Clinic. Abigail notes that UHS covered her costs and connected her with a guidance counselor who scheduled the procedure. It was quick and simple and “not even very painful.”
Yet the administrative ease with which Abigail obtained the procedure could not erode the intense guilt she experienced. “All my conscious instincts, all my supportive friends and counselors were trying to convince me I had done the right thing, and all my innermost prejudices were trying to tear me apart,” she wrote.
Thirty-six years later, in another anonymous account — this time published in The Crimson — Emma (a pseudonym) told a similar story of her experience receiving an abortion through Harvard. Her 2015 account, entitled “Pregnant at Harvard,” references the name of an abortion resource pamphlet she had seen in the Harvard College Women’s Center as a freshman. At the time, she had written it off at the time, joking about it with her friends. She never thought she would actually need it.
But two-and-a-half years later, as she walked out of an abortion clinic in Boston, she wondered if she should have picked up that pamphlet.
Like Abigail’s abortion, the most painful part of Emma’s wasn’t the surgery itself but its emotional aftermath. “When it was over, I screamed. I couldn’t stop screaming,” she wrote. “As I write these words, it has been over a month since the abortion — and on the inside that screaming hasn’t stopped.”
Neither woman expressed regret over her decision, but both cited a disconnect between the ease of access to abortion and its emotional toll. “You can make abortion as easy and available as you want,” wrote Abigail, “but until you erase several hundred years of vocal cultural criticism against women and sexuality, the experience will always be a damning one.”
Emma pointed to a culture of silence on Harvard’s campus as a contributing factor to her distress. Despite weeks of her vomiting nearly every day, skipping class, and wearing baggy clothes, none of her roommates, friends, or classmates noticed anything out of the ordinary. “It is frightening how hard it can be to find support at Harvard,” she wrote.
She pointed to how little institutional resources can mean if that support isn’t there. “We know there are a million campus resources, no matter what you’re going through,” she wrote. But “actively reaching out is impossible to do. You want someone to come to you.”
The process of getting an abortion through HUHS is still as simple as Emma and Abigail described. Students can go to HUHS for a preganancy test or a referral to a nearby abortion clinic, which is reimbursed by student healthcare.
Toochi A. Uradu ’22 is working to align campus culture with the institutional support Harvard has to offer. As part of a project for her Activist, Collaborative, and Engaged Interventions in Anthropology class, Uradu is working with the Women’s Center to create an updated guide to reproductive health resources at Harvard.
But, she notes, in order for those resources to be effective, they will have to become destigmatized.
“People don’t really talk about needing these resources or their experience with these resources,” she says. “There aren’t any statistics about how many Harvard students are seeking an abortion, which is weird to me, because it makes this community out to be invisible.” Uradu partially attributes Harvard’s culture of silence to its culture of perfectionism — that people don’t like to admit that things aren’t going “as they’re supposed to.” She adds: “People could be going through it alone, and we would never know.”
Harvard’s culture of silence is reflective of a broader discomfort with abortion, stemming partially from an underrecognition of how commonplace the procedure is nationwide. According to a study from the Guttmacher Institute, nearly one in four women will get an abortion before they turn 45.
“It’s multiple people in every room you’d go into,” says Goldfarb, who managed an abortion clinic after she graduated. “The disconnect between our collective understanding of what abortion access looks like and who gets abortions and the reality of what it means to get an abortion, is a huge gap that we have to close as we alert everyone how urgent the situation is.”
Goldfarb’s clinic was one of only four all-trimester abortion clinics in the country — meaning she saw the most socially, medically, and financially complicated cases. “At the clinic, you’d have a 13-year-old, followed by a 42-year-old doctor in a prestigious medical center, followed by a 27-year-old mom who’s a teacher,” Goldfarb says. “I’ve had people wear Trump hats while they’ve gotten their abortion. I’ve had people say ‘You’re murderers, and I hate you, and I’m here for my abortion.’”
There is no singular experience of abortion. For each woman who exercises her right to choose, the experience can vary in emotional and physical difficulty. Chira, for example, who got an abortion after graduating Harvard, did not struggle with the same emotions as Abigail and Emma.
“It was absolutely crystal clear. I did not feel moral guilt,” Chira says. “I felt lucky that I had access to something that allowed me to become a mother when I wanted to become a mother — when my life circumstances allowed me to give birth with joy and support.”
Fifty years ago, Chira never could have imagined that Roe would be imperiled today. “I think it would have been hard for us to believe, you know, stare decisis, that something settled could be so …” Chira says, trailing off. Stare decisis refers to the legal principle that cases should be decided based on precedent — and has operated as a key element in protecting Roe over the past few decades.
But now, Chira has accepted that Roe will likely soon be overturned. “All the tea leaves point to it,” she says.
Though activism has ebbed and flowed, the looming threat of Roe falling would not be just another tide — it would radically curb abortion access nationwide and force activists to entirely reevaluate their strategies. In a world without Roe, each state would get to decide whether it wants to grant the right to its citizens.
According to FSU professor Mary Ziegler, state-by-state laws have historically played an integral part in the “patchwork” of abortion access in the U.S. as it exists today, stratified along lines of age, religion, income, and race. Twenty-six states are certain or likely to ban abotion the moment Roe is overturned.
Many women in these states would either seek illegal abortions or seek care in other states: a New York Times analysis showed that the majority of women denied abortions by Texas’s September heartbeat bill found another way to get them — either via medication abortion or travel out of state.
Since Massachusetts is unlikely to illegalize abortion, students would still be able to get abortions through HUHS. In fact, in 2020, Massachusetts passed the ROE Act and became the first state to remove a parental consent requirement for 16-18 year olds seeking an abortion. Still, Harvard students would not be entirely immune to the aftermath of an overturned Roe, given that they only live on-campus during the academic terms, and therefore may be located in non-abortion-friendly states for much of the year.
Ziegler brings up an even more sinister possibility: that women could be prosecuted in their home state for an abortion they received in Massachusetts. “If a student is from Alabama, and they have an abortion while they're at Harvard, and then they return to Alabama, and somehow someone gets wind of it — [what would happen] if Alabama tries to prosecute them?”
Some activists believe that Roe’s being overturned would re-light a spark in liberals who have become largely complacent on the abortion issue. Another potential long-term silver lining could be a constitutional “blank slate” on which to inscribe a newly articulated abortion right.
Speaking to the ways that abortion could be constitutionally grounded, former Supreme Court Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg wrote an article in 1985 asking whether Roe would have been better decided with a rationale related to the way that abortion is a tenet of gender equality, not just privacy. Ziegler explains what equality has that privacy lacks: “it recognizes that abortion is an issue of discrimination, for trans men and non-binary folks, [as well as] racial discrimination, which is obviously central to how abortion works in the real world.”
Ziegler notes that Biden’s new Supreme Court pick, Ketanji B. Jackson ’92 — who, if confirmed, would be the first Black woman to serve on the Court — will likely not have any impact on Roe’s fate. However, she will be significant in bringing an awareness of how race intersects with abortion access to the Court’s left wing, which Ziegler says has been “stunningly absent” in case law up to this point. Explaining how the new justice could impact future doctrine, Ziegler points out that “today’s dissents are tomorrow’s majorities.”
Goldfarb emphasizes that legality, ultimately, is only one part of the equation. “Abortion is something that is only there so much as we’re able to get people to it,” she explains. She firmly believes that every individual has something tangible to contribute to expanding access, whether it’s donating to an abortion fund, manning a hotline, acting as a clinic escort, or paying for someone’s gas to get to a clinic.
As the Roe decision looms — and, along with it, the reality that scores of women will die and be harmed irreversibly if or when the case is overturned — there is still no publication like Seventh Sister, no club like RAD, and no rally in the Yard to spotlight the issue here at Harvard.
— Magazine writer Sarah W. Faber can be reached at sarah.faber@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @swfaber.
— Magazine writer Kate S. Griem can be reached at kate.griem@thecrimson.com.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Two weeks after Harvard lifted indoor mask mandates, the University is set to end its Coronavirus Workplace Policies, which will eliminate emergency paid sick leave benefits and partial compensation for some employees who were involuntarily idled by the pandemic.
On Friday, the University will reinstate the 5-12 day yearly limit for time-off to care for ill dependents, immediate family, or household members who must isolate or quarantine due to Covid-19 exposure.
All directly hired and contracted workers at Harvard involuntarily idled by the pandemic will also no longer receive up to 70 percent of their pay and benefits.
From March 2020 until January 2021, Harvard provided full compensation for all employees before modifying its emergency excused absence pay policy, reducing pay for involuntarily idled direct hires to 70 percent and ending pay and benefits for idled contract employees. Most graduate schools individually moved to extend the 70 percent pay policy to idled contract employees.
The Coronavirus Workplace Policies also included four new or expanded paid leave benefits. The first allowed workers to accumulate negative sick leave balances — employees could use up to 14 days of paid sick leave not yet earned.
The second and third benefits set to expire centered around dependent care: Harvard broadened the reasons employees could use paid time off beyond caring for dependents who are quarantined, isolated, or sick. The University also introduced up to 10 days of paid time off for workers to take care of dependents “whose schooling or care arrangements have been disrupted.”
The last benefit ending Friday comes from the Massachusetts Covid-19 Emergency Paid Sick Leave Law, which requires Harvard to provide up to one additional week of paid sick leave for Covid-19 related reasons until April 1.
In the week leading up to the policies’ expiration, University administrators have sent multiple emails reminding Harvard affiliates about the April 1 cutoff.
On Tuesday, Tiffany C. Jadotte, associate dean for Human Resources at the Faculty of Arts and Sciences, summarized the changes in an email to FAS affiliates, noting that the policies were “temporarily put into place in response to the COVID-19 emergency.”
In a follow-up email to FAS affiliates — with the subject line “A Time for Connection and Community” — FAS Dean Claudine Gay and Administration and Finance Dean Scott A. Jordan wrote that the return to normalcy will mark a transition back to pre-pandemic workplace protocols.
“While it was no surprise that taking off the mask would be a relief, what has been most surprising is the sense of joy that has come from seeing each other’s faces in person again,” they wrote.
“As we shift to our regular processes, we have an opportunity to look at our work differently, to do things in a new and more intentional way,” Gay and Jordan added.
Citing the rise of the new BA.2 subvariant of Omicron, Gay and Jordan acknowledged “that we are not out of the woods yet” but affirmed that “we are no longer in emergency mode.”
After reading Gay and Jordan’s email, some graduate students voiced concerns over the impending termination of the policies.
“Remarkable stuff,” Mo Torres, a Ph.D. candidate in Sociology, wrote on Twitter. “Covid-19 rages on and Harvard eliminates pandemic sick leave and dependent care, announcing the news with the header ‘A Time for Connection and Community.’”
Tessa Green, a Ph.D. candidate in Biophysics, said she was concerned for the staff who were losing benefits, adding that the pandemic is not over.
“What just bothers me about all of it is that they’re making these changes as if the pandemic is over,” Green said.
Harvard spokesperson Jason A. Newton did not respond to a request for comment.
Although total case numbers at Harvard have remained fairly constant in the past three weeks, undergraduate cases have declined considerately after spring break.
National covid-19 case counts have fallen significantly since their peak in mid-January.
Correction: March 31, 2022
A previous version of this article incorrectly stated Tessa Green’s field of study. Green is Ph.D. candidate in Biophysics.
—Staff writer Cara J. Chang can be reached at cara.chang@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @CaraChang20.
—Sophia Scott can be reached at sophia.scott@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @ScottSophia_.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Princeton University professor Eddie S. Glaude Jr. discussed the dynamics of race and racism in the United States during a virtual event hosted jointly by the Institute of Politics and the Ash Center's Institutional Antiracism and Accountability Project on Wednesday.
The forum, titled “Reckoning with the Soul of a Nation,” was moderated by journalist Amber Payne, the co-editor in chief of the Emancipator, a racial equity project produced by Boston University and the Boston Globe.
Glaude called on President Joe Biden to do more to address racism and racial inequality in the United States. He said he met with Biden at the beginning of his term and told him he had the opportunity to “be a transformative president with regards to race.”
Glaude said the Biden administration has failed to push legislation seeking to address racial equity through Congress. He discussed several pieces of legislation that have stalled on Capitol Hill, including the John Lewis Voting Rights Act, the Build Back Better Act, and the George Floyd Justice in Policing Act.
“I’m not so sure what the administration’s agenda is with regard to these matters,” he said.
During an interview prior to the event, Glaude said policymakers must take deliberate steps to address systemic racial inequality.
“We have to admit that racial inequality isn’t just an accident, that it is the result of deliberate policy on the part of the United States,” he said. “We’re going to have to be just as deliberate in our efforts to dismantle it as we were in our efforts to create it.”
Glaude called on young people to reject the “framework of scarcity” and “the idea that there’s only so much pie to go around” when pushing for policy solutions to inequality.
“Part, I think, of the way in which we reach young people has everything to do with policy,” he said.
Payne, the forum’s moderator, encouraged attendees to pursue various forms of activism.
“I hope that for those in the audience and those listening, you find your way in — you find your activism,” she said. “I think it's just taking that personal look at what you can do.”
At the start of the forum, Glaude spoke about the history of systemic racial injustice in the United States, including in the country’s founding.
“There’s this idea of America as the shining city on the hill, as this example of democracy achieved,” he said. “And that particular ideological imagining runs up against our practice.”
“If we’re going to grow up as a nation, we have to confront that fantasy — we have to confront that lie,” he said, referencing writer and activist James Baldwin's observations of racial inequality in his essay, “The White Problem.”
Glaude said backlash to racial justice efforts, including restrictive voting laws that have been passed around the country, has been a form of “betrayal.”
“The republic stands on the brink, once again,” he said in an interview. “We need to be diligent if we’re going to survive this current storm.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard Law School tapped Stephen L. Ball, a senior vice president at Wells Fargo, as its new dean of students last month. Ball is the first Black male to hold the title at HLS.
Ball, who also served as an adjunct professor at Pace University and a contributing writer for Black Enterprise Magazine, is responsible for promoting the well-being of the nearly 2,000 students attending HLS. He took office March 7 and oversees student support and programming, preparation for the Bar application process, and major campus events such as orientation and commencement.
He succeeds former Dean of Students Marcia L. Sells, who stepped down from the post in February 2021.
Ball said his mother, who worked as a legal secretary, inspired him to enter the law profession. He credits his mother with helping him learn how to write and communicate well.
“I think a lot of times when you're growing up, people cite an argumentative streak as indicative of future strengths and abilities in terms of becoming an attorney,” Ball said. “I remember her citing that a little bit early on, especially in my adolescent years. So she kind of planted the seed.”
After graduating from Harvard Law School in 2010, Ball worked across the private sector. During his time at Wells Fargo, he developed a cross-enterprise, integrated strategy to support historically Black colleges and universities and Hispanic-serving institutions, which he said prepared him for his new role at HLS.
“This notion of empathetic leadership, and being able to disagree respectfully without personalizing things — all those things, to me, model leadership,” Ball said. “The HBCUs do a great job of building that within their students.”
Ball said the Law School can look to the resources HBCUs provide their students and incorporate similar strategies on HLS’ campus.
“We don't have any firm plans around this yet, but I know that HBCUs, for example, many of them offer a campus closet to their students to use for interviewing for jobs,” Ball said. “Maybe there are elements of that approach that so many of the HBCUs have and have done well. Maybe there are elements that we could replicate here on a smaller scale.”
Reflecting on his hopes for his tenure, Ball said that he would like to enhance the “user experience” at HLS and increase the amount of support and number of events offered by the Dean of Students Office.
He also said he is eager to start “rebranding the Dean of Students Office as more than a destination for disciplinary matters.”
“When you also have personal challenges, and you need help — maybe you need to take a personal leave, maybe there are any number of other things — where you're looking for guidance and support as a student, that’s when we show up," he said.
For Ball, Harvard’s mission has always been intertwined with public service, his own long-time personal passion. On his admissions letter for law school, Ball received a personal note about his commitment to public service throughout his youth, which he wrote about in his application.
“I really appreciated just the diversity of career paths that Harvard affords,” Ball said.
“My career has meandered a bit, in a good way,” he said. “For the last, I would say, few legs of the journey I have had, they’ve been very much aligned with that public service ethic that I started with.”

–Staff Writer Anne M. Brandes can be reached at anne.brandes@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter at @annebrandes1
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard’s Colombian Student Association gathered to share in traditional food and good company last week for the first time since the club’s reestablishment.
COLSA co-presidents Manuel A. “Manny” Yepes ’24 and Anthony Morales ’24 were motivated to revive the organization in response to a lack of Colombian student engagement on campus in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic.
“When we asked around, we couldn’t really find any information on it,” Yepes, a Crimson Editorial editor, said. “So we reached out to Tomás [Guerrero-Jaramillo], who was a previous president, and he basically told us why it kind of fell apart and gave us all the resources we needed to bring it back up again.”
With the group’s revival on campus this semester, previous board members like Manuela Arroyave Monsalve ’22 watched the College’s next generation of Colombian students take the reins.
“It felt a little bit like passing the baton,” Arroyave Monsalve said. “We played a role in kind of guiding them towards reestablishing.”
Other COLSA members echoed the sentiments of Yepes and Morales.
Elisa M. Gonzalez ’23 said she wanted to connect with other Colombian students at the College.
“As someone who is Colombian, I obviously wanted to get to know other Colombians on campus,” Gonzalez said.
Arroyave Monsalve said she did not have the opportunity to engage with other Colombians in high school and hoped Harvard would be different.
“It's something that I didn't get to have in high school — there weren't any other Colombians in my high school — so that was something that I definitely wanted to have here,” she said.
The group can feel like a home on campus for Colombian students, Gonzalez said.
“Whether it be speaking in Spanish, getting to try some foods that feel like home, it's always just kind of great to have something that's very comforting to your soul and your spirit,” Gonzalez said.
Morales said last week’s inaugural meeting reenergized members about the group’s future.
“We had around 10 to 15 people there, and just seeing that many Colombians in one spot was very nice,” Morales said.
Gonzalez and Morales said they look forward to holding more programming at Harvard and beyond.
“In Cali, there's usually a big salsa festival, so obviously, we're not going to fly to Cali to go to that, but recreate a smaller version with food and drinks and kind of the same celebratory nature,” Gonzalez said.
“We want to become very much involved in the Colombian community here at Harvard, but also in the greater Boston area,” Morales said. “We also want to maintain ties with our homeland, and just preserve that tradition.”
Looking to the future, the group hopes to expand its membership.
“We just want members who are devoted and dedicated to give Harvard a little taste of what Colombia is like,” Morales said.
—Staff writer Ella L. Jones can be reached at ella.jones@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @ejones8100.
—Staff writer Monique I. Vobecky can be reached at monique.vobecky@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @moniquevobecky.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Former Australian Prime Minister Kevin M. Rudd discussed the possibility of military conflict between the United States and China with ex-Harvard Kennedy School Dean Graham T. Allison Jr. ’62 at a JFK Jr. Forum event Wednesday evening.
Rudd served two stints as prime minister of Australia, leading the country from 2007 to 2010 and then again in 2013 for less than three months. He has studied U.S.-China relations as a senior fellow at HKS since 2014.
Rudd launched the forum with an explanation of his new book, "The Avoidable War," in which he argues U.S.-China competition will result in two potential outcomes — one involving potential military conflict and the other much more diplomatic.
“One is, do you have unmanaged strategic competition? That is no rules of the road, no guardrails, no nothing,” Rudd said. “Just fasten your seat belt — if there is one — and hope that the bus doesn’t careen off the side of the cliff.”
“Or can the two governments, and their senior representatives between them, agree on de minima rules of the road?” he asked. “Basic guardrails which reduce — not eliminate — the prospects of crisis escalation, conflict, and war for the decade ahead.”
Rudd advocated for letting the world choose among the competing ideologies of China and the U.S.
“In the court of global public opinion, may the best system win,” he said.
However, Rudd said the competition should be done peacefully.
“If we’re going to compete on this question, let’s do it in a non-lethal way — or shall I say a not terminally-lethal way — without blowing each other’s brains out on the way through,” Rudd said.
“I don’t think that’s good for business,” he added.
In response to an audience question about Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, Rudd said he thinks China “will neither help nor hinder” the United States’ goal of ending the war in Ukraine because China’s relationship with Russia is “too great.”
“It’s not just because Putin and Xi Jinping like drinking vodka together — I think,” Rudd said. “It’s because [of] a deep national interest calculus in China.”
Allison said Xi Jinping believes China benefits from having the United States distracted by the war in Ukraine.
“The more Ukraine and Russia can suck the oxygen out of the policy discussion in Washington, the less attention it has for China,” Allison said. “And Xi Jinping calls that victory.”
In an interview after the event, Rudd said China’s alignment with Russia, despite the war in Ukraine, is already impacting EU-China relations ahead of the April 1 EU-China summit.
The EU is expecting China to “use its leverage with Moscow” to help end the war, according to Rudd.
“If China declines from doing that, then you’re likely to see a lasting impairment of Brussels’ and, I think, Berlin’s view of Beijing,” Rudd said.
At the forum, Rudd said the United States will continue to enjoy the support of its allies as long as it leads them in “a rational way forward,” but warned that might change depending on who wins the 2024 presidential election.
“If we have a return of Trump or a Trump-like figure running the United States, sending out all sorts of de facto isolationist messages to the alliance structures around the world, all bets are off,” Rudd said.
“I think this is really up to you, Uncle Sam,” he added.
—Staff writer Miles J. Herszenhorn can be reached at miles.herszenhorn@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @MHerszenhorn.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
With the future of Harvard’s Undergraduate Council on the line, some opponents of a controversial referendum question that will determine the body’s fate made a high-stakes gamble: they told their supporters not to vote.
It may have just backfired.
Voting is set to close at noon on Thursday for a referendum asking students whether to replace the UC with a new student government. Seeking to suppress voter turnout below the required 40 percent threshold, opponents of the new student government initially encouraged students to boycott the referendum.
But with less than 24 hours left to vote, some have now reversed course.
UC President Michael Y. Cheng ’22 ran on a pledge to “abolish” and restructure the body he now leads. Earlier this month, Cheng unveiled a draft for a new student government called the “Harvard Undergraduate Association,” which is now on the ballot in the school-wide referendum.
Under the current UC constitution, a referendum requires two-fifths of students turn out to vote — with two-thirds voting in favor — to be binding. The rule is the product of a controversial constitutional amendment passed just days after Cheng was elected that upped the required number of “yes” votes from a simple majority to two-thirds and added a minimum turnout threshold.
Following the passage of the amendment, Cheng deemed the proposal an effort to “undermine the election results,” calling the new standard “an impossible threshold.”
Before voting on Cheng’s signature campaign promise went live on Monday, an anonymous Instagram account, @harvardknowyourvote, began calling on students to boycott the referendum to prevent it from reaching the necessary two-fifths turnout threshold.
In a since-deleted post, the account argued that boycotting would be more effective than voting “No.”
“Voting ‘No’ on the HUA referendum could help it pass,” it read. “Don’t let it.”
From the start, the audacious move came with a high risk: If proponents of the new constitution turn out enough students to surpass the threshold, the votes could be concentrated in favor of the HUA, with would-be “No” voters abstaining.
According to an email to the student body from the UC’s election commission on Wednesday morning, the referendum was 770 votes shy of reaching the 2,766-voter threshold.
On Wednesday afternoon, Cheng claimed in an email to the student body the referendum was just 368 votes shy of meeting the threshold. But according to UC Elections Chair Camryn D. Jones ’22, Cheng does not have access to voter turnout information, nor does any other UC member.
Cheng declined to elaborate on the source of his tally.
“I'm happy to talk about it after voting closes,” he wrote in a text message Wednesday night.
Regardless, Cheng’s data appeared to spook his opponents, who were backpedaling by early Thursday morning.
In an Instagram post just after 1 a.m. on Thursday, the anonymous anti-HUA account called on students to vote “no,” writing that it was the “best option.”
Separately, on Wednesday evening, one of the HUA’s highest-profile opponents, former UC President Noah A. Harris ’22, called for students to vote “no” on the question — not skip the vote.
“If you planned on boycotting the vote, I urge you to instead vote ‘No,’” he wrote in an email to undergraduates just after 11:30 p.m. on Wednesday.
The shrinking margin had Crimson Yard Representative Ethan C. Kelly ’25, an advocate of the boycott tactic, rethinking his approach.
“I'm honestly not sure about standing by the position. That’s something that I have been pondering tonight,” Kelly said around 8:30 p.m. Wednesday.
The results of the referendum, which also includes a question about Harvard's Covid-19 policies, are expected to be released Thursday evening.
—Staff writer J. Sellers Hill can be reached at sellers.hill@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Days after the Harvard men’s ice hockey team was eliminated from the NCAA tournament by Minnesota State, one of the team’s captains made the decision to forgo his senior season in Cambridge and turn professional.
The Toronto Maple Leafs announced on Saturday that they signed junior forward and captain Nick Abruzzese to a two-year, entry-level contract for the 2021-2022 and 2022-2023 seasons. The average annual value of the deal is $850,000, and Abruzzese has already joined the team with the expectation that he will make his NHL debut soon.
“Nick's getting a chance to utilize his talents and his hard work and dedication to live out his dream,” head coach Ted Donato ’91 observed. “It's exciting for us as coaches, it's exciting for his fellow teammates, and we certainly are really wishing him the very best.”
Abruzzese, a native of Slate Hill, N.Y., began his career in the North Jersey Avalanche youth program before joining the Chicago Steel of the United States Hockey League (USHL), the highest level of junior hockey in the U.S. With the Steel, he recorded 116 points (42 goals, 74 points) in 118 games over two seasons, eventually being named an alternate captain. Despite being two years older than the 2019 NHL draft class, Abruzzese was selected in the fourth round, 124th overall, by the Maple Leafs in the 2019 NHL Entry Draft.
Abruzzese quickly rewarded the Maple Leafs’ selection with an outstanding first season at Harvard in 2019-2020, notching 44 points (14 goals, 30 assists) in 31 games. After the season, he was named the ECAC Hockey Rookie of the Year while earning spots on the All-ECAC Hockey First Team and the ECAC All-Rookie Team.
Upon the Crimson’s return to play in 2021-2022, Abruzzese was named a team captain, and he continued his outstanding collegiate career with a strong junior season, tallying 33 points (9 goals, 24 assists) en route to being named Ivy League Player of the Year and earning another berth on the All-ECAC Hockey First Team.
“At Harvard the captains are elected by their peers, the other players on the team. I think it speaks to how others on the team felt about Nick as a leader and his character,” Donato reflected. “We are very appreciative of the level of leadership and character that Nick brought every day into the program…having two classes of kids that haven't played at the collegiate level. For us I thought, Nick, along with [co-captain senior forward] Casey Dornach did an incredible job, unifying the group and I thought Nick's leadership was essential to the team's success. Both on the ice and off the ice and for that he deserves a lot of credit.”
Midway through his junior season, Abruzzese, along with teammate Sean Farrell, was named to Team USA at the 2022 Winter Olympics in Beijing, China. The NHL refused to allow its players to play in the tournament, leaving USA Hockey to select a team primarily composed of collegiate players and professionals playing in overseas leagues. Abruzzese recorded a goal and three assists in four games as Team USA was knocked out by Slovakia in the elimination round.
Abruzzese’s decision to play professionally results in forgoing his final season for the Crimson.
“Nick and I and the other coaches we sat down,” Donato explained his involvement in the decision making process. “I think for me I just want to lend perspective… from my experience as a former NHL player, as a coach that's had, maybe 17 guys now that have had the chance to play in the National Hockey League…and then also even as a parent now going through it with my son Ryan - so really just to lend perspective. Maybe to debunk things that maybe seem important, but aren't as important or at least be able to clarify some things that are being sold or told to him, but Nick's a really thoughtful young man. I think he was really excited about the opportunity to live out his dream to play in the National Hockey League.”
In the NHL, Abruzzese is expected to fill a bottom-six role for the Maple Leafs, helping them add some offense to the bottom half of an otherwise loaded roster that features the league’s leading goal scorer in center Auston Matthews, elite wingers in Mitchell Marner and William Nylander, and former No. 1 overall pick and team captain John Tavares. The Leafs also feature two former Harvard hockey players, forwards Colin Blackwell ’16 and Alexander Kerfoot ’17. Matthew Knies, a teammate of Abruzzese from the Olympics who plays for the University of Minnesota, may also sign with the team after the conclusion of the Golden Gophers’ season.
The Maple Leafs, members of the NHL’s Atlantic Division, are in a tight race for playoff positioning with the Florida Panthers, Tampa Bay Lightning, and Boston Bruins, and once the playoffs begin, the pressure is certain to rise. Toronto, one of the NHL’s “Original Six” franchises, has not won a Stanley Cup championship since 1967 (the longest drought in the NHL), and the team has not won a playoff series since 2004.
There has been speculation coming out of the Toronto press that Abruzzese will make his debut for the Leafs this Saturday against the Philadelphia Flyers in Philadelphia at 7pm.
–Staff writer Bridget T. Sands can be reached at bridget.sands@thecrimson.com.
–Staff writer Aaron B. Shuchman can be reached at aaron.shuchman@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections

Describe the Quad in one phrase? While residents might say that it’s fun, tight-knit, and a real community, outsiders might claim that the Quad is “so far away.”
The Quadlings’ retort? “Mather is just as far.”
However, we here at Flyby stand by facts and logic. We don't just blindly agree to statements: we put them to the test. So I did the only thing I could: I made trips to the Quad and Mather just to walk all the way back to the Yard from them. And my findings may surprise you.
Part I: The Walk from Mather to the Yard
Disclaimer: I lived in Dunster during the fall of my freshman year so I am a little bit too familiar with the walk from Mather to the Yard. I have a lot of experience walking this route, which may contribute to my ability to walk it easily. The average non-Quadling (or at least River West person) is also more familiar with this area of campus than with the Quad, which may also contribute to my ease of walking from here to the Yard. I got to Mather House at 8:01 p.m. on a Monday night.
The familiar walk from Mather to the Yard was relatively painless thanks to the little path that cuts through the street next to Leverett Towers, to my familiarity of the area, to my luck catching streetlights and to the lack of people around at 8 p.m. on a Monday. The walk was quick and enjoyable — especially because I was only walking to the closest gate in the Yard (which happens to be the one right by Lamont). It was not long enough for me to get sweaty from walking!
I walked from ~just~ inside the Mather Gate to the threshold of the aforementioned Yard Gate in 4 minutes and 41 seconds. I will grant this walk an estimated one-minute margin of error due to the potential of being caught at streetlights. 
Part II: Walking from the Quad to the Yard
I am much less familiar with the Quad. From my brief investigation on Google Maps, the fastest way from the Quad to the Yard is walking along Garden Street, across the Commons, and along Cambridge Street by Littauer and the Science Center Plaza until you get to the Yard gate closest to the overpass by Holworthy.
I got to the Quad (well, the SOCH) at 5:34 p.m. on a Tuesday. Already, I noticed a few things that would likely hinder my walk. First, there were a lot more people walking to and from the Quad at this time, making the streets busier. Secondly, there were a lot more cars, meaning I would spend more time waiting for them to pass. Contrary to popular belief, if a random car strikes you, you won’t get tuition money, so while I kept my eyes peeled for Harvard Shuttles, I avoided regular cars.
The other issue is that the Quad and the Yard are separated by a few major intersections and the overpass, meaning that there are a lot more traffic lights on this route. I spent precious minutes just waiting for the cars to drive by to finish my trip.
I managed to walk from the midway point of the SOCH steps to the closest gate in the Yard in 7 minutes and 32 seconds. This walk merited a two-minute margin of error to account for people coming from different houses and light fluctuations.
Part III: Conclusions and Future Direction
Overall, the walk from the Quad to the Yard’s minimum time, accounting for margin of error, is 5 minutes and 32 seconds, which overlaps with the walk from Mather House to the Yard’s maximum time, which, adjusting for the margin of error, can be up to 5 minutes and 41 seconds. However, due to the multitude of factors that could impede the walk from the Quad to the Yard, I will make the conclusion that the Quad is in fact further from the Yard than Mather House. However, if you’re just trying to go to the Science Center, then we have a clear winner: the Quad.
You might notice that my times are a bit fast. You might say, “Matylda! It took me 20 minutes to walk from Mather to the Yard!” I promise that I have better things to do with my life than lie about the time I took walking between random parts of campus. I am simply a #certified fast walker — and from New York City. However, here are some tips for walking quickly from a New Yorker if you are in a hurry, want to appear unapproachable, and/or simply like having more free time:
1. Put down your heel first when you are walking. This of course assumes you are not wearing heels. I have no tips for walking quickly in heels, but if someone does, please send them to me <3.
2. Swing your arms a little. Not obnoxiously, but enough to counteract your footwork and keep your pace comfortable.
3. Safety permitting, take liberty with the streets. Instead of walking straight across the crosswalk, cross it at an angle. This is a real life application of the Pythagorean Theorem for those of us who don’t know math: your walking distance will be shorter!
Regardless, now that spring is rapidly approaching (please let this be true), I encourage you to enjoy your walk regardless of how long it is, and slow down a bit. Save the speedy walking tips for when you’re really in a rush or when you just missed a shuttle in the winter whether it be the Quad or Mather shuttle. We love both <3.
