News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
A typical Patrick Kelly fashion show turns the runway into a nightclub. Models dance down the runway in tight dresses — small, simple pieces made grand by the addition of whimsical adornments. My first exposure to the designer was in 2017, at an exhibit titled “Derrick Adams: Patrick Kelly, The Journey” at the Harlem Studio Museum. On the walls were collages of flat pattern pieces and bright cardstock that blended into forms which were analogous to Kelly’s finished pieces. Last year, during a visit to the In America collection at the Metropolitan Museum of Art’s Costume institute, I saw what is perhaps his most famous work—a fitted black dress from his Fall/Winter 1986-1987 collection. This uniquely striking piece is mid-thigh length with long sleeves and a heart-shaped corset made of hundreds of multicolored, candy-like buttons. The heart is so outstandingly vibrant that it almost makes the black dress fade into the background, leaving the viewer to stare at the heart alone.
Hearts were a common motif in Kelly’s work, as they reflected his commitment to love and joy. At his shows, he distributed “Love Lists,” which included a diverse array of items he loved, including lycra dresses, pretty things, fun, all women (fat, skinny, and in between), families (especially grandmothers and mothers), and you! Through his embrace of radical joy, he was able to make a political statement via fashion. In the 1980s, community care was an essential part of combatting the AIDS crisis, and Kelly certainly showed that he cared.
Kelly’s love for buttons came from a childhood memory of his grandmother. Whenever he lost a button on his shirt, his grandmother would replace it with one that didn’t quite match. To avoid drawing attention to the mismatched button, she then added other colored buttons to the shirt. Kelly wholeheartedly embraced this button aesthetic and incorporated it into his designs. In a 1986 interview, he explained the substantial influence that his upbringing had on his approach to design. “I design differently because I am Patrick Kelly, and Patrick Kelly is black, is from Mississippi.” After looking through a fashion magazine and realizing there were no Black models, he decided that he would make clothes for Black women, so they could be in the pages of Vogue.
Kelly approached the celebration of Blackness in a variety of ways in his designs. He employed Black models, expressed love for the Black community, and also referenced elements of Black history in his work as a means of celebrating and reclaiming a fraught past. His logo is a golliwog, a racist caricature inspired by a minstrel doll, which originated as a 19th century children’s book character. One black dress uses buttons to create adorable outlines of golliwog faces. The black fabric acts as the skin of the golliwog, allowing the wearer to physically reappropriate the caricature. When a Black person wears the golliwog dress, they instantly contest its racist origins by showing that living, breathing Blackness is far from the stereotypes the golliwog represents.
An image from Kelly’s Fall/Winter 1989 collection features a Black model wearing a long-sleeved, fitted, black minidress studded with huge silver crystals in the shape of an Eiffel Tower. This dress, to me, reflects the totality of Kelly’s Parisian journey. The crystals in the dress are like disco balls, perhaps a reference to the origin of Kelly’s Parisian career within the club scene. In 1979, when Kelly moved to Paris, he began designing for the nightclub Le Palace, which served diverse clientele of all races and sexual orientations. This culture heavily inspired the staging of Kelly’s lively, diverse runway shows. The model also wears an Eiffel Tower hat and earrings, in a campy overstatement that mirrors the incredible impact that Paris has on the fashion industry as a whole and on Kelly himself. In 1988, after having released 10 womenswear collections under his Parisian label, he became the first American and the first Black person to be inducted into the Chambre Syndicale du Prêt-à-Porter des Couturiers et des Créateurs de Mode, the governing body of the ready-to-wear industry.
I love Patrick Kelly not only because of his glamorous, innovative pieces, but also because of his devotion to celebrating Black joy in all of his work. The liveliness of his runway shows is a welcome contrast to the stiffness of many approaches to high fashion. The color black is essential to Kelly’s collections; its darkness allows it to serve as a canvas that highlights the unique brightness of his garments. The effortless simplicity of a little black dress makes it the perfect canvas to be adorned with elements that reflect the identity of the wearer–shiny buttons, fluffy bows, huge dice, plastic lips, or picture frames. The Kelly approach is reflected in shows like Harvard’s Eleganza, which features dancing and allows participants to explore joy while expressing their own personal style. Patrick Kelly is famously quoted as saying “I want my clothes to make you smile.” For me, he has certainly succeeded.
Onyx E. Ewa ‘24 is an Art, Film, and Visual Studies concentrator in Winthrop House. Their column “All Black Everything” appears on alternate Thursdays.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
A new year, a new professor’s abuses exposed. In my freshman year, we were collectively horrified by the news of Government professor Jorge I. Dominguez’s sexual offenses. My sophomore year, our horror turned to Economics professor Roland G. Fryer, Jr. And now, in my senior year, we’re talking about Anthropology professor John L. Comaroff.
Amid ongoing abuses, students have taken these professors’ classes and been assigned their readings. From these recent cases alone, it is abundantly clear that when it comes to faculty who have committed sexual offenses, Harvard’s hiring and disciplinary practices have forced students to face unfair, harmful, and frustrating choices.
Do we submit ourselves to inherently power-imbalanced relationships with those who have a history of emotionally or physically abusing people that look like us? Should we enter a class where we might expect to be discriminated against? Which of our professors are currently harming students and are just a Crimson article away from being exposed? Whom should we avoid being alone with in office hours? What do we lose when we are forced to give up a powerful connection or a prestigious letter of recommendation? Do our identities preclude us from the possibility of meaningful relationships with some professors altogether?
As students, we shouldn’t be forced to decide between our academic and career aspirations and our safety. Even if a professor never harms us directly, it is psychologically traumatizing to face — let alone be immediately subordinate to — someone who has a history of objectifying, sexually assaulting, or discriminating against people like us.
Perhaps equally as insidious as a handful of discriminatory and abusive professors is the apparent widespread tolerance of perpetrators, both new and old, at the College. The 38 faculty members who signed a letter disputing Comaroff’s forced unpaid leave effectively discredited the women brave enough to speak up.
These 38 professors claimed to be concerned about the effects of the Comaroff decision on their “ability to advise [their] own students.” This would be hilariously ironic if it wasn’t such a disturbing betrayal. If these professors were so worried about being good mentors and advisors, they wouldn’t undermine students who have been victimized.
To those professors: I, too, am worried about your ability to advise your own students.
The open letter disputing Comaroff’s unpaid leave praises his great influence while expressing “dismay” at his punishment. This argument on Comaroff’s behalf aligns with the University’s priorities all too well. Harvard’s slap-on-the-wrist responses to abuses of power demonstrate that for the University, ethics often take a backseat to ‘brilliance’ and intellectual progress.
Harvard knew about Comaroff’s abusive habits before they hired him, according to the lawsuit recently filed by three graduate students in the Anthropology department. In 2010, Harvard rehired renowned economic expert Lawrence H. Summers as a professor even though he had resigned from his position as University President in 2006 following an uproar over his sexist comments, in which he suggested that women are naturally worse at STEM subjects than men.
Harvard allowed Fryer, a rising star in the field of economics, to return to teach undergraduates despite the fact that he sexually harassed subordinates. Harvard virtually ignored years of disturbing abuse at the hands of Dominguez until, after he had already retired from his position in the Government department, they belatedly stripped him of “emeritus status.”
And these are merely cases that have made it into The Crimson in recent times. Just as we carefully require rules of ethics in scientific discovery, we must not let the intellectual feats of “star” faculty overshadow our ethical obligations to student safety. As summarized in the graduate student lawsuit, Harvard’s current system is “designed to protect the University, its reputation, and the faculty who sustain that reputation at the expense of its students.” Harvard must not tolerate or dismiss discrimination and harm, and while I believe that people can change, the risks and injustices of quickly forgiving and forgetting faculty abuses are high. And frankly, students shouldn’t be the guinea pigs for historically harmful professors’ character growth.
I appreciate the faculty response letter — signed by nearly twice as many faculty as the first — which condemns the open letter supporting Comaroff. I am warily grateful for the many retractions from the signers of that original open letter. I’ve been touched and heartened by the tenacious work of my co-organizers in Our Harvard Can Do Better and HGSU’s Feminist Working Group as we’ve mobilized for change at Harvard. I hope that together, we can root out Harvard’s poisonously permissive practices that have repeatedly placed students at risk.
Ultimately, we, as a Harvard community — administrators, tenured faculty, undergraduates, deans, graduate students, house administrators, all of us — must not prioritize intelligence over ethics, reputation over truth, personal job security over believing survivors, or our ambitions over our own dignity and safety.
Annabelle J.L. Finlayson ’22, a Crimson Editorial editor, is an Applied Mathematics concentrator in Adams House and a member of Our Harvard Can Do Better.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard is getting sued.
More than a year after The Crimson published a detailed account of sexual misconduct allegations against John L. Comaroff, Professor of Anthropology and African and African-American Studies, our university is facing legal consequences for its alleged negligence. Last week, three graduate students filed a lawsuit against Harvard, accusing the University of turning a blind eye on the accusations for years. The plaintiffs — Margaret G. Czerwienski, Lilia M. Kilburn, and Amulya Mandava — are charging the University with mishandling numerous Title IX complaints related to his alleged physical and verbal sexual harassment.
The allegations at the center of the lawsuit are stunning, as is the amount of raw, disturbing detail within. The complaint, filed in a Boston Federal Court, features the word “forcibly” eight times, with “grope,” “kiss,” and their conjugated forms breaking double digits. “Threat” and its derivates appear on almost 50 different occasions.
It is not, by any means, a pretty read.
If part of the appeal of Harvard is its exceptional student experience, the lawsuit suggests that experience does not extend to alleged victims.
For survivors, it suggests that our institution doesn’t guarantee basic safety or try to fight for or alongside you when you are harmed under its watch. It’s another powerful reminder of how, too often, we prove too willing to set everything — career paths, ambitions, entire lives — on fire to shelter renowned figures; renowned white men, in particular.
Yet among all the disturbing allegations, amid the descriptions of harassment-themed brunches and retaliatory blacklisting, one detail stands out. High-level Harvard affiliates — including a Title IX Coordinator, a department chair, and the Faculty of Arts and Sciences’ Dean for Faculty Affairs and Planning — allegedly encouraged the complainants to talk to the press, not University investigators, if they wanted to see results. In the words of the lawsuit, faculty and administration members alike consistently relayed the same twisted message: “Only a public article” would give Harvard “cover to take action” against Comaroff.
That paradigm is beyond shameful. For one, it forces complainants going through scarring events to publicly reopen their wounds for the press, exposing them to public scrutiny. More egregiously, it subcontracts a crucial university duty to nearby newsrooms — including The Crimson, as noted in the lawsuit.
We closely follow, and certainly respect, the invaluable work done by our peers on the news side of the aisle. They have proved, over the years, their personal tenacity and professional commitment to collegiate journalism. But they are still — we are still — collegiate journalists: full-time, sleep-deprived undergraduates with overdue assignments and limited experience. Our reporters are not professional sexual harassment investigators or mediators. We are not, and we cannot be, a replacement for Title IX or other institutional complaint processes.
And yet, according to one of Harvard’s own Title IX Coordinators, that’s exactly what we’ve become.
The affiliates’ insulting, arguably well-meaning advice proved accurate. Within months of The Crimson’s story on Comaroff, the University placed him on paid administrative leave. Earlier this year, after decades of allegations, Comaroff finally paid a definitive, if temporary, professional price for the accusations levied against him. Talking to the press worked where institutional recourse had repeatedly failed.
That truth should haunt reporters and students alike. The advice given to Comaroff’s accusers underscores the extent to which the University, or at least the people who embody its power, know that complainants will face massive cultural and institutional barriers to being heard. If the lawsuit’s allegations prove true, the University’s reporting system would be exposed as borderline farcical — a courtroom where the judge, in an embarrassing sidebar, encourages plaintiffs to take justice into their own hands or accept defeat.
The rot — the permissiveness, the knowing inability to help — runs deep. Tweaking current guidelines and broken systems won’t fix that. Letting the fox guard the henhouse won’t work. We need, we demand, radical change.
Third-party arbitration for discrimination and sexual harassment complaints offers us the best shot at achieving it. Graduate students, particularly members of the Harvard Graduate Students Union-United Automobile Workers, have championed the measure for years. It is no coincidence that all of the complainants have publicly boosted the union in the aftermath of the complaint.
Graduate students and their union know what Harvard faculty and administrators seemingly don’t: that those who regulate adequate behavior can’t have incentives to look the other way. Even if we ignored the lawsuit and its allegations (we shouldn’t), the public, aggressive faculty response to the incident alone shows the tendency of like to protect like in a dangerous, harmful way. Comaroff reminds us that asking a powerful institution to police itself, particularly when its reputation is at stake, is absurd. Only independent arbitration can change that.
Students experiencing sexual assault face daunting barriers to getting justice. According to the lawsuit, Harvard’s sexual harassment guidelines are failing them, repeatedly, and to some degree knowingly, exacerbating mistrust in the effectiveness of Title IX and institutional resorts and ensuring that more choose, out of a lack of better options, to remain silent. For that, for those who found no justice through official channels that know themselves to be dysfunctional, we are furious. You — faculty, students, and graduate instructors alike — should be, too.
We unambiguously stand with survivors; we support, and will support, their struggle for justice in any way we can. But we cannot be Harvard’s only real sexual harassment recourse; independent, non-Harvard arbitration must fill that void.
This staff editorial solely represents the majority view of The Crimson Editorial Board. It is the product of discussions at regular Editorial Board meetings. In order to ensure the impartiality of our journalism, Crimson editors who choose to opine and vote at these meetings are not involved in the reporting of articles on similar topics.
Have a suggestion, question, or concern for The Crimson Editorial Board? Click here.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Watching Humphrey Bogart and Ingrid Bergman on screen is like watching two relics of American cultural life, rather than just two actors. They are both not only beautiful but also magnetic — a combination that makes “Casablanca” one of the greatest examples of classical Hollywood film, right up there with “Citizen Kane” and “Gone With the Wind.”
Every Valentine’s Day for the past 20 years, couples would make their way to the Brattle Street Theater hand-in-hand, maybe a little wine-drunk — or just drunk on love — to experience this classic in the historic Cambridge movie theater. It’s Brattle’s thing — they’ve been screening the film annually since the 1960s and on Valentine’s Day since the 2000s. But this year, due to a special Turner Classic Movie and Warner Bros. 80th anniversary screening of the film, Brattle couldn’t screen it for the special holiday. The Turner screening took place on January 23 and 26, and distributors have restricted the film’s access for the next month. So instead, Brattle screened “The Princess Bride.”
In the ’60s, Brattle would do a marathon screening of Bogart films during reading week, and Harvard students loved it. Friends would come in costume, pop champagne corks at iconic scenes, and recite lines in unison as if they were singing along to an old favorite song. It was a sensation.
“It was like ‘Rocky Horror Picture Show’ before ‘Rocky Horror Picture Show’ existed,” says Ned R. Hinkle, the creative director at Brattle, who’s been with the theater since 1997.
But people also love “Casablanca” because it represents a time in Hollywood when film was magical, and film stars were more than just the faces on tabloids. They were icons. The cast is acclaimed — besides Bogart and Bergman, some of the supporting actors like Claude Rains and Peter Lorre have had long-spanning careers. The film coalesced from a play script that was never produced. On set, the Epstein brothers edited lines on the fly.
“The director, Michael Curtiz, was really adept to all kinds of genres,” Hinkle adds.
For many viewers, “Casablanca”’s strong romantic thread is the main appeal — but it’s also a film about war, politics, and public responsibility versus personal desire. It is rare today to find a film that seriously addresses those themes without making them a glazed-over backdrop to a sappy love story. “Casablanca” does both. To top it off, the guy doesn’t get the girl, and no one rides off into the sunset on white horses.
“It defies your expectation of what romance can be,” says Hinkle.
In “The Princess Bride,” on the other hand, Westley and Princess Buttercup actually do ride off into the sunset at the end. Based on William Goldman’s novel of the same name, this film was released over 40 years after “Casablanca.” It actually flopped when it first hit the box offices in ’87, but became an enduring cult classic soon after for its over-the-top characters and quotable lines.
***
Opera music plays as couples take their seats in Brattle Theater at 9:30 p.m. on Valentine’s Day. The screen — which is actually on a stage — rolls through classic film posters reminding viewers to shut off their phones, what to do in a medical emergency, etc. This place is a relic just like the films it shows, and as I sit down, I know I am about to watch a performance.
And of course, love is in the air. Never have I watched “The Princess Bride” in the company of so many who love the film as much as I do. No one was shy about quoting Vizzini’s “inconceivable!”, and there were claps after Inigo Montoya’s first “Hello, my name is Inigo Montoya.”
“The Princess Bride” is a love story that satirizes all of the absurd obstacles that get in the way of happiness. Rodents of unusual size, half-giants, Swiss geniuses, six-fingered swordsmen, pirates. But there are also more worldly and less fantastical elements to the film: vengeance, the hope of a miracle, heartbreak. In this way, “The Princess Bride,” too, transcends genre. What “Princess Bride” does that “Casablanca” does not, though, is remind us that sometimes love can work out, even when, at every turn, there is something in the way — while poking fun at the insurmountable difficulties of it all.
“Valentine’s Day is still a special day for people, and people want to go out and do something,” says Hinkle. “Going to the movies right now presents an option that is safe and fun, where we can come together and sit in a room with strangers and experience something as an audience. It’s something a lot of us have been missing over the past two years.”
Viewers didn’t seem to mind all that much that “Casablanca” wasn’t on the table for this year’s Valentine’s Day. Whether it’s Bogart and Bergman or Buttercup and Westley, viewers at the Brattle will be guaranteed a film that salutes the triumph of love in its own unique way. Some may prefer the more serious political relevance of a WWII film, while others revel in the refreshing wit of “The Princess Bride.” But it really doesn’t matter, because on Valentine’s Day, both films remind us that love is hard, but it is possible.
— Magazine writer Isabel T. Mehta can be reached at isabel.mehta@thecrimson.com.
Sections
For Lowell A. Brower, teaching is all about using folklore to explore pressing issues in the world. In his newest course, FolkMyth 150: Internet Folklore, Online Communities, and Digital Storytelling, he focuses on the role of folklore in the internet and social media.
Between the excitement of Brower’s TikTok format syllabus — only one of many posts on his TikTok account — and the attractiveness of “netsets” that replace traditional problem sets, FolkMyth 150 has seen a massive influx of interest.
When it was first offered last fall, the class was intended to be capped at 15 students but ended up with 50. This semester, the enrollment limit was supposed to be 30 — but the final class size nears 100 students.
So why do students love the class so much?
Much of the course’s appeal lies in Brower’s willingness to acknowledge social media platforms like TikTok, Reddit, and 4chan — typically not accepted as worthy of academic study — as “deeply consequential.”
“I take it seriously because I actually think it’s deeply serious,” Brower says. “I think if we take [social media platforms] seriously and pay attention to them, they become kind of equally — if not more — important than the official discourses that filter from the top down.”
The course aims to explore “the powers, potentials, and peculiarities of online storytelling in relationship to community-building, political engagement, social change, and everyday negotiations of individual and group identity,” its syllabus says. To this end, assignments feature three-minute flash presentations from all members of the class, and course readings include an Atlantic article about the cottagecore trend and a book titled “Memes in Digital Culture.”
For Sravya S. Kuchibhotla ’23, the importance Brower places on these platforms is a refreshing change of pace.
“One of the reasons I really liked this class was because it wasn’t like ‘‘TikTok, this is a new phenomenon,’” she says. “Instead, it was like, ‘We’re gonna apply folklore and myth ideas to this particular medium and see what is similar, what is different, and how has it evolved.’”
“People talk about TikTok like it’s some kind of pop culture or alternative culture or whatever, but this is mainstream. This is where things happen,” she adds.
Given the relevance and popularity of social media among students, Brower hopes that this class will be an “excuse for people to think hard about what they’re already doing.”
“I think that’s something that students respond to — that the class is applicable to their everyday life,” he says. “It gives them some tools and terminologies and frameworks through which to think about their everyday online explorations that they’d be taking anyway.”
Brower also values the “experiential learning” component of the course and always aims to show students what folklore in action looks like. Sometimes, that takes the form of bringing My Little Pony figurines to a lecture on Bronies — members of the My Little Pony fandom. Other times, it simply means allowing students the freedom to explore and implement their knowledge in the real world.
“The point of coming to a place like Harvard is to figure out how to make an impact in the world and how to use your education for the good of the world,” Brower says. “If you can work up a Facebook post that can convince your problematic uncle that he might be wrong about the crazy conspiracy theory that he’s peddling, for a class assignment, I think that’s a much more powerful impact than a perfect essay analyzing and theorizing about Facebook politics.”
This pedagogical philosophy particularly resonates with students, who find the applications both fun and enriching.
Nicole T. Rozelman ’23, a FolkMyth 150 student who is pursuing a secondary in Folklore and Mythology, says that, after a year of Zoom lectures, students were “looking to really engage with a class.”
“He uses a lot of media evidence,” Rozelman says of Brower. “Instead of just talking about a concept, he’ll show us five different examples of it in video format or image format. So that’s a really great way to really solidify what we’re learning about, and also it’s really enjoyable.”
Through this course, Brower hopes that students will find a way to apply the tools of the folklore discipline to the world’s problems.
“I think the best thing that can come out of this class is that someone finds a mode of online engagement, a mode of internet communication that helps them tell the stories they want to tell, and engage and change the world in the way they want to change it,” he says.
— Magazine writer Claire Yuan can be reached at claire.yuan@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @claireyuan33.
Sections
The platform starts moving under my feet as I rise to face the screaming, bloodthirsty crowd. A man in a tacky suit that I can only hope looks better on camera emerges from the side of the stage. He crosses to meet me and my friends —nine trembling girls, on display for all to see.
“Welcome to BLOCK OR BE BLOCKED! I’m your host Lot Terry, and these are your contestants who will be vying for the ultimate prize: social acceptance.”
The onlookers go wild.
“The good news is the majority of you will go home winners, but the bad news is one of you will go home... alone!”
I flinch. I would rather get quadded than be doomed to social pariahdom, the ninth choice in this group of eight.
“Let’s jump right into our first challenge.” Our host, dressed like a bedazzled grave digger, implores, “Contestant No. 1, what’s in your fridge?”
“Umm … RedBull, ketchup, and … leftover Red’s Best Catch?” The floor instantly lights up red.
The host vigorously shakes his head. “Rookie mistake, Contestant No. 1.”
We move on.
“Contestant No. 2, it’s Friday night, what are you doing?”
“My pset.” The floor lights up again as the host winces.
“Hopefully, we’ll have better luck with Contestant No. 3.” His expression darkens as he turns toward me.
“Contestant No. 3, name the birthdays of all the other eight contestants.”
I gaze down the line, my distress visible.
“March 29, December 17, June…” I stare the fourth contestant in the face. In that instant, I know I’m doomed. “I’m so sorry. I don’t know.”
“I can’t believe you forgot! I’m right on the Gemini-Cancer cusp,” No. 4 whines in my ear.
I stare at the floor. Looking at the stage is better than looking at the people I’ve disappointed.
Frustrated, our host switches tactics, “Since you girls don’t seem to understand that you’re supposed to get the questions right, we will be moving on to the skills portion.”
Lot Terry explains to us that we will be divided into two teams with Contestants No. 4 and 5 as the captains.
“Contestant No. 4, choose your first team member.”
Something about this doesn’t sit right with me. Aren’t there an odd number of us? This isn’t going to work out. Still, I watch as Contestants No. 2, 8, and 9 file into 4’s team. Contestants No. 6 and 7 join Contestant No. 5. A heavy silence settles over the crowd as they realize what I already have — there is one spot left on Contestant No. 5’s team, and it’s between Contestant No. 1 and me.
Contestant No. 5’s eyes dart back and forth between us as she tries to make her final decision. “The last person I would like to join my team is…”
The anticipation makes me sick to my stomach. Why won’t she just spit it out already?
“Actually, neither of them. They’re both kind of annoying. Can we just disqualify both?”
I swear, my jaw hit the floor. The Securitas guards enter and escort us both to the shuttle. As we are whisked away to our exile, I think: at least Contestant No. 1’s company will be a consolation.
I look my remaining companion in the face and softly say, “You better not microwave any of that fish in our room.”
— Magazine writer Jem K. Williams can be reached at jem.williams@thecrimson.com. 
Sections
If it fits, it fits. It’s a “you just know” kind of feeling. The realization is sudden, but there’s so much thought involved right before that critical “aha!” moment. You have your options. Depending on the cards you’re dealt and how your deck was shuffled, you might feel like you’re going to have to settle for a “mehhh” option that you think maybe could work if you just learn to put up with the things that give you pause, but I’m telling you not to. To quote a Honda ad campaign, “Why settle for less?” You want it to feel seamless. You want to feel snug and warm and, of course, dexterous. Don’t force it. Remember, Josh, that with every fiber, you’ll literally feel if it’s perfect for your hands. Oh, you should maybe check the brand, and honestly in these Boston winters, you’re gonna want an extra thermal pair. Wait. Were you talking about lo— ohhhh. I thought you were looking for a GLOVE.
— Kevin Lin
You don’t realize it’s love when they serenade you with your favorite song. Or when you come home to a path of rose petals and candles leading to a romantic dinner. Love isn’t like that. It’s about the little things, the small gestures that show you really care.
Oh, and it’s also about soccer.
You know it’s love when you’re watching highlight reel after highlight reel of soccer matches on YouTube. And you know it’s really love if you ask why you’re watching said highlight reel if no one actually scored in the 90 minutes of the game and are okay with the answer that “it’s just really exciting to see them get so close.” You know it’s love when you go from knowing some guy named Messi plays for a team called Madrid to explaining to your parents why Messi had to leave Barcelona and go play for PSG due to league restrictions on players’ salaries. Love is watching him play FIFA for hours and agreeing with him when the computer program disguised as a ref makes “irrational” calls. And you know it’s really love when you finally learn to play the game just so the two of you can play doubles.
— Tess C. Kelley
Hiya, Josh. With V-day right around the corner, you’re probably wondering: how do you know when Cupid’s arrow has found its mark? Well, you’ve come to the wrong place. Seriously, why did you think a 20-year-old who’s only been in one real relationship would know anything about l’amour? I can, however, tell you what love is not.
Are you feeling weakness in the knees, loss of appetite, and general malaise? Sure, you might be pining after a crush, but you also might have scurvy. Eat an orange, just to be safe. Having heart palpitations and sweaty palms while gazing upon that cutie in your GenEd section? Don’t jump to conclusions — you might just have a hyperactive thyroid. Whatever your symptoms, a quick visit to WebMD will cure you of any silly notions about love. Might I remind you, we’re in the midst of a global pandemic? Last I heard, Cupid is self-isolating. Stay safe out there, Josh.
— Maliya V. Ellis
Josh, you know you’re in love when you feel calm and like nothing bad can happen to you. When you are in love, there is a sense that you are protected. Also sex. But really, in my experience, it is more about this overpowering feeling that everything is just right, and good, and that even if you make mistakes, the consequences will never hurt you — not really. I also think that when you are with someone you love, the part of your brain that perceives yourself as a vulnerable and flawed and judgeable body — the feeling of being at a crowded party without knowing anyone, for example — ceases to exist. You simply do things and say things because you want to, and it is easy to make decisions about what to do and say because there is no sense that you shouldn’t be yourself in your most uninfluenced form, or that you should change, or do anything different.
— Isabel T. Mehta
Love is fickle. You might think it’s love, but it’s just you ascribing cosmic weight to the fact that the day after she rejected you, you got with a girl with her same first name. You might think it’s love, but then when you take her to your favorite pasta place, she orders a salad (at the pasta place), and you know there’s no future. You might think it’s love until you find out she thinks Jews control the media. Sometimes, you might think it’s love, but then you get to her apartment and she owns rats as pets. Stay off Tinder, Josh. No good can come of it. Sometimes, you might think it’s love, but it’s just that she wrote a paper for her design class on Cher's outfits in “Clueless” and you watched that movie (your favorite movie) eight times last semester. It’s not fate. You might think it’s love until you find out she’s rude to waiters and/or baristas. Be careful, Josh. Be sincere. Be funny. Be-lieve in yourself.
— Sarah W. Faber
Sections
The year is 1981. It’s mid-June. Burgeoning summer beckons Cambridge residents from their hibernation against the spiteful New England winter. The Cambridge River Festival, an annual weeklong celebration of art and music, is in full swing, and today it culminates in a parade. Painted floats pack the streets, kids traipse down Memorial Drive, and people of all ages line the sidewalks to watch the festivities. This year, a new group brings up the rear of the parade: the Cambridge Harmonica Orchestra.
The orchestra, a historic gem of the Cambridge music scene, had its glorious debut more than 40 years ago. Well known for their vibrant yellow jackets and laid-back attitudes, this group of musicians hopped between bars and music fests, bringing the blues harp to Cambridge and beyond.
The group reached peak popularity in the mid ’80s, with a crowning performance at a club in Boston called The Tam. Forty-seven members packed the bar for a night described by the Boston Globe as “harmonica heaven.” NBC broadcasted the event.
Unfortunately, enthusiasm waned in the years to follow, and the CHO disbanded in 1986 due to the logistical challenge of booking gigs and keeping members involved.
So how did this short-lived band of roving players come about? And what is a harmonica orchestra in the first place?
The CHO was conceived in 1981 as a response to the city government’s call for new additions to the River Fest. Founder Otis Read wrote up a proposal, received a $200 grant, and had to recruit enough harpists, or harmonica players, to make it happen. “I had no idea that I would be able to pull it off,” Read says.
Drawing on his background as a working musician, he reached out to the other harmonica players he knew. The eccentric group of hippies and rock-and-rollers, pros and amateurs alike from around Massachusetts and Washington, D.C., reached about 350 members at its height. The group included musicians like James Montgomery, whose band opened for Bruce Springsteen and the Allman Brothers.
“I don’t think there was anybody that would have said no,” Montgomery says. “We [were] going to get together with 30 wacko people and have some fun.”
The Orchestra had periodic gigs with a portion of its extensive membership attending each performance. Practice sessions, mostly casual, were held in a garage space in Brookline.
“We’d have a monthly gathering of people — all sorts of people smoking weed and playing,” Read says. “It was just chaos, and it was wonderful.”
Though Read came up with the idea for the CHO, music director Pierre Beauregard was equally crucial to its function. He chose their repertoire, mostly blues and some New Orleans-style Mardi Gras tunes, and he arranged the pieces specifically for the Orchestra. CHO harpists split up lead, rhythm, and counter-lead parts and were often accompanied by bass harmonica, drums, accordion, and washtub bass.
Read says Beauregard’s musical leadership brought character to the CHO. One of his favorite moments from the group’s performances was when Beauregard would announce a breakdown during a solo, spurring a full-on polyphony.
“We’d be playing a song, and there would be a chorus, and Pierre would say, ‘Everybody take a solo,’” Read says. “The whole band would just go crazy. The drums and the bass would be pounding along.”
Wish you could have heard the Orchestra for yourself? Luckily, this eclectic part of Cambridge’s past has been immortalized on Youtube. Hear a recording of a live performance here, or check out their Christmas cover of “Joy to the World.”
— Magazine writer Mila G. Barry can be reached at mila.barry@thecrimson.com.
Sections
“Imagine if your house is burned down, blown away, or flooded … You lose the community that you used to live in … and you’ve now lost the support of the familiar setting that you were once in. Ask yourself, how would a person feel? And now you’ve got, in a nutshell, the mental health impacts of climate disruption.” This is the analogy Dr. Lise Van Susteren, psychiatrist, educator, and climate activist, offers to explain the intuitive — but in her eyes, overlooked — relationship between climate change and declines in global mental wellbeing.
Van Susteren, co-founder of the Climate Psychiatry Alliance and Climate Psychology Alliance North America and former member of the Advisory Board of the Center for Climate, Health, and the Global Environment at the Harvard School of Public Health, argues that the serious threat of worsening mental health, among other reasons, demands we take immediate action on climate change.
She has been promoting awareness of this issue on talk shows, and through a joint project targeting state legislatures. The plan is to enlist mental health professionals and faith leaders in calling attention to the emotional toll of climate disruption on children and young people, with the hopes of convincing states to form task forces to assess their own risks and resources. Within her field, Van Susteren has called for mental health practitioners to develop subspecialties in climate and mental health and helped put together a directory of climate-aware therapists. She and her colleagues have created an online resource for the public to learn more (an “EcoCyclopedia”), and hosted events for folks to discuss their anxieties around climate disruption.
In 2009, when she first broached the subject by holding a psychiatry conference in partnership with the National Wildlife Federation, she knew of no other psychologists making the same connection. Yet, she feels it came naturally. “We [psychologists] understand science, and we certainly, theoretically at least, know how to highlight the empathy that is necessary to recognize that a lot of people are being hurt,” she says. The conference, which was attended by national experts in psychology, environmental science, and policy, became the basis for her 2011 NWF report titled “The Psychological Effects of Global Warming on the United States And Why the U.S. Mental Health Care System Is Not Adequately Prepared.”
Some of Van Susteren’s skeptics have criticized her inability to quantify this predicted increase in mental illness, or even to clearly attribute it to climate disruption. More recent research, however, supports her claim — the effects of climate change are associated with symptoms of depression, posttraumatic stress, and other psychiatric disorders. And even if it’s impossible to break down one’s anxiety by percentage, as Van Susteren explains with a laugh, we can be sure of one thing: that “each anxiety amplifies the other.”
“We really don’t need fancy studies,” she adds. “All we really need is common sense.” And as the climate has become more volatile, Van Susteren has garnered more support for her ideas from the public. “We don’t have to listen to people talking about it or read about it. We’re living it,” she says.
Van Susteren feels acutely that our time is running out. “Once we get much higher than we are right now, in terms of temperature rise, it’s no longer humans who are exerting the force on planetary climate systems,” she says. “It’s the planetary climate systems that take over.” Despite this sense of foreboding, the climate-aware psychiatrist, who no longer travels freely due to the carbon emissions of flying, believes that there is still hope for people to take meaningful action. She suggests actions including reforestation and regenerative agriculture practices.
Ultimately, Van Susteren believes the potential to end climate change is in each of our hands — and must be. “We will certainly hope the federal government does what it should, but we can’t count on it,” she says. “We now have to consider local action, and that includes state and neighborhood by neighborhood.”
— Staff writer Ciana J. King can be reached at ciana.king@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @cianajoleen.
Sections
For some, food is a love language. For local artist Linda Khachadurian, it is a medium for motivating change.
Khachadurian turns edible materials — isomalt, chocolate, sugar paste, modeling chocolate, potato starch paper, edible spray paint, edible markers, edible fabric, and dried fruit sheets — into works of art. Her exhibit, located in the foyer of Cambridge Community Television’s headquarters, is arranged like an à la carte menu, complete with a “palette cleanser” entitled Sage Sorbet, a painted cone adorned with a quote from Shakespeare: “Dost thou think because thou art virtuous there shall be no more cakes and ale?”
Khachadurian does not seem to think so. She uses food, a marker of privilege often overlooked by those who have it, to create artwork that demonstrates her passion for various social causes, ranging from fair trade to increasing access to clean drinking water. At the entrance of the exhibit hangs a printed picture of Maslow’s hierarchy of needs, which portrays the span of her artistic approach — her advocacy focuses on ensuring people’s physiological needs are met, but her unconventional creative process is a form of self-actualization.
Khadachurian stumbled upon edible art after a lifetime of sculpting, painting, and fashioning with traditional materials. Her affinity for sugar later pushed her to venture into other mediums, particularly the edible kind. A self-described medical editor, Khachadurian founded Charitable Confections, a public charity that assists educational nonprofits in developing countries. She is also a sugar and chocolate artist, and hosts the show “The Charitable Confectioner” on Cambridge Community Television. Her current exhibit showcases many edible works of art meant to represent social justice issues addressed on the show.
Khadachurian believes the approachability of her medium helps draw people in. “I think that educating people about issues via a vehicle that inherently has that playfulness to it can be quite impactful,” she says.
Khachadurian has close ties to many of the issues she highlights through her art. She has directly worked on educational causes in both Armenia and Haiti through Charitable Confections. In addition, she researched safe water and water sanitation while writing an article for the Harvard Review of Latin America and while working with the non-profit Pure Water for the World. She also became involved with advocacy for homeless populations after befriending Mike O’Callaghan, a homeless rights advocate, while working on a graduate research project. As one of her pieces, she used chocolate, organic flowers, and isomalt to create a mini version of his micro living unit box which she calls the “Box of Betterment.”
The show will be on display until March 3, when there will be a closing ceremony with the gallery director, a few other “humanitarians,” and Khachadurian herself.
The boldness of Khacadurian’s work is striking; each piece seems to unabashedly demand attention and contemplation — and therefore change. Looking around the empty gallery, one wonders: Is anybody else seeing this?
— Magazine writer Dannie C. Bell can be reached at dannie.bell@thecrimson.com.
Sections
What’s up, MTV? I want to welcome you to my crib: the one and only Lamont Library.
We’ll just enter through these turnstiles right here. Sorry about the inconvenience, but security is an absolute must. Home invasion is no joke, seriously. A lot of sketchy characters in Cambridge — have you heard about that bicyclist who assaulted three grad students? Just goes to show you, no one is safe these days. That’s why Lamont is so great — now you never have to brave the perilous journey back to your dorm at 3 a.m.
So right down these stairs is the lounge — oh, sorry, could I ask you to take your shoes off? We may be college students, but we’re not total animals. You can just put them on that bottom shelf over there. Great. You can hang your scooter on the scooter rack right next to it.
So here you can kick back, watch some TV, chill with your friends — it’s fantastic. There are some daybeds here but if you want those good eight hours, I would recommend the quiet space on the top floor. You’ll get some of the best rest of your life up there, guaranteed. No mattress topper necessary.
Oh, hey! We just passed by some Lamont Lifers. Once they figured out you can call in sick and Zoom into class instead, they’ve literally never left. Love those guys.
By the way, bathrooms are right down the hall. They’re way more spacious than those dingy hall bathrooms you’re used to. We’ve also installed some hooks to hang toiletries and towels and such to really make people feel at home.
So, I know what you’re thinking: What about food? I’m getting hungry, too. In my humble opinion, the Lamont Café trumps any d-hall — no chaos, just vibes.
Trays are resting on that Thoreau collection, utensils are in those pencil cups. No, HUDS actually doesn’t know about this set-up; slowly but surely, we’ve pilfered the Annenberg utensils to the point where we have a whole set. I mean sure, maybe we took a little too much that one time and they had to start giving the freshmen paper plates, but Harvard’s got enough dough that they just replaced them after, like, a week.
We have Honey Nut Scooters, Marshmallow Mateys, all the classics. If you’re looking for healthier snacks, there’s some raw zucchini and ranch from last night’s brain break. Oh, hot food? We’re going to have to go down to the bottom level. A while ago we told a freshman that if he dug a tunnel from Annenberg to Lamont with a soup spoon, we’d get him punched by the Porcellian.
Ha, no, I don’t think he actually did it with a spoon. I think he got his friends from MIT to help him out. I think they used a tunneling machine — you know, like the one from that episode of “Phineas and Ferb”? The Drill-inator? Actually, now that I think about it, I’m pretty sure Dr. Doofenshmirtz is an MIT alum. Anyways, now we have this nifty pipe that runs straight from ‘Berg to our beloved Lamont.
Then we did some….networking….and now we have a guy from HUDS who chucks Annenberg’s leftovers into the pipe and boom! It’s pretty simple. This way, our meal times are a lot more reasonable. I still can’t believe that breakfast closes for you guys at 10:30 am. That’s practically when we Lamonsters go to sleep.
Well, thanks for visiting! Please, don’t be a stranger and come by anytime, I mean it. Our doors are open 24/7.
— Magazine writer Amber H. Levis can be reached at amber.levis@thecrimson.com.
Sections
You could trace my family’s heritage of eating disorders all the way back, like an unbroken vine. When my mother was a teenager, she kept a notebook meticulously recording every calorie she ate each day. Before her, my grandmother binged on bread and margarine after work, then told everyone that she was throwing up because of migraines. At the bottom of the tree lies my little sister, who tells me about “fear foods” like hot chocolate and pizza, who used to eat 1,300 calories a day, who hasn’t had a regular period in years. Grandmothers, mothers, daughters, starving all the way down.
Except for me.
As a teenager, I felt suffocated by the feeling that I had escaped a family curse on the slimmest technicality. Unlike my mother and sister, I never counted calories. Sure, I had my moments of dysphoric self-hatred in the bathroom mirror, and I took a perverse sense of pride in those days when I forgot to eat lunch — in other words, I was a teenage girl. But most of the time, I didn’t think about food at all. And as I grew older, stumbling through the minefield of female adolescence, I realized I had to fight to protect that precious, hard-won reprieve. When my sister eyed my plate and asked my mother how many calories I was eating, I lashed out like a cornered animal. “Keep your disease off me,” I said, terrified, as though her disorder could infect me if I let it get too close. The deadly allure of getting smaller was always lurking — at the dinner table, on TV, in photos of the female singers I idolized.
My mom did her best to shield us from this pressure, to save my sister and me from the pitfalls of her own childhood. She unfailingly pointed out examples of unrealistic, Photoshopped or bone-thin models in fashion magazines. She reassured us that fat was normal and healthy, told us that she was proud of her own “chubby” thighs.
And there was always plenty of food on the table. Believe it or not, despite — or maybe because of — her long history with scales and crash diets, cooking is my mother’s calling. When I was a kid, she started building her own food blog; over a decade later, it’s her flourishing full-time job. Even on days when she only ate a bowl of yogurt for dinner, my mom served the rest of us Korean beef, or honey-roasted brussels sprouts, or overflowing pulled pork sandwiches. As long as I didn’t have to make it myself, I could keep food at the periphery of my thoughts, at a safe and comfortable distance.
***
You’d think having a parent who cooks for a living would make me an above-average chef myself, but you would be dead wrong. Cooking was always so clearly my mom’s domain; I never felt the need to do it myself.
Until, of course, the pandemic. In the summer of 2020, I got permission to live on campus (flying back home to California felt like an unnecessary risk), alone in a DeWolfe suite meant for four people. For twenty years, I had subsisted entirely off my parents’ cooking or the convenience of an unlimited dining plan. I dropped my boxes at the entrance to my new room, walked into the empty kitchen, and realized I had no idea how to preheat an oven.
My mom could not have been more thrilled. She texted me a list of basic pantry ingredients I should buy before I did anything else, sent me an industrial kitchen’s worth of cooking utensils and supplies, and mailed me a copy of America’s Test Kitchen’s Cooking for Two.
That summer, I embarked on a new project: learn to cook; learn to function on my own. At first, I had to call my mom roughly three times per meal, whenever I encountered a problem or question: “How long do I heat the oil? Can I substitute white vinegar? Does this look done to you?”. Every effort to make dinner took me at least two hours, without fail, so I made a habit of eating half a box’s worth of pasta at 10 p.m., alone in my apartment. There had to be 50 other students in the building with me, but I hardly ever saw or heard a soul on the way up to my anonymous, hotel-esque room.
When summer melted into fall, I moved into a dark and vaguely depressing Somerville flat with two of my friends, where we would spend nine months play-acting at adulthood. As the months rolled by, I accelerated my efforts to fall in love with cooking. I splurged on a New York Times Cooking subscription and bought every ridiculous ingredient their recipes called for. I wandered the grocery store aisles aimlessly, waiting for inspiration.
I had a full-time job that I felt totally unqualified for. I hadn’t seen my family in eight months, and every time it seemed marginally safer to buy a plane ticket to California, another Covid wave snuffed out the plans. I was in a relationship with someone who made me feel microscopically small and cosmically unloved. But if I kept hauling home a bag of miscellaneous produce every week, if I kept laboring over Moroccan baked fish and spiced chickpea stew, then maybe I was growing. Maybe I was clawing back control.
In September, I couldn’t celebrate the Jewish new year with my parents. Desperate to believe in new beginnings anyway, I made my mom’s honey cake recipe. Although I tried to follow the instructions to a T, the batter consistency was all wrong; far from the moist, rich cake I remembered from childhood, mine turned out dense and dry. When it got colder, my roommates and I made weekly pilgrimages to Star Market, and I learned to make shakshuka — one of the few Israeli foods my mother ever cooked, and definitely the only one I wouldn’t screw up. A few nights a week, I biked over to my boyfriend’s house and tried to paper over our growing distance by cooking kimchi fried rice together or — in a day-long fit of true desperation — baking him a coconut cream pie. When we sat down to eat what we’d made, he would pause to imitate my chewing — mouth open, loud, obnoxious and crude, a little ritual that never failed to shrink my appetite.
Despite my best efforts, I dreaded cooking every day. I couldn’t seem to develop the right instincts; everything I made was just a little too salty, too dry, too heavy on the sauce. But I kept pushing, in part because I needed to be competent at something. A failure to feed myself would be the nail in the coffin of my gap year self-improvement dreams, definitive proof that my life was careening off the rails. Here was the ultimate test of my independence, my freedom from disorder: If my mother and sister’s vision of control was an empty stomach, mine was an unrelenting commitment to making better food.
***
In December, my parents caved and bought me a plane ticket home. For a month, I indulged in the pure luxury of sitting down twice a day for a meal cooked by someone else. Cocooned by the warmth of family meals and temporarily freed from the burden of managing my own life, I felt myself exhale for the first time since September.
When I flew back to Boston in January, the icy wind and darkness felt unusually cruel after a month in California, my loneliness sharper and more inescapable, my shortcomings overwhelming. All around me, it seemed like people were thriving despite the circumstances: bagging fancy summer jobs, learning new quarantine hobbies, reconnecting with family. Meanwhile, I was plagued by the constant sense that I was barely holding it together. Even cooking a homemade meal every night — the least I could do — began to feel impossible. Prepping ingredients took forever. I ran out of ideas for new recipes and let my groceries expire by the bagful. I ordered takeout three nights a week. No matter how hard I tried, no matter how creative I got, I couldn’t stop hating cooking.
***
In March, just as Cambridge began to thaw and those first misleadingly sunny days returned, the disaster I’d been trying to stave off for a year finally happened: my boyfriend broke up with me. When he broke the news, I was in the middle of cooking shakshuka for dinner. Every 10 minutes, the kitchen timer interrupted our parting conversation. “Tell me what I need to change about myself. I’ll do anything.” Stir in cumin and paprika. “I don’t think we can fix this.” Pour in the tomatoes; let it simmer. I’d made him banana bread the day before, one last attempt to show him my devotion by subjecting myself to baking. In the days that followed, when I couldn’t eat for the first time in my life, my roommates finished it.
For those next few agonizing weeks, I gave into the allure of starvation, of getting smaller. In a haze of what I now understand as grief, sustaining my body became a dreaded chore, an unmanageable task, an afterthought. I drank Soylent just to force down the necessary nutrients, because cooking was totally out of the question. I shrank.
But summer came anyway. I relearned how to care for myself and rediscovered my hunger, the sheer joy I could absorb from a slice of chocolate cake or a microwaved bowl of mac and cheese. I hardly cooked that summer, but when I did, I nailed it: “Sheet-Pan Chicken With Potatoes, Arugula, and Garlic Yogurt,” “Pasta with Burst Cherry Tomatoes,” things that looked good enough to proudly feature on my Instagram story. And I ate like hell.
When my relationship collapsed, so did any remaining illusion that I could tightly control my life, or that I would fall apart if I couldn’t. Perfecting my sheet-pan dinners wouldn’t save me from unpredictability, or failure, or disappointment. And when I finally stepped away from my single-minded, self-defeating cooking mission, I didn’t lose meaning or direction. If anything, I suddenly found moments of joy and pride in the kitchen that had once been buried beneath my anxiety and expectations.
I’d always thought that by becoming a talented chef during my gap year, I could produce tangible evidence of my personal development. I wanted a trophy to bring back with me to campus, proof that I hadn’t wasted my leave of absence, a sign of my newfound maturity and strength. Here’s the thing about growing, though: you usually can’t feel it happening. I never noticed, but every time I led a meeting or started a new project at my grown-up job, every time I convinced our landlord to fix a broken refrigerator or install a lock, every time I said “it hurts me when you treat me like this”— I grew an inch.
These days, I still struggle to eat in public. Halfway through a sandwich in the Smith Center, I’m suddenly paralyzed with self-consciousness, hearing the sound of my chewing like an echo in a dead-silent cave. On first dates, I prefer drinks to dinner. It’s hard to be witty and personable while you’re calculating the cleanest, least obtrusive way to eat a bowl of pasta.
But I’m still discovering my own growth, all the ways I’m different and more resilient than before. It shows up in small, surprising ways. When I attend an exercise class or go for a bike ride on my own. When I play guitar for my friends, even though I’m embarrassed. When I trust myself to do a hard job well.
In the fall, I moved back into Currier House with my blockmates after a year and a half apart. We really won the lottery with housing this year: our suite has its own fully-equipped kitchen. I haven’t cooked in it once.
— Magazine writer Tamar Sarig can be reached at tamar.sarig@thecrimson.com.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
At the Undergraduate Council’s first meeting of the year Tuesday, the body’s president, Michael Y. Cheng ’22, rejected a statement of solidarity from general members written in response to racist signs posted on his door earlier this week.
The two-hour-long meeting featured impassioned debate, an expletive-laced speech, and criticism of the meeting’s structure. Tuesday’s assembly represented a departure from the Council’s traditional meeting time on Sundays — an adjustment Cheng made to bring in a mediator, Assistant Dean of Student Engagement Kate T. Colleran.
Colleran said she was optimistic about unity she observed this week after Cheng was targeted by racist posters. On Monday morning, two flyers calling Cheng an anti-Asian slur and featuring the phrase “SAVE THE UC” were posted on his door, sparking student and faculty condemnation.
“I got a lot of emails from some of you this week after the posters went up on Michael’s door, and that is maybe the most cohesion I’ve seen from the UC in months,” Colleran said. “So, more of that.”
The message of unity was quickly undercut by an address Cheng delivered to the Council afterward, in which he rejected a statement of solidarity that was drafted by members of the body.
“I’m really rising to explain why I don’t support the statement of solidarity with me,” Cheng said in a 10-minute speech. “I think we need to have some tougher conversations first before I would support that statement.”
In the drafted statement, which was addressed to “the Harvard College Community” and obtained by The Crimson, UC members condemned the racist attack against Cheng, calling it “unacceptable” and “disgusting.” The statement offered support to Cheng, saying: “We are here for you. We stand with you. We support you in whatever you need.”
But on Wednesday, Cheng called the move hypocritical.
“This kind of hypocrisy should not be tolerated, which is why I’m still very disappointed,” he said. “We’re now supposed to take seriously that the Undergraduate Council is offended by anti-Asian racism, with many of its members engaged in a multi-month harassment campaign that was influenced by anti-Asian stereotypes.”
Some UC members reacted to Cheng’s statement with incredulity, while a few cheered in support.
Cheng reiterated his belief that the racist posters were put up by a UC member.
“The person or people that are responsible for yesterday’s hateful attack, as well as the multiple kinds of other attacks targeting me, are potentially in this room right now,” he said.
The Council then moved on to consider a proposal for a student referendum to declare election day a University holiday and day of civic action. Sponsors of the bill cited similar initiatives at peer institutions, including Brown and Columbia. The bill passed, 31-2, with the referendum vote set to be held shortly after spring recess.
The Council also tabled a bill calling for the UC to send an email backing the creation of a new student government constitution — a central tenet of Cheng’s campaign to overhaul the body’s existing structure.
Discourse on the bill derailed into criticism of the meeting’s logistics, with some members lambasting Cheng’s refusal to allow participants to vote via Zoom.
“I just want to comment on the absolute lack of decorum and respect for others that changing the meeting to a weekday and having an adult facilitator was supposed to change,” said John S. Cooke ’25, a Maple Yard representative.
The meeting was further disrupted by repeated requests for Eliot House Representative Ryan P. McCarthy ’24 and Quincy House Representative Patrick I. Adolphus ’22 to wear their face masks.
—Staff writer J. Sellers Hill can be reached at sellers.hill@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
At the John F. Kennedy Jr. Forum in the Kennedy School, China took center stage.
Former Kennedy School Dean Graham T. Allison Jr. ’62 led a hybrid panel discussion Wednesday about China’s emergence as an economic superpower with former University President Lawrence H. Summers, Tufts professor Kelly Sims Gallagher, and London School of Economics professor Keyu Jin ’04.
Allison started the discussion by talking about China’s success in creating a highly efficient transportation system.
“China has shown that it can build transportation infrastructure in a way that’s shameful for Americans,” Allison said, showing a photo of a high-speed train he said can quickly transport riders from downtown Beijing to the Olympic Stadium.
“Compare that with the T ride home tonight,” Allison added. “If you look at the high-speed rail, we have none, and they have 23,000 miles of high-speed rail.”
Gallagher said “China is winning the race” when it comes to creating jobs in the green energy sector.
“In 2020, China generated 4.7 million new renewable energy jobs,” Gallagher said. “Whereas, the United States generated 838,000, only seven percent of the global total. In fact, the US comes in fourth in creation of new renewable energy jobs, behind China, Brazil, and India, in that order.”
Jin praised the Chinese government's response to online criticisms from its citizens.
“The fact that you can criticize the government openly on public websites is all an indication that there is just much more responsiveness on the ground from the Chinese government toward its citizens than we imagine elsewhere,” Jin said.
The panelists later debated whether the international prestige of a degree from an American university will help the United States counter China’s economic rise.
“I think we are sitting at one of America’s great assets,” Summers said. “It doesn’t mean that others couldn’t succeed in fostering the kind of academic, and university, and higher education culture that we have in the United States, but I think we need to recognize it for the staggering advantage that it is.”
“Young people, like Professor Jin when she was much younger, come to study in American schools and in American colleges because they and their families appreciate how extraordinary an opportunity it is,” he added.
“Chinese students who have Harvard degrees, Princeton degrees, or have worked at Google and Facebook, are returning to China,” Jin countered. “About 80 percent of them have returned years after their graduation. This was not the case at all 20 years ago.”
“The American dream is now found in China,” she added.
In a pre-panel interview, Allison explained China’s economic power will dominate U.S. political discussions for years to come.
“The overriding international challenge for the United States in 2017, and in 2027, and in 2037, and as far beyond that as anybody can see, will be the rise of China and its impact on the United States, and the international order of which the U.S. has been the principal architect and guardian,” he said.
—Staff writer Miles J. Herszenhorn can be reached at miles.herszenhorn@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @MHerszenhorn.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
More than 170 Black Harvard alumni submitted a letter to the White House calling for Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson ’92 to be nominated to the United States Supreme Court.
Alumni from both the College and Law School backed the letter, which was sent to the White House on Friday. The letter has continued to garner support, collecting more than 260 signatures in a span of three days, according to organizer Nina C. Simmons ’92.
“We are Black alumni of Harvard University, and we write to urge you to nominate Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson to be the next Associate Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States,” it reads.
The alumni stressed that they came together not simply as a monolithic group of Black alumni, but as Harvard graduates representing vastly different professions and backgrounds united in their support for Jackson.
“We represent a broad cross-section of America,” the letter reads. “We are civic and corporate leaders, scientists, artists, entrepreneurs, public school teachers, professors, doctors, lawyers, and stay-at-home parents, among others.”
Jackson currently sits on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. circuit and served as a federal trial court judge for eight years. She has also sat on Harvard’s Board of Overseers — the University’s second-highest governing body — since 2016.
After Justice Stephen G. Breyer announced his retirement in January, Jackson soon emerged as one of the favorites to succeed him.
During an interview with NBC News that aired before the Super Bowl on Sunday, President Joe Biden said he is currently considering four candidates for the position.
“I’m looking for someone to replace Judge Breyer with the same kind of capacity Judge Breyer had — with an open mind, who understands the Constitution, interprets it in a way that is consistent with the mainstream interpretation of the Constitution,” Biden said.
Simmons said her time spent as Jackson’s roommate at the College revealed Jackson as not only a strong student, but also a friend and mentor she looked up to.
“She’s always been a powerful voice, as a Black woman at Harvard College and then on to Harvard Law School,” Simmons said. “She was never afraid to express her opinions or to argue about what she thought was right and just, so she has a very high standard of integrity.”
Janine M. Gilbert ’93 worked alongside Simmons on the team of alumni behind the letter. She said the group initially brainstormed ways they could support a nomination of Jackson before deciding to write a letter due to the quick turnaround.
“The final letter we did in a few days,” Gilbert said.
Gilbert added that her experience as an attorney, litigator, and clerk for a federal judge provided her with unique insight into Jackson’s qualifications for the role.
“I have a strong sense of what it takes and what is needed to be a good judge, and she is someone who is excellent at it,” she said.
Should Jackson receive the nomination, Simmons said the team of alumni would continue lobbying to help her secure confirmation.
“We’re trying to, again, leverage the larger Harvard community and population. That’s the next step,” she said. “If she does get nominated, then there’s a whole set of different tasks we’re going to try to figure out and do, whether it be reaching out to representatives or senators of the Judiciary Committee.”
Gilbert also reiterated her support for Jackson, pointing to both her intellect and moral judgment.
“Ketanji’s brilliant. Absolutely brilliant,” Gilbert said. “She’s one of the most ethical people I know.”
—Staff writer Ella L. Jones can be reached at ella.jones@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @ejones8100.
—Staff writer Monique I. Vobecky can be reached at monique.vobecky@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @moniquevobecky.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Massachusetts “Payment in Lieu of Taxes” Action Group hosted a virtual statewide forum Tuesday to discuss the group’s commitment to calling on tax-exempt institutions to invest in city development.
PILOT — a coalition of labor unions, advocacy groups, and individuals across Massachusetts — advocates for wealthy nonprofit institutions to invest in localities. Tuesday’s forum, which was live-streamed over Facebook, was intended to educate the public on the coalition’s goals.
The event featured guest speakers like Trinity College professor Davarian L. Baldwin, who wrote “In the Shadow of the Ivory Tower: How Universities Are Plundering Our Cities,” and Boston City Councilor Elizabeth A. “Liz” Breadon, who represents the Allston-Brighton district, which includes real estate owned by three universities.
The greater Boston area is home to a high concentration of some of America’s wealthiest universities such as Harvard. As nonprofits, the institutions are not required to pay property taxes under Massachusetts law.
According to PILOT’s website, 70 percent of Boston’s revenue derives from property taxes, while 49 percent of the city’s land is occupied by government and nonprofit institutions that pay no property tax.
Baldwin said this dearth of property taxes makes cities reliant on donations at the discretion of these institutions.
“This is almost a feudal relationship where residents have to look out or gain access to resources at the philanthropic behest of these power brokers,” he said.
In January 2020, the Boston City Council filed a PILOT ordinance that strengthened existing recommendations for contributions from tax-exempt institutions. The existing measure, spearheaded in 2010, suggests that institutions with over $15 million in holdings contribute 25 percent of their assessed value to the city.
PILOT has also introduced legislation at the state level — H. 3080, S. 1874, and H.3803 — that would enable towns to establish additional programs to generate revenue from tax-exempt institutions.
“These institutions need to pay their fair share to our neighborhood of Allston-Brighton and to our city as a whole,” Breadon said.
Harvard participates in the PILOT program, but the University has not paid its full recommended sum for the past nine years. Last year, the program requested that Harvard pay $13 million for its landholdings in Boston, $6.5 million of which should be paid in cash. Last year, the University contributed $3.7 million, a little over half the request.
One of the leaders of PILOT, Enid Eckstein, condemned the lack of contributions by institutions.
“This is not good policy — local governments need reliable and predictable resources to plan, to have good schools, to have good libraries, roads, et cetera” she said.
Eckstein called on state legislators to standardize how these nonprofits contribute funds.
“Our legislation is an attempt to create a standard framework for PILOT and then give towns the opportunity to opt in and use that as the standard,” she said in an interview after the forum.
—Staff writer Yusuf S. Mian can be reached at yusuf.mian@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @yusuf_mian2.
—Staff writer Charlotte P. Ritz-Jack can be reached at charlotte.ritz-jack@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @Charritzjack.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Harvard men’s wrestling team faced tough competition in an Ivy League and EIWA dual meet at Columbia’s Levien Gymnasium on Friday, with a crushing defeat to the hosts. Despite the challenges the team faced, there were a few positive notes for the Crimson to take away from the competition.
Against Columbia, sophomore standout Philip Conigliaro maintained his undefeated record in dual competition in the 165-pound weight class. He won his match, 5-3, over the Lions’ Joshua Ogunsanya, who’s ranked No.19 in the weight class. Conigliaro started the match with a takedown, taking a 2-1 lead towards the end of the first period. Midway through the second period, he scored an escape and a takedown to pull ahead, 5-2, through two, emerging victorious despite allowing an escape in the final frame. With his win, Conigliaro improved his total record to 14-4 for this season, adding to his team-leading point total. Ultimately, his efforts were in vain, as Harvard fell to Columbia, 27-3.
Competing in its fourth consecutive Ivy league match, the Crimson (1-5,1-5 EIWA, 0-4 Ivy) was competitive in seven of its nine losses against the Lions (3-8, 3-5 EIWA, 1-3 Ivy) in addition to Conigliaro’s win.
The Crimson showed resilience as it redeemed itself with a road win over Hofstra the next afternoon. The Crimson won six of its seven final dual matchups, including a total of four bonus points wins, ultimately squeaking past Hofstra 24-19 in an EIWA dual matchup at the Davis S. Mack Physical Education Center.
Although losing the meet’s first three matchups, the Crimson (2-5, 2-5 EIWA) rebounded with five consecutive wins as the visitors claimed six of the final seven bouts against the Pride (2-11, 1-5 EIWA), which included a fall, three major decisions, and two decisions.
The Crimson’s victory was made possible by several individual standouts, including senior Lukus Stricker, who is ranked No.12 in the 149-pound weight class. The Rootstown, Oh. native recorded his third fall of the season with a first-period pin against Mike Leandrou. Stricker improved his season record to 14-9, including 5-2 in dual competitions. He posted his eighth career fall and his third pin of the dual season. Junior Michael Jaffe gained the Crimson’s first bonus point win of the day with a 15-5 major decision at 141 pounds. Jaffe took a 6-3 lead at the end of the first period with two takedowns and a reversal. Junior Trevor Tarsi then posted a 12-3 major decision victory over Joe McGinty at 157 pounds. Tarsi tallied a pair of takedowns in the first period to earn a 4-2 lead, which he maintained over the next two periods, notching two more takedowns and a riding time point in the final frame. Sophomore Joshua Kim, ranked No. 24 at 174 pounds,-earned a major decision victory over Ericson Velasquez. Juniors Beau Bayless and Dillion Murphy each posted shutouts.
Harvard will shift its focus onto its next set of matches. One will be an away dual against Brown, and the other will be a home game versus Binghamton. The Crimson will be looking to add more wins onto its record as the season reaches its conclusion.
-Staff writer Ekene Chukwueke can be reached at ekene.chukwueke@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Following their performances at the Crimson Elite and Scarlet & White Invitational, the Harvard Track and Field program set program records in the men's 200m, 4x400m relay, and the 5000m, with near records in the women’s 4x400m relay, pole vault, and the mile.
The team split in two this past weekend, competing in both Clemson’s Tiger Paw Invitational and Boston University’s Valentine Invitational. The Tiger Paw Invitational, with a field of 30 teams, included No. 1 Texas, No. 2 North Carolina A&T, and No. 4 Georgia, some of the best programs in the country. The Crimson squad was the only Ivy League representative at the invitational. Nearby at Terrier’s home turf, a Harvard contingent competed against a number of teams, including athletes from Yale, Princeton, Brown and Boston College.
Leading the day for the Harvard men down in South Carolina, sophomore sprinter Lance Ward finished 27th in a heat of 80 runners in the 200m. The Missouri native’s blistering time of 21.28 was fast enough to set the Crimson record in the event, breaking a time set by former Olympian Chris Lambert ’03. Continuing his strong performance, Ward, junior Aaron Shirley, sophomore standout Greg Lapit, and freshman Oliver Murcko broke their own Harvard record set earlier this year in the 4x400m relay with a time of 3:09.36. This finish was good enough for sixth in the event out of 15 teams, with each runner finishing their legs in sub-48 seconds, a notable achievement for the four-man team.
“For highly competitive meets, it’s easy to get caught up in the brand names of schools from the SEC, ACC, Big 12, etc. but the most important thing for us is to remember that we also are a brand name school,” noted junior co-captain and hurdler Aaron Shirley. “It’s important that we approach those meets with the mindset that if anyone in the country knows hard work, it’s D1 Harvard Track and Field athletes. We work hard to race on these big stages and it’s exciting when we see our hard work play off.”
For the women, the Crimson found success in the relay again, with the four-woman team of first-years Egbe Ndip-Agbor, Izzy Goudros, and Victoria Bossong, and junior star Tina Martin completed the 4x400m in 3:38.66, the fourth-fastest time in program history. Amongst strong competition, that finish earned eighth place for Harvard in a field of 22 teams. Finally, in the field events, junior Alana Caroll, fresh off her record-setting performance in the pole vault last weekend, came up just short of her own record with a height of 4.04m. This effort placed tenth in the invitational.
“I love being at Clemson because of the level of competition,” commented senior co-captain and sprinter Jada Jones. “It’s super exciting and inspiring to see as talented athletes as my peers and it has pushed me to do better. I’m always working on staying grounded and focusing on my race but I’m so thankful for the chance to run at places like Clemson.“
Up north in Boston, the Crimson experienced similar success. For the women, distance runners Anna Juul and Maia Ramsden finished in 17th and 18th place in the women’s mile with times of 4:36.66 and 4:36.88 respectively in a heat of over 200 runners. With their efforts, the senior cross country captain and freshman standout posted the fourth and fifth best Harvard performances of all time in the event.
In the men’s events, Harvard continued to stand out in the mile with first-year Ben Rosa finishing in 42nd with a time of 4:04.64 in a field of over 250 runners. In the 800m, junior Will Crisp finished 23rd with a time of 1:51.17. This performance marked the 9th best finish all time in the event for the Crimson. With the top 4x400m team in Clemson breaking the Harvard record down at Clemson, the understudy four-man team of first-years Jonathon Gamarra, Peter Fischer, Steffan Jones, and junior co-captain Max Serrano-Wu had their own record-breaking aspirations. With their 5th-place finish of 3:14.29, the pace was good enough for the seventh-fastest finish all time for Harvard, showing the team’s depth in the event.
Finally, in the 5000m, the distance runners showed off their strength and dominated the event, building on their historic cross country season in the fall. Sophomore Acer Iverson wrote himself into the Crimson history books with a time of 13:32.31, good enough for 30th in the event. Iverson broke the record previously held by multiple-record holder Maksim Korolev ’14 by ten seconds while also setting an Ivy League record in the process. Senior Matthew Pereira and senior cross-country co-captain David Melville put up the third and fifth best times in Harvard history in the event respectively, with first-year Ben Hartvigsen putting up the seventh best time in Crimson history.
Following this pair of invitationals, the Harvard program has two weeks off to prepare for the indoor Ivy League Championships on Feb. 26th and 27th in New York. Shirley stressed the importance of execution going into the meet in two weeks:
“I'd say success for the team looks like perfect execution. Going into championships it’s not about your place, your points, or your competitors, but it’s about how well you are able to execute in your event. We’ve been training for months to get to where we are and the Ivy League Championships is our time to get out there and execute what we know we are capable of doing. If everyone goes into the meet with a goal to execute and rise to their talent and potential, it will be a very successful meet.” 
—Staff writer William Connaughton can be reached at william.connaughton@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Sophomore standout Rémi Drolet is representing Harvard well at the Beijing Olympics. The Nordic skier has competed in three events for his native Canada, finishing 33rd in the men’s 15km classic, 57th in the men’s skiathlon, and helping Canada to an 11th place finish in the men’s 4x10km relay.
Drolet’s Olympics have been a great learning experience for him. Although some of his results were not what he was hoping for, he is excited to compete in the upcoming 50km race on Feb. 19. Drolet also hopes to better his results in the 2026 Winter Games in Cortina d’Ampezzo, Italy.
“Yeah, that’d be the goal,” said Drolet about representing Canada in 2026. “In cross country skiing, … the peak age is pretty late. Even late 20s, into early 30s, is when skiers are at their best, so if I really want to go for, I guess, really good performances [and]...be really competitive, I’d have to go for one or two more Olympics.”
Drolet is only the third skier to represent the Crimson at the Olympics,the first since 1984, and the first Canadian. Hailing from Rossland, B.C., Drolet made an immediate impact for the Crimson, being named the Eastern Intercollegiate Ski Association’s Nordic Rookie of the Year in 2019-20, as well as being placed on the United States Collegiate Ski and Snowboard Association’s All-Academic Team. In addition to his accolades, he also became the first Harvard male Nordic skier to win a race since the 1972-73 season with his victory in the 20km at the Bates Carnival.
Drolet’s interest in skiing started at a young age. Growing up in a resort town, he was consistently exposed to winter sports. Although he cross-country skied a bit with his parents when he was younger, his main competitive sport was hockey. But around the age of 11, Drolet decided to focus on cross-country.
“[I] wasn’t really enjoying [hockey] anymore…and I was kind of looking for a new sport,” he said. “I did some cross-country skiing lessons with my elementary school, and the instructor from that recommended I join the ski team. So I tried it and I really, really loved it.”
He was able to find success quickly on the youth circuit. Before Harvard, he was a three-time gold medal winner at the Canada Winter Games and a top-10 finisher at the 2019 FIS Junior World Ski Championships.
A Physics concentrator, Drolet chose Harvard primarily for the academic challenge. Out of high school, he focused on only schools in the United States, aiming to find something else to do once his skiing career was over.
“I knew I wanted to go to school, because just having a ski career with nothing else on the side is hard for some people and once you’re done with your skiing career you need to do something with your life,” Drolet said. “I wanted to go to a school where I knew I could be challenged and I was excited about. I visited a couple schools and my favorite one was Harvard.”
Although he originally matriculated as a member of the Class of 2023, Drolet said the decision to take the 2021-22 school year off was an easy one. While the Covid-19 pandemic did not play much of a factor in his decision, qualification for the Olympics would have been difficult to balance along with a demanding training schedule and a full course load of classes. Skiers were able to qualify for the Canadian team from the World Cup circuit, which Drolet was unable to go to. As a result, the Canadian Olympic Committee’s quota for men’s skiing, three, was filled up. However, due to reallocation, the process by which some unused Olympic spots for skiers are “reallocated” to other countries who will use them for additional athletes, Drolet was able to compete to earn the final spot on the Canadian team.
Drolet has good memories of his first-year fall in 2019. Although he found it difficult to juggle skiing and his course load, after his first semester, he was able to better manage his time.
“I really enjoyed it and made lots of friends that I'm really happy about,” Drolet said. ”The skiing team at Harvard is really great. It’s a really supportive environment that really helped me to succeed in every way possible.”
Drolet hopes that, because of slightly increased rest and recovery as compared to the fall, he will be able to recover from the intense training and make one last push for Canada in these Olympics. Devoted Harvard skiing fans can watch him go for gold in his final event, the men’s 50km, this Saturday, February 19th at 1 a.m.
-Staff writer Maddie B. Barkate can be reached at madison.barkate@thecrimson.com.
-Staff writer Mimi S. Koenig can be reached at miriam.koenig@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Asking someone out is daunting. Real life is not like the movies, and I’m wimpy and don’t like “putting myself out there.” However, I overcame my mental block and committed to asking someone out, only to realize that figuring out who to ask would be, in fact, the more daunting task.
Boy did I go to extreme lengths to find someone. I asked all my friends if they knew anyone smart, cute, funny, kind, cool, and *not a section kid type* (I hate that I had to specify that, but I did). Apparently this was a tall order. And, everyone that did fit my criteria was already in a relationship or maybe possibly had something sort of going on that I “totally would not want to interfere with.”
The most demoralizing part: one of my said prospects reported back that he flat out did not want to go out with me. Then, I hurled myself into the giant snow pile in front of Annenberg.
After having no luck and restarting therapy, I determined there was only one logical solution — I should transfer. Realizing that I was being a tad too dramatic, I settled for the next best option: to ask out my friend who was helping me find people to ask out.
So, I staged a romantic Valentine’s date proposal. I brought a half-eaten chocolate box and CVS flowers to Cabot, where my friend was pset-ing. When I asked him if he would go out with me for Valentine’s Day, he seemed really confused and hesitated with his answer. Of course, I then had to answer ‘yes’ for him, seeing as we had generated quite the crowd, and I would hate to have to hurl myself into a snow pile twice.
I also decided to invite my best friend on our “date,” since she didn’t have enthralling V-day plans like me (tough). What did our date consist of? The three of us got dressed up, pregammed, and headed to iHop (temporarily called iHob *please tell me someone remembers that fiasco*) for dinner. The waiter seemed confused by the throuple-ness of our situation, but that didn’t stop us from enjoying the blueberry pancakes.
While asking someone out did not go at all as planned and required much more mental energy than expected, I couldn’t have asked for a better and more exhilarating Valentine’s Day <3. 10/10 would recommend.
