News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
After taking a surprise hiatus in 2013 and commemorating their 12-year run with the farewell anthem “Fake Your Death” a year later, iconic pop-punk band My Chemical Romance came back to life just as abruptly. On May 12, days before embarking on an international reunion tour, they released “The Foundations of Decay,” their first single since “Fake Your Death.” At once a eulogy for the past and an oath for the future, the six-minute rock epic resurrects MCR’s legacy as emo legends.
The resolute piano intro bears an uncanny resemblance to that of the MCR single “Sleep,” as if to reassure listeners of the band’s emergence from a temporary, not eternal, rest. The song’s opening lines reveal that its protagonist, though, has yet to wake up. “See the man who stands upon the hill / He dreams of all the battles won,” frontman Gerard Way sings.
His breathy vocals drift along on a languid current of electric guitar, but no dream lasts forever. At the end of the pre-chorus, Way brings the narrative crashing back down to earth with a visceral scream over thunderous drums: “Let the flesh / Submit itself to gravity!”
Despite the futility of fighting against time, Way rejects total surrender in the chorus’ rallying cry. “Let our bodies lay while our hearts will stay,” he pleads to preserve the feelings whose raw intensity has always been the lifeblood of MCR’s music.
“He was there, the day the towers fell,” the second verse begins, referencing the band’s formation in the immediate aftermath of 9/11. “Starting Mychem was a direct result of everything we experienced and witnessed during those horrific events,” the band had written in a social media statement commemorating the tragedy’s 20th anniversary. “The world changed that day, and the next day we set about trying to change the world.”
MCR’s rise to global fame generated relentless public scrutiny that threatened to “press / And press ‘til you can’t take it anymore,” as Way expresses in the next pre-chorus. “When things start to succeed and go really well, that’s when a lot of people start to have an opinion and that’s when you run into struggle,” he said in a 2019 interview with the Guardian.
A forceful guitar solo brings the final chorus to a sudden stop, snarling in dissonant half steps. “You look stressed out!” Way unleashes the first of several shouts that punctuate the ensuing instrumental break.
In the bridge and outro, the band takes one last stand in defiance of stagnation by modifying the chorus’ melody to include higher notes than ever before. Way urges listeners to embrace change — “You must fix your heart / And you must build an altar where it rests” — even while conceding that “it comforts me much more / To lay in the foundations of decay.”
But comfort comes second to progress, and Way knows as much. He ends the song by jolting himself awake: “Get up, coward!” With MCR back on their feet at long last, “The Foundations of Decay” lays solid groundwork for a spectacular revival.
— Staff writer Clara V. Nguyen can be reached at clara.nguyen@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern called on graduates in Harvard’s Class of 2022 to pursue “genuine debate and dialogue” in order to protect democracy in an address at the University’s 371st Commencement on Thursday, taking aim at the role big technology has played in political discourse.
Ardern, who has served as prime minister of New Zealand since 2017, told graduates to “treat difference with empathy and kindness — those values that exist in the space between difference and division.”
“We are the richer for our difference, and poorer for our division,” Ardern said. “Through genuine debate and dialogue, through rebuilding trust in information and one another, through empathy — let us reclaim the space in between.”
Ardern warned against the role disinformation plays in democracy on Thursday, saying “the time has come for social media companies and other online providers to recognize their power and to act on it.”
But even in the age of big tech, Ardern said individuals, too, must play an important part in fostering healthy democratic debate.
“The issues we navigate as a society will only intensify. The disinformation will only increase. The pull into the comfort of our tribes will be magnified,” she said. “But we have it within us to ensure that this doesn’t mean we fracture.”
Thursday marked Harvard’s first in-person Commencement ceremony since 2019. University President Lawrence S. Bacow conferred 7,280 degrees, including 1,278 to the Harvard College Class of 2022.
Ardern became the 17th sitting world leader to address Harvard graduates at Commencement.
During her speech, Ardern called on graduates to work to protect democracy, which she said “can be fragile.” In New Zealand, she said, policymakers have passed an array of laws seeking to address climate change, ban military-style assault rifles, and decriminalize abortion, drawing raucous applause in Tercentenary Theatre. But, she warned, “deep rifts” are opening up in democracies across the globe.
The solution, she said, is for individuals to hold firm to their beliefs — “but without the vitriol, hate, and violence.”
Ardern took aim at social media giants, which she said play a role in disseminating disinformation and radicalizing some users. She pointed to deadly 2019 terrorist attacks at two mosques in Christchurch, New Zealand, where 51 people were killed.
“We have the forums for online providers and social media companies to work on these issues alongside civil society and governments,” Ardern said. “Let’s start with transparency in how algorithmic processes work and the outcomes they deliver. But let’s finish with a shared approach to responsible algorithms — because the time has come.”
The prime minister received a standing ovation at the end of her address.
Bacow began the ceremony with a moment of silence, held in the wake of a school shooting in Uvalde, Texas that killed at least 19 elementary school students and two adults.
In his opening remarks, Bacow challenged the Class of 2022 “to save a seat for others,” telling graduates to work toward improving the world around them.
“You will have more chances than most to make differences in the world, more opportunities to give others a chance at a better life,” he told the graduates. “Take advantage of these opportunities when they arise.”
Bacow’s remarks were followed by three student orations: the Latin Salutatory delivered by Benjamin J. Porteous ’22, the Graduate English Address by Harvard Divinity School student Lindsay Sanwald, and the Senior English Address by former Undergraduate Council President Noah A. Harris ’22.
Porteous’s speech — titled “In Honorem Iohannis Martini Annenbergensis,” which translates to “A Salute to John Martin of Annenberg” — recognized the beloved Harvard University Dining Services worker John S. Martin, whose warm presence has welcomed many freshmen to campus. Porteous drew laughs from the audience as he dramatically recited the poem.
In her speech, Sanwald encouraged the audience to “take off your mask, turn on your camera, and tell your story” after years of global turmoil.
“In exile, we become prophets. We part seas. We leap. You have made a path for yourself. Now cross it,” Sanwald told her fellow graduates.
In the Senior English Address, titled “The Caged Bird Sings,” Harris — the first popularly-elected Black male student body president in the history of the College — spoke about how the resilience of his enslaved ancestors encouraged him to speak out for those less advantaged.
“We must see ourselves in those who are caged,” Harris said. “We must use our talents to help them, but most of all, we must be proximate enough to hear the tune of their song.”
The University awarded seven honorary degrees, including one to Ardern. Other honorees included Gloria M. Steinem, a famous journalist and feminist, and José Andrés, a renowned Spanish chef and humanitarian.
Harvard Yard will be home to another Commencement ceremony on Sunday when Attorney General Merrick Garland ’74 will address the Classes of 2020 and 2021 at their joint in-person Commencement. Both classes graduated virtually during the pandemic. Nearly 90 percent of the Classes of 2020 and 2021 said they plan to return for the joint ceremony.
Correction: May 29, 2022
A previous version of this article incorrectly stated Noah A. Harris ’22 was the first first popularly-elected Black student body president in the history of the College. In fact, he was the first first popularly-elected Black male student body president.
—Staff writer Cara J. Chang can be reached at cara.chang@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @CaraChang20.
—Crimson staff writer Ariel H. Kim can be reached at ariel.kim@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @ArielH_Kim.
—Staff writer Leah J. Teichholtz can be reached at leah.teichholtz@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @LeahTeichholtz.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Just after midnight on June 2, 2020, Jordan A.W. Lloyd received an email that changed her life.
“I have reason to believe through archival records that you could be the descendant of Tony and Cuba Vassall, two slaves taken from Antigua by a founding member connected to Harvard University,” it read.
The email was sent by Carissa J. Chen ’21, then a Harvard undergraduate researching the lives of people enslaved by University affiliates — a project that ultimately connected her with 50 living descendants. Lloyd said her family reacted with “excitement” upon learning that they were descendants.
“There was obviously a lot of questions,” she added.
In the 18th century, Lloyd’s ancestors Tony and Cuba Vassall were owned by Henry Vassall and his wife, Penelope Royall Vassall — the sister of Isaac Royall Jr., who endowed Harvard’s first law professorship. Cuba was born and enslaved in Antigua, while Tony was taken from Jamaica. Tony and Cuba’s son, Darby Vassall, spent his life advocating for Black rights, co-founding Boston’s African Society and frequenting the New England Anti-Slavery Convention.
Last month, Harvard released a landmark report that found that faculty, staff, and leaders enslaved more than 70 Black and Indigenous people over 150 years, including some who lived and worked on campus.
Harvard also benefited from its “extensive financial ties” to slavery well into the 19th century, with numerous donors to the University profiting from the slave trade and enslaved labor. The University was historically home to faculty and administrators who promoted eugenics and racial discrimination under the guise of academic research, but also to many Black graduates who sought to combat racism.
Slavery “powerfully shaped Harvard,” the report concluded.
Following more than 50 pages of historical findings, the report put forward seven broad recommendations, ranging from offering educational support for marginalized groups and facilitating the memorialization of enslaved people to identifying and engaging with direct descendants of people enslaved by Harvard affiliates.
When he announced the publication of the long-awaited report, University President Lawrence S. Bacow wrote that the school would commit $100 million to Harvard’s Legacy of Slavery initiative.
“I believe we bear a moral responsibility to do what we can to address the persistent corrosive effects of those historical practices on individuals, on Harvard, and on our society,” Bacow wrote in a public statement.
Former Law School Dean Martha L. Minow will lead a separate implementation committee to carry out the report’s recommendations.
But many Harvard affiliates and other advocates remain skeptical of the school’s promises, calling them “vague.” Citing a need for increased clarity, they raised concerns about what they see as the opaque management of funds, the University’s lack of acknowledgement of — or communication with — descendants, and the omission of 21st century vestiges of slavery.
Lloyd said she holds out hope that Harvard’s Legacy of Slavery initiative will herald substantive change for the University.
“I’m praying,” she said. “I’m hoping that this is coming from the right place — a place of deep altruism and a place of really, really wanting to reconcile what happened, really hoping to make an amends — but so far, [it] seems pretty self-serving.”
The $100 million pledge Harvard made to implement the recommendations of the report comes after 15 years of scholarship at the University. In 2007, History professor Sven Beckert launched a seminar on the history of slavery at Harvard after Brown University released a report on its ties to slavery the year prior. In 2016, former University President Drew G. Faust publicly acknowledged Harvard’s ties to slavery and convened a committee to study Harvard sites connected with slavery and consider future memorials.
Bacow announced the Legacy of Slavery initiative in November 2019, committing an initial $5 million and convening a committee of faculty members to produce a comprehensive record of Harvard’s connections to slavery and recommendations on “how we might address the ramifications of what we learn.”
As soon as the report was published in April 2022, the $100 million figure dominated national headlines. The magnitude of Harvard’s financial commitment to a reckoning with slavery is unprecedented in higher education.
Nevertheless, affiliates are skeptical of how this dollar amount compares to the wealth the University has amassed based on profits from slavery. Today, Harvard’s endowment is over $53 billion.
Dennis E. Lloyd — Jordan Lloyd’s father and another descendant of Tony and Cuba Vassall — said $100 million is “a drop in the bucket” for Harvard.
Benjamin F. Bryant ’22, who wrote his senior thesis on Harvard’s connections to racial capitalism, called the University’s report “the most comprehensive account of Harvard’s ties to the institution of slavery today.” Still, he said the research in it does not adequately reflect how slavery financially contributed to Harvard’s rise as a leading academic institution.
Going forward, Bryant suggested the University continually renew its pledge by allocating one percent of the donations it receives to the Legacy of Slavery fund.
“​​It’s important that this isn’t just a one-off reparative commitment,” he said.
Bacow wrote in the initial announcement that the $100 million will be divided between current use and endowed funds, with the latter allowing Harvard to sustain the Legacy of Slavery initiative in the future.
Still, affiliates raised concerns that the momentum behind the Legacy of Slavery initiative would ebb, bogged down by bureaucracy.
When he saw the $100 million figure, Jordan Young ’25 — president of the Generational African American Students Association, an undergraduate Black advocacy and affinity group that focuses on the centuries of Black heritage and identity in America — said he felt hopeful. That hope, he explained, faded as he read the report and its recommendations, which he called “performative.”
“There was very little specificity, and it was just generally vague, and that for me was disappointing — that there was no real action items,” Young said.
The recommendations were meant to be broad, Legacy of Slavery committee member and History professor Tiya A. Miles ’92 wrote in an email.
“Although the work of recognizing and responding to slavery and its legacies at Harvard is already in motion, it will be inherited by people in the future who will certainly face different institutional and community circumstances,” she wrote.
“For the current implementation committee to do its best work, and for university units and groups that want to be involved to do their best work, and for Harvard to be maximally respectful of descendants, descendant communities, and local communities, flexibility — room to adjust and grow — is critical,” she added.
Young also questioned how much of the fund will focus on Black students, especially generational students, noting that Harvard has very few Black tenured faculty members and mental health services specifically for Black affiliates.
As of this year, only 4 percent of tenured Harvard faculty identify as Black — fewer than 50 professors out of more than 1,000.
Aja M. Lans, a postdoctoral research fellow, also called on Harvard to diversify its faculty to promote understanding of Black history.
“If the University truly is committed to this, then it’s going to need to really rethink the support for Black folks at the University and increas[e] diversity and support so that the work can be done properly,” she said.
Going forward, Jordan Lloyd said she would like to see transparency in the allocation and rollout of the $100 million fund. She hopes the administrators managing the fund will consult her family about the fund’s usage, Lloyd added.
“I would like to have a sit-down with them, [for] members of my family to be able to go and speak with them, and to have them hear our ideas, because I know that I’m just one person — I have my ideas, but a cousin or sister of mine might have completely different ideas,” she said.
After learning about their connection to Tony and Cuba Vassall, the Lloyds said they emailed the University and spoke with Harvard faculty and staff, including the Legacy of Slavery chair, Radcliffe Institute Dean Tomiko Brown-Nagin.
In an interview last month, Brown-Nagin said Harvard has already begun identifying the direct descendants of people enslaved by Harvard affiliates, per a recommendation of the report.
Jordan Lloyd agreed Harvard should continue identifying living descendants and actively communicating with them. She also called for curricula about the life of Darby Vassall in local schools and universities, echoing another recommendation from the report.
Last year, Dennis and Egypt C. Lloyd, Jordan Lloyd’s father and sister, founded the Boston-based Slave Legacy History Coalition to help other descendants learn about their past and spread awareness of the history of slavery. Egypt Lloyd added she would like Harvard to support the coalition while Jordan Lloyd called for economic reparations.
“Because slavery was an institution that deprived my ancestors, the enslaved, of their wages for working and had an impact on them creating generational wealth, there should be some type of stipend allotted to us as descendants of the enslaved,” Jordan Lloyd said.
Monetary reparations are not mentioned in the University’s report.
The Legacy of Slavery initiative is not the first time Harvard has had to grapple with the question of reparations and direct descendants. For the past three years, the University has been embroiled in a lawsuit over what are purportedly some of the nation’s oldest photographs of enslaved people, commissioned by 19th-century Harvard professor Louis Agassiz, who promoted debunked “race science.”
In March 2019, Tamara K. Lanier filed suit against Harvard for unlawfully possessing and profiting from the daguerreotypes that she claims depict her great-great-great grandfather, Renty, and his daughter, Delia.
The case is now before the Massachusetts Supreme Court after Lanier appealed a lower court’s dismissal.
The Legacy of Slavery report does not mention Lanier’s suit, although it mentions Renty and Delia in the context of Agassiz’s career and the daguerreotypes.
Lanier said she felt “frustrated” the report did not include her case.
“I saw it is an opportunity for Harvard to come clean with all of its past misdeeds and all of its past indiscretions,” she said. “By the omission of my information, it made me feel like the report lacked credibility.”
Harvard spokesperson Jonathan L. Swain declined to comment on the case as it is pending litigation.
Caitlin G. DeAngelis Hopkins who researched the history of slavery at Harvard for the school before Bacow commissioned the Legacy of Slavery initiative, said the omission of the Lanier case and potential repatriation efforts made the report “toothless.”
“How are they going to say that they are going to work with descendants when they have not made a show of good faith?” she said. “They have not worked with the descendants who are right in front of them. In fact, they fought them in court.”
—Staff writer Cara J. Chang can be reached at cara.chang@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @CaraChang20.
—Staff writer Meimei Xu can be reached at meimei.xu@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @meimeixu7.
Harvard’s campus has undergone a series of radical transformations over the course of the pandemic. From last year’s sparsely populated dorms to this year’s masked instruction, current students have seen a Harvard unlike any other.
A few vaccines later, a sense of normalcy finally seems to be around the corner.
By mid-March, students entered classrooms maskless. By exam period, they no longer received Covid-19 testing reminders. Upperclassmen stormed freshman dorms on Housing Day, undergrads bore it all for Primal Scream, and Swae Lee lit up Harvard Yard for Yardfest. Students flowed into lecture halls for hourslong exams, and seniors will receive their diplomas at an in-person Commencement this week.
But despite much of the Harvard experience returning to its pre-pandemic state, many affiliates have remarked on the profound effects the remote year has had on the school’s academics, social scene, and more. One fact is certain: Harvard will never be the same.
Here are six ways affiliates say Covid-19 transformed Harvard.
Graduating seniors are the only class on campus to have experienced a year at Harvard uninterrupted by Covid-19.
First-Year Outdoor Program leader Lisa Wang ’22-’23 said she believes there has been a “loss of institutional knowledge” in her organization because most FOP leaders, despite being “well-equipped to lead,” have never actually been on a trip.
Alec J. Fischthal ’21-’22, who was a head delegate for Harvard’s Model United Nations, also said his club has seen a loss of institutional memory.
“That resulted in a social experience and a club experience that was a little less robust,” Fischthal said. “You look back to the good old days and you’re like, ‘Man, I missed that.’”
Others, whose clubs were highly dependent on in-person experiences, have watched membership dwindle.
“We used to travel a lot abroad, but because of Covid, the club has kind of died,” said Simon Arango ’22, former president of the Harvard College Japan Initiative.
Still, some students saw a silver lining to this loss of institutional memory in the form of new opportunities for tradition-building within campus organizations.
“It enabled a cultural reset for a lot of groups that are now seeing a large uptick in membership since we’re now back in person,” Abigail J.H. Ory ’21-’23 said. “People really want to be doing this stuff and everyone is just so excited.”
Some student-athletes also reported feeling a renewed sense of motivation and commitment upon returning to in-person training.
“When we were finally able to compete as a team again, I think that our individual and collective level of play was a lot higher,” said Jay T. Driver ’24, a pitcher on the baseball team. “That was a product of everybody on the team buying into the idea that — rather than be upset about losing two years — to use it to our advantage of really developing as players.”
On any given pre-pandemic Saturday night, one could find undergrads partying in staple house spaces like the Mather Junior Common Room, the Currier Treehouse, or the Pforzheimer Igloo.
Due to Covid-19 restrictions, many of these spaces were temporarily shuttered. But even now that the rules have relaxed, some say Harvard’s once-vibrant house social scene has lost its grip on students’ Saturday nights.
Mather House Committee chair Ailie S. Johnson ’24 said her group has attempted to bolster house spirit and boost engagement in events post-pandemic, despite challenges.
“Covid definitely changed a lot of our traditions,” Johnson said. “People weren’t as engaged with a lot of the house stuff, and now we’re just rebuilding it.”
On top of that, the population of students living off-campus more than doubled last fall.
“Not only do you have that institutional memory leaving with people graduating, but some people who are seniors aren’t even in the houses — they’re in off-campus apartments,” Katyon Rotenberg ’23 said.
With a mask mandate and other restrictions in place into the spring, socializing in Harvard’s houses was significantly constrained. Meanwhile, final clubs could do as they pleased.
“The only places that were able to have parties were final clubs because they had their own space,” Jahnavi S. Rao ’22 said. “I don’t think that’s good — it feels very dangerous.”
Joseph T. Johnson ’21-’22 said the impact of pandemic restrictions on Harvard’s social scene was exacerbated by the College’s move to drop its controversial sanctions on single-gender social organizations in June 2020. Johnson believes this increased the social capital of final clubs.
“The University had this goal — decrease the potency of clubs and their effect on social life on campus,” Johnson said. “And five years later now, they’re probably more powerful than they’ve been in 10 years.”
Without the Mather JCR and shut out from the Spee, freshmen have flocked to off-campus spaces, like the Tasty Burger basement — affectionately known as “Tasty Basty” — which clubs and sports teams rent out for socials.
“Finals clubs are not as accessible to first-years, so I feel like that’s part of the reason you see so many first-years in Tasty Basty,” said Mallory E. Rogers ’25, a Tasty Burger basement frequenter. “If it’s going to be really hard to get into a party, I don’t know if I want to go. That’s part of the thing with Tasty Basty — you just walk in.”
“That’s the fun of it,” she added.
Though unclear if Covid-19 was a catalyst or a coincidence, some of Harvard’s decades-old institutions met their demise over the past two years.
This semester, the Faculty of Arts and Sciences voted to end shopping week, a long-time scheduling quirk that allowed students to sample classes before they began. Although the faculty committee that reviewed shopping week was established in 2019, some students charged that Covid contributed to the loss of shopping week, which has not occurred in-person since early 2020.
“Shopping week was a really unique and special thing about the school,” Rao said. “I think [Harvard] used Covid as a nice smokescreen, and it just went away.”
FAS spokesperson Rachael Dane declined to comment on student criticisms about the end of shopping week.
Dorm Crew, a 70-year old program that employed students to clean dorm bathrooms, completely halted throughout the pandemic. It will resume next semester, but with a smaller cohort of students doing audiovisual work.
Some students charged that the College used the pandemic as an opportunity to end the controversial program.
Harvard spokesperson Michael Conner has previously declined to comment on student criticisms regarding changes to Dorm Crew throughout the pandemic.
Even though most of Harvard’s classes have returned to in-person instruction, Zoom is not a relic of the past.
Instead, many classes now offer students the option to attend lectures virtually when they are sick.
“I myself Zoomed into some in-person classes a number of times, which was actually really helpful because it meant that even though I missed a day, I didn’t miss a lecture,” Ory said.
Juhee Goyal ’22, who has served as a teaching fellow in engineering and physics classes, said the ability to host office hours remotely has made it more convenient for students to attend.
“They’d be all the way in the [Science and Engineering Complex] and not a lot of people would want to go, so having the hybrid option — like having Zoom office hours — helps that,” Goyal said. “If you have one small question, you won’t have to trek all the way to the SEC.”
Since classes resumed in-person, Hayato Shiotsu ’22 has had more take-home tests and Zoom options for sections, a change he said was “pretty nice.”
Arango, who has taken Japanese classes all four years at Harvard, said the department’s pedagogy itself has changed since the onset of the pandemic.
“Before, you had to memorize how to write the Chinese characters, but now you don’t because all the assignments are on Google Docs and the exams are online,” Arango said.
After more than a year of Zoom, some of Harvard has adapted to the digital age for good.
Hannah A. Bottarel ’24, who chairs the Institute of Politics’ John F. Kennedy Jr. Forum, said there have been ongoing discussions with the IOP’s Senior Advisory Committee about how the organization will look post-Covid, even as in-person events took place this year.
“We also are able to do more virtual and hybrid Forums, which has been actually really cool in bringing in more international perspectives and bringing in people who maybe wouldn’t be able to come to the Forum space,” Bottarel said.
The move to online has extended to Harvard’s workers. Harvard Union of Clerical and Technical Workers director Bill Jaeger said he believes the increasing adoption of hybrid work is “revolutionary.”
“Our members will report that they’re settling into hybrid arrangements, which are expected to continue indefinitely,” Jaeger said. “For a lot of our members, that’s awesome.”
This semester, wait times for therapy appointments with Harvard’s Counseling and Mental Health Services reached six weeks as demand soared. Still, some affiliates described a greater emphasis on supporting student wellness and mental health since the start of the pandemic.
“It was a big adjustment for me going to online school, and then it was a big adjustment for me coming back,” Ory said. “It was definitely a semester of regaining my foothold on how to actually be a student again.”
Kevin Huang ’22 noted that he has felt an “increase in empathy” among professors and hopes that it will continue beyond the pandemic.
“I think professors are willing to show more flexibility and understanding,” Huang said. “A lot of professors understand what their students are going through at a more personal level.”
Ian J. Miller, a history professor and Cabot House faculty dean, said he hopes this understanding remains long after the pandemic.
“I hope that it’s one of the legacies of this opening phase of the pandemic — that we continue to focus on well-being and to recognize it and normalize appropriate responses to student mental health needs,” Miller said.
For better or for worse, many Harvard students, faculty, and staff said they believe the pandemic has left many legacies on the school — ones that won’t go away with the masks.
College Dean Rakesh Khurana said in a May interview that he believes the pandemic has induced a change in philosophy about the importance of Harvard’s residential experience.
“After chalk, probably one of the most important pedagogical devices in the world is the dining table,” Khurana said. “And I think we will never take that for granted again.”
—Staff writer Kenneth Gu can be reached at kenneth.gu@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter at @KennyGu8.
—Staff writer Leah J. Teichholtz can be reached at leah.teichholtz@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @LeahTeichholtz.
Sections
In 2010, the Harvard Corporation embarked upon a historic first: change.
For the first time since its charter in 1650, the University’s highest governing board committed to a sweeping set of reforms that would nearly double its size, institute term limits, and select a senior fellow instead of allowing the longest-serving member to assume the role.
Few Harvard affiliates know much about the President and Fellows of Harvard College, commonly called the Harvard Corporation. The board weighs in on all major decisions at Harvard and holds the power to select — and fire — Harvard presidents. Yet, the Corporation is largely absent from campus life and discourse.
The board is chaired by the University president, but also includes a senior fellow who is billed as “a first among equals,” leading the body’s major initiatives and interfacing more with top Harvard officials.
Twelve years ago, as it sought to implement its first wide-ranging reforms, the Corporation turned to a quirky intellectual property lawyer with a friendly persona perhaps uncharacteristic of the titles he holds: William F. Lee ’72.
Lee joined the Harvard Corporation six months before the reforms were announced and ascended to the senior fellowship in 2014. Before joining Harvard’s top governing board, Lee, a long-time partner at the legal giant WilmerHale, served on the Harvard Board of Overseers and was a leading patent lawyer, litigating high-profile cases, including the “smartphone wars” trial between Apple and Samsung.
During his 12 years on the Corporation — the maximum any fellow can now serve — Lee helped steer the board through the fallout of the 2008 financial crisis and the height of the Covid-19 pandemic. He led the team that selected University President Lawrence S. Bacow. When the anti-affirmative action group Students for Fair Admissions sued Harvard over its race-conscious admissions practices in 2014, Lee served as senior litigant, representing Harvard in court pro bono.
Lee’s departure, set for next month, will bring a new era for the board. As he exits, the Corporation has turned to a starkly different figure to fill his shoes: Penny S. Pritzker ’81, who brings deep ties to Washington’s most powerful players and a net worth of more than $3 billion.
When she takes over as senior fellow in June, Pritzker will face a confluence of challenges. Over the last decade, Harvard’s endowment — which the Corporation is tasked with overseeing — has often delivered lower returns than its most prominent higher education competitors. The SFFA case, now at the Supreme Court, appears on track to reshape college admissions. And across the Charles River in Allston, Harvard continues to pursue aggressive expansion plans in the face of neighborhood opposition.
Prizkter comes to the Corporation with an intertwined legacy of privilege and pathfinding: She is the first woman to rise through the ranks of her family’s sprawling business empire and the first female senior fellow in the Corporation’s 372-year history. Pritzker’s success is also, though, rooted in the wealth of one of America’s richest dynasties.
Lee, as the first new senior fellow following the 2010 governance reforms, played a key role in determining the Corporation’s place at modern Harvard. Pritzker, set to succeed him next month, will be central to shaping the next chapter of the now-changed — but ever-powerful — board.
In the year leading up to Harvard’s governance reforms, criticism of how the Corporation operates spilled over into public view.
After Harvard’s endowment shrunk by $11 billion in fiscal year 2009, a pair of prominent professors publicly contended that the Corporation had fundamentally failed its fiduciary duty to Harvard. In a scathing Boston Globe op-ed, School of Engineering and Applied Sciences professor Frederick H. Abernathy and former Harvard College Dean Harry R. Lewis ’68 wrote that the Corporation is “a dangerous anachronism” that is unaccountable and shrouded in too much secrecy.
The 2010 reforms sought to restructure the Corporation for the modern era. The board published eight reforms designed to shift the Corporation from a seven-member “multiple executive” cohort to a 13-member body focused on Harvard’s strategic priorities. The board created term limits capping fellows at 12 years of service and established three new committees for finances, facilities and capital planning, and governance. More broadly, the Corporation committed to working more closely with the Board of Overseers — Harvard’s second-highest governing board — and promoting transparency.
Bacow — who was a fellow on the Corporation from 2011 until he became president in 2018 — contends that the reforms have been successful.
“I think expanding the size of the Corporation gave the Corporation much more bandwidth and much more substantive expertise for managing an institution of the complexity of Harvard,” Bacow said.
Robert D. Reischauer ’63, the senior fellow before Lee, said the close-knit nature of the group has been preserved despite the body’s expansion.
“The culture that had been developed over the centuries from having a small, collegial body of individuals who have mutual respect for each other — weren’t competitive in any sense — has by and large been preserved,” he said.
As the Corporation evolved, so did the role of senior fellow: The 2010 governance reforms redefined the senior fellow as “a lead player within the board” with “a more active part in framing Corporation agendas and setting priorities for its work.” The senior fellow also chairs the governance committee and conducts an annual review of the president.
Scott A. Abell ’72, one of Lee’s classmates and a former member of the Board of Overseers, said Lee’s tenure was “uniquely positive at a time change needed to be implemented.”
“His incredible capacity to listen to people and to value everyone’s opinion, to respect points of view, made that transition work far better than I think anyone would have guessed — and far more quickly,” Abell said.
But the transformation of Harvard’s governance did not stop with the 2010 reforms.
As a fiduciary body, the Corporation is charged with overseeing the University’s finances at a high level — including the Harvard Management Company, which manages Harvard’s $53 billion endowment.
Lee’s tenure has also been marked by change at HMC and in the University’s financial strategy. In 2016, Harvard’s endowment saw its poorest set of returns since the 2008 financial crisis, losing $2 billion and underperforming relative to peer institutions. A week after HMC reported the drop, newly-hired HMC CEO N. P. “Narv” Narvekar announced a five-year plan to restructure the firm.
Former University President Drew G. Faust — who led the University through the height of the 2008 financial recession — said the transition from a large in-house investing team to an external model and its more risk-averse investment approach help explain Harvard’s lower returns.
“It’s hard to avoid this horse race about the number at the end of the year, and which university has what number. But the universities have very different circumstances that they’re taking into consideration,” she said. “There are a lot of elements going into this.”
Under Lee, the Corporation also carried out a historic intervention into undergraduate social life, endorsing the College’s sanctions against single-gender final clubs and Greek organizations in 2017. The Corporation rescinded its support for the penalties three years later.
Lee further redefined his role at Harvard during his time as senior fellow by taking on an usual task: defending Harvard in federal court. When SFFA sued Harvard over the College’s race-conscious admissions process during Lee’s first year on the job, he led the legal team that successfully defended the school during a 2018 trial and a subsequent appeal.
With the SFFA lawsuit still pending and record-high inflation expected to diminish endowment contributions, the Corporation’s next chapter under Pritzker’s leadership will open where Lee’s era of change and transition ends.
Pritzker wrote in an emailed statement that serving as senior fellow will be “an incredible honor.”
“I will put my heart and soul into this role to do my part to continue Harvard’s ongoing and important commitment to educating citizen leaders, to pathbreaking research and to creating opportunity and knowledge that help countless people across America and around the world,” she wrote.
Pritzker comes from one of America’s wealthiest and most influential families, with roots in Chicago. From Northwestern University’s Pritzker School of Law to the Jay Pritzker Pavilion in Millennium Park, signs of their influence are strewn across the midwestern hub. Since 2019, Penny Pritzker’s venture capitalist brother, J.B. Pritzker, has served as the governor of Illinois.
Since graduating from Harvard College in 1981, Penny Pritzker has co-founded the global private investment firm PSP Partners, started the Pritzker Traubert Family Foundation, and served as secretary of Commerce in the Obama administration.
“She was an integral part of the success of the Pritzker family,” said Louis B. Susman, the former United States Ambassador to the United Kingdom and a former business partner of Penny Pritzker’s uncle, Jay Pritzker.
Jay Pritzker is credited with building the Hyatt hospitality empire and the Marmon Group, two of the primary sources of the Pritzkers’ wealth.
But while Penny Pritzker is now one of the most prominent members of the dynasty, she was never guaranteed a stake in the family business: She was the first woman to rise through the ranks of the empire.
“She was not one of the first — she was the first,” said Melvyn N. Klein, a philanthropist and former business partner and friend of Jay Pritzker. “She educated herself and prepared herself for that, and went to then-senior members of the family — and she qualified, and was able to join the family office.”
Following Jay Pritzker’s death, Penny Pritzker helped run the family business alongside two relatives: her uncle Nicholas J. Pritzker and Thomas J. Pritzker, who is Jay Pritzker’s eldest son and primary successor.
While friends and associates point to her as a barrier-breaker for her work in the family business, her stake in Hyatt has not been free from criticism — namely, from some major labor unions.
When Pritzker was nominated by Obama as Commerce secretary, UNITE HERE, a national hospitality workers union, opposed her appointment because of Hyatt’s treatment of workers. The Chicago Teachers Union has also raised concerns about Pritzker in the past, at one point charging that she funneled state money into Hyatt ventures.
Pritzker also faced questions over her executive position in the holding company that owned Superior Bank — which collapsed in 2001, costing U.S. taxpayers millions of dollars — and her family’s use of offshore tax havens. During the Senate confirmation process, Pritzker also admitted to under-reporting her income on disclosure forms by tens of millions.
Following her graduation, Pritzker remained significantly involved at Harvard, where she has donated tens of millions and served on both of the school’s governing boards. Carl F. Muller ’73, a former president of the Harvard Alumni Association, said Pritzker’s familiarity with the University makes her a strong pick for the senior fellow position.
“The fact that Penny is completely familiar with how Harvard works formally and informally is critical to her new role,” he said.
Lee spearheaded the process to pick his successor, which took a year and entailed conversations with past and present Corporation members, as well as Harvard administrators and deans, he said in an interview this month.
“During the course of that process, Penny emerged as someone who — because of her public service, because of her affiliation, association with academic institutions, because of her association with Harvard — was the ideal person to step into the role,” Lee said.
Even within Harvard’s governance, Pritzker is no stranger to historic firsts. Prior to her selection as the first female senior fellow, Pritzker’s 2018 appointment to the Corporation alongside Carolyn A. “Biddy” Martin finally established gender parity within the body.
Still, despite increases in the Corporation’s racial and gender diversity over the last decade, the group is largely made up of influential business, legal, and academic leaders, leaving it without significant socioeconomic diversity.
Pritzker is not the only Harvard mega-donor on the current Corporation: David M. Rubenstein joined the board in 2017 after co-chairing Harvard’s $9.6 billion capital campaign and has donated tens of millions.
Lee defended the makeup of the Corporation, saying that many members came from “humble” beginnings and that their wealth is a testament to their professional accomplishments.
Lee also said he expects Pritzker to continue advancing his effort to make the board more transparent — a longtime critique of the way it operates.
“I think we’re doing a better job of that from 2010 to 2020,” Lee said. “The pandemic has interfered with those communications, but I’m sure Penny will pick it up again, now that we’re all seeing each other in person.”
While Corporation members now regularly meet with other Harvard officials, including members of the Board of Overseers and Harvard deans, the Corporation’s meetings remain closed to Harvard affiliates, and there is no formal disclosure of the results of any votes or discussions.
Nathán Goldberg ’18, co-founder of Harvard Forward, a progressive student and alumni organization that has put up petition candidates to serve on the Board of Overseers, said the top governing board remains opaque.
But many members of the body contend that full transparency would be unhelpful.
“The Corporation can’t do its work if it’s perfectly transparent,” Bacow said in an interview earlier this month. “I think that the Corporation has responsibilities to communicate to the community and I think we’ve done that.”
The challenges facing the Corporation also extend beyond its makeup and internal operations to its responsibilities over Harvard finances. Pritzker will step into the recently-adapted senior fellow role as Harvard is recovering from a decade of volatile investments, leaving many eyes on what’s next for HMC.
Harvard’s investments have also become an increasing source of political controversy on campus, with activists calling on the school to divest its holdings from an array of areas, including fossil fuels, Israel, and private prisons.
Goldberg said Harvard’s budget and investments can reflect its stance on climate change and racial justice.
“Our values in the endowment and our process of program funding, research funding, are also going to be issues that Harvard is going to continue to grapple with for the foreseeable future,” Goldberg said.
Harvard’s expansion into Allston also looms large for Pritzker, who is a board member of the Harvard Allston Land Company, which manages the development of the University’s proposed Enterprise Research Campus. The project is awaiting city approval, but has received immense pushback from local residents and key elected officials in the area.
Shirley M. Tilghman, a former president of Princeton University who serves on the Corporation, said Allston presents a “once-in-a-century opportunity for Harvard to expand its campus.”
“Luckily, this is something that Penny has enormous insight into because of her day job in Chicago and her serving on the board of the company that was set up to oversee the development of the commercial part of Allston,” Tilghman said.
But the approval process and Harvard’s community engagement in the neighborhood has been bumpy. Harvard has run into roadblocks as elected officials from the area have asked for more specifics about the school’s plans and commitments to create more affordable housing.
“Harvard’s been a little slow with implementing Allston,” said Mitchell L. Dong ’75, a prominent donor, who added: “Just look at MIT’s expansion, or look at Stanford — they have no limitations on land.”
Still, Dong said, “Allston presents great opportunities.”
As Lee passes the baton to Pritzker, the SFFA case also continues to hang overhead: It is now set to be heard by the Supreme Court this fall, giving justices the chance to end affirmative action in American higher education. Asked about the most important changes during his tenure, Lee pointed to the school’s diversification — which he says would be at stake if the court rules against Harvard in the months ahead.
“The face of the University has changed substantially,” Lee said.
“But I hope, with all of my heart, that the commitment that you see of the people who work here, who come here, who teach here, to the mission of the place never changes — because that’s been the key,” he added.
—Staff writer Cara J. Chang can be reached at cara.chang@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @CaraChang20.
—Staff writer Isabella B. Cho can be reached at isabella.cho@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @izbcho.
By now, the challenges of parenting during a pandemic have become so well-known they’re almost trite: crying babies interrupting Zoom presentations, toddlers running into video backgrounds, little kids clamoring for homework help as their parents juggle cooking, cleaning, and their careers all under one roof.
At Harvard, however, working parents report that Covid-19 has also magnified the shortcomings of the University’s child care services.
Cambridge is a city known for its high cost of living, said Maya Sen, a professor at the Harvard Kennedy School and mother of two, so “child care costs are really expensive and child care availability is really limited.”
Campus Child Care, Inc. is an independent non-profit that operates six child care centers for Harvard affiliates and local Boston and Cambridge residents. At CCC, the cost of one month of tuition ranges from $2,160 for preschoolers to $3,400 for infants.
Through the University’s Access to Child Care Excellence, Services, and Support program, tenure-track and senior non-tenure-track faculty are prioritized for spots at the CCC centers, but the openings are so limited that they are not guaranteed.
Adnan K. Syed, a sixth-year postdoctoral fellow, recounted that some faculty in his department who were starting families were uncertain whether their children could find a spot in Harvard’s child care centers.
“That’s insane,” he said. “That’s absolutely insane.”
And the odds are even slimmer for non-faculty like Syed himself, who has a young daughter: “So what’s going to happen with a postdoc if the faculty aren’t even getting promised [spots]?”
Neither the ACCESS program, which grants faculty scholarships for CCC tuition alongside priority enrollment, nor the Dependent Care Fund, which subsidizes professional travel costs for tenure-track faculty with children, are available to postdocs or graduate students.
As a result, many have struggled to make ends meet. Kelsey Tyssowski, co-president of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences Postdoc Association, said postdoctoral fellows experience a “​​lack of support” from Harvard in addition to “less disposable income and less career security.”
“We make a lot less money than faculty and therefore often have much more limited child care options,” Tyssowski said. “It’s a real struggle for a lot of people just to afford daycare, and I think Harvard could do a lot more to support postdocs by providing child care subsidies, even outside of the pandemic.”
Nicholas Short, a Ph.D. candidate in Government and Social Policy, said that paying for University child care on a graduate student stipend put his family “under tremendous, tremendous financial strain.”
Then, after Short accepted a fellowship from Harvard to fund the completion of his dissertation, he discovered that his new status as a fellow now disqualified him from certain benefits he’d received in the past, such as partial reimbursements for child care and his children’s medical and dental insurance.
“It just left me with the impression that it’s not like the University is indifferent to the plight of student parents,” Short said. “It’s almost like they’re vindictive and out to get us in trying to make our
experiences as hard as possible.”
Even the parents fortunate enough to access Harvard’s child care centers are not always able to utilize them. During the pandemic, a combination of staffing shortages, Covid-19 outbreaks, and public health precautions forced the centers to intermittently shut down or run on limited hours.
According to Sen, the centers closed for four to five months starting in March 2020, and they reopened only part-time. Only some of the centers have since reopened full-time.
Conor J. Walsh, a professor of mechanical engineering at the School of Engineering and Applied Sciences, tallied up the shortened hours and full-day closures to estimate that his children have received 400 fewer hours of child care than usual since the beginning of 2022.
To make up the difference, parents had little option but to leave work to pick up or care for their children.
“It’s just really left parents in a huge lurch,” Sen said, adding, “now that it’s been dragging on for so long, it’s starting to very strongly negatively impact people’s careers and their ability to keep things together.”
Walsh echoed this sentiment, writing in an email that the “significant instability” of Harvard daycare availability has taken time away from his professional obligations.
“This made it very hard to find focused time for balancing all my University responsibilities (of teaching, research, mentoring, and service),” he wrote. “In reality many aspects suffered, but mostly the ability to spend quality time mentoring students and members of my research group.”
But tensions arose between faculty parents, who were calling for the reopening of child care centers, and the centers’ employees, who were concerned about the potential health risks of working through a pandemic.
“One side is mad about risk: exposure to illness and callousness of the faculty parents,” said Samuel J. Gershman, a Psychology professor with a child at one of the CCC centers. “And the faculty parents are mad that they’re being deprived of their work time and that these child care providers are not providing child care.”
Gershman said that in January, faculty parents’ successful outcry for Harvard to reopen campus daycare centers led to “a pretty problematic rupture in the relationship between parents and teachers — which is really not something you want if you’re putting your small children in the care of other people.”
He noted that the University has made some progress in improving its child care services, citing the implementation of Covid-19 testing programs and the construction of a new child care center in Allston.
“I do believe that the University has a lot of goodwill and is trying hard to meet this very challenging situation,” Gershman said, but “the needs are greater than what Harvard is willing to meet at this point.”
But Syed said when he raised concerns about unequal access to child care services for postdocs as compared to faculty, administrators were unsympathetic.
“When I complain about it, I’ve literally been told by the administration, ‘if you don’t like it here, it’s your choice to be here. You can go get a postdoc somewhere else, where you’re treated better,’” Syed said.
Some faculty members feel unable to bring up these concerns to their supervisors at all, for fear of jeopardizing their future career opportunities.
The Office of the Senior Vice Provost for Faculty Development and Diversity administers the ACCESS Program and Dependent Care Fund to assist faculty with their child care needs — and its top administrator also plays a key role in the tenure promotion process.
The stated goal of the office is to “recruit and retain outstanding scholars and teachers as we continue to diversify the faculty.”
Judith D. Singer, who did not respond to a request for comment, has served as its head since 2008. She serves as a “key adviser” in the ad hoc tenure process, according to her Harvard bio, and the chair of the Provost’s Review Committee on Faculty Appointments.
Gershman said this “poses an obstacle to criticism” for faculty parents without tenure to freely voice their concerns about campus child care shortcomings.
“If you want people to give you honest feedback, or to be able to advocate for themselves, then you have to create conditions in which they don’t feel like their jobs are jeopardized,” he said. “I’m not suggesting anything nefarious here. It’s just one reason why some people feel more comfortable advocating in this area than others.”
One untenured junior faculty member, who requested to remain anonymous for fear of retaliation, said she worried about having discussions regarding child care with administrators involved in the tenure process.
“Every parent recognizes how much everyone is trying to make child care work and how difficult it is to do that in a pandemic, but it’s hard to have those conversations with the same people that are assessing your tenure case,” she said.
“I would like to separate my child care and my job, because it just gets awfully complicated,” she added.
The FD&D mission statement says that the office is “especially attentive to … the concerns of women and minority faculty at all academic ranks.”
But several faculty members said inaccessible or unstable child care disproportionately affects women and minority groups traditionally underrepresented in academia.
“Being a mom who is responsive” and a tenure-track faculty member “sometimes feels like it’s hard to do both at once,” the junior faculty member said.
“And when the child care is not reliable, it feels like that’s an equation that doesn’t add up,” she said.
Syed said that the lack of affordable child care also results in less racial diversity among Harvard’s scholars.
“People wonder why we don’t have a lot of minority people in our postdoc population — I think that’s one real clear reason why,” Syed said. “It’s not that they don’t want to be at Harvard or they’re not good enough to be here. It’s that they simply can’t afford it.”
“I’ve constantly been put in this position of ‘do I choose my career or do I choose my family?’” he said. “That should never be a situation anybody is in.”
University spokesperson Jason A. Newton declined to comment.
—Sophia Scott can be reached at sophia.scott@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @ScottSophia_.
—Claire Yuan can be reached at claire.yuan@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @claireyuan33.
Sections
With the United States Supreme Court’s expanded conservative majority set to take up lawsuits seeking to strike down affirmative action in American higher education, analysts on both sides of the issue seem to agree about one thing: race-conscious admissions policies are likely on the way out.
The suits, which target the use of race in admissions at Harvard College and the University of North Carolina, have thrust Harvard to the forefront of the latest chapter in America’s decades-long debate about affirmative action.
The anti-affirmative action group Students for Fair Admissions first sued Harvard in 2014, alleging that the school’s admissions practices discriminate against Asian American applicants. Two lower courts ruled in favor of Harvard, in 2019 and 2020.
Affirmative action has narrowly survived several Supreme Court scares before. But now, experts say the court — made up of six conservative and three liberal justices — is likely to overturn four decades of precedent allowing schools to consider race in their admissions processes.
It remains less clear what might come next.
Should the court rule in favor of SFFA, admissions policies at colleges and universities across the country would be thrown into flux. Schools like Harvard, experts say, could turn to race-neutral admissions alternatives.
Scholars have said racial diversity at Harvard and other elite institutions may decline — but exactly how the decision will manifest remains unclear even as Harvard’s court date nears.
If the court rules against Harvard and UNC, justices would overturn long-standing precedent regarding the use of race in college admissions. In 1978, the Supreme Court ruled in Regents of the University of California v. Bakke that race could be considered in admissions processes, though it held that racial quotas were unconstitutional. The precedent was subsequently upheld in numerous challenges, including the 2003 case Grutter v. Bollinger and the 2016 case Fisher v. Texas.
But experts expect this time to be different.
“The leaked opinion in the abortion case, if it holds up, makes clear that this is a court that doesn’t really care about precedent,” said UNC law professor Theodore M. Shaw, referring to a leaked Supreme Court draft opinion that would strike down the landmark 1973 ruling Roe v. Wade, which protects legal access to abortion nationwide.
SFFA petitioned the Supreme Court to take up the affirmative action case last February, asking justices to overturn precedent established by Grutter v. Bollinger.
Opponents of affirmative action have rallied around SFFA’s case. Earlier this month, more than 80 Republican lawmakers signed onto an amicus brief asking the court to end the use of race in admissions.
Harvey C. Mansfield Jr. ’53, a Government professor at Harvard, said overruling affirmative action is “long overdue,” adding that the policy is “insulting” and “underhanded.”
“You pretend that people have merit,” Mansfield said. “It fundamentally denies equality, while pretending to promote it.”
But others — including Harvard — say universities should be able to consider race as a factor in admissions in order to promote diversity.
David Hinojosa, director of the Education Opportunities Project at the Lawyers’ Committee for Civil Rights Under Law, said the SFFA’s lawsuits aim to return college admissions to outdated methods.
“We’re confident — if the court decides to follow precedent and decides to follow with the spirit of the Constitution’s Equal Protection Clause — that race-conscious diversities and the compelling interest in diversity will be upheld,” Hinojosa said, referring to the Constitution’s 14th Amendment.
Peter F. Lake ’81, a professor of law at Stetson University, said he finds “tremendous historical irony” in the Supreme Court moving toward originalism and textualism — interpreting the Constitution as it was written and intended by its framers — but choosing to act in a way the authors “wouldn’t have tolerated” by telling Harvard how to conduct admissions.
“The idea that the federal government could tell the Harvard Corporation in 1787 how to run its admissions? That’s exactly why the First Amendment was there in the first place,” Lake said.
Shaw said the conservative composition of the court will make opportunities for African American and Latinx students less available.
“That’s what SFFA wants,” Shaw said. “They are opposed to any efforts that end up protecting opportunities for Black and Brown people, whether it’s in higher education or in political participation.”
In an emailed statement, SFFA President Edward J. Blum contended that many Black and Hispanic people oppose policies allowing schools to consider race as a factor in admissions, citing surveys conducted by the Pew Research Center.
A 2022 Pew study found that 59 percent of Black people said race should not be considered as a factor in college admissions — down from 62 percent in 2019. Other public opinion polls have shown, though, that Black people broadly support affirmative action in large numbers: A 2018 Gallup survey found that 72 percent of Black respondents support affirmative action for minorities.
“Those who advocate for the continuation of race as an admissions factor are working against the convictions and preferences of blacks and Hispanics,” Blum wrote.
While 15 legal and admissions experts said in interviews with The Crimson this month that the Supreme Court is likely to side with SFFA in the fall, few were sure of how Harvard’s admissions process would transform as a result.
Vinay Harpalani, a law professor at the University of New Mexico, said elite private schools like Harvard may soon enter “uncharted territory” by being unable to consider race in admissions for the first time in history.
In a brief filed with the Supreme Court in opposition of SFFA’s case, Harvard said diversity enabled by race-conscious admissions promotes a “more robust academic environment.” Many experts suggested that if affirmative action is outlawed, Harvard could more heavily consider other factors in admissions, such as geography or socioeconomic status.
“They can emphasize admitting students for whom English is a second language, and that will increase diversity in a variety of ways in terms of ethnicity and national origin,” said David B. Oppenheimer, a law professor at the University of California, Berkeley. “Because most of the United States is very, very segregated residentially, geographic diversity can be a tool to increase racial diversity.”
Joshua S. Wyner, the executive director at Aspen College Excellence Program, said Harvard could bolster transfer programs from community colleges and admit more veterans in an effort to maintain diversity.
Darnell Hunt, the dean of Social Sciences at UCLA, said high school conditions — a factor that UCLA and Berkeley consider in admissions — can serve as a proxy for race.
“Students who do really, really well in under-resourced high schools and have overcome all kinds of barriers are going to get a bump in the process,” he said. “The theory is that if they have the tenacity and the stick-to-it-ness to achieve in that environment, … at a UCLA or a Berkeley, they’re going to thrive — and in fact, that’s what we found.”
Still, experts maintained that no other factor is as effective as race in achieving racial diversity in admissions.
“The reason that universities have considered race for so long is that they’ve looked at many factors, and there are not good replacements,” said Kimberly J. Robinson, a professor of law and education at the University of Virginia. “These are all going to be imperfect alternatives.”
Other scholars say colleges should not consider demographics at all in admissions. Harvard Law professor emeritus Alan M. Dershowitz advocated for a “totally non-discriminatory” and “purely meritocratic” admissions system without preference for factors that are currently weighted in admission, such as legacy status, athletic ability, gender, or race.
“I believe that a purely meritocratic method of admission will result in diversity,” Dershowitz said. “The time has come to understand that the role of the university is academic. And that meritocracy has suffered enormously by artificial efforts at superficial diversity.”
Harvard College spokesperson Rachael Dane declined to comment for this story, saying the school “will not speculate.”
Though the Supreme Court’s ruling could strike down the use of race as a factor in admissions nationwide, nine states — Arizona, California, Florida, Idaho, Michigan, Nebraska, New Hampshire, Oklahoma, and Washington — already bar race-based affirmative action.
In California, residents voted to eliminate affirmative action in 1996 on Proposition 209, a decision upheld by voters again in 2020. According to Shaw, Black student enrollment at UCLA and Berkeley “never quite recovered” after Proposition 209 passed, banning race as a consideration in public school admissions. At these schools, the enrollment numbers for African American and Latinx students have not risen to pre-1996 levels, but minority enrollment is rising again at less selective California state schools.
Hinojosa said many universities, including California’s public colleges, “still struggle” with enrolling underrepresented minorities.
Of the students admitted to Harvard’s incoming Class of 2026, 15.5 percent are African American and 12.6 percent are Latinx. Experts say they would anticipate those numbers to decrease — similar to UC Berkeley — if the Supreme Court rules in favor of SFFA.
During a 2019 trial in federal court, both Harvard and SFFA hired economists to simulate what the racial composition of Harvard College’s Class of 2019 would have been if the school eliminated the consideration of race as a factor in its admissions process.
Both simulations showed that the number of Black students at Harvard would decrease by more than half, enrollment of Latinx students would decrease by almost a third, and Asian American enrollment would increase by nearly 30 percent.
Harpalani, the UNM professor, said resources that Harvard and other selective private institutions have at their disposal give the schools a greater opportunity to enhance diversity compared to most public schools in states where the use of race is banned.
“They’re not constrained by other state policies in terms of where they draw their students from,” he said. “They have the resources to do a lot of things that other universities may not.”
On Harvard’s campus, students said they are fearful of the potential impact of the Supreme Court’s decision in the SFFA case. Some leaders of cultural and ethnic organizations on campus are concerned that the loss of affirmative action would mean unequal access to education and decreased diversity on campus.
John S. Cooke ’25, who serves on the board of the Harvard Black Men’s Forum, said using race as a factor in admissions allows for a more “equitable admissions process.”
“I’m fearful that future generations of Harvard students — or students at whatever university — will not have their full stories heard,” Cooke said. “Being of a disadvantaged community, of a minority community — obviously, there’s certain disadvantages that go into that that aren’t exactly brought to light just by looking at a student’s grades or their scores.”
Thuong Quynh “Alexandria” Ho ’24, co-president of Harvard Asian American Women’s Association, said AAWA and other cultural organizations at Harvard will continue advocating for campus diversity, even if the Supreme Court bans race-based affirmative action.
“The way the media portray it is like an issue of Asian Americans versus other ethnic groups, but I want to show people that the solidarity is there,” Ho said. “It’s not just ‘us against them.’ It’s us against these racist efforts that want to hurt diversity.”
Cooke said he believes affinity groups, especially for Black and Latinx students, will become “a lot more important” for students of those identities if the Supreme Court rules against Harvard’s race-conscious admissions.
“The support that both groups can provide will be really beneficial, especially in a community where maybe one in 10 of the students in your classes have the same background as you,” Cooke said.
Kaitlyn Tsai ’25, AAWA’s other co-president, said the potential decrease in the acceptance of Black and Latinx students would make diversity efforts on campus more difficult.
“Without their voices, it is not very likely that a campus that is more dominated by white students will be as aggressive about promoting diversity,” said Tsai, a Crimson Magazine editor.
Jane Sujen Bock ’81, who serves on the board of the Coalition for a Diverse Harvard — an alumni organization dedicated to improving diversity and inclusion at the University — wrote in an email that Harvard must increase curricular diversity offerings in the face of the affirmative action suit.
“With the rise of voter suppression, white supremacy, educational censorship, LGBTQ opppression, abortion restrictions, and hate crimes, Harvard must focus not only on student and faculty diversity but on curricular offerings like Ethnic Studies and community engagement experiences that will educate leaders who can bring us together,” Bock wrote.
Some students said they fear that a ban on affirmative action will have broader cultural implications on campus.
“This entire campus is filled with diversity,” said Ali A. Makani ’24, the co-president of Harvard’s South Asian Association. “To threaten that and to question that really throws off the entire campus culture that we’ve cultivated here.”
—Staff writer Rahem D. Hamid can be reached at rahem.hamid@thecrimson.com.
​​—Staff writer Vivi E. Lu can be reached at vivi.lu@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @vivielu_.
Sections
Across the Charles River from Cambridge lie Allston and Brighton, neighborhoods that tens of thousands of families, artists, and immigrants call home. Among residents, Allston-Brighton is known as “welcoming,” “diverse,” and “resilient.”
Among Harvard students, the area is primarily known as an extension of the University’s campus, with landmarks such as the Harvard Athletics Complex, Harvard Business School, and the $1 billion Science and Engineering Complex. This perception is not necessarily inaccurate; in total, the University owns around one-third of the land in Allston, making it the largest landholder in the neighborhood.
In the late 1980s, the University began covertly acquiring land through an agent, amounting to 52.6 acres of land anonymously purchased over the span of eight years. Today, after several additional explicit purchases in the intervening decades, Harvard and its subsidiaries own roughly 360 acres of land in Allston.
Harvard’s envisioned future for Allston is a “campus for the next century,” according to its 2013 Institutional Master Plan. In addition to the recently built SEC, Harvard’s plans include a residential unit at 180 Western Ave. and the much-anticipated Enterprise Research Campus, a 900,000 square foot mixed-use development which has drawn criticism from some residents.
Harvard believes that its presence in Allston has led to many “direct benefits” to residents, such as “new parks, open spaces, robust programming, and affordable housing preservation and creation,” amounting to more than $70 million, according to an emailed statement from University spokesperson Brigid O’Rourke. Just last week, University President Lawrence S. Bacow presented the 14th annual $100,000 donation from the Harvard Allston Partnership Fund to local nonprofits.
Residents have praised initiatives like the Harvard Ed Portal, which provides educational programs to children and adults living in the neighborhood, and the Harvard-Allston Task Force, an advisory group for Harvard’s Allston developments consisting of both residents and University members. But they have also voiced concern over Harvard’s rapid expansion, claiming that the University has not involved residents in the planning process enough.
Allston-Brighton residents also struggle with other key issues, chief among them a shortage of affordable housing and an increase in rent prices.
This piece profiles five residents from Allston and Brighton who are actively dealing with these challenges and envisioning a better future for their neighborhoods. They provide a snapshot of the character of Allston-Brighton, the lives of the people within it — and the way those lives are changing.
As Mary E. Larosee spoke about her childhood in Brighton, where her family has lived for five generations, she said an excited hello to her mailman, a testament to how embedded she is into her neighborhood.
In the ’60s and ’70s, when Allston-Brighton was less densely populated, the neighborhood felt like a “smaller world,” one in which no one ventured far outside their immediate surroundings, according to Larosee. Larosee has enjoyed seeing Allston-Brighton expand and diversify and stated that “change is always good.”
She said that the people are her favorite part about the neighborhood — from those who stop by to talk to her when she’s sitting on her porch, to her immigrant neighbors from South Asia, to the five-year-old living next door who calls her “Auntie Mary.”
“I attend a lot of meetings and I know a lot of people because no matter if it’s a small community or a large community, I’m going to be part of the community and get to know people, because that’s who I am and how I am,” she said.
But Larosee worries about the future of Allston-Brighton when it comes to the area’s affordability. Larosee said that her own two children, now adults, are not able to live in Allston-Brighton because it is “way too expensive.”
According to the Boston Globe, median home sale values increased by about nine percent between 2019 and 2021 in Allston, and by 12 percent in Brighton. The median price for a house in Allston and Brighton in 2021 was around $850,000.
Larosee secured her house through a lottery for an affordable housing unit. She explained that her income fortunately fell within the “very narrow window” that was required to enter the lottery; “it couldn’t be too high and couldn’t be too low,” she said.
In addition to the lack of affordable housing, Larosee also expressed concern about Harvard’s planned developments. She said she is uncertain about what the changes in her neighborhood will look like, claiming that the University’s “lack of communication” has left her in the dark.
Meanwhile, the University contends that there are several points of access for Allston-Brighton residents to connect with Harvard.
“From formal public meetings, to more casual coffee hours, to impromptu check-ins, there are dozens of ongoing ways and opportunities for Harvard and Allston residents to engage on a variety of subjects,” O’Rourke wrote.
Larosee’s home is right off Western Avenue, an area surrounded by more than two dozen Harvard properties. From her house, Larosee can see the fencing that the University has put up in preparation for its forthcoming developments, a signal of the change looming ahead.
After serving in World War II, Anthony P. “Tony” D’Isidoro’s father got married and moved to Allston, eventually purchasing a home with aid from the 1944 G.I. Bill. When D’Isidoro was growing up in Allston, the neighborhood was still affordable and familial, a town where “everybody knew everybody,” he said.
By contrast, D’Isidoro’s description of Allston today emphasized the gentrification of the neighborhood, the housing crisis, and the strain on the public school system. D’Isidoro facilitates conversations about such issues as the president of the Allston Civic Association, a group which provides public forums for Allston-Brighton residents.
As a member of the Harvard-Allston Task Force, D’Isidoro is heavily involved in discussions about Harvard’s expansion and acknowledges both the University’s successes and its failures throughout Allston’s history.
While he lauded efforts such as the Ed Portal, he argued that, at times, Harvard has acted like a “real estate development company” more than a university.
“We’ve been through a lot of traumatic events in our community,” he said, citing Harvard’s secret purchase of land in the late ’80s as as an event “indelibly written” on every Allstonian’s mind.
“The feeling of the Harvard presence is that it’s not one of accountability and transparency right now. If you want to build trust between the community and the institution, the ingredients for that certainly aren’t in place,” he said.
For the University’s part, it provides a point-person to facilitate relations and communication with Allston-Brighton residents. Though D’Isidoro said the representative is a “great guy,” he called on Harvard to give residents the opportunity to speak to a more senior member of the administration rather than a “messenger.” He characterized the choice not to do so as a “deliberate strategy.”
“It is just very exclusive, very condescending,” he said. “It’s almost like ‘Hey, we work with governors and mayors, we don’t work with you.’”
To D’Isidoro, Allston is more than just “physical buildings or campuses.” It is a neighborhood of living and working people trying to raise their families and “make ends meet.”
“To me, this is home,” said D’Isidoro. “Whether I can stay here forever, who knows. That will be seen. But it really feels like home.”
When Siobhan McHugh traveled from Ireland to Brighton in 1989, she was supposed to only stay for her two-week summer vacation. But she unexpectedly found herself in a “home away from home,” surrounded by enclaves of immigrants within a familial neighborhood. At the end of the two weeks, McHugh extended her stay and has been living in Brighton ever since.
“I felt so welcomed here, and not just by the Irish community. By every community,” she said.
McHugh raised her two children in Brighton and currently runs a family child care service at her house. When she moved to Allston-Brighton, she said that the neighborhood was made up of mostly families. But according to her, those families started moving away a decade ago due to their inability to afford the cost of living in the area.
“Our little league, our hockey teams, soccer teams — the numbers have halved in the last 10 years of kids and families playing sports. Families just aren’t here anymore,” McHugh said.
Even the neighborhood’s affordable housing efforts aren’t enough to sustain the long-term residency of families. McHugh recounted her experience helping her friends look for affordable housing units and finding that they were too low-income to qualify for the low-income housing.
“What they’re calling affordable housing is not affordable housing,” she said.
From her hilltop home in Oak Square, McHugh has a view of her town, one that she said has changed dramatically since she started living there. Part of that change has to do with Harvard’s development in the past couple decades.
McHugh described Harvard’s land acquisition process as “sneaky,” a series of purchases that flew under the radar of many residents.
“Nobody was any the wiser really for a while [of] who was buying the houses,” McHugh said. To her, Harvard’s growing role in Allston-Brighton felt like an “invasion.”
“University representatives routinely participate in public meetings, which are just one of the many ways in which Harvard engages with the Allston-Brighton community to ensure local residents can get answers to outstanding questions, offer feedback and voice concerns,” O’Rourke wrote.
The changes in Allston remind McHugh of past developments in Harvard Square, which she described as a once “thriving” area for small businesses, many of which have since been replaced by chain stores. She said she worries that Allston may follow the same route.
But McHugh still feels optimistic about the integrity of the neighborhood’s residents as they encounter any unwelcome changes. “I don’t think anyone can argue, but we are fighters here in Allston-Brighton,” she said.
When Cindy Marchando moved to Allston in 2006, she found the neighborhood to be “intimate,” full of “mom-and-pop” style businesses. She had been living in the Boston area for around 16 years before then, having moved to the United States from her home country of Trinidad and Tobago in 1990.
As the chair of the Harvard-Allston Task Force, Marchando is familiar with the tensions between the University and Allston-Brighton residents. She has also had personal encounters with Harvard’s developments, including the construction of the Harvard Ed Portal, which happened directly behind her home. The experience was positive, according to Marchando.
“We were able to work together. [Harvard] got their project completed and the impact on the families that live here was minimal,” she said. “The days when they had to really disrupt our lives, they made accommodations for us to be able to not be as disrupted as we were.”
She described her next experience with Harvard as more negative. Marchando said that she faced physical damages to her home in 2014 during the construction of the Continuum, a luxury apartment building at Barry’s Corner built on land owned by the Harvard Allston Land Company.
Marchando claimed that while the contractor was pile-driving into the land, the vibrations shook her and her neighbors’ houses. She said that the University neglected her and other residents when they complained about the damages.
“[The construction company] kept putting us off and delaying while they kept shaking the home, and then when they were finished, then they decided to put in vibration monitors at our home to prove that we were lying,” she said.
As a result, Marchando said she had to reconstruct her whole front porch out of her own pocket. At the time, her husband was recovering from a heart attack, making her the only wage-earner in her home.
“I should not have to fight for a large university to stop destroying my home and then turn their backs on me and say, ‘Not our problem,’” Marchando said.
Though Marchando believes that “change helps us grow as a community,” she worries that future developments in the area will cause her to be displaced from her home.
When asked about her feelings about the future of Allston-Brighton, Marchando said: “I’m excited, but petrified.”
Ellen L. Krause-Grosman loves Allston-Brighton. She loves Chandler Pond, she loves Johnny D’s Fruit and Produce shop, and she loves her neighborhood’s Jewish community.
Krause-Grosman first moved to the Greater Boston area in 1990 and has been living in Brighton for the past 22 years. Now, she serves as a member of the Coalition for a Just Allston and Brighton, a group of residents, local organizations, and elected officials which advocates for the neighborhood.
One of the challenges Krause-Grosman sees in Allston-Brighton is its unaffordability which she said makes no one but the “two-income, serious professional family” able to provide a down payment on a house.
Although Krause-Grosman owns a two-family home, she makes extra income by renting out two rooms of her own unit to international students and renting out the other unit entirely.
During their time living there, her family has rented to more than 60 international students from 20 different countries.
On the bright side, Krause-Grosman said, “I’m an extrovert and my kids had this very interesting upbringing with us.”
On the other hand, she said, “you would look at it and say, I’m 54 years old and I still have housemates.”
The inflation of real estate prices are significantly driving up the number of housing developments in Allston-Brighton, making for a “financially extractive development model” in the neighborhood, according to Krause-Grosman.
Yet, she said she is “deeply not an anti-development person.”
“I like change. I like new. I stand at the edge of construction sites and I’m like, ‘Oh my god, that’s cool. That’s just so cool.’ But it’s about development that has a vision to it,” said Krause-Grosman.
But according to her, the current state of development in the area lacks a clear purpose.
“Uncontrolled growth is cancer,” she said. “Those are cells going out of control in places where they ought not to be.”
In addition to being a Brighton resident, Krause-Grosman is also a Harvard alumna, having attended the Graduate School of Education. She brings her unique perspective as a former Harvard student into her understanding of the changing fabric of Allston-Brighton.
“Last September, I got a letter from Larry Bacow that went to all the Harvard alums about all of the green and sustainable ‘save the Earth’ stuff that Harvard was doing and their important impact in the world,” she said. “And there was not a word or a line about anything in Cambridge or Boston.”
Krause-Grosman calls on the University to focus their efforts locally, too.
Even in the face of what she said are “serious challenges” between Harvard and Allston-Brighton residents, Krause-Grosman remains hopeful for a future where both parties will successfully collaborate.
“Let’s take it on together and let’s do something that’s worthy of replicating in other places,” she said.
—Staff writer Michal Goldstein can be reached at michal.goldstein@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @bymgoldstein.
When Ruth M. Moscovitch ’69 began her undergraduate studies at Radcliffe College, she was promised a Harvard education, but not the same experience as her male peers.
Standing as the counterpart of Harvard College, Radcliffe enabled female students to receive a prestigious education in the 1950s and 1960s, but excluded them from Harvard’s residential houses, libraries, and athletic centers. Radcliffe women also had to make the lengthy trek between the Radcliffe Quadrangle, also known as the “Quad,” and the Yard to attend classes.
“We were admitted to Radcliffe under the terms that then existed, which was [to] give women a Harvard education, but not make them equal recipients of all that Harvard had to offer,” Moscovitch said. “That was never part of the package.”
The student divide started to narrow in March 1969, when the Harvard Corporation — the University’s highest governing body — began a merging process to end nearly a century of separation between the two colleges.
Still, many inequities persisted for decades, and the two colleges were not completely integrated until 1999, according to the College’s website.
A milestone piece of legislation signed into law in June 1972 by then-President Richard Nixon, Title IX began the process of bridging the gap between male and female students at Harvard and other higher education institutions.
“No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance,” the statute reads.
These 37 words transformed higher education over the past 50 years, paving the way for female athletics, sexual harrassment policies, and much more. Despite this progress, however, alumni, legal scholars, and activists alike agree the work surrounding gender equity remains unfinished.
“No one ever even dreamed” that female athletes — even high-performing, three-sport high school varsity athletes like Eleanor T. Hobbs ’69 — could be recruited or succeed in collegiate sports.
Despite her achievements in sports, Hobbs said her athletic endeavors never arose in her Radcliffe admission interview.
“It was only the academic part that counted,” Hobbs said.
According to Hobbs, “there really wasn’t much in the way of sports” at Radcliffe College, where informal intramural athletic programs were the only option for female athletes.
“It was very amateur,” Hobbs said. “​​It was like, well, we’re going to play with Wellesley on Thursday, if we can get enough people to come to the game to play.”
“There were no financial arrangements for athletes at all,” she added. “It was all done for the love of sport.”
Despite making no explicit reference to athletics, Title IX laid the foundation for gender equality in college sports, according to Harvard Law School professor Janet Halley.
“When I was a kid, the idea of a woman athlete — what?” she said, reflecting the incredulity of the idea pre-Title IX. “And now, women athletes are all over the place, so that’s a vast change.”
By 2021, the number of female collegiate athletes had increased by nearly 170,000 since the enactment of Title IX in 1972.
In an email, Harvard Athletics Director Erin McDermott lauded the “significant increase in the opportunities for girls and women in sports, both on our campus and nationally.”
For law professor and HLS masters student Dionne L. Koller, the “incredibly effective” impact of Title IX also stems from the normalization of female athletes.
“We definitely have sort of normalized that,” Koller said of female athletics. “We don’t sort of look askance — question whether it’s going to harm women’s fertility, whether girls don’t belong playing sports.”
Despite Title IX’s success, Koller said she cautions against losing sight of “persistent inequities” in athletics, including disproportionate male participation rates and the cutting of women’s athletic programs.
Koller described Title IX as “single access,” meaning it only mandates sex equality, without considering an “intersectional approach” that takes racial disparities into account.
“We need to celebrate where we’ve come, but we need to take stock of the things we need to do,” she added.
While Title IX and discrimination attorney Naomi R. Shatz recognizes the significance of Title IX to female athletics, she added “there is a lot more to Title IX.”
Shatz noted the growing awareness of the statute’s prohibition of sexual assault, sexual harassment, and discrimination against pregnant persons.
“If I were to ask folks, probably 10 years ago, when I was practicing law, what do you think of when you speak to Title IX, they would say athletics,” Title IX Coordinator Nicole M. Merhill said. “Now, when I ask about Title IX, people speak of the issue of sexual harassment and sexual assault.”
According to Merhill, between 2013 and 2019, the number of disclosures reported to the Title IX Office more than doubled, which she attributes to Harvard’s separation of its Title IX Office and Office of Dispute Resolution in 2017. In 2018 alone, the Title IX Office saw a 56 percent increase in sexual and gender-based harassment disclosures in the wake of the #MeToo movement.
“It’s not an increase in the number of incidents happening,” Merhill said. “It’s an increase in the number of people who feel empowered to share their concerns and seek out resources.”
Still, Merhill said she believes Title IX has a long road ahead despite the strides it has made in the past several years.
“Have we made progress within Harvard and beyond? Certainly. Is there a long way to go? Absolutely. Is Harvard committed to this area of work? Without a doubt,” she added.
Harvard has made an array of Title IX reforms in recent years, but many students on campus remain skeptical of the school’s support for survivors of sexual misconduct.
Our Harvard Can Do Better — a student activist group working to end sexual violence at Harvard — has said Harvard has not done enough for its students historically.
“I don’t think that the school has this robust history of trying to make Title IX policies the best they can be for keeping our community safe,” said William M. Sutton ’23, an organizer with Our Harvard Can Do Better.
Two undergraduates — at least one of whom was a member of Our Harvard Can Do Better — filed a complaint with the U.S. Department of Education’s Office of Civil Rights in March 2014 that led the agency to open an investigation into the College’s sexual misconduct policies and procedures.
In 2014, as the investigation was ongoing, Harvard overhauled its Title IX policies to establish a central office to handle cases of sexual assault and harassment and enacted a “preponderance of the evidence” standard, which generally requires more than 50 percent certainty to determine guilt.
The new set of policies remained a contentious issue on campus, with undergraduates calling for increased clarity and transparency. Three months after the overhaul, a group of 28 faculty members at Harvard Law School published an open letter in The Boston Globe criticizing the new policies for being “stacked against the accused.”
In 2017, Harvard reformed its Title IX Office by breaking it into two distinct units: one that investigates sexual misconduct complaints — the Office for Dispute Resolution — and another to provide Title IX support, training, and resources, the Title IX office.
In March 2021, the office underwent another major change when it merged with the Office for Sexual Assault Prevention and Response to form the current Office of Gender Equity.
According to Merhill, the merger was initiated to “create a single space to streamline access to resources, to better communicate about the resources available, and expand on prevention and education efforts.”
Some students questioned the new office’s ability to provide a safe and welcoming environment for survivors.
“It’s very important that we separate survivors’ support from the processes that make determinations,” said Harvard Graduate Student Union-United Automobile Workers President Koby D. Ljunggren. “Ensuring that those folks feel safe to go to a survivor-centered location on campus — that not only requires spatial separation, but also institutional separation.”
The OGE is not involved in conducting or resolving investigations, which are the responsibilities of the ODR. Within the OGE, counselors are confidential and do not share information they receive with the rest of the office staff.
University spokesperson Jason A. Newton declined to comment.
In March 2021, President Joe Biden announced that his administration would begin an expansive review of all policies on gender discrimination and reverse many controversial Trump-era rules related to sexual misconduct.
In 2020, then-U.S. Secretary of Education Betsy DeVos released a Title IX rule — now expected to change under the Biden administration — that altered the definition of sexual misconduct to “unwelcome conduct that is so severe, pervasive, and objectively offensive.” The rule also stipulated that for a complaint to be addressed, the incident must have taken place on campus, or in a location or event over which the institution has “substantial control.”
Some activists, including sexual violence prevention non-profit executive Tracey E. Vitchers, view an update to Title IX federal regulations as an opportunity to reduce the heavy “clear and convincing” evidentiary standard which Trump-era regulations allowed universities to adopt when investigating sexual misconduct.
According to Vitchers, the current evidentiary standards are both out of line with those of other forms of misconduct and reflect the notion that women cannot be trusted to report sexual violence honestly.
But other legal experts worry that the Biden administration will remove some Trump-era regulations that provided individuals with greater protections under sexual harrassment allegations.
“I am very concerned that the Biden Administration may revoke Trump-era rules that provided greater due process protections to those accused of sexual harassment,” HLS professor Elizabeth Bartholet wrote in an emailed statement.
“We need rules that provide fairness both to those charging sexual harassment and those accused of it, and in this connection, the Trump Administration made a major improvement,” she wrote.
Merhill declined to forecast any upcoming changes, but stated that she remains committed to addressing more than the minimum requirements of any new regulations.
“Regardless of what comes out of the regulation, we will ensure that we comply with the regulation,” Merhill said. “I, individually and collectively as the Director of the Office for Gender Equity, am committed to go well beyond the minimum requirements of the Title IX regulation.”
“My hope is that we’ll continue our emphasis on, focus on, effecting change within our culture and climate here at Harvard,” she added. “A proactive approach to truly dedicating our efforts to improving culture and climate for all community members.”
—Staff writer James R. Jolin can be reached at james.jolin@thecrimson.com.
—Staff writer Mayesha R. Soshi can be reached at mayesha.soshi@thecrimson.com.
If there is a refrain in local Cambridge politics, it is the phrase “affordable housing.”
In the thick of Cambridge’s city manager search, residents have said time and time again that affordable housing is the city’s preeminent concern. All nine city councilors’ campaign platforms list affordable housing among their top priorities. During mid-May hearings on the city’s 2023 budget, funding for affordable housing emerged as a key point of deliberation.
According to the Community Development Department, in 2021, Cambridge contained about 57,500 homes. Of these, around 8,500, or about 15 percent, are considered income-restricted housing.
And the waitlist for these affordable homes? More than 20,000 names long.
How did Cambridge get here?
When asked about the housing application process through the Cambridge Housing Authority, James G. Stockard Jr., a former Housing Authority board member of about 40 years, smiled slightly.
Then, leaning back in his chair in the outdoor courtyard behind the Harvard University Graduate School of Design — where Stockard serves as a lecturer in urban planning and design — he fell silent for nearly ten seconds.
Finally, he said, “it’s like that.”
After an applicant meets preliminary qualifications for CHA housing — a quick intake process, according to Stockard — “you have a number. And you wait, and you wait, and you wait.”
The waiting list, Stockard said, is “certainly measured in years.”
Of the names on the waitlist, Michael J. Johnston, executive director of the Cambridge Housing Authority, estimated that about 6,000 live or work in Cambridge.
Eligibility for affordable housing is calculated as a percent of the median income in a given area. In Cambridge, the maximum eligible income for the federal Section Eight voucher program — vouchers given to low-income, elderly, and disabled individuals that subsidize private-market housing options — is half of the city’s median income. This maximum ranges from $49,100 for a one-person household to $70,100 for a family of four.
City Councilor and former Mayor Marc C. McGovern said people who apply for affordable housing are often misunderstood or thought of as a “mysterious group,” in some cases reflecting racist or classist stereotypes.
“There’s a lot of stigma,” McGovern said. “You’re talking about a teacher, or a social worker, or a nurse, or an office manager.”
Rebecca M. Schofield, co-chair of the board of directors for A Better Cambridge, a housing advocacy group, argued that the actual demand for affordable housing in Cambridge cannot be quantified solely by the CHA waitlist, as many residents do not realize that they are even eligible to apply.
In addition to the income threshold, policymakers frequently define housing as “affordable” if rent lands at or below 30 percent of a tenant’s income. But Schofield noted that many Cambridge affordable housing residents are considered “rent-burdened,” meaning that their rent exceeds this 30 percent limit.
“A lot of people in Cambridge pay half their income, 60, 70, [or] more percent of their income towards housing only, which definitely indicates how crunched we are,” Schofield said.
For those in exceptional situations — for instance, victims of domestic abuse — there is an expedited process to cut the waitlist line, though Stockard described its eligibility criteria as “extremely narrow.”
Johnston described repeatedly having a “very difficult conversation” with housing applicants who he said did not qualify for emergency status.
“You actually have to sit there and tell them, ‘your situation doesn’t meet the criteria in a way that I can jump you ahead of all the people that have already applied,’” he said.
Stockard said that determining which criteria constitute a housing emergency was “heartbreaking.”
“You could pretty much argue any family who’s applying for housing at the Cambridge Housing Authority has got something that many of us would consider to be an emergency in their lives,” Stockard said.
McGovern described the experience of one resident he spoke to during his tenure as mayor. A woman and her three children came to visit McGovern’s office after her husband — whom she had been taking care of after his cancer diagnosis — recently died. With her landlord raising rent, the woman, whose children all attended Cambridge Public Schools, could no longer afford to stay.
“I have her crying, the three kids crying, begging me to find them a three-bedroom unit that they could afford in Cambridge and I couldn’t do it,” McGovern said. “I never want to sit across the table from somebody in that situation and say, ‘I can’t help you.”
For the fortunate individuals and families who successfully find affordable housing in Cambridge off the waitlist, McGovern called the experience “life-changing” and “powerful.”
“A lot of things fall into place when you have that housing security,” he said.
Johnston said the one resident who “has always stuck out in [his] mind” was a Korean War veteran who was given a housing voucher after long-term homelessness. Several months after being housed, the resident’s son called Johnston to share that his father had died.
“He passed away in his own bed, in his own apartment,” Johnston said. “[His son] wanted me to know how much that meant to his dad.”
To get people off the waitlist and into housing, the city will need to dramatically increase its supply of affordable units. When asked what the largest barriers to expanding this supply are, several advocates and policymakers pointed at the city’s own code of laws.
Cambridge, like nearly every other city in America, uses an extensive zoning code to regulate land use and development. All land in the city is classified as one of several zoning districts, each with its own permitted uses.
Beyond classifying property for various types of commercial, residential, and industrial uses, Cambridge’s zoning code also places limits on a building’s height, size, and density, and often requires developers to provide a minimum number of parking spaces or build a minimum distance from the street.
Many large developments or projects that need exceptions to certain zoning regulations require additional permission from either the Cambridge Planning Board or the Board of Zoning Appeal, which can be a lengthy and sometimes contentious process.
These barriers, City Councilor Burhan Azeem argues, mean that “we’ve made it illegal to build housing.”
Some areas in Cambridge — including most of the largely white and wealthy neighborhood of West Cambridge — are zoned to permit only single- or two-family housing. Azeem noted that many existing buildings with several units, such as the one he lives in, would not be permitted to develop under current-day regulations.
“I live in a triple-decker,” Azeem said. “If that triple-decker was hit by a meteor tomorrow, you would not be able to rebuild it as a triple-decker. It’s illegal. It would have to be built as a single-family home.”
Azeem also connected current zoning regulations to the racist historical practice of redlining, in which banks would deny loans to Black mortgage applicants in what white residents believed were more desirable neighborhoods, such as West Cambridge.
Now, many of the city’s dedicated affordable housing developments are located in areas once marked as least desirable during the 1930s, when Cambridge was first redlined. Meanwhile, West Cambridge contains next to none.
“Why is it that five minutes from one of the biggest T stations we have mansions that are extremely expensive and cost millions of dollars when they could be affordable apartments?” Azeem said, referring to the Harvard Square T station. “We have explicitly racist policies that did that.”
Azeem said that the city should “dramatically upzone” the area to allow for denser residential development.
Cambridge’s flagship attempt at making zoning regulations more amenable to affordable housing came in the 100 Percent Affordable Housing Overlay, an amendment to the city’s zoning code passed by the City Council in October 2020.
The AHO facilitates the process of building affordable housing by relaxing certain zoning restrictions and expanding maximum height and density caps for developments. If the proposed building meets a set of design standards and every unit is affordable, the city is required to approve its construction.
The City of Cambridge and Homeowner’s Rehabilitation, Inc., a nonprofit affordable housing developer, recently announced its purchase of a Lesley University building along Massachusetts Avenue, which will be converted into affordable housing.
The building itself may only support four units, according to HRI project manager Eleni T. C. Macrakis. She said the nonprofit is considering constructing more units in the building’s parking lot, a prospect made possible by the AHO.
“Now, with the Affordable Housing Overlay, there’s a lot of opportunity there,” Macrakis said.
Still, the AHO is no panacea for Cambridge’s housing waitlist.
Lee Farris, the president of the Cambridge Residents Alliance, a neighborhood advocacy group, argued the AHO has failed to promote development in areas of the city that do not already have abundant affordable housing.
“The idea, as the city pitched it, was to get more affordable housing into the neighborhoods who don’t have it,” Farris said. “However, the way that the Affordable Housing Overlay has turned out so far, is that developers are, in most cases, simply adding new buildings to affordable housing developments that already exist.”
Of the five projects currently being developed under the AHO, three — Jefferson Park Federal, Walden Square Apartments, and 116 Norfolk Street — are renovations or expansions of existing affordable developments.
“The only way you can really benefit from [the AHO] is if you own the land already,” Azeem said.
Zoning regulations are not the only challenge plaguing affordable housing developers and preventing the waitlist from shrinking. Even with zoning regulations relaxed through the AHO, Johnston described searching for new sites for affordable development as “almost impossible.”
“That’s why I have gray hair,” Johnston said.
The Housing Authority and nonprofits like HRI compete with private developers for scarce and expensive Cambridge property. These developers, who often build offices, laboratories, or market-rate housing, have a massive financial advantage over the nonprofits.
“Developing market-rate housing in Cambridge,” Stockard said, “is pretty much like getting a money-minting machine in your basement.”
Cambridge has steadily increased its financial support for the Affordable Housing Trust Fund, a public fund for affordable development. The proposed city budget for the 2023 fiscal year allocates more than $38 million to the trust, a $6 million increase from 2022.
Azeem called for further increases, saying the city should aim to fund the construction of 250 affordable units each year.
In the coming weeks, Azeem said the Council was likely to increase linkage fees — a per-square-foot fee paid to the trust by market-rate developers — over the current fee of about $20 per square foot.
Although affordable developers and city policymakers commended initiatives like the AHO and the trust, they acknowledged that a considerable share of funding for affordable housing comes from the state of Massachusetts or the federal government. Many said that their efforts were underfunded.
“Please don’t tell me there’s no money,” Stockard said. “There’s plenty of money. The Congress just doesn’t care about poor people.”
Stockard credited the creativity of the city and the CHA in finding workarounds for additional funding and resources. One solution, he said, was the CHA’s establishment of three nonprofit organizations, which are controlled by the CHA, but can take advantage of loans and tax credits for affordable development that a government agency cannot.
“We’ve kept trying to increase the number of homes we have, by hook or by crook,” Stockard said.
As much as Cambridge’s local efforts to promote affordable development are commendable, Johnston said, the housing crisis is a regional, if not national, issue. He called on state and federal lawmakers to develop a comprehensive plan to fight the crisis.
“There’s no way we can house 21,000 people,” Johnston said. “The list is going to grow unless the country, and even state government, can start putting together a roadmap on how are we going to fix this.”
—Staff writer Katerina V. Corr can be reached at katerina.corr@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @KaterinaCorr.
—Staff writer Elias J. Schisgall can be reached at elias.schisgall@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @eschisgall.
In 2019, a high school student checking off the list of requirements for their college application may have needed to sharpen their number two pencils in preparation for the SAT.
Three pandemic-defined years later, colleges across the United States are reconsidering their longstanding standardized testing requirements.
Harvard — alongside many of its peer institutions — lifted its undergraduate testing requirements for the duration of the pandemic, and the College announced last December that it will extend its test-optional policy for at least the next four years.
Graduate schools are taking a similar route.
At Harvard’s Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, just 24 of 76 degree programs required applicants in 2021 to submit scores for the GRE — the standardized test that has historically been required by graduate schools.
Many programs within the University’s other graduate schools — including the Harvard Divinity School, Harvard Graduate School of Education, and the Harvard School of Public Health — have also removed their GRE requirement for the upcoming application cycle.
As graduate schools ponder the future of standardized testing in their admissions process, some students, administrators, and higher education experts argue that testing requirements impose financial and logistical hurdles that limit the diversity of applicant pools.
“It’s been proven that relaxing the test requirement removes a barrier [and] increases applications from underrepresented students, and that’s a good thing,” Jay Rosner, an admissions test expert, said. “What remains to be seen is things like how long test-optional lasts — how long test-free lasts.”
At GSAS, the shift away from standardized testing began when the school removed its GRE general exam requirement in the spring of 2017.
GSAS spokesperson Ann Hall wrote in an email that the school made the change following an inquiry from the Astronomy department “about the validity of the GRE General Test as a tool for measuring PhD student success.”
The decision allowed each department to decide whether it would require or allow applicants to submit GRE scores. Previously, applicants to any degree program were required to submit GRE general exam scores, while subject test requirements varied by program.
The Astronomy department subsequently lifted its testing requirement, becoming the first Harvard department to do so. Since the 2018-2019 admissions cycle, the department has not accepted GRE general exam scores.
David B. Charbonneau, who serves as the department’s chair of admissions, said concerns about the high cost of the exam and the ability of international applicants to access tests played a role in the decision to eliminate the requirement.
“If you know only someone’s test score, the thing you can best predict actually is their race and gender,” he said. “Since we can just ask people about that without charging them any money, we thought there was no need to do that.”
Charbonneau added that following the decision, the department saw a “statistically significant” increase in applications from underrepresented minority students in the United States, as well as female international students.
Some GSAS faculty involved in graduate admissions for their departments similarly said they believe the information they garner from GRE scores can be determined from other components of the application.
David F. Elmer, department chair for the Classics department, said the writing sample required by his department gives him “much more confidence” in a candidate’s analytical and writing skills than the GRE. The submission of GRE general scores will be optional for Classics Ph.D. applicants for the first time this fall, in what Elmer described as a “trial” run.
“We’re going to see how it goes, evaluating these applications just on the basis of other components,” Elmer said. “They require a lot more care and consideration, but in some ways, they’re also a richer dataset.”
John A. Girash, director of graduate education at the School of Engineering and Applied Sciences, said undergraduate transcripts reveal “much more fine-grained information” about an applicant.
“The transcript tells us exactly what courses the applicant took and their grades,” Girash said. “The GRE doesn’t tell us that — if they get a low score, it tells us there’s something that they're missing, but it doesn’t tell us what.”
Since the Astronomy department led the shift away from standardized testing for Harvard’s graduate programs, several schools across the University have followed suit.
Currently, Harvard’s School of Public Health, School of Engineering and Applied Sciences, and Divinity School all do not require standardized test scores in applications to some master’s or Ph.D. programs. The GRE is optional for the HGSE’s master’s programs, but required for Ph.D. applicants.
Other schools at Harvard have moved to test-optional temporarily in light of the pandemic or have adopted varying standardized test policies by program.
As early as 2016, graduate programs nationwide began dropping GRE requirements, with the life sciences at the forefront of the movement. According to an analysis conducted by Science Magazine, 44 percent of molecular biology Ph.D. programs and approximately one-third of neuroscience and ecology programs stopped requiring GRE scores by 2018.
As part of a coalition nicknamed “GRExit,” scores of graduate students, activists, and professors from across the U.S. are pushing to eliminate GRE requirements.
Rosner pointed out that the willingness of several prestigious schools to forgo standardized tests has boosted public confidence in test-optional application processes.
“Moving away from the test implies to some people — wrongfully — that you’re lowering standards,” he said of common misgivings. “Now to make that argument, today, one is going to have to say that UCLA and Berkeley and Caltech are lowering standards by not requiring the test.”
University of Southern California Rossier School of Education professor Julie R. Posselt criticized the use of standardized tests, noting that the social identities of test-takers — and related stereotypes — can impact test performance.
“People earn significantly different scores based on whether the proctor of the exam is of the same social identity that they are as a test taker,” Posselt said.
She added that other considerations, such as grade point average, do not result in disparities across genders and racial groups. GPA is “more predictive of student success in the long-term than are GRE scores,” she added.
Mayank D. Kumar, an HDS student who was not required to submit scores, cited both test anxiety and Covid-19 as reasons for avoiding the GRE.
An international student from India, Kumar said the test disadvantages international students by asking them to analyze passages about American culture.
“A lot of people have issues with the cultural references — things like that — that are in the reading [and] writing sections that make it hard for people to do well,” he said. “But that doesn’t necessarily mean that they don’t have the competency to read and write well and think critically.”
Despite the growing popularity of test-optional admissions, many schools have yet to make the switch. For Harvard Law School, accreditation remains the deciding factor in setting its testing requirements.
The American Bar Association recently released its second memo in four years recommending law schools stop requiring students to submit LSAT scores. But schools wanting to maintain their ABA accreditation cannot make the change until the memo receives a vote of approval from the organization’s top council.
“The ABA still requires those tests,” admissions expert Anna Ivey said. “Law schools don’t have any choice.”
Harvard Law School moved to allow applicants to submit either the GRE or LSAT in 2017, following a 2016 study that demonstrated the two tests equally predicted academic performance at HLS.
Some experts argue that the objectivity of standardized test scores helps admissions officers compare candidates from different backgrounds.
Christopher F. Chabris ’88, a cognitive psychologist at Geisinger Health System, said he believes standardized testing allows admissions officers to find applicants whose scores make them “stand out” from their background, such as high school students who live in poor school districts but perform well on exams.
“People who talk about the unfairness of standardized tests don’t really think that there’s a fairness to standardized tests that can help a lot of people who wouldn’t, I think, be found and helped — at least not in any objective way,” he said.
Elizabeth M. “Betsy” Fawcett, an HGSE student who took the GRE in October 2020, also noted her “love-hate relationship” with standardized tests.
“On one hand, I know that they are not necessarily the best measures of a student’s ability to be successful in college,” she said. “But at the same time, data in education is really important for us to be able to measure if our systems are equitable, or they’re improving, or if they’re helping students achieve the outcomes that we want them to achieve.”
As schools grapple with the question of whether to eliminate or continue requiring standardized tests, higher education experts stress the importance of crafting application processes that promote equity in access to graduate education.
Joshua S. Wyner, the executive director of the Aspen Institute’s College Excellence Program, which aims to improve student outcomes, argued that calls for equitable access to education need to extend beyond the undergraduate level.
“If it takes a graduate degree to get into certain professions — and we know it does — then we need to focus on equity in graduate education, but we tend to stop with undergraduate degrees,” Wyner said.
Stella M. Flores, a professor at the University of Texas at Austin, said higher education institutions should focus on finding a better alternative to current tests rather than eliminating testing altogether.
“Getting rid of one doesn’t mean another one won’t come in its place,” she said. “If there’s going to be another form of assessment, can we make it more equitable?”
Wyner similarly called for schools to consider how they might use standardized tests to further goals of diversity, dismissing the idea that anti-test movements such as GRExit will provide a panacea to issues of accessibility.
“Standardized tests are a tool that can be used for good but also used for discrimination,” he said. “We act as though they’re inherently good or bad, when in fact, they are a tool and the question is, ‘What are you trying to accomplish with them?’”
“I worry quite a bit that we believe that if we eliminate a tool or use a tool, that it will get us all the way there,” Wyner added. “And the answer is it won’t.”
—Staff writer Alexander I. Fung can be reached at alexander.fung@thecrimson.com.
—Staff writer Paton D. Roberts can be reached at paton.roberts@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter at @paton_dr.
—Staff writer Eric Yan can be reached at eric.yan@thecrimson.com.
For more than 30 years, Section 117 of the Higher Education Act was one of the litany of obscure items in the United States federal code that was all but obsolete.
The provision, passed by Congress in 1986, requires American universities to disclose gifts and contracts from foreign sources that total more than $250,000 in a calendar year. But for years, the requirement was often ignored by federal officials and seldom understood by the schools responsible for the disclosures, rendering it to be largely toothless.
Universities handed over data about their foreign contributions only sparsely, and warnings from the government were few and far between. From 2014 to 2017, for instance, Yale did not report any foreign contributions.
That all changed in 2019.
In the final two years of Donald Trump’s administration, the federal government ramped up efforts to monitor how academia handles money it gets from abroad. The Department of Education launched high-profile investigations into 19 U.S. universities, including some of academia’s biggest names: Harvard, Yale, Stanford, MIT.
The investigations represented a marked shift in the government’s handling of the foreign funding requirements — and it didn’t come in isolation.
Just two weeks prior, Harvard’s campus witnessed an even more jarring run-in with federal investigators: the arrest of Charles M. Lieber, then the chair of the school’s Chemistry Department, who was hauled out of his office in handcuffs. Lieber, a renowned research chemist and nanoscientist, was charged with lying to government officials about funding he received from the Chinese government. He was eventually convicted on six felony counts.
The two incidents — Lieber’s conviction and the Education Department’s investigation — ensnared Harvard in a high-stakes policy battle over how the government should oversee foreign collaborations. Though they involved separate federal laws and were handled by different government agencies, both were part of a growing push to crack down on American universities and researchers that fail to disclose foreign funding.
Debate over the regulation of foreign money in academia, once an afterthought, has become a microcosm of the U.S.’s attempts to remain the world’s top innovator, exposing a tension between the government’s efforts to remain competitive and academia’s goals to promote innovation and the free flow of ideas.
As China continues its meteoric rise toward the top of the world order, the movement to crack down on non-disclosure is part of a broader effort by federal officials to prevent “foreign influence” at universities and protect American intellectual property. In Washington, there is a bipartisan consensus that universities should face more stringent disclosure and transparency requirements relating to their foreign ties.
But many schools say the regulatory efforts go too far, threatening the collaboration that is critical to advancing research, innovation, and the free flow of ideas.
On Capitol Hill, lawmakers are currently debating new legislation seeking to tighten disclosure requirements for American institutions that receive foreign money. Differing bills were passed in both the House and Senate as part of President Joe Biden’s effort to boost innovation and shore up America’s competitiveness with China.
Higher education is pushing back.
In an interview from Washington, D.C., last week, Harvard President Lawrence S. Bacow said proposals that would lower foreign contribution reporting thresholds to $0 and require many schools to create more sophisticated disclosure databases would create “enormous burdens” for administrators and faculty alike.
“The government doesn’t need to know who’s buying somebody else a cup of coffee,” Bacow said.
Terry W. Hartle, the senior vice president of the American Council on Education, which has led the opposition to the proposal, said bills seeking to police foreign money flowing into universities would only hamper the government’s regulatory efforts.
“This is an exercise in looking for a needle in a haystack,” Hartle said of the legislation, “and what the proposals on Capitol Hill would do is begin by making the haystack bigger.”
Additional requirements, Bacow said, would also make American universities less competitive in the “global market for academic talent.”
“We are often competing with other institutions for faculty — especially, actually, with European institutions these days,” Bacow said. “In that competition, it makes it harder to recruit faculty to the United States when they perceive that our government is imposing burdens and obligations upon them — which makes it harder to secure the kind of support necessary to sustain their scholarship.”
The foreign funding kerfuffle kicked off in earnest three years ago when a routine report by a little-known Senate subcommittee caught the eye of officials at the Education Department.
The report found that more than 30 American universities failed to properly report funding they received from a Chinese government-affiliated organization for the upkeep of Confucius Institutes — centers for academic and cultural exchange between China and the rest of the world that are sponsored by the Chinese government.
The Senate report said the Education Department did “not conduct regular oversight” into whether universities complied with federal requirements. Prior to the Senate report’s release three years ago, the last time the government notified schools about the requirement was 2004.
The findings prompted the Department of Education to release its own report in October 2020, which found that its foreign funding disclosure requirements are “neither complicated nor burdensome.” Instead, the report suggested, the blame fell on universities for submitting “systemically underinclusive and inaccurate” reports.
Universities and many experts reject that notion: The federal requirements are the issue, schools say, because of their opaque and ambiguous language.
Nelson G. Dong, a partner at the law firm Dorsey & Whitney, said the “decentralized nature of reporting” at universities poses difficulties for administrators aiming to keep track of all the foreign funding that comes in.
“Various institutional organizations representing research universities have argued for years that it would be a lot easier to make these reports if the Department of Education would simply issue a regulation,” he said. “The historical position of the Department of Education has always been to say, ‘There are no regulations needed because the statute is so clear.’”
The Education Department under Trump opted instead to open investigations into big-name universities in order to compel compliance with the disclosure requirements. In its 2020 report, the Education Department praised its own investigations, saying the inquiries “catalyzed” schools to disclose $6.5 billion in previously unreported foreign funds.
“This statistic exemplifies how institutions are both recognizing the gravity of Section 117 compliance and that institutions are largely capable of reporting these foreign gifts and contracts when they choose to do so,” the report reads.
After the Education Department opened the investigation into Harvard, the University submitted updated disclosures including money taken between 2014 and 2018 that it previously failed to disclose.
Daniel G. Currell, who worked as an official in the Trump Education Department, said he believes disclosure gaps from universities were the result of administrative oversight, not malice. The requirement, he said, is often forgotten as administrators come and go from their positions.
“It’s clear to me, watching how schools operate — they’re herding cats trying to get people to disclose all of the things,” he said.
The Department of Education did not respond to a request for comment.
Disputes over foreign funding disclosures have never just been about the money.
Agencies across the federal government have long connected the requirements to broader national interests — including protection of intellectual property and national security.
In its 2020 report, the Education Department said efforts to enforce its disclosure requirements are “one part of a collaboration” with other federal agencies to improve oversight of American universities.
“It is not the Department’s statutory mission to police institutions’ entanglements with foreign sources,” the report said. “The facts we have discovered drive home the need for an integrated Federal approach to the national problems posed by the theft of intellectual property, espionage, propaganda, and foreign influence operations on U.S. campuses.”
No government effort seeking to address espionage issues has garnered more attention and controversy in recent years than the Justice Department’s now-defunct China Initiative.
The program — which launched in 2018 as an effort to target “Chinese sponsorship of hacking into American businesses and commercial networks” — led to high-profile indictments of several academics, including Lieber.
But the program increasingly attempted to prosecute “research integrity” issues — which critics say is emblematic of how the program strayed from its initial goal. Instead, academics have been charged with various counts relating to fraud and misstatements.
According to a database of China Initiative cases compiled in December 2021 by the MIT Technology Review, just 19 of 77 cases brought by the program overall include charges under the Economic Espionage Act.
“Where I think some of the problems have come up is that the government, in some of these cases, was trying to bring criminal enforcement actions against professors who really were not national security threats at all,” said Amy Jeffress, a former federal prosecutor.
Lieber was convicted on six counts — two relating to false statements he allegedly made to government investigators and four regarding undisclosed income on his tax returns.
H. Holden Thorp, the editor-in-chief of Science, said the prosecutions of academics amount to government missteps that will “slow down” collaboration between the U.S. and foreign countries, ultimately hampering America’s innovative capacity.
“Ironically, in the name of trying to make U.S. science stronger, the most likely outcome is that Chinese science is going to get stronger because they’re going to be doing more research solely within their country,” Thorp said. “They are far more nimble and can put resources to work far faster than we can because they don’t have elaborate processes to go through.”
Critics of the China Initiative also accused the DOJ of targeting individuals of Chinese descent. In an interview, Theodore A. Betley, the current chair of Harvard’s Chemistry Department, lamented the DOJ’s “extreme focus on researchers of Asian descent.”
“Many of [the cases] have not actually materialized into charges that have stuck,” he said. “In that instance, those can be crippling to the careers and the scientists that have been called into question — their integrity has been called into question.”
Stanford chemistry professor Bianxiao Cui said “Chinese-born American scientists” like herself have a permanent tie to China that the DOJ’s prosecutions have made them keenly aware of.
“Because of that, I kind of intentionally have to limit contact in China — any potential collaboration — which I previously would not have been thinking about,” she said.
Betley also said researchers who run afoul of federal reporting requirements should be given the opportunity to “course correct” for mistakes in reporting.
The DOJ ended the China Initiative in February — with a public acknowledgment of the policy’s perceived bias towards individuals of Chinese heritage.
“By grouping cases under the China Initiative rubric, we helped give rise to a harmful perception that the department applies a lower standard to investigate and prosecute criminal conduct related to that country or that we in some way view people with racial, ethnic or familial ties to China differently,” said Assistant Attorney General for National Security Matthew G. Olsen.
Outside of criminal prosecution, an array of federal agencies — including the Departments of Energy and Defense, the National Institutes of Health, and the National Science Foundation — have bolstered oversight of the accuracy of foreign funding disclosures on research grant applications.
Following inquiries launched by the National Institutes of Health and the FBI into potential intellectual property theft at American universities in 2019, Harvard formed an oversight committee to ensure the school complies with guidelines set by federal funding agencies.
Many experts say the government’s efforts to prevent espionage through disclosure enforcements are justified in the interest of national security.
Andrew J. Nathan ’64, a professor of political science at Columbia University, wrote in an email that China’s intellectual property acquisition through “both legal and illegal means has been a long-standing reality.”
“In terms of the specific national security/espionage aspect, we have to recognize this is a problem. It does occur,” he wrote.
Because universities “lack the expertise” on national security threats, Nathan wrote that “the government has to be involved.”
David M. Sacks, a research fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations, said researchers collaborating with individuals or entities in China may not always understand whether they are engaging with a private or state-sponsored organization.
“The way that China’s system operates is that it is so opaque and it is so difficult to tell where the party ends and where the private sector begins,” Sacks said. “It does kind of take a U.S. government effort to figure that out and to share that information and knowledge with researchers.”
But many researchers take issue with the government’s underlying justification for its crackdown. The term “academic espionage,” sometimes used to refer to efforts by foreign governments to steal intellectual property from universities, is “in some ways an oxymoron,” said Harvard Dean of Science Christopher W. Stubbs.
“We have nothing that’s classified. We publish all our stuff in the open literature,” he said. “But there still is this sense that somehow people are swooping in and grabbing ideas in the innovation cycle in a way that is somehow not consistent with our norms and expectations.”
Stubbs said faculty are “apprehensive” about international collaborations — in part because of the government’s efforts.
“The government needs to be clearer. There needs to be better coordination across agencies,” he said. “We’re all hoping for more uniformity and more clarity about where the guardrails are.”
Fernando M. Reimers, director of the Global Education Initiative at the Harvard Graduate School of Education, said he is concerned that heightened oversight will deter faculty from pursuing engagements with academics in countries with which the U.S. has an adversarial relationship.
Rising “transaction costs” for international engagements mean that faculty “really need to have a very good reason” to dedicate their time to the administrative tasks that accompany foreign collaborations, he said.
“I think the pendulum may have gone a little bit too far,” Reimers said.
The net effect, some worry, will be less international collaboration, which could have wide-ranging implications.
“It’s in the long-term interest of peace for those relations to happen — even when it’s challenging,” Reimers said.
The debate over how the government should regulate foreign funding remains a live issue as researchers and university administrators continue to face pressure from the government to increase disclosures.
In Trump’s final month in office, his administration issued a memorandum that required research funding agencies to strengthen and standardize federal grant disclosure regulations in an effort to protect against “foreign government interference and exploitation.” In January, Harvard updated its reporting process for NIH and NSF submissions after the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy issued new guidance to universities.
Derek Adams, a partner at the Potomac Law Group, said he expects the government to pursue fewer prosecutions of disclosure violations in court, even as individual federal agencies scale up oversight.
“At the agency level, it continues to be a focus — NIH, NSF, DOE, DOD,” he said. “I think we’re going to see less criminal prosecutions now that the DOJ is moving away from this focus — and we’ll probably see more actions dealt with at the civil level or the administrative level going forward.”
Currently, lawmakers on Capitol Hill are debating a number of provisions that would stiffen foreign funding regulations. Universities have lobbied against a Senate-approved proposal that would allow foreign gifts and contracts totaling more than $1 million to be preemptively vetted by the federal government if the funding relates to the development of “critical technologies.”
Bacow said last week the proposal would be “extremely burdensome,” adding that the vetting requirement “has absolutely no tie to national security interests.”
“It will be burdensome for institutions, but more than that, it will flood the government with information which the government is not prepared, actually, to process in a timely way,” he said. “It, I believe, will act as a barrier or an obstacle to research support received from a variety of sources.”
Proponents of the Senate proposal — which also includes the more stringent disclosure requirements — contend that looking into foreign funding will help improve competitiveness with China by preventing the country from stealing American intellectual property.
U.S. Senator James E. Risch (R-Idaho), a key proponent of the provision, called it “a small investment, given the large cost of the [legislation], to protect our ideas, research and intellectual property before it’s too late, which is often the case” in a statement to Axios last year, after it was first proposed in the upper chamber.
But some academics say the government’s broader effort to regulate universities and their researchers may become counterproductive by thwarting international collaboration.
“I think the government needs to be really attentive to the deleterious effects of some of their policies and not kill the golden goose that’s driving economic progress because of rare outlier instances,” Stubbs said.
Still, many lawmakers on both sides of the aisle are eager to support legislative efforts seeking to stymie the U.S.’s largest global competitor. The regulatory efforts have sparked a debate about the government’s responsibility in protecting national security while maintaining international collaboration, with many academics warning that officials should tread carefully to avoid stifling innovation.
“I can tell you with certainty that if American universities lose their connections with the rest of the world and become more insular, the great American universities will no longer be great,” Reimers said.
—Staff writers Cara J. Chang and Isabella B. Cho contributed reporting.
—Staff writer Eric Yan can be reached at eric.yan@thecrimson.com.
—Staff writer Omar Abdel Haq can be reached at omar.abdelhaq@thecrimson.com.
Sections
Content Warning: This article contains discussion of suicide.
Sebastian J. Rowe almost didn’t apply to Harvard.
As an undergraduate at the University of Alabama, he had heard about a string of four graduate student suicides in the 1980s and 1990s in Harvard’s Chemistry and Chemical Biology department.
“It’s an open secret that CCB has long had issues with graduate students being overworked or [feeling] like they’re taken advantage of,” he said.
Rowe only decided to come to Harvard after discovering a program that allowed him to have other avenues of support beyond CCB.
In 1998, the suicide of fifth-year graduate student Jason D. Altom rocked the department. In one of his suicide notes, he attributed his stress to the imbalance of power between professors and students in the department.
“Professors here have too much power over the lives of their grad students,” Altom wrote in a note to then-department chair James G. Anderson.
To give students more avenues of support, Altom requested in his note that the department require students to have multiple advisors simultaneously. One month later, Anderson announced that the department would implement committees for second-year graduate students, providing students with three advisors instead of one.
Today, the CCB department still requires multiple simultaneous advisors for students.
To help students find a suitable research group, CCB also requires incoming students to sample multiple labs during their first semester. CCB graduate students keep an Excel spreadsheet that lists students who have done lab rotations with different faculty members in the department.
Rowe said he has been able to avoid bad advising relationships by consulting other graduate students about their experiences with faculty members through this “formalized” database.
Thanks to this system, Rowe said he was also able to create a thesis committee he’s happy with.
But this is not the case for everyone. In interviews this month, nearly 30 Harvard graduate students reported a culture in which senior faculty wield power over their students with little accountability. Graduate students reported harassment, intimidation, unreasonable expectations, and negligence. Many also reported difficulty in seeking recourse for complaints of harassment, faced with a fear of retaliation by faculty and opaque and inadequate reporting mechanisms. Some students spoke on the condition of anonymity out of fear of retaliation.
Financial, academic, and physical vulnerability have characterized the experience of some graduate students for decades. Earlier this year, Harvard found itself embroiled in a new sexual harassment controversy, turning national scrutiny once again to the livelihoods of graduate students.
After a pair of investigations found professor John L. Comaroff in violation of Harvard’s sexual harassment and professional conduct policies, nearly 40 professors — including some of Harvard’s most renowned faculty — signed a letter questioning the results of Harvard’s investigations, sparking national backlash.
Following widespread public indignation and a lawsuit filed against the University by three graduate students, all but three of the signatories of the letter questioning Harvard’s investigations retracted their signatures.
Sexual harassment is among the more egregious forms of power-based abuse in academia. But other, sometimes more subtle, manifestations of this power imbalance are often more pervasive, affiliates said.
Following departmental town hall discussions in the wake of the Comaroff controversy, History professor Andrew D. Gordon ’74 said he heard these subtle abuses take two main forms: harassment and negligence.
“What came forward in those meetings were concerns about not only too much of the wrong kind of attention, but not enough of the right kind,” he said.
In interviews this month, two graduate students in the School of Engineering and Applied Sciences reported facing insults and yelling from an advisor and recounted being asked to work unreasonable hours — including days on end without rest. One of the students said the advisor was always looming overhead, checking in the lab every 15 minutes and expecting responses to phone calls and emails late at night and on the weekends.
Ege Yumusak ’16, a Ph.D. candidate in Philosophy, said she often heard grievances about graduate students asked to do chores without pay when she worked as a bargaining committee member for the Harvard Graduate Students Union-United Automobile Workers.
These chores included writing recommendation letters for undergraduates, cleaning offices or apartments, and taking care of their advisor’s child or dog — all requested with little notice and no pay, according to Yumusak, a former Crimson editorial editor.
Students reported that professors “often resort to harassment” when these tasks are not completed, responding late to emails, making snide remarks, or talking behind the student’s back, Yumusak added.
“There’s often a culture of treating graduate students like servants,” said a graduate student in History.
Other students said they felt neglected by their advisors, citing few and far between check-ins, sparse feedback, and a lack of communication about recommendation letters.
Dana C. Mirsalis, a Ph.D. candidate in East Asian Languages and Civilizations who worked as part of the department’s graduate liaison committee, said several students told her their advisors claimed they did not have time to provide feedback.
In History, Ph.D. candidate Emma C. Friedlander said graduate students and faculty began to discuss unequal advising dynamics in the wake of the controversy surrounding Comaroff earlier this semester.
“Although obviously, that was a case of really heinous sexual harassment and discrimination, it is an issue that is even more pervasive than that and led to this reckoning of even more issues of if students are being advised well,” she said.
The power imbalance in the graduate student-advisor relationship is further perpetuated by some graduate students’ financial dependence on their advisor, students said.
After their first year, SEAS Ph.D. candidates take on research assistant positions, making them financially reliant on their advisors unless they are able to secure external fellowships or additional teaching assignments. For students at the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, the school guarantees financial support for five years through stipends and tuition grants, along with teaching fellowships or research assistantships for the third and fourth years of the program.
This dependence means that when an issue arises between a graduate student and their advisor, students can have a hard time saying no to tasks or deadlines, let alone transitioning out of a poor advising relationship, according to Zhiying Xu, a Ph.D. candidate in Computer Science.
John A. Girash, Director of Graduate Education at SEAS, said school-based funding is available for up to a semester for students who may have a gap in their advising.
“The goal is always to get the student into a productive advising relationship so that they can continue to make progress towards their degree, which for the Ph.D. largely involves doing research under the guidance of a faculty advisor,” he wrote.
One graduate student in SEAS who wished to transition out of her lab due to a negative relationship with her advisor said they were told they had only one semester to find a different faculty member willing to accept them — a task the student deemed “impossible.”
Not every faculty member will always have enough funding to support an additional student, she noted, and the onus of finding a new lab is placed on the student.
Computer Science graduate student Yaniv Yacoby ’15 and other SEAS students in a peer support group called InTouch have been working with the SEAS Graduate Student Council to design a program that would allow graduate students to be guaranteed transitional funding from the school for 12 months.
A graduate student in Applied Mathematics said students often feel “alone” in their transition, adding that they wish “there was more structure around transitioning” to a new advisor “so that students don’t feel so insecure about their position.”
The tight job market in academia also means students’ careers often depend on their advisor’s prominence.
Mirsalis said within her field of Japanese studies, an advisor could introduce the student to their colleagues in Japan or help the student get access to a religious institution, government office, or archive.
“The downside is that the field is really, really small,” she said. “If your advisor decides to blackball you, that’s the end of your career a lot of the time.”
For many graduate students, the primary resource within the department is their advisor. But for those who experience workplace issues with their advisor, students said, resources for support are particularly difficult to identify and use.
In the Arts and Humanities 2021 divisional climate survey, more than half of graduate student respondents reported that they would fear retaliation for a complaint or grievance about “discourteous or offensive behavior,” outpacing faculty, staff, and undergraduate respondents.
Graduate students were also the least likely to agree that clear recourse mechanisms exist within the division. Only 38 percent of graduate student respondents said there are clear reporting channels, and 24 percent said there is a clear conflict-resolution process.
In the Sciences division 2020 climate survey, only 50.9 percent of graduate students felt comfortable reporting “discourteous or offensive behavior,” the lowest percentage among faculty, staff, undergraduates, and postdocs.
The SEAS 2018 climate survey indicated that affiliates acknowledge the existence of a hierarchical culture that discourages people from coming forward with complaints about “offensive behaviors.” This hierarchy also negatively impacts the school’s handling of reports of harassment and discrimination, per the survey.
Harvard spokesperson Jason A. Newton declined to comment on the University’s Title IX and harassment resolution policies.
Should graduate students have an issue with their advisor, they can usually consult faculty or administrators. But reporting processes vary by department.
Jeffrey A. Miron, the director of graduate studies in Economics, said though there is “no formal process” for reporting inappropriate or negligent behavior from faculty not covered under Title IX, students can speak to any faculty member in the department they feel comfortable with.
“The bigger concern is that students simply don’t always reach out when they have a concern,” he said. “And it’s harder to do something if you’re not aware that there’s a problem.”
Sean R. Eddy, the department chair of Molecular and Cellular Biology, said when students come to him with complaints, he typically seeks to understand both the student’s and professor’s perspectives, if he has the student’s permission to talk to the faculty in question. Around once a week, students bring complaints that are easily resolved by clarifying instances of miscommunication, Eddy said.
But for instances of faculty-student conflict that extend beyond miscommunication, students said existing resources are opaque and difficult to navigate.
Jessica L. McNeil, a Ph.D. candidate in Anthropology who said she had issues with an advisor, said she was referred from her department to GSAS Student Services and back again — “ping-ponging” between her department and the school over the course of six months before she could get the problem resolved.
“I had to trace my way through all of these people and be able to plot, like, ‘I have complained here, I’ve complained here, I’ve complained here,’ to dead end and dead end, and only then I was able to get anywhere,” she said.
GSAS spokesperson Ann Hall and FAS spokesperson Rachael Dane declined to comment on this story and on individual cases.
Computer Science professor Finale Doshi-Velez, the faculty advisor for InTouch, said faculty face minimal repercussions for fostering poor advising relationships because there exists “no real feeling of accountability.”
Rowe, the graduate student in CCB, said having an abusive or controlling advisor makes it difficult to seek help in the first place, even when program administrators do their best to make sure to set expectations for faculty conduct and make avenues of help accessible.
“Oftentimes the very first thing that people will do when they’re trying to abuse you with their power is isolate you from your resources,” he said. “Even if on paper, you know that you have these rights and you know that you can access any of these people — like your program advisor, your admin, your safety officer, whoever — you feel like you can’t, because you’ve been isolated.”
Throughout the spring, the graduate student union’s Feminist Working Group has been holding teach-ins about the union’s longstanding demand for “real recourse,” or third-party grievance arbitration of cases of sexual harassment and sex-based discrimination. Freidlander, one of four co-chairs of the group, said the working group, as well as many FAS departments, are currently working to address bullying and power-based harassment.
Jason Bryan Silverstein, a lecturer at Harvard Medical School, said more faculty need to listen to the union’s demands.
“I also do hope students know that there are faculty members who are willing to put it all on the line to stand behind them,” he said. “Unfortunately, we may not be the most decorated of the professors, but we’re not a small number either.”
At the University level, Harvard administrators have taken first steps toward addressing the results of this power imbalance between graduate students and faculty. Harvard released drafts of the University’s first anti-bullying and non-harassment policies this April.
The University opened the draft policies to affiliates for feedback until September.
Within departments, faculty members and students are also looking for ways to address the issue.
In 2019, GSAS Dean Emma Dench launched an initiative called the Advising Project that seeks to reform advising for Master’s and Ph.D. students at the school. The project seeks to gather feedback and data from affiliates involved in the advising process.
Like CCB, many departments across GSAS have formally or informally adopted multi-advisor models. Some departments are establishing codes of conduct for advising relationships.
Gordon, the History professor, suggested that “clarifying expectations” — including about how quickly feedback should be provided on a paper or how much notice faculty should get before being expected to produce a recommendation letter — could improve the consistency of the graduate student-advisor dynamic.
“None of us really are thrilled with the idea that everything is becoming more and more rule-based and bureaucratic with checkboxes, and yet, here we are, and maybe, to some extent, that’s necessary,” he added.
When graduate students in EALC advocated for advising guidelines last year, many faculty in the department pushed back, according to Mirsalis. She said students wanted to codify these standards so they could have legitimate recourse options when faced with harassment.
For substantive change to occur, students agree that there should exist a better way for their voices to be heard by faculty and administrators.
Yumusak said her department, Philosophy, pays graduate student representatives to sit in on faculty meetings and funds an affinity group of minority graduate students to influence hiring decisions. She added that departmental union representatives can accompany students to meetings with faculty.
But it is up to the faculty to recognize the “reality of the power differential” in their everyday interactions, she said.
Academia often perpetuates a cycle of mistreatment, Yumusak argued, as faculty reproduce the expectations and conditions they experienced as students.
“We are operating in an industry that mistreats the people at the top and gives them a nice salary to suck it up,” she said. “I think it’s important to acknowledge the stresses that are placed on the people at the top and the silencing mechanism that their individually negotiated high salaries serve, which keeps this status quo from changing.”
—Staff writer Mayesha R. Soshi contributed reporting.
—Staff writer Ariel H. Kim can be reached at ariel.kim@thecrimson.com.
—Staff writer Meimei Xu can be reached at meimei.xu@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @MeimeiXu7.
Sections
Before the pandemic started, Claira Janover ’20 said her post-graduation plans were essentially set in stone. The fall prior, she had accepted a job in management consulting, which she would start full-time after graduation. She planned to eventually attend graduate school.
Then, Covid-19 hit. Janover, alongside the rest of Harvard’s student body, was evicted from campus amid the escalating public health crisis. The Class of 2020 graduated from home, scattered across the world, instead of together in Tercentenary Theatre. A year later, the Class of 2021 would do the same.
In the chaos of the pandemic, Janover took a semester off, went viral on social media — which led her company to rescind her job offer — and worked for the Biden campaign. She traveled, discovered new hobbies, and is now employed at a startup.
“I know for a fact that had the pandemic not happened, I would have just immediately graduated, gone into the corporate world, continued that lifestyle,” Janover said. “A lot of my life changed for the worse during the pandemic, but there were so many silver linings.”
For most graduates, the transition into the real world, even without the pressures of a pandemic, can be daunting. The added factor of Covid-19 meant that some students began graduate school online, while others entered a remote workforce or had to cancel travel plans.
The Crimson interviewed 12 alumni from the Classes of 2020 and 2021 about their experiences graduating into an ongoing pandemic. As they encountered the precarity of life outside Harvard, graduates were also forced to rapidly adapt to the realities of a pandemic-ridden world.
The proportion of College graduates pursuing further academic studies dipped slightly from the pre-pandemic average of 17 percent to just 14 percent for the Classes of 2020 and 2021, per data from Harvard’s Office of Career Services.
Due to the pandemic, students among that 14 percent encountered a radically different experience than years past.
Daniel K. Ragheb ’20, who started at Vanderbilt Medical School in person, said the pandemic provided “a good learning opportunity.” He was given the option to care for patients with Covid-19, lending him a “unique perspective” on the health crisis.
“Their thinking, I believe, was along the lines of, ‘This is a medical pandemic and you’re coming to be medical professionals,’” Ragheb said. “​​‘Come learn, come help us in the hospitals, take the necessary precautions, but we’re not going to be changing our timing.’”
While Ragheb said he was able to have a typical clinical experience, he noted that the social dynamics of attending grad school during a pandemic posed challenges.
“You’ve done a full year of this very intensive, rigorous program for 96 students,” Ragheb said, “and at the end of the year, you haven’t seen some of the faces without masks.”
Matthew Thomas ’21 is finishing a masters degree in education through the Harvard Teacher Fellows program, which enables him to teach at a local elementary school while taking classes at the Harvard Graduate School of Education — an experience he said has been particularly meaningful during the pandemic.
“Covid, in that sense, was just another reminder of how important relationships are and face to face interaction is for everyone,” Thomas said. “Especially with younger kids who are still developing in so many important ways, both as learning minds, but also just as social human beings.”
Shivani R. Aggarwal ’21, who is studying the philosophy and sociology of medicine through a fellowship, said she was “very much looking forward” to postgraduate studies as a way to regain the years of in-person education stolen by Zoom school.
“I hoped to experience some of what I had lost,” she said. “I was definitely soaking up all I could in my classes here but also really appreciating that it was finally a normal campus experience.”
Some students graduated Harvard into a starkly different corporate world than the one they may have imagined when first applying to jobs.
Danica Y. Gutierrez ’20, who accepted a position as a software engineer during her senior year, said she had job security concerns due to the evolving nature of the pandemic.
“I was still considering other offers and some of them did have a hiring freeze. Some of the offers that I had, they were postponed,” Gutierrez said. “There was definitely that uncertainty.”
Diego A. Garcia ’20 wrote in an email that he found it “nerve wracking” when his job’s start date was pushed to August of 2020.
“I couldn’t be sure they wouldn’t suddenly rescind my offer because of economic downturn,” he wrote.
For Hayoung E. Ahn ’20, that fear came true when her job offer at a marketing firm was rescinded.
“It was such a crazy time, and I was devastated,” wrote Ahn, a former Crimson magazine editor.
After reentering the job search, Ahn was hired for a research position at the University of Chicago. She wrote that her redirection has helped her start a “life-enriching chapter.”
Noah S. DiAntonio ’21 said he had originally considered applying to international fellowships, but the ongoing pandemic led him to stay within the United States. He applied to “dozens” of nonprofits jobs in the Los Angeles area but ultimately received just one offer.
“So many organizations, especially nonprofit organizations, were hurting and were not in a space to be either hiring or taking on the risk of taking on someone with little experience straight out of college,” he said.
Emanuel “Manny” Contomanolis, who directs the OCS, wrote in an emailed statement that while the pandemic had “some impact” on the job search for Harvard graduates, results were largely “quite positive” and in line with previous years.
“The Class of 2020 was faced with a weaker overall job market, delayed job start times, and onboarding into predominantly virtual work settings,” Contomanolis wrote. “Many had to apply to more positions and wait longer to secure their desired work arrangements than would normally be the case.”
The Class of 2021 “fared well” amid a “rapidly heating job market,” while the Class of 2022 seems to also be experiencing a strong job market, Contomanolis added.
Flora J. DiCara ’20 said it was difficult getting acclimated to a new job while living thousands of miles from the office.
“It’s a bit more challenging to get a sense of what norms and expectations are when you’re not just always automatically learning through osmosis,” DiCara said of remote work. “I had never considered working from home, ever. And it certainly wasn’t my ideal scenario.”
During his first job, Garcia “never stepped foot in the office,” he wrote. He has since returned to in-person work at a new job, an arrangement he much prefers.
Still, some alums said the pandemic prompted discussions about the value of remote work. Gutierrez said the ability to work from home has been a “blessing.”
“It really challenged the way we think about work-life balance,” Gutierrez said. “A lot of people nowadays will think about that before taking a job: How flexible is this job? Am I able to work from home or from any other places? What kind of measures are in place in order to take care of employees?”
Some alumni, like Janover, have followed more unconventional routes post-graduation.
Janover said she discovered a passion for the outdoors during the pandemic. She applied for a travel fellowship to backpack around the world.
“My love for the environment and nature began in Covid actually, because nature was the only recluse or escape from the realities of a very shut-down world,” she said.
Meanwhile, Ahn said she picked up new hobbies during the pandemic, including rock climbing, graphic design, film photography, and cooking. She also began volunteering remotely for mental health organizations.
“I hoped that I could support others who were struggling during this time,” Ahn wrote. “I just wanted to contribute and make a difference in a time when everything felt far from normal.”
Justin Tseng ’21, who is pursuing a masters in classics at the University of Cambridge, said he has enjoyed traveling around Europe. Though Tseng said the constantly evolving health conditions are sometimes stressful, he has found some locales to be less crowded than usual.
“A lot of sites and places that you think are going to be super touristy, super crowded, haven't been — because of Covid,” Tseng said. “It’s kind of eerie.”
Kayla R. McConnaha ’20 said she worked as a Covid contact tracer in the year after graduation, a job which combined her undergraduate studies in global health with her interest in medicine.
In 2021, McConnaha married her longtime partner in a ceremony with Covid precautions, which she said “luckily” fell during a time of low case counts.
“Covid definitely brought with it a lot of challenges regarding the wedding, especially given what I was doing and the fact that I was a contact tracer,” McConnaha said. “I was seeing everyday the consequences that large-scale events could have on individuals and families.”
Now, one or two years after they left Harvard for a world marred by Covid, nearly 90 percent of the Classes of 2020 and 2021 are planning to formally say goodbye to campus during in-person Commencement exercises this month.
“We’re all graduated, and we’ve all kind of scattered all over the place,” Tseng said. “It’s kind of hard to get everyone back together and have a nice reunion, but I think that’s why Commencement this year is going to be quite nice.”
For many graduates, though the pandemic created challenges, it also offered unexpected benefits.
DiCara, a triplet, said she was able to move back home with her two sisters who had been attending different schools since childhood.
“We’d never spent that much time together since middle school. And so that was a really unique opportunity that I certainly wouldn’t have gotten without Covid,” she said.
Socially, Thomas said the pandemic made it easier to sustain long-distance friendships after graduation.
“It became really normal to maintain and keep close friendships across long distances and so has made the transition to postgrad feel not that different in some ways,” Thomas said. “That was one silver lining — getting a chance ahead of time to practice or just to nurture those friendships.”
Leaving campus early also helped some alums understand their identity outside the Harvard bubble.
Aggarwal said entering a world jolted by Covid reminded her she was “not just a Harvard student” but also a part of “larger communities.”
“It was just a really, really big reminder to engage with things outside of the Harvard community and realize our place in broader society and bigger causes beyond ourselves,” Thomas said.
—Staff writer Katherine M. Burstein can be reached at katherine.burstein@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @kmburstein1.
—Staff writer Leah J. Teichholtz can be reached at leah.teichholtz@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @LeahTeichholtz.
Sections
Nika O. Rudenko ’24 and her family first became war refugees in 2014 when she was 13 and forced to flee her hometown of Donetsk, Ukraine.
The second time was on the night of Feb. 23, when Russia began its latest war against Ukraine. Rudenko was in her Mather House suite when friends began sending condolences by text message. She checked the news, lay down on the floor of the common room, and bawled. Her parents, asleep in their apartment in the Ukrainian capital of Kyiv, at first didn’t believe her when she called and said they were under attack.
“It was just horrible,” she said. “They were like, ‘No, nothing is gonna happen, we’re good, everything is safe.’”
“Unfortunately, nothing was good anymore,” Rudenko said.
As the academic year draws to a close, however, there is still no end in sight. Russia’s efforts to capture Kyiv failed, but Russian forces occupy Ukrainian territory, including the destroyed city of Mariupol, which provides a land bridge to Crimea. Meanwhile, fighting is still fierce in the eastern Donbass regions. Thousands of civilians have been killed and more than 7 million Ukrainians displaced. Thousands of Russians — especially opposition politicians and journalists — have also fled their homes, fearing persecution and imprisonment.
Rudenko, co-president of Harvard Ukrainian Student Association, is one of a dozen Harvard affiliates with close ties to Ukraine or Russia who said that they initially reacted to news of the war with tears, but that their despair quickly turned to a determination to find a way to support Ukraine from halfway across the world.
This drive to speak out against the invasion has been coupled with growing disappointment in Harvard, which some students say has fallen short of its promises to support affected affiliates.
Taisa Kulyk ’22, whose parents emigrated from Ukraine to the United States, said that after learning about the invasion she managed to sleep for a few hours. When she woke up, she immediately began planning a rally.
“Life just went on as usual in the University whilst the war started,” Kulyk said, explaining that for some students, the news “was life-changing.”
“We wanted for there to be an outlet to gather and to actually process the war together and to protest the war and to come together as a community,” she said. “Because, literally, there was nowhere to go.”
In Cambridge, during the three months since the start of the invasion, Eastern European undergraduate students have organized two rallies in support of Ukraine, created a petition signed by 650 Harvard affiliates to support students affected by the war, organized poetry readings of work by Ukrainian authors, and raised money to help provide Ukraine with medical supplies.
Several hundred people braved the snow on Feb. 26 to attend the first protest against the war in Harvard Yard.
“It was very inspiring to see how many students showed up to support,” Kulyk said of the rally.
Kulyk, who is graduating in May, said she spent most of her final semester at Harvard finding ways to stand up for Ukraine, including meeting with administrators throughout the semester to discuss how the University could support its students affected by the war.
Asked why she immersed herself in activism during her last months on campus, Kulyk’s answer was simple: “I love Ukraine. I love my people.”
“This truly affected every single Ukrainian,” she added.
For Georgiy A. Kent ’22, a former president of the Lowell House Society of Russian Bell Ringers, his initial response to the war was musical. He demonstrated his support for Ukraine by playing the country’s national anthem on the Lowell Bells the day the war started.
Kent, who is half Crimean Tatar, said he passed Lowell House when walking back to his dorm from class and decided “if there’s any day to play the Ukrainian anthem, now it’d be the day.”
“It was probably one of the most immediate things that I felt like I could do to make a symbolic gesture of solidarity,” he said.
For Russian students, the urge to support Ukraine was mixed with the horrible realization that their country had brought full-fledged war to Europe in the 21st century, along with fear that they may never be able to return home.
Alexander Zhigalin ’23 and Polina Galouchko ’23 said they were studying in the library of Dunster House when they learned Russian President Vladmir Putin had declared war.
“The first reaction is horror,” Zhigalin said, explaining that he does not think he can return to Russia.
“I feel that it’s not a home anymore,” he said. “Now I need a new one.”
Galouchko said she immediately started texting her relatives and friends in Ukraine and felt the world “basically collapsing” around her.
“Everything stopped making sense,” she said. “It just shattered so many things about my identity.”
Zhigalin said he was “fighting with fear” during the first few days of the invasion, aware that speaking out against the war could result in government retaliation against him and his family.
But Zhigalin quickly decided that he could not keep silent.
“I felt that anything we can say or do needs to be said and done,” he said. “I had to speak.”
“This is a country that started genocide on Ukrainian people, that betrayed a long relationship with a separate nation to which there are many ties,” Zhigalin added. “This is just evil.”
Galouchko said she was also compelled to denounce the actions of her country’s government.
“It was very important for me to establish firmly the fact that I, as a Russian, am very much against this war,” she said.
“A lot of people have this natural instinct to think, ‘Oh, Russian people, they don’t protest enough against this war, they could have done something to prevent it,’” Galouchko added. “I just wanted to make it very clear that I am definitely not the person who is supporting this war.”
Zhigalin and Galouchko said they both helped organize the second rally in support of Ukraine and students affected by the war.
At the March 26 rally, Zhigalin told the crowd he was calling on the University to provide additional academic support, increase access to mental health services, and suspend its term-time work expectation policy for impacted students.
“We want our second home, which is Harvard — which might be the only home now — to help us,” Zhigalin said.
But three months after the start of the invasion, affected students say the University has still not done enough to support Ukraine and its Ukrainian and Russian students.
Rudenko said the “worst thing” about the University’s response to the invasion was President Lawrence S. Bacow’s justification for not sending a University-wide statement condemning the war.
In an interview with The Crimson on April 8, Bacow said that “when people get a message from me, I want them to read it because they know it’s important.”
“If people are getting too many of those, then it loses its impact,” he said. “I try to be thoughtful about when I speak, when I don’t, how I speak.”
Bacow pointed to “a whole series of events” which he addressed through personal remarks posted online rather than with mass emails.
Rudenko said Bacow’s comment made her question her place at Harvard.
“Am I just a data point to show that you have diversity?” she asked. “Or am I actually a valuable human being who you care about in this university?”
“I thought [Bacow’s explanation] was incredibly offensive and thoughtless,” she added.
University spokesperson Jason A. Newton declined to comment on the criticism of Bacow’s remark.
Diana Lysenko, a student at the Harvard Extension School who is also a co-president of the Harvard Ukrainian Student Association, called the decision by Bacow not to release a University-wide statement “truly heartbreaking.”
“Leadership is about inspiring people to take action,” Lysenko said. “And so I think him being in that unique position of power and not using it for good is very unfortunate.”
While Bacow has not sent out a University-wide email about the war in Ukraine, he addressed it in an email sent to the Harvard Ukrainian Research Institute and delivered opening remarks at a panel hosted by the Davis Center for Russian and Eurasian Studies on Feb. 28.
In his remarks to the Davis Center panel, which have since been posted on a University website detailing resources for affiliates affected by the war, Bacow said that “now is a time for all voices to be raised.”
“The deplorable actions of Vladimir Putin put at risk the lives of millions of people and undermine the concept of sovereignty,” he said. “Institutions devoted to the perpetuation of democratic ideals and to the articulation of human rights have a responsibility to condemn such wanton aggression.”
“Harvard will continue to support in whatever ways we can members of our community who face grave uncertainty,” Bacow added.
But six undergraduate students from Ukraine and Russia who were unable to return home for the summer say Harvard is not supporting them in every way it can.
While the students received summer housing from the University, they had to pay a $200 housing fee and were not offered access to Harvard’s dining halls or financial support to cover meals.
Aleksandra Denisenko ’25, an international student from Russia, said all her “plans for summer got crushed in the end of February.”
After her original plans were disrupted, Denisenko said she got “very lucky” and managed to get a research job at Harvard Medical School. But her work will be unpaid because her application for compensation was rejected.
“I am left without funding,” she said. “I’m left without any money for housing and for food.”
“I’m still very grateful to have housing, but I don’t have meals,” Denisenko added. “And housing means nothing without dining.”
Denisenko, a member of Harvard’s swimming team, said the lack of access to dining options will inhibit her ability to train for the next season because she will need to work part-time to afford meals.
“I need to swim,” she said. “If I work over the summer, plus do lab research for 40 hours over the week, it doesn’t give me a chance to swim twice a day.”
Harvard College spokesperson Aaron Goldman wrote in a statement that “the College is committed to supporting students from Ukraine and Russia during this extraordinarily difficult time.”
“All students from Ukraine and Russia who requested summer housing were approved,” Goldman wrote. “While meal plans are not included, each student has been assigned to a unit with a private kitchen.”
Zhigalin said he has “some savings” to help afford his meals for the summer, but was disappointed in the University’s decision to maintain its term-time work expectation for students affected by the war who are on financial aid.
Across Cambridge, MIT offered meal swipes and suspended expected spring term work contributions for Ukrainian undergraduates.
Zhigalin said he has found his financial situation especially constrained because he has to support his mother, who he persuaded to leave Russia after he began to openly denounce the war.
“Now she’s renting an apartment, she’s buying food, she’s buying medicines,” he said. “I have to send her money.”
“This affects how you’re studying, this affects your life,” Zhigalin added. “And this is the mission of financial aid to not let this happen — but they let this happen.”
For Zhigalin and Galouchko, the lack of support for dining in the summer and the refusal to alter work expectations demonstrate a failure by the University to put actions behind its words of empathy.
“What is the value of those words if there’s no action that they’re taking to actually help you?” Galouchko asked.
“It would be better if they didn’t say anything, because this offers you a false sense of hope,” Zhigalin added. “And then there is no action that follows.”
Rudenko said her inability to get the University to take more action to support Ukraine and students affected by the war reminded her that she does not “have any influence over them to make them actually do it.”
For now, Rudenko said her plan is to strengthen her ability to effectuate change by receiving “a good education” before going back and rebuilding Ukraine.
“I think that’s kind of my obligation,” she said.
—Staff writer Miles J. Herszenhorn can be reached at miles.herszenhorn@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @MHerszenhorn.
Sections
In late March 2022, Harvard students did something unheard of: They turned out in droves to vote in a student government election.
Throughout its 40-year history, the Harvard Undergraduate Council struggled to engage students while grappling with infighting, inefficiency, dysfunction, and scandal — so much so that nearly every ticket in 2021 ran on a platform of fixing a broken system.
But students turned out in March not to decide the Council’s next leaders — that vote had occurred months before, handing victory to Michael Y. Cheng ’22 and Emmett E. de Kanter ’24, who had vowed to “defund” the body, in what The Crimson editorial board deemed “A Vote of No Confidence in the UC.”
This vote was to realize the ticket’s plan — to completely dissolve the UC in favor of a new structure altogether. And it wasn’t even close: More than 75 percent of voters cast their ballot to scrap the UC, sounding the death knell for the body.
The move appeared radical, but before the decades-long reign of the modern Undergraduate Council, turnover in Harvard’s student government was the norm. Many variations of councils and committees lived and died on the order of years.
With the failure of yet another governing body, one might ask if there were ever a time Harvard’s student government was truly effective, civil, or respected by the student body, and, if so, just what went wrong.
One of Harvard’s first student governments emerged in the 1960s in the form of the short-lived Harvard Council on Undergraduate Affairs.
In its three years of life, the HCUA tackled a range of lackluster projects, including measuring lighting levels in lecture halls, before fracturing into two successors. The Harvard Undergraduate Council would address general issues of student life, while the Harvard Policy Committee would research academic policy alongside faculty.
The HPC quickly proved to be the more effective of the two bodies.
“The HPC is the best thing we’ve had yet, but it won’t be the last,” then-College Dean John U. Monro ’34 remarked to The Crimson in 1967.
By 1968, the HUC’s leadership had already fallen into disarray, admitting they had lost track of the organization’s finances and blaming their secretary-treasurer. After numerous unsuccessful advocacy efforts — including an attempt to bar women from Lamont Library — the HUC was in a death spiral.
“The HUC has probably become irrelevant,” said then-former HUC member Lawrence M. Lawrence in a 1968 interview with The Crimson. “Now there are only ashes.”
By 1978, the defunct HUC was replaced by the Harvard Student Assembly.
According to former Student Assembly Chair Natasha Pearl ’82, the new Student Assembly occupied a crucial campus role through its capacity to plan school-wide social events.
But without any budget or official recognition by school administrators, the 96-person Student Assembly again ran up against the same power imbalance suffered by its predecessors and struggled to distinguish itself from other college governance bodies. In 1982, The Crimson deemed the Student Assembly “notoriously inefficient.”
“Undergraduates felt that their voice was not being heard,” then-Dean of the College John B. Fox Jr. ’59 later told the Crimson.
Fox moved to establish the College’s first officially recognized and funded student government, convening the Committee to Review College Governance in the spring of 1980, chaired by then-professor of biology John E. Dowling ’57.
Pearl, who served on the Committee, said in an interview this month that Harvard was an outlier for its lack of an official student government at the time.
The next year, the Committee-produced “Dowling Report” proposed to replace Student Assembly with a representative, 85-member “Undergraduate Council” and called for Harvard to allocate the body a $60,000 yearly budget, raised via a $10 surcharge on each student’s tuition.
A year later, after an arduous constitutional convention, Harvard’s first official student government, the Undergraduate Council, was born.
Politics quickly found a home in the UC, with progressive student groups lobbying to install a sympathetic leader atop the Council.
But by the end of its first year, the Council, chaired by Michael G. Colantuono ’83, had proven it could at least function, if not incrementally improve student life at Harvard.
Thomas H. Howlett ’84, a Crimson news editor who reported on the UC at the time, called the new Council “auspicious,” but criticized the “worrisome haughtiness” of some Council members who were “willing to sacrifice their direct link to students for junior Congressman status.”
Such a characterization would haunt the UC for the remainder of its existence.
Some past actors even speculated that Harvard’s unique student population made successful student governance difficult.
“The percentage of undergrad incoming freshmen who were presidents of their student government is probably enormously high,” said Tim R. Hwang ’08, who would go on to run as a joke candidate. “You already have this ultra-competitive sort of situation that I think leads to a certain level of toxicity in the culture.”
The Council continued its reign into the late ’80s, throwing public events and advocating on issues like minority representation among Harvard faculty, South African Apartheid, sexual harassment, and campus keg policies — but struggled to drive student investment.
According to former College Dean Harry R. Lewis ’68, low student interest is not an inherently bad omen.
“I don’t think it’s necessarily a terribly bad thing that you can’t get the student body all revved up about the student government,” Lewis said in an interview this month. “It’s a measure of the diversity of interests of the population.”
Students originally didn’t even express interest in selecting the body’s leader, voting down a proposal that would allow them to popularly elect the Council’s “chair,” who was appointed internally at the time. Only one-third of the student body voted in the referendum.
“One of the main things that people who proposed the amendment intended was to cut down on student apathy,” councilmember Rodolfo Ruiz ’90 said at the time. “You can see the referendum didn’t do that at all.”
“It shows that it’s hard to generate interest in what [the council] is doing,” said another then-UC member.
For a Council trying to shake its melodramatic image, 1992 was a bad year. Then-Vice Chair Maya G. Prabhu ’94 was accused of tampering with ballots for an internal social committee chair election.
Prabhu professed her innocence, but after a failed impeachment attempt, an anonymous letter of confession, and calls for handwriting analysis of the letter, she stepped down.
The Council made more positive headlines the following year when it selected Carey W. Gabay ’94 as its first Black leader. That same year, the titles of “chair” and “vice chair” were finally changed to the familiar “president” and “vice president.”
With the title change came renewed calls for popular officer elections, something to which the Council’s first leader was opposed.
“If you’re trying to choose effective leadership for the legislative body, I don’t necessarily think that a president is better,” Colantuono said in a 2008 interview with The Crimson. “The race can easily become of much more interest to the future senators of America.”
Rudd W. Coffey ’97, a councilmember who was an outspoken advocate for popular elections at the time, said the change might have welcomed more drama than it was worth.
“We saw going into campus-wide elections as an improvement, as a way to strengthen it, as a way to tie the key leadership closer to the student body,” Coffey said in an interview this month. “I think it obviously had some unintended consequences.”
In its first year of popular officer elections, the Council moved to recall its vice president after he failed to expel council members with poor attendance. The recall, which the VP called a “political witch hunt,” failed — but six representatives were eventually dismissed through the fiasco.
By 1998, student participation in the UC reached a new low, with just 18 percent of students casting a ballot in its midterm elections.
The Council’s woes continued. In 1998, the UC’s treasurer, John A. Burton ’01, announced an account containing $40,000 of forgotten money — more than a third of the Council’s budget at the time — had been discovered over the summer. That same year, an election commission member resigned following the revelation that she asked other students to pray for a specific ticket via email.
Jonelle M. Lonergan ’02, writing for The Crimson at the time, said the Council was marred by an identity crisis as its leaders increasingly disagreed on the role of the body.
“Every council meeting became a tug-of-war between political activism and providing student services,” she wrote in 1999.
At the onset of a new millennium, UC officer elections soared to new heights as candidates explored the boundaries of campaign finance regulation. Mail drops, stickers, buttons, and lemonade became commonplace during election season as candidates worked to stretch their $100 spending limit.
Tensions flared when an all-white group of UC representatives moved to impeach Burton, who by then was vice president to the Council’s first Black female president, accusing him of stealing buttons from a student group, according to a 2000 Crimson article. The weeks-long controversy led to a complete collapse of decorum within the Council, culminating in a hearing attended by representatives from the Harvard chapter of the NAACP. Burton survived the challenge.
By the mid-2000s, the Council’s antics had invited parody.
In one of the first of many joke candidacies to come, Hwang and Alexander S. Wong ’08 ran a familiar-sounding “Laissez-Faire UC” platform, calling for the Council’s assets to be distributed equally among students via checks.
Hwang said in a May interview the campaign was meant to poke fun at the demeanor of some UC members.
“The UC was a haven for people who took themselves too seriously,” Hwang said. “I think the people who participate in [student governments] often take them beyond a reasonable level of seriousness that doesn't make any sense.”
Hwang and Wong were unsuccessful in their bid, but attracted formidable student support, something former Crimson news editor Eric P. Newcomer ’12 said bode poorly for the Council.
“The flirtation with an eventual election of the joke ticket was certainly a strong sign from the Harvard undergraduate body that there was not a lot of belief in the Undergraduate Council,” Newcomer said in a May interview.
Accompanying the jokes in the late 2000s was an uptick in Council productivity. A series of uncontroversial leaders led successful efforts to move fall exams to take place before the winter break and establish a College-wide facebook. (Previous efforts to create a facebook were slowed by privacy concerns after Mark E. Zuckerberg used house facebooks to create a website that allowed users to rate students’ attractiveness.)
But the Council’s credibility quickly began to slip once more.
A multi-day election fraud scandal engulfed the UC in 2009, prompting a failed impeachment of the Council’s then-vice president, Kia J. McLeod ’10, the resignation of three members of the election commission, and a full investigation by Harvard IT services.
Just four years later, the Council would see its only successful joke ticket, when Samuel B. Clark ’15 and Gus A. Mayopoulos ’15 ran on a campaign to ensure more tomato basil soup was served in the dining halls. Clark immediately resigned following his victory, but Mayopoulos remained, serving an uneventful term as UC president.
The UC was publicly questioning its own efficacy by 2014, when consistently low voter turnout promoted discussion at a general meeting.
“We’re never [going to] see the day where the UC is a fully relevant body at Harvard,” Jacob R. Steinberg-Otter ’16 said at the meeting.
Few elections following the pair’s satirical victory was without a joke or anti-establishment ticket, but subsequent administrations largely failed to stir the pot. That was until the campaign of Aditya A. Dhar ’21 and Andrew W. Liang ’21, who vowed, satirically, to “abolish” the Undergraduate Council and sit on Harvard University President Lawrence S. Bacow’s desk until he agreed to serve their agenda.
The pair lost narrowly to James A. Mathew ’21 and Ifeoma “Ify” E. White-Thorpe ’21, who made national headlines for their campaign music video, even appearing on Inside Edition and the Kelly Clarkson Show.
The following year, a cat campaigned for office. The Crimson editorial board deemed UC elections “broken.”
The 2021 election saw candidate disqualifications, reinstatements, nullified votes, and accusations of tax fraud. Just 33 percent of students turned out to elect Cheng and de Kanter on their “defund” platform.
Dhar and Liang would get their wish after all. In March 2022, students turned out in historic numbers to dissolve the UC via referendum in favor of a new structure, the Harvard Undergraduate Association.
In light of the UC’s history of tribulations, it seems unlikely that the HUA will be without challenges. But opinions differ on what exactly dealt the UC its fatal blow.
According to Newcomer, who used to cover the UC for The Crimson, the success of the HUA, like its predecessors, will hinge on its ability to assure students it means well.
“Now that the UC has destroyed itself, the UC’s self-important facade is crumbling,” Newcomer wrote in an email. “Unfortunately, I’m sure that the new student government will soon try to convince the world (and The Crimson) that it is doing important work.”
Some say the introduction of popular voting sent the Council down the wrong path.
“It remains to be seen if [the HUA] is an improvement or a downgrade,” said Coffey, a former Councilmember. “If that was the price of going to campus-wide elections and the in-between was a bunch of joke candidates and people getting more and more extreme, that probably wasn’t worth it.”
Andrew B. Herrmann ’82, a former Student Assembly leader, thinks that problems stem from a nefarious perception of student government leaders.
“The central controversy in this most recent move to redo the student government is the same one that’s probably always been there,” Herrmann said. “There’s a certain resentment against people who get involved in student government based on assumptions about their motivations.”
Still, Pearl, who helped pave the way for the UC in the early ’80s, was concerned by the disillusionment.
“I sincerely hope that Harvard College students, intentionally or inadvertently, are not discarding their vitally important role as stakeholders in the governance of the college,” Pearl wrote in an email.
But with less than a quarter of students turning out for the HUA’s first slate of officer elections, Pearl is yet to be reassured.
—Staff writer J. Sellers Hill can be reached at sellers.hill@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @SellersHill.
Sections
There have been countless impressive performances by Harvard athletes over the past year. Prevented from participating in the 2021 season by the Ivy League due to Covid-19 protocols, many athletes took the year off from competition to train and practice — and the break paid off for many, as their respective dominant returns acted almost as vengeance for the time they had lost.
Many athletes produced strong efforts throughout the year, including junior fencer Filip Dolegiewicz’s individual NCAA championship win, freshman lacrosse player Sam King’s six goals and three assists against Dartmouth, and Swimming and Diving’s seniors Raphael Marcoux, Dean Farris, Mahlon Reihman, and junior Umitcan Gures’ showing at the NCAA Championships.
However, there was one competition — in which two players greatly contributed — that stood out among the rest. The Harvard men’s hockey team’s success continued to grow throughout the season and climaxed during the Eastern College Athletic Conference playoffs. The crown of the team’s success in the tournament was the championship game against No.6 Quinnipiac on March 19 that secured Harvard the conference title and propelled it to the NCAA tournament. Although the Crimson won as a team, its success in the game would have been impossible without junior goalkeeper Mitchell Gibson’s career-high 47 saves and freshman forward Matthew Coronato’s aggressive and tactical offense.
Prior in the tournament, Harvard had survived two win-or-go-home situations. It defended its home, the Bright-Landry Hockey Center, from Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute in a quarterfinal battle of a three-game series, with two of the contests going into overtime. The team then headed to Lake Placid, N.Y. to play at the historic Herb Brooks Arena for the remainder of the tournament, taking down No. 14 Clarkson University in the semifinals. The Crimson had previously lost to Clarkson twice earlier in the season, but defeated the Golden Knights when it mattered most.
“We basically knew that winning the ECAC was going to be our only way to keep playing,” Gibson said.
“We already had a tough series with RPI at home — we played the toughest opponents going into Lake Placid [the championship game], and I think that prepared us a little bit more than some of the other teams that maybe had it a little bit easier….We just took it game by game because we knew if we wanted to keep our season going we had to just to win out.”
Entering the championship, with about 4,500 fans in attendance, Harvard was a significant underdog to Quinnipiac. The Bobcats had a league-best 18 conference wins, and although the Crimson managed a split in the two regular season contests, in both previous games the hockey was physically aggressive, tensions were high, and offensive possession was heavily dominated by Quinnipiac.
Harvard started Gibson in goal, as it had consistently done in the latter half of the season. The junior from Phoenixville, Pa. was a brick wall, recording 47 saves on 49 shots against one of the best offenses in the country. One of the goals scored was during a power play in which Qunnipiac also pulled its goalkeeper for an extra skater, resulting in a 6-on-4 advantage. In comparison, the Crimson offense only produced 17 shots against the Bobcats, but scored three times. Gibson was challenged with more than double the amount of shots, but nevertheless stood strong behind the mask.
“I felt good going into it,” he said. “Towards the end of the playoffs, you play so much hockey that I think you start to figure yourself out…I hadn't played in over a year, so I felt like the first half of the season for me was slow — I wasn't feeling great. I was shaky in a few, and then towards the second half, I thought I was able to become more consistent and pull out some wins and plots and saves that I maybe shouldn't have.”
Outside the crease, Coronato also played an outstanding game. Playing on perhaps the most talented offensive line of the team, alongside U.S. Olympians sophomore forward Sean Farrell and junior forward and captain Nick Abruzzese — now a professional hockey player for the Toronto Maple Leafs — Coronato saw significant time in the game, kept up with the physicality of the Bobcats, defended the zone, and produced offensive opportunities.
Coronato recorded his first point with a beautiful cross-ice assist to freshman defenseman Ian Moore on a power-play breakaway in the second period, putting Harvard up 2-1. The Crimson would lose the lead in the third period after the aforementioned 6-on-4 power play goal and headed into overtime.
Coronato only had one shot on goal during the game, but it would prove to be successful and the most important. Just over nine minutes into overtime, Moore found Coronato, who then lifted the puck into the top left corner of the net, ending the game and securing the Crimson the Whitelaw Cup for the first time since 2017.
“In between [the third period] and overtime, we just tried to regroup and settle down,” Coronato said. “[Moore] made a good drop pass to me in overtime. I tried to shoot it as quickly as I could — just get it off my stick. I had eyes and found the back of the net. It was just a really exciting moment for all of us … It was a well deserved win for our whole group.”
After losing last season to Covid-19, both players spoke on the importance of bringing the victory to their team as well as qualifying for the NCAA tournament.
“While a lot of other teams played, we had to sit on the sidelines for a full year and watch them, and I think that put a fire underneath us, so when we did have the opportunity, I think we all played exceptional and did well,” Gibson reflected. “We were all just happy to be at the rink and playing hockey again, and then to win [the ECAC championship] on top of that was unbelievable.”
“The number one goal for our team at the beginning of the year was to make it to [the NCAA tournament] and have a chance to compete for the national championship,” Coronato added. “I think that's everything for every team, and it was for ours. Having that experience this past year is huge for our team next year.”
Both Gibson and Coronato, prospects of the Washington Capitals and Calgary Flames, respectively, plan on returning next season to compete for Harvard. After the experience gained by their young team this year, they are anxiously awaiting to get back out on the ice to see what they can do next.
“I think we have a chance to be really, really good; we were really young this past year,” Coronato said. “Giving everyone a year to grow up, put some weight on, get stronger, just continue to mature — I think as this team continues to grow we have a chance to do really well, and we're all really excited for next year to see what we can do.”
—Staff writer Bridget T. Sands can be reached at bridget.sands@thecrimson.com.
Sections
Earning the Female Performance of the Year honor for her match-winning performance in the final of the 43rd iteration of the Beanpot Tournament is a fitting curtain call to what has been a stellar, inspirational season for senior forward Becca Gilmore.
MVP of the Beanpot Tournament. Ivy League Player of the Year and All-Ivy First Team. ECAC Player of the Month for February and ECAC All-League Second Team.
Despite winning all these accolades and more, Gilmore, who was Harvard’s leading point scorer for the season with 45 points — the highest for a Harvard player since the 2008-2009 season — thought that the most rewarding and by far the biggest achievement she had this season was the team’s overall success.
The Crimson finished the year 22-10-1 (16-5-1 ECAC) and earned an at-large bid to the Division I NCAA tournament, where they fell to the University of Minnesota Duluth.
“I think our senior class is graduating with how we wanted to leave the Harvard hockey program,” Gilmore reflected. “It was a huge success, and it showed all the work that has been going on for the past four, five years to bring Harvard hockey to the big stage. That was the goal that our class set in freshman year, and it was great to see it all come to fruition and to see the team achieve all that it did.”
With her combined five-point contribution in the Beanpot semifinal and final games, Gilmore was awarded MVP of the prestigious tournament. After playing an integral part in the semifinals with two assists to lead the Crimson to the final, it was on the big stage where Gilmore shone brightest, netting the unforgettable game-winning goal with less than four minutes in the nail-biting final remaining.
In a match which will surely go into the history books as one of the most intense and competitive played in the Beanpot, the score was tied at a stalemate of 4-4 in the last period with the clock ticking and both team’s offenses coming up short in the face of a great display of defense put on by both goaltenders.
With 16:39 to go in the last period, it was Gilmore who finally crossed the blue line on the left side of the ice, went around her marker on the backhand side, dragged the puck back to her forehand, and finished five-hole (in between the legs of the goaltender) for what would be the game-winning score.
For a long seven years prior, Harvard had not managed to bring home the Beanpot trophy, coveted and played for by the most competitive and highly-ranked teams in the Boston area — Boston College, Northeastern University, Boston University, and Harvard. The team finally broke the unfortunate streak this season, as it emerged victorious after a final for the ages, clinched the Crimson’s eighth ever regular-season ECAC crown on the way, and progressed to the NCAA tournament after an equally long hiatus. Harvard not only managed to break its seven-year streak of woes in the Beanpot and reach NCAAs, but it also claimed the Ivy League title for the first time since 2015.
These past seven years have been a series of tough luck, with close finishes ending in defeat, pandemic-induced uncertainty, and a dry spell of no additions to the team’s trophy cabinet. This year, though, was different.
From the very beginning of the season in the fall, there was a distinct hunger and drive which characterized every performance that the Crimson displayed, culminating in its 22-10-1 overall record and 16-5-1 mark in ECAC play. At the very forefront of this galvanized group was Gilmore, who led the team from the front on the ice in every single game. A true team player, Gilmore led the team in assists with a grand total of 26 helpers and was a clinical finisher herself, scoring the game-winning goals on five different occasions and netting a total of 19 pucks over the course of the season.
To perform exceptionally on the biggest stages of college hockey is a feat in itself, but to do so consistently for a whole season truly made Gilmore stand out as a vanguard for the team and a role model for players to follow.
“It’s a long season, and the victories we managed to get are an accomplishment,” Gilmore said. “I think it’s a great lesson for the team and for the future of Harvard hockey. There’s a lot of incredible talent still remaining in the team, and I think they’re going to do great in the years to come.”
Team spirit was something Gilmore valued greatly throughout her tenure with the Crimson, and her performances even before senior year were commendable to say the least. During her junior year, she racked up 24 points, the third highest in the team’s roster, and attended the USA Hockey’s National Team Camp.
When the trailblazing forward was asked what she had to say to the succeeding classes of hockey players, Gilmore offered words of advice and inspiration.
“Continue,” she said. “Continue the tradition of Harvard hockey. This is a saying in our locker room that the tradition lives on in you. It really is bigger than yourself, and the success of the team each year is a reflection of everyone who wore the jersey before you. Continue the tradition, continue having fun, and take care of teammates. These four years go by really fast in the jersey, and success only matters when you love the people you’re doing it with.”
This undying sense of team, fighting spirit, and competition, coupled with her incredible performance in the Beanpot and success in bringing the Crimson back to its glory after an unfortunate dry spell, won Gilmore the Female Performance of the Year.
—Staff writer Shahmir Aziz can be reached at shahmir.aziz@thecrimson.com.
Toward the end of its season, the Harvard women’s water polo team defeated Princeton for the first time in 6,551 days, a feat it had not achieved since the 2004 season. This victory was one of many accolades in a historic year for the Crimson. Harvard boasted many weekly awards given to its players by the Collegiate Water Polo Association throughout its three-month season, which culminated in a championship appearance — the furthest the team had ever gone in the tournament.
The Crimson (23-7, 9-3 CWPA) had a strong entrance in the CWPA Championships with a 16-0 shutout against Mount St. Mary (8-26, 1-11) for the second time that season and the third in program history. In the semifinals, the team achieved its third takedown of No. 20 Princeton (21-10, 8-4) in April, 11-9. Although his team fell to No. 7 Michigan for the conference title in what would have serendipitously marked his 200th win at the helm, head coach Ted Minnis felt nothing but excitement about the season as a whole.
“I was the happiest you could be without winning a championship but with the way we played,” Minnis said. “We did things that I don’t think anyone thought we would be able to do when we first started this journey in the fall, except for our group. We all believed that this was what we were capable of doing.”
This belief and success rested upon a skilled Harvard squad, including junior goalie Zoe Banks, senior center defender Inde Halligan, junior attacker Evan Tingler, and junior center Grace Thawley, who all garnered All-CWPA honors.
“We had a lot of talent,” Minnis reflected. “This was by far the strongest defensive team I’ve had. We were able to do things defensively that allowed us to have a lot of success. I also think this team was very hungry and bought into the whole process of what it took to play at a high level, and they were a very supportive team. That was very critical to us having our success; it all lined up with how hard they worked, how much they supported one another, and how talented and deep they were.”
“Whether it was the defensive and offensive plays, we were running or our ‘shark mindset’, which we try to maintain,” Banks explained. “All of my teammates were fully bought into doing what we needed to do to accomplish our goals, and it was so incredible to see the impact it had on our season.”
Banks, who co-captained the team with Thawley, tallied 216 saves and added four consecutive CWPA Defensive Player of the Week awards to her two other recognitions in the season. The CWPA named her to its All-Conference First Team as well as the All-Tournament First Team for her contribution to the Crimson’s championship run. Tingler, who scored 29 goals and had a team-high 30 assists, joined Banks on the first team for the tournament, while Halligan also made the all-conference team for notching 33 points and 45 steals. Complementing Halligan’s seniority was first-year attacker Erin Kim, who scored 40 points throughout her debut season for Harvard.
The season started in Philadelphia at the end of January with a tournament at which the Crimson earned two convincing victories over host Villanova (20-15, 9-7 MAAC). The team only dropped one of its first thirteen games, and its dominance began to show at an undefeated four-game weekend at the Princeton Invitational and two weeks later with a stellar 3-0 to start conference play. Despite losing its 2021 season, Harvard displayed no signs of rust, maintaining a high quality of play.
“It was scary coming back to two halves of a team that didn’t know each other in the slightest,” Thawley admitted. “We all knew that the fitness and sharpness of water polo would come back to us in time, but we couldn’t predict whether healthy bonds would form between the newcomers and returners. As a captain, I felt a lot of pressure to make life as easy as possible on everyone on the team, to make the translation as seamless as it could be, and to make sure everyone felt seen, heard, and loved… But I couldn’t have predicted that not only would we learn very quickly to work together, but we would be the closest, healthiest, most cohesive, and successful women's team to go through the program.”
Minnis also deftly adjusted his coaching style to effectively guide two cohorts of players who had never entered the pool for the Crimson.
“You have to adapt to different personalities,” he explained. “We did a very good job, myself and my staff, in the summer of doing a lot of talking about what we wanted our culture to look like, what leadership qualities we were looking for, and what was important to us individually and as a group.”
The first major disappointment the team faced came when its spring break trip to California to play No. 20 San Diego State University, No. 1 Stanford, and No. 13 UC San Diego was canceled. Nevertheless, the coaching staff and players used this hiccup to their advantage.
“Not only did we lose opportunities to play in California, which for a lot of our team is home, but we also lost opportunities to test our strengths against some of the top teams in the country,” Banks said. “It was the peak of adversity during this season. However, our team persisted and eventually overcame the challenge.”
Minnis noted the silver lining of the trip’s cancellation, saying that the team took the opportunity to reset and invest in the second half of the season by refining individual skills. These improvements instantly came to fruition in a tight 12-10 loss to Michigan, followed by a 10-8 victory to snap a 29-game losing streak to Princeton. Harvard would pick up its second win against the Tigers in a dramatic overtime finish the following weekend. In the sudden death period, Halligan scored with less than 20 seconds left off a perfectly-placed lob into the corner of the net. Sophomore attacker Brooke Hourigan, who led the team with 56 goals, contributed four points to the consolidating victory.
The Crimson then won three of its next four games, losing to Michigan for the second time that season, before its historic run in the conference championships.
Despite a disappointing end in its final match of the year, the women’s water polo team has much to look forward to in 2023. Rising seniors Banks, Thawley, and Tingler, as well as center defender Jaiden Miller and attacker Borden Wahl – who had 30 and 32 goals on the season, respectively – provide critical experience to a team featuring talented underclassmen as well as the four incoming members of the class of 2026. Nevertheless, the team is saying farewell to two of this season’s key players, Halligan and senior attacker Quinne Pursell.
“We graduate two big pieces to our program and culture,” Minnis conceded. “Hopefully we can do some things that are going to help us continue the success and path that they started us down.”
“There are big shoes to fill, but I think that’s a good thing,” Thawley said. “The standard is set very high, and everyone knows that. We all are highly attune to the feelings and pride this team brought, and I don’t think anyone will expect anything less of themselves next year. The best is yet to come.”
Harvard will look to build off its first-ever championship appearance and numerous accolades in training next fall and in competition starting in the new year.
— Staff writer Noah Jun can be reached at noah.jun@thecrimson.com.
Sections
As the Ivy League contributed much to the birth of modern football, it only stands to reason that some of the most memorable games in NCAA history would also have their roots in this storied league. This past year’s Harvard-Princeton matchup is no exception. However, for the Crimson faithful, it is remembered not for the heroism and playmaking on display, but for the heartbreak suffered by the Harvard team and its supporters.
On Oct. 23, Princeton and Harvard, the Ivy League’s two undefeated teams, met at Princeton Stadium in front of thousands of fans to decide who would emerge as first in the conference.
Despite the athletic talent on display for more than 60 minutes by two top-ranked Football Championship Subdivision schools, at the end of the game, it was not the players who stole the show. During the third overtime, Crimson junior wide receiver Kym Wimberly was able to capitalize on the Tigers’ man-to-man coverage, getting open for a pass from senior quarterback Jake Smith. However, right before the play, Princeton head coach Bob Surace had signaled to call a timeout. During the review of the catch, the referees noticed Surace’s call and retroactively granted the timeout — despite the NCAA rule that timeouts are non-reviewable and must be granted by the referees before a snap.
After an offensive pass interference penalty on senior wide receiver B.J. Watson, who made a catch on the ensuing play, Harvard failed to score from the 18-yard line. Thus, the game continued until the fifth overtime, when Princeton capitalized on its opportunity then knocked away a short slant pass by Smith just outside of the end zone to win the game.
The pain of the loss would only increase for the Crimson, as the next day, the Ivy League admitted in a statement that the referees had made a mistake: Harvard, the league said, should have won the game after Wimberly’s catch.
Although seven months removed from the action, the disappointment is still raw for the players.
“When I think of the Princeton game, the loss still stings a bit,” Wimberly said. “Everyone, even Princeton, knows we won that game.”
Most of the day for Harvard was business as usual, as the typically stellar defense, which entered the game tied for second in the nation with four sacks per game, did not disappoint. With four interceptions and seven sacks, the defense was able to hold Princeton without a touchdown until midway through the third. Even then, this touchdown was defensive, coming off of a blocked punt by junior punter Jon Sot. In contrast with its defense’s outstanding performance, the Crimson had a relatively slow day on offense, with most of its points coming off the leg of junior kicker Jonah Lipel until a short run to the right of the end zone by sophomore running back Aaron Shampklin in the fourth quarter set the game up for overtime.
The first two periods of overtime went largely the way of the first half. A Princeton field goal was answered by a 33-yd Lipel strike in the first overtime, and although the Harvard offense failed to convert in the second overtime, junior defensive lineman Anthony Nelson was able to block a 34-yard field goal attempt to force a third overtime period.
Due to new NCAA rules introduced prior to the 2021 season, starting with the third overtime, the two teams begin what some have called the football equivalent of a shootout: they trade two-point conversion attempts until a team wins the game.
In the third overtime, the Tigers failed to complete their two-point conversion. This meant that Harvard now had a chance to end the game. Crimson senior quarterback Jake Smith was able to find Wimberly on a beautiful route, who hauled it in inbounds for the win. Once Wimberly came down with the ball, the stadium erupted. The team rushed the field, helmets flying everywhere as the Crimson squad swarmed their offense. But the celebration was short-lived.
Shortly before the snap, Princeton head coach Bob Surace had been frantically trying to call timeout. No referee noticed him, even though in his desperate attempt to get their attention, he was so far on the field he was practically at the hashes. During review of Wimberly’s catch, the referees finally saw Surace and granted Princeton its timeout, negating Harvard’s score.
When head coach Tim Murphy heard their ruling, he appeared apoplectic. The normally serene play caller for the Crimson convened with the referees and Surace at midfield. Although no one but those in the huddle could hear what was said, it was obvious to onlookers that Murphy was not pleased with the result.
Murphy’s rage was not out of blind passion for his team. According to the 2021 NCAA Football Rules Book Rule 12, Section 3, timeouts are not listed in the litany of reviewable plays. Although the referees were within their right to review the play itself, as it was a scoring play, they could not grant a timeout retroactively. Harvard should have won the game then and there.
Nevertheless, the ruling was made, so the Harvard offense trotted out again for its second attempt at a game-winning conversion. This try was also completed on a beautiful look from Smith to Watson, but the referees determined that Watson had pushed off, giving the Crimson a 15-yard penalty and forcing it back to the 18 yard line. On its third attempt, Harvard was unable to convert, with Smith’s pass for sophomore tight end Haven Montefalco being batted away by Tigers senior linebacker Jeremiah Tyler.
The fourth overtime was again unsuccessful for both teams. But in the fifth, Princeton senior quarterback Cole Smith found senior wide receiver Jacob Birmelin in the end zone, putting the pressure on the Crimson. This marked the end of the line for Harvard, as Princeton was able to break up a short pass to Montefalco to end the game.
Emotions ran high postgame — and were only exacerbated by the Ivy League’s admission the next day that what Harvard had suspected was correct and the timeout should not have been granted. In the announcement, the league recognized that although the Crimson should have won the game, it would allow the result to stand as a win for Princeton.
The Ivy League’s decision was largely based on past precedent. Never in the history of college football has the result of a game been overturned by the regulating body of college athletics itself. The only time a game’s result has been changed was during a 1940 competition between Cornell and Dartmouth, when a referee mistakenly granted the Big Red a fifth down to win the game. After realizing that a mistake was made, Cornell forfeited to Dartmouth, unofficially overturning the official result.
Seven months ago, Harvard’s team was angered with the league’s decision. However, it has made the team more fired up for the upcoming season.
“Obviously, I wish they would’ve overturned the result of the game, especially after recognizing they made a mistake,” said Wimberly, who cited the Princeton game as a reason for his decision to return to the program for his senior season in 2022. “But, it is what it is, and we all just have to take it on the chin.”
Harvard is clearly ready to avenge the heartbreak this fall. The Crimson will have the chance to avenge its loss on Oct. 22, when it welcomes the Tigers to Harvard Stadium.
“Instead of being angry about the decision, I have turned my focus on controlling what I can control and beating them again next year,” Wimberly said. “I think everyone on the team has that similar sentiment. This just gives us extra motivation.”

–Staff writer Maddie B. Barkate can be reached at madison.barkate@thecrimson.com.
I still vividly remember March 10, 2020, the day the Ivy League canceled its men’s and women’s basketball tournament. By doing so, the league awarded Yale — the regular season champions — the automatic bid to March Madness. I was filled with rage, a burning sense of unfairness, and despair at the idea that I might never be able to cover Harvard men’s basketball at the NCAA tournament, which had been my dream since I assumed the men’s basketball beat my sophomore year.
But less than a week later, like so many on campus and around the world, my perspective had shifted entirely. March Madness had been canceled, as had the rest of the semester in person, and nothing relating to basketball seemed important anymore.
A year and a half later, I returned to campus this fall as a 23-year-old super senior. Despite my age, I was oddly worried about finding my way at Harvard again, not entirely dissimilar from how I felt the fall of my freshman year. I remember going to the Activities Fair — cynical at the prospect of actually finding an organization I wanted to join — and stumbling upon Crimson Sports. Nearly five years later, I find myself feeling nostalgic, unable to escape the feeling that my relationship with the Sports Board has come full circle.
There are many things about Harvard that differentiate it from the typical college experience. One of the most salient examples of that, for me, is the general disregard with which Harvard students engage with sports. From half-hearted attendance to the actual game at Harvard-Yale and lackluster enthusiasm about the Beanpot or other unique opportunities to cheer on the Crimson, to snide remarks and opinion pieces about the role of athletics at our school, there is no shortage of criticism or indifference levied towards Harvard sports.
Although I certainly didn’t expect Harvard to have the same school spirit and enthusiasm as one might find at a state school, sports had always been a huge part of my life. Joining Crimson Sports brought me a haven in which people revel in sharing ESPN+ highlights and obscure Ivy League sports tweets, a place I never knew I needed on campus until I became a part of it. A place where the 4:50 a.m. later winter wakeups that countless athletes undertake are viewed with admiration, not apathy.
Four and a half years later, as I reflect upon my time here in Cambridge in the nine days before I graduate, my appreciation for the Crimson Sports Board and all it has given me has grown immensely.
When I first joined the Sports Board as a freshman with Joey Minatel and Eamon McLoughlin, two members in my comp class who would become close friends, I didn’t have any expectations for what my involvement would look like. Two months later, I was thrust into the heat of an Ivy League basketball season, covering the women’s basketball team and its run to the inaugural Ivy League tournament. For my next three years on campus, I covered the men’s basketball team, a privilege that is on a very short list of experiences that have truly defined my time at Harvard.
Although the team never reached March Madness in my time on campus, writing the men’s basketball beat for three seasons afforded me opportunities few student journalists could ever dream of.
Harvard’s game in early 2019 in front of over 21,000 at the hallowed Dean Dome — home of the University of North Carolina Tar Heels — and asking legendary Coach Roy Williams a question, as I sat next to reporters from ESPN and The Athletic. Interviewing Jeremy Lin in the Atlanta Hawks locker room for my piece on his time at Harvard, as future Hall-of-Famer Vince Carter watched from just feet away. Conducting hour-long zoom interviews with MLB pitcher Brent Suter and NFL tight end Anthony Firkser — members of Harvard’s impressive list of alumni in sports — for my podcast, The River Rundown, which I couldn’t have hosted without my friend and multimedia whiz kid, Zing Gee. These are just a few of the memories I feel immensely grateful to have experienced through the Sports Board of The Crimson.
There have been countless wins I know I will never forget. From watching Harvard baseball clinch a place in the NCAA tournament after a dramatic win over Columbia, to watching Bryce Aiken hit a buzzer-beating three from nearly half-court to tie the game in a instant classic triple overtime win against Columbia on the hardwood, the moments in Cambridge have been truly unforgettable.
Growing up a basketball fan in New York City and watching the legendary Georgetown program dominate Big East tournaments at Madison Square Garden, I would have never imagined the opportunity to watch Harvard, my school, beat the Hoyas in Washington D.C., to win in the NIT. I have been able to witness so many athletic achievements and highlights that I know I will always associate with my time covering sports.
Crimson Sports has also afforded me the opportunity to deepen my relationships with many of Harvard’s incredible students. When I first joined the board, I was mentored and supported by an incredible cast of characters, hosted in upperclassmen dorms for watch parties and mixers alike. Years later, I hope I have been able to play a similar role, as I have watched the composition of Crimson Sports continue to evolve into a fantastic, social, and passionate group of Harvard students. Moving forward, I know the Sports Board is in exceptional hands with Alex Wilson and Griffin Wong steering the ship.
I feel thankful to Coach Tommy Amaker, as well as many members of the men’s basketball team, who I have gotten to know and appreciate as people off of the court. There are few coaches, if any, that do a better job espousing the importance of the student portion of the “student-athlete.” The opportunities and exposure that Coach Amaker provides for his players, from the Breakfast Club, to meeting Jimmy Carter and Supreme Court Justices, makes Harvard men’s basketball one of the most unique programs in the country.
I am also grateful to my roommate and close friend, Howard Johnson, who has served as the manager of the basketball team since freshman year, with whom I have been able to share road-trips across the Ivy League and countless score-checks on the ESPN app.
Lastly, but certainly not least, there have been the stories I feel privileged to have written. There are individuals that have always inspired me in more ways that I could ever express in words. The story of Reed Farley, who returned from a torn ACL and multiple meniscus reconstructions to play one final time after 755 days away from game action, and someone I now call a friend. Countless articles regaling the impressive play of Seth Towns, to say nothing of his advocacy off of the court; of all the stories I have written, few, if any, have meant more than chronicling the importance of athletic advocacy in professional sports in the wake of George Floyd’s murder last summer.
Being a part of the Sports Board has given me more than I could ever have imagined. In my final days here, and in my final story for this newspaper, I am filled with an immense amount of gratitude for the people with whom I have gotten to share Sports. I am thankful to the athletes and coaches who have committed themselves so deeply to sports at Harvard, and to all of those who have read along these past four and a half years.
Joining the Sports Board inspired me, in many respects, to pursue a career in sports. This summer, I’ll move to Colorado to start working in the front office of the Rockies, a path I can honestly say has been significantly impacted by my experience with Crimson Sports. A special thank you to Spencer Morris, Henry Zhu, and Will Boggs for everything you guys have done to inspire me and the rest of the group.
Being a part of the Sports Board has been an honor and a privilege. Amid the apathy towards sports that can sometimes reign supreme at Harvard, I hope that countless future students that love sports can have the same incredible experience that I’ve had.
— Staff writer Amir Mamdani can be reached at amir.mamdani@thecrimson.com. You can follow him on Twitter at @AmirMamdani22.
Sections
Harvard has produced a slew of famous and accomplished athletes. The small school size coupled with the fact that it has the most Division I programs of any school in the nation, with over 40, means that student-athletes comprise about 20 percent of Harvard’s current student body. Harvard has a long history of competing with some of the best athletics programs in the country, and its teams have won more than 150 national titles. However, among Crimson squads, the men’s lacrosse team is unique because it is mostly led by first-years.
Head coach Gerry Byrne took over the helm of the men’s lacrosse team in 2019, and has helped Harvard draw in some high-level recruits. First-year attacker Sam King, a 2022 All-Ivy Honorable Mention, is one of those recruits. King was ranked as the 21st overall recruit in the nation by Inside Lacrosse during his recruiting process, and he is one of just many highly-regarded players that Byrne has been able to bring into Harvard’s ranks. In the 2021 recruiting class (first-years on the 2022 team), Byrne pulled five top-100 players.
King hails from Baltimore, M.D., an area known for producing elite lacrosse talent. The Gilman School graduate was drawn onto the circuit by his older siblings, two sisters and a brother, who all played at the Division III level. His brother played at Middlebury and his sisters played at Colorado College and Sewanee. Although his parents didn’t play growing up, and his dad had actually never heard of the sport until moving to the East Coast, King got started from a young age, playing for both youth and club teams.
A three-year varsity letter winner (four-year varsity hockey player as well), captain of the squad his senior year, Under Armour All-American his senior year, All-MIAA selection in 2019, and the most valuable player for Gilman in 2019, King has a long resume of accolades that confirm his excellence on the field. He developed his skills both in youth leagues and as a member of Looney’s club team, a travel team based out of Baltimore.
His passion for the sport earned him an initial commitment to Denver University. King emphasizes that his recruiting process was non-traditional in that he actually switched his verbal commitment during his junior year.
“After my spring season, and the summer, I started looking at some other places, one of them being Harvard,” King explained. “Coach Byrne and all he’s doing, as well as Harvard as a university, made the decision kind of a no-brainer.”
As a recruited athlete, King has to balance his time on the field with his time in the classroom. So far, due to his commitment to a rigid schedule, he has found success both academically and athletically. His consistency is inspired by the fifty other guys on the team who also manage busy schedules, as well as his professors.
On the field, King has proven to be a phenomenal first-year starter. He broke into the lineup, rounding out the attacking trio of junior Hayden Cheek and senior Austin Madronic. King finished the season with 46 points – 25 goals and 21 assists – as well as 16 ground balls and seven forced turnovers. His explosiveness behind the cage, ability to scan the field, and quarterback from behind instantly garnered media coverage and often drew him the toughest matchup.
“Being behind the goal, you can see everything that’s happening in front of the goal with the middies and the other two attackmen. So, I think that being the X attackman comes with having to understand what we are doing on offense, and seeing what the right play is to make at the right time,” he stated.
Off the field King has developed his bond with his teammates through his band Steep Grade, which he started with senior goalie Kyle Mullin.
“We started it this fall, in November. We were asked to play at a small little event here, and so we just one day started practicing with each other, and had a ton of fun playing, and then we kind of gelled really well,” he explained. “We became really good friends first and foremost, and then started playing a lot of music and building that relationship. We'll be doing that a lot this summer. I’m going to be living in Philadelphia, so hopefully we’ll be able to play a lot.”
Participating in extracurriculars with his teammates has allowed King to form bonds that translate into peak performances on the field. Even though Mullin leads the defense and King is an offensive player, the two connected well on the clear throughout the season when Mullin would look to override an aggressive press by flinging a long-ball downfield to King, who, in their set play, would stretch the field and get open at the opposite endline.
Their band also provided an outlet for the team to come together and support the duo, which created bonding experiences for the guys to cheer them on and thus fostered more cohesion in their sets.
King has also been very involved in charity work throughout his early career, working as a tutor for Gilman’s Writing Center in high school, a passion that he will continue to develop this summer. King’s main priority in Philadelphia is to work at a school called Building 21, which focuses on providing equitable education for students under the poverty line. King has always been inspired by his teachers and coaches, and so wanted to work and help youth over the summer. In addition, he will also be working with the Harlem Lacrosse program in Philly, hoping to grow the game and nurture untapped talent in underdeveloped communities.
His ability to lead in the classroom and to inspire other students has translated into his successes on the field. He stood out in the team’s comeback performance against Princeton, in which he scored five points: three goals and two assists. He totaled nine points, six goals and three assists, against Dartmouth, and had a career-high five assists against Fairfield. He quarterbacked the offense through all of these contests, and ran point on many of the team’s sets.
King took a semester off to preserve his athletic eligibility when the Ivy League announced that it would not allow athletes to compete in the 2021 lacrosse season. During his leave, King lived in Georgia for about two months before working on an oyster farm for the rest of his semester.
“My grandparents live down in Chestertown, so I’ve always loved the culture of the Chesapeake Bay, fishing and hunting and stuff like that. So I emailed this oyster company, joined them, and learned a ton about oyster farming and the Chesapeake Bay,” he explained.
On and off the field, King is a vital part of a young Harvard squad that, after reaching the first round of the NCAA Tournament this past weekend, should have a bright future. Of the 49 guys on the team, only six are graduating, and the team is expecting about ten new recruits to join in the fall. This means that the majority of the starting talent will continue to be developed by Coach Byrne in the coming seasons. The leadership of the graduating senior class has helped pave the way for what King hopes will be more runs to the collegiate tournament in the years to come.
“All of the older guys, Austin, Hayden on attack, have been an amazing part of it all,” he said. “They’re super helpful and are great leaders and upperclassmen.”
–Staff writer Katharine Forst can be reached at katharine.forst@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter at @Forst_THC.
There’s much to be excited about as the summer countdown for Harvard women’s soccer’s return to the pitch begins. The team just finished a successful spring training and is now heading into a promising summer of preparation before it returns to campus in August. When the Crimson does, it’ll be joined by a talented incoming first-year class as it chases an Ivy League title and more.
Harvard (12-3-1, 5-2 Ivy League) continues to build on a stellar fall 2021 campaign which saw the Crimson earn its first at-large bid to the NCAA Division I Tournament since 2004 before falling to a strong Wake Forest team in the first round. The team graduates seven seniors: goalkeeper Samantha Schmitz, midfielders Maria Dimartinis and Taylor Nielsen; forwards Lauren Raimondo, Trinity Thomas, and Murphy Agnew; and defender Jillian Wachira.
This past spring saw the returning squad play four scrimmages, including a blowout victory over the North Toronto Nitros, a 3-0 win over the University of Connecticut, a 2-0 win over Providence College — who also won an at-large NCAA tournament bid last season – and a 5-2 win over Boston University.
Rising second semester sophomore midfielder Hannah Bebar acknowledged that although the wins were significant, other elements of spring training have been similarly vital in shaping the upcoming season.
“We're definitely going to come into the fall with an idea of different ways to improve and different looks, and so I think winning those games is important, but it was really more of the smaller detailed work that we did that was critical,” said Bebar, a Crimson sports editor.
“I think that the team collectively has really been pulling in a good direction, and I feel very, very good about where we're at,” said head coach Chris Hamblin.
Hamblin will be entering his thirteenth season with Harvard this fall, and his eighth as head coach.
In addition to Hamblin and the rest of the coaching staff’s leadership, two new captains will be taking the helm. Rising senior defender Jordan Di Verniero and rising senior midfielder/forward Ava Lung were elected by their teammates this spring to serve as team captains for the upcoming campaign.
“They are two great women who have already gotten off to a great start with their leadership…I'm excited that they'll be leading the team this fall…they’re very selfless individuals, and so they’re going to make sure the team comes first in all that they do,” Hamblin said.
“I’m really looking forward to seeing how that [spring] work plays into our fall season,” Lung said. “One of our main focuses, as always, is just to develop and maintain a really great team culture.”
Hamblin emphasized that after a successful 2021 campaign, the Crimson has large aspirations heading into the fall — ones that require teamwork and commitment to the process.
“I think one of [the] statements we want to focus on is to become the best team in Ivy League history,” Hamblin said. “Ivy League history is the context, but becoming the best team is the process we’ve got to focus on, and the three words in that statement are: becoming, which is focusing on the process…best, [which] is how do we define success and the standards; and the team is that we do it together.”
Bebar, who garnered First Team All-Ivy, third team All-American, and Ivy League Rookie of the Year honors last season, reiterated the team’s goals for the fall and hunger to win.
“We’re definitely going to come back aiming for the Ivy League title. I think we played well enough last year to contend for it, and we're definitely very disappointed to finish third,” Bebar said. “I'm really looking forward to see how that work plays into our fall season.”
The spring provided Harvard the chance to focus on development both on and off the field while also giving opportunities for the squad to experiment with players at different positions and looks. The summer presents another window to continue this growth on a more individualized basis as players are spread out across the country and globe. Hamblin said the coaching staff asks players to maintain fitness levels and get touches, which looks different for players depending on their summer scenarios.
Many players are competing with club teams in semi-professional leagues this summer, and some of them are also balancing their summer training with other commitments such as internships or jobs or family trips, according to Hamblin.
Despite the distance, the team remains united over the summer through consistent communication from the coaching staff and communication among training group pods of three.
“If we are able to work together to become our best selves, then we're gonna put ourselves in a very strong position,” Hamblin explained. “I think how far we go is going to be based on how well we can execute, and how well we can come together as a group, especially through challenge.”
Coming together as a group will look a little different this fall. The team is welcoming an incoming first-year class of five recruits, which will mark a significant shift from last fall, when the team welcomed twelve new faces to the squad as both the Class of 2024 and Class of 2025 played with the team for the first time after the cancellation of the 2020-2021 Ivy League season.
“We feel that the incoming class [is] very talented, and all have had a lot of good experiences,” Hamblin said.
The five incoming players consist of forward Audrey Francois of Laval, Quebec, midfielder Vanessa Frelih of Pickering, Ontario, defender August Hunter — younger sister of new teammate Smith Hunter — of Seattle, W.A., goalkeeper Rhiannon Stewart of London, England, and goalkeeper Denver Tolson of Duluth, G.A.
“We feel we have such a strong core that now we’re not going to need to rely on any of our incoming freshmen to get the job done; they’re going to be able to earn opportunities for playing time, and that’s a really cool situation to be in as a coach,” Hamblin said. “You’ve got what you need in the returning group, and the first-years, they’re going to come in and just challenge and push for playing time right away.”
The promising trajectory of a hungry and accomplished but not-yet-satisfied team with a great incoming class and clear goals — capturing a championship and becoming the best team in Ivy League history — gives Harvard soccer fans big things to look forward to come the fall. When it does come, Jordan Field will be packed, goals will be scored, and championships will be chased. As summer begins, Crimson fans can’t wait for it to end.
— Staff writer and women’s soccer beat writer Zing Gee can be reached at zing.gee@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @zing401.
Sections
There were many talented first-years on Harvard rosters this year, but none shined brighter than foil fencer Lauren Scruggs, who has seen success on the national and world stages.
Scruggs, who is just 19, has amassed four gold medals at Junior Championships, a first-place finish at the North American Cup National Championships, a second-place team finish at the NCAA National Championships, and second team All-America standing. She continues to add to this list of achievements through the hard work, perseverance, and dedication she has shown throughout her stellar rookie season.
Scruggs transitioned to collegiate fencing this past year, bringing much experience from the international competition to college. Scruggs was the youngest US fencer to win a gold medal at Junior Championships, competing in the U20 division at just 16-years-old in 2019.
This fall, Scruggs adjusted to working with a new coach and a new team — one that produced five All-Americans in its last season.
“This year was about adjusting to the balance of college fencing. I thought I had a good season in light of all that,” she said.
Scruggs was quick to note that her success this year could not have been possible without the support of her teammates and coaches.
“The upperclassmen really helped with the adjustment,” she said. “A lot of them had the same experience as I do on the national team. Hearing from them how to balance school really helped.”
Another contributor to the team’s success: women’s fencing head coach Daria Schneider, who won a U.S. Fencing national title in 2011 and won Ivy League Co-Coach of the Year with Cornell in 2018 before moving to Harvard prior to the 2021-22 season.
“[Schneider] does a lot to make sure everyone has their needs accounted for,” Scruggs said. “I can always go to her if I have a problem, which I really appreciate. She is very understanding with our personal lives and that we have other things going on outside of fencing. Overall, we have a coaching staff who really cares.”
The support and team culture has helped Scruggs become a better person and a better fencer, she said.
“Lauren is hugely inspirational. She is one of the hardest working people I’ve ever met, and I notice that she rarely complains or even discusses how hard she’s working— she does her job while also being a fun and positive presence on the team,” added teammate and first-year epee fencer Emily Vermeule on the impact Scruggs has had on the program.
Despite her youth, Scruggs carries plenty of experience to the international stage, managing her stress and nerves in the moment. Her previous bouts have taught her how to manage big moments at such a young age with confidence and fortitude.
“Learning how to manage through injury and fence with that has helped me this season,” she said. “I listen to a lot of music before I fence because it helps me get out of my head. I wouldn't say I am prone to a lot of stress during competition, but when I am, music really helps.”
Looking to the future, Scruggs hopes that she can take her junior success to the next level.
“I really want to improve on the senior level,” she said. “I want to continue to do better at those senior tournaments. It is one of my hopes going forward.”
Scruggs recently traveled to Dubai to compete in the Junior World Championships. In the United Arab Emirates, she earned her second gold medal after also winning in Toruń, Poland, in 2019. She has one more year of eligibility in the U20 class, and will hope to defend her title in 2023. Her performance in worldwide competition lands her in contention for the national team squad that will represent the United States in the 2024 Olympics in Paris.
The Queens, N.Y., native returns home this summer to strive toward that goal. She will fence under her previous youth coach, with another task to balance: her summer internship. Just as Scruggs took on the challenge of collegiate fencing, managing a job along with fencing is something a fencer of her caliber must take in stride.
“I will probably go in at least three times a week,” Scruggs said. “I will be training a lot to improve and take it into the next season, which helps a lot when I’m training with my coach.”
With three more years of college eligibility and her transition from the youth to senior within eyesight, Scruggs is taking it day by day.

— Staff writer Hannah Bebar can be reached at hannah.bebar@thecrimson.com. 
Sections
Harvard field hockey had a historic 2021 season, rewriting record books by making it to the Final Four round of the NCAA Division I Field Hockey tournament for the first time in program history. The Crimson ultimately lost to eventual titlewinner Northwestern in a 2-1 overtime heartbreak in the semifinal bout.
A notable component of this No. 9 team that contributed to its Cinderella season was the strength of its defense, ranked top in the nation. Junior defensive powerhouse Ellie Shahbo anchored this defense in goal.
With the top goalie win-loss percentage (.882), the top save percentage (.860), and top goals-against average score (.440), Shahbo is one of the top goalkeepers in all of collegiate field hockey.
Despite her first-rate statistics and the key role she played in bringing the team to a near-perfect 17-2 regular season record and undefeated 7-0 Ivy League record, Shahbo credits the entirety of these titles to her team.
“I just think the team made me look really good. I don't think it was a product of me,” remarked the Second Team All-American. “Our defense was amazing, and that reflected well on me. I don’t think it could have been done without everyone on the team contributing in the way that they did and being as supportive as they were… It was definitely a whole team effort, I can't emphasize that enough.”
The team’s NCAA semifinals run was the furthest it has made it into the tournament since 2018 when the team made program history by reaching the quarterfinal round during Shahbo’s first year. The then-Female Rookie of the Year was critical in making seven saves in the first round matchup against Penn State to secure the program’s first NCAA tournament game victory in school history.
“I think [the team] has had an exponential growth that's happened over the past four years,” Shahbo said. “My freshman year we won the Ivies and it was the first time we ever won a round of the tournament.”
It's clear that something was different this year — Shahbo, alongside her teammates, faced a nearly 21-month hiatus off the field due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The No. 1 team in the Ivy League came into its long-awaited return to competition strongly and swiftly, with Shahbo having four consecutive shutouts in early September, which kickstarted a promising momentum that never seemed to slow down.
“I think it was a combination of our team’s trajectory of getting a little better every year and that pure desire of wanting to be back on that field playing with each other again,” said Shahbo, captain for the 2022 season. “It’s a credit to the girls on the team and the environment that our coaches create that allows for that growth and that support. We’ve had a crazy amount of talent — this year everyone contributed and participated in a way that they were productive to the team.”
Though the time off before this special season limited competition, the absence of play helped Shahbo develop a greater appreciation for her sport and her team — an appreciation that will follow her into her final season with the Crimson.
“I think the time off really helped me reflect on what I missed, the team and sport I missed — it really just culminated in that season,” she said.
In her three seasons for the Crimson thus far, Shahbo has proven herself to be a top defensive threat in the net, and she keeps getting better. In her first career start, she made 10 saves against the then-No. 3 Maryland, which was the most goals saved by any Harvard goalkeeper since 2015. Since then, Shahbo has continued to help the team climb the national rankings and garner a reputation of being one of the top defensive squads in the country.
“I don’t think I physically changed as a player drastically over the years,” Shabho said. “I think a lot of it is confidence and confidence in your teammates.”

What’s fundamental in the drive for success for Shahbo, however, is remembering to have fun.
“Performance drastically improves when you are having more fun — it's just like you are enjoying the competition and not so uber-focused on yourself or your technical and tactical play,” she said.
This formula is part of what makes Shahbo unique, and it played a major role in the team’s progression to the Final Four. The tournament itself brought many ups and downs — from back-and-forth flights to snow delays — but her commitment to keeping her head in the game and working as a unit helped them remain confident in the fact that they not only had a special opportunity, they had what it took to win it all.
In the quarterfinal game against Michigan in the tournament, Shahbo stopped all three shots in the deciding penalty shootout to seal Harvard field hockey’s first clinch of an NCAA semifinal game.
“It was very much an opportunity with no losing, to be honest,” Shahbo said. “Even if we did lose, it was just an opportunity to perform and play well and play with each other.”
There’s no denying that Shahbo has racked up an impressive lineup of top-ranked statistics for herself and Harvard field hockey — but the skillful goalkeeper pays little to no attention to them. In fact, she continues to accredit them to her team.
“I find the statistics a little funky — I don’t know if they're the best reflection. I think focusing too much on the statistics is detrimental to anyone. I really credit this team with our ability to learn from each other,” she said. “Having those open, sometimes uncomfortable, discussions about how you're playing and how you're able to critique yourself and others is definitely one of the secret ingredients there.”
Shahbo is nothing short of a natural born leader — humble, optimistic, and magnificently talented. The Harvard field hockey program will feel an immense hole upon the end of her career on Berylson Field, with her final season for the Crimson coming up in a quick three months. But her absence will not be felt solely based on her skill, but because of her team-focused mindset and dedication to leading her teammates, which consistently brings Harvard to victory.
— Staff writer Mairead B. Baker can be reached at mairead.baker@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @baker_mairead.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
“What time is it on the clock of the world?” The Chinese American philosopher and Detroit-based community activist, Grace Lee Boggs, posed this question at the beginning of public events in the late 1900s and early 2000s. Hers was a piercing question, a prescient question, which compelled members of her audiences, me among them, to take note of our global moments and recognize states of urgency.
Since then, the alarm on Grace Lee Boggs’ proverbial clock has been incessantly ringing. Perhaps it is clanging most loudly for you, dear and cherished members of the Harvard Classes of 2022, 2021, and 2020. You have spent the last few years reeling from the physical and emotional costs of a global pandemic and the social disruptions it wrought. You have seen political upheavals previously unthinkable here in the United States, the vulnerability of American democracy, an erosion of rights secured long before you were born, a rise in racist and antisemitic violence, and a series of extreme weather crises that indicate a dangerously changing climate. You have observed the swift deterioration of national stability in Europe, increased violence in the Middle East, and a rise in authoritarian rhetoric and leadership around the world. You have witnessed for yourself truths that you surely learned at Harvard — that the globe is intricately interconnected, societies are excruciatingly complex, and human beings are tragically flawed. And you have watched your elders — statesmen and women, financiers and entrepreneurs, the people in charge of governments and international institutions — straining for solutions to staggering moral and material dilemmas.
You have even learned in recent weeks that your alma mater holds responsibility for the historical enslavement of at least 70 souls — grandchildren, grandparents, mothers, fathers, aunts, uncles — and has ties to individuals responsible for the dispossession, exile, sale, and captivity of many more people across New England, the American South, and the Caribbean. You now know that all you have gained here at heralded Harvard — in illuminated knowledge, in lifelong friendship, in unparalleled opportunity for rich, full, and resourced lives — stands in stark contrast to all that was stolen from populations in the past.
You may feel dazed by these revelations, disclosures, and betrayals. If so, you are not alone. The hallmark of our time seems to be destabilization and fragmentation, profound disorientation, and the dimming of collective civic lights. And what are you to do with all this? How are you to stride through the ornate gates of Harvard Yard and enter this chaotic world without getting lost in the storm of uncertainty?
Let’s ask Harriet Tubman. I will venture a guess that you know the name of one of African America’s legendary freedom fighters. Some of you may also know that this is the 200th anniversary of Harriet Tubman’s birth on the eastern shore of Maryland in 1822. She was born into chattel slavery, separated from her parents as a young child, and neglected and abused by the various people who legally owned or rented her. Her skin color consigned her to subjugation. Her caste was inherited and heritable. She grew up in a system and society that offered no hope for her wellbeing. Tubman’s situation was desperate, until she changed it.
Harriet Tubman saved hundreds from enslavement, but she started with herself. She learned all she could in the context of community, through the love and guidance of her family. She identified her enslavement and the captivity of those around her as an egregious wrong, and she acted to combat that wrong by escaping to the North. To accomplish this, she had to identify allies, walk close to a hundred miles, and navigate through hostile territory in the dead of night. Harriet Tubman oriented by way of the sky. She mapped her escape route by setting her sights on the North Star. Physicist Chanda R. S. H. Prescod-Weinstein ’03 describes Harriet Tubman’s use of Polaris as “a natural compass.”
Tubman also moved in accordance with an ethical compass, doing what she believed was right in her heart and mind. She was sharp, brave, and resilient. She was, at the same time, exhausted by her strenuous efforts, pained by a childhood injury that resulted in a disability, and traumatized by the loss of her older sisters to sale. In other words, she was human.
After she freed herself, Tubman returned South to rescue relatives and compatriots, relying on a secret network of fellow freedom fighters. She aided approximately 70 people, leading small groups through dark forests and across cold creeks. During the U.S. Civil War, she commanded a Union Army attack on rice plantations along South Carolina’s Combahee River, freeing nearly 800 people from bondage. Perhaps Harriet Tubman realized that amid chaos and uncertainty, there is no way out but forward. She had faith in her ability to change her society for the better, and hundreds of people had faith in her.
Classes of 2022, 2021, and 2020: I have faith in you. You are sharp. You are brave. You are resilient.
What time is it on the clock of the world? Your time. It is your time to chart the stars and fly hard and fast until you grab them, raining down light on this tainted ground that you will inherit. Congratulations on your graduation and all the goodness you will bring to our broken, yet beautiful, world.
Tiya Miles ’92 is the Michael Garvey Professor of History, a 2021-22 Walter Channing Cabot Fellow in the Faculty of Arts and Sciences, and a Radcliffe Alumnae Professor at Harvard University. 
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Charlotte A. Hartmann (neé Nelson) and Carter A. Hartmann ’22 describe themselves as a “Covid miracle couple.” Both members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, they became good friends while taking Russian language lessons for their respective missions: his to Ukraine and hers to Kazakhstan.
When they returned, Carter messaged Charlotte on Facebook over winter break of 2020. He then subsequently visited Provo, Utah, where she attended Brigham Young University; their first date was at an In-N-Out.
“I was telling all my friends I was going out with this awesome girl,” he says. And so when Covid-19 forced Harvard undergraduates away from campus, “I went straight back to Utah.”
Their engagement came later that year on Christmas Eve, when Charlotte was visiting Carter’s family. They had discussed getting engaged, and she suspected the proposal might happen that trip.
But as the days passed, she began to wonder if he was “just trying to throw me off.” So when the couple left to buy an ingredient at the store and returned to find rose petals and candles around the Christmas tree, she was completely surprised.
“I had wrapped the ring under the tree. So she unwrapped it, and I got on one knee and proposed,” Carter recalls — “and I said yes,” Charlotte adds.
Five months later, on May 14, 2021, they were married at the Manti Utah Temple, where Charlotte’s grandparents also had their wedding. The flowers were especially important to Charlotte — her father grew up working at a nursery and she worked at a flower shop in high school. She wanted more blooms than greens, and her bouquet included roses, peonies, and lisianthus.
After graduating from BYU in December 2021, Charlotte moved to Cambridge. She got a job at Hemenway Gymnasium so that she and Carter could play basketball together, which they love to do, among numerous other sports.
Carter is part of a group of friends — including Alejandro E. Jimenez ’22, Ryan E. Ixtlahuac ’22, and Noah M. Jones ’22 — who lived together in Utah during the pandemic and are all married. “Almost every weekend we go on a double date, or have a game night with them, or have them over for dinner,” Carter says.
The couple will move to New York City this summer, where Carter will work in consulting and Charlotte will be a mutual fund accountant.
As they walked away after our interview concluded, the couple hurried back and decided to share one more piece of news: “We’re expecting!” The baby is due in November.
In late 2019, when Denise Jimenez’s (neé Han) sister and brother-in-law asked what qualities she was looking for in a partner, she said she wanted someone “full of goodness.” They immediately thought of Alejandro E. Jimenez ’22, whom they had met on a church mission in Los Angeles. Alejandro was visiting Utah in November, where Denise was studying at Brigham Young University, and her sister set them up on a date.
They made dumplings. “Denise’s family is from China,” Alejandro said. “And they love to make dumplings together. I thought it was a great way for me to be exposed to [her] family culture.” On their second date — many months later, when Alejandro moved to Utah in March 2020 due to the pandemic — he showed Denise how to make enchiladas, a food important to his Mexican American heritage. Both foods involve combining two components, wrapper and filling, to make a whole, full of goodness.
But it would take a little longer for their relationship to blossom. “He actually friendzoned me,” Denise recalls. They stopped talking for a while, but reconnected over debating Russian authors — she thinks Tolstoy is superior, while he prefers Dostoevsky — and started dating in May 2020.
Denise knew she wanted a serious commitment early on: She was going to attend law school, “and I’m not going to defer law school if we’re not super committed.”
In summer 2021, Alejandro gave Denise a two-month range of when he was going to propose. But he wanted to surprise her, so “for about a month,” he says, “I put on surprises to make her think, ‘perhaps this is the time he’s going to propose.’”
On a Friday in July, he suggested a picnic. “I had her in the driver’s seat in a sense, choosing where we would want to go for this picnic,” Alejandro says. “But in the background, I had the exact location picked out in the mountains in Utah,” where he had family lay out a blanket and charcuterie board.
“The entire time was like, ‘I guess this is all my ideas,’” Denise recalls. When they reached the picnic spot, she realized “he was proposing, and so I just started crying.”
The wedding was on December 21, in San Diego. Their airline offered them $3,000 each to delay their flights, but they were unable to reschedule a marriage license appointment. “We decided in that moment between our marriage and the $6,000,” Alejandro says — they chose their marriage.
After Alejandro graduates, they will move to New Haven. “The number one thing about a long term relationship and marriage,” Alejandro says, “is you’re making compromises for each other.” Denise took a year off as he finished his undergraduate degree, and now he is following her to Yale, where she will start law school in the fall.
Before Raj Karan S. Gambhir ’22 and Sahej K. Chawla ever met, their parents knew each other.
“My mom actually recently found a photo of Sahej’s parents at my dad’s 50th birthday party,” Raj says, “which was over a decade ago.”
Raj and Sahej are members of the Sikh community in Orange County, Calif. and were introduced to one another by their parents last summer. In their first encounter over two light Vietnamese coffees — they immediately realized they liked the same milk alternatives — they dove into conversation.
Their shared backgrounds allowed them “to skip the formalities” and move onto deeper subjects. Nearly a year later, they still “talk every day” while Raj finishes his last year of college and Sahej begins studying pharmaceutical science at the University of California-Irvine.
Family remained a significant part of their relationship as it progressed, but not “just because our families have known each other,” Raj says.
In their community, marriage “is not just a union between two people, it’s really a union between two families,” he says.
In March of 2022, the couple were engaged at Sahej’s family home at their Roka, a ceremony and celebration of their engagement. During the course of the ceremony, the two families remained separate. But once Raj and Sahej went outside to take engagement photographs, Sahej they could hear sounds coming “from outside. We were like, ‘We don’t know what’s happening.’”
Once the couple returned, they found that “an impromptu dance party started, after the ceremony,” Raj says. “There were no divisions in the room, everyone was dancing around and mixing around.”
As each embarks on their professional life — Sahej at UCI, Raj in D.C. and later law school — their relationship will be maintained at a distance and the wedding may not take place for several years.
Yet both feel that the relationship is “nice and secure” and their relationship endures because “our families are so integrated,” Raj says. Just a week ago, Sahej celebrated Mother’s Day with Raj’s mother while he was in Cambridge; he called Sahej’s mom the same day.
“I think that we're already part of each other's lives,” Raj says. “To the extent that we can see each other in person, we will do that.” But the scope of their relationship, he says, is larger than a few miles of distance — “we have a longer vision than just the next few years.”
Ryan E. Ixtlahuac ’22 and Inaê Ixtlahuac first met speaking Portuguese, while on mission with the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in Portugal. They began dating in December of 2019.
Now, their conversations ebb in and out of Portuguese, Spanish, and English. “Sometimes we don’t even know which language we’re talking in,” Ryan says.
“We never finish a sentence in one language,” Inaê adds.
The couple shares more than just a hodge-podge of languages — as Ryan attended college at Harvard, they played strategy board games together and spent long hours, night after night, in the Smith Campus Center where Inaê proofread Ryan’s papers.
The two dated throughout the pandemic. Inaê was in school at Brigham Young University while Ryan attended classes remotely in Provo, Utah, by the university. It didn’t take long to realize that they were “super committed to each other and wanted to get married,” Ryan says.
In December 2020, a year after they started dating, Ryan planned a circle of flowers on a mountain top overlooking Utah County — the place where their relationship began. Ryan proposed and Inaê, “happily,” said yes.
In August 2021, the two got married. Inaê’s family flew to Utah from her hometown of São Paulo, Brazil; Ryan’s family came in from Monterey, California. After a day of celebration, the two went on a honeymoon, and soon after, took a four-day road trip back to Boston — Inaê’s first time visiting Harvard and her new home. After graduation, the couple will return to Utah as Inaê finishes up her last year of college.
Sustaining a long distance relationship during the early days of the pandemic was a difficult task. But it prepared Alexandra P. Grayson ’22 and Nicholas G. Kells for an even greater distance: from Cincinnati to a nuclear submarine, leagues under the sea, at an undisclosed location.
Nicholas will soon graduate from the United States Naval Academy, and after a year at the Nuclear Power School in Charleston, S.C., he will be deployed to work on nuclear submarines — a job with an unpredictable schedule, where he can be out for weeks or months at a time.
While Nicholas is studying nuclear power, Alex, a concentrator in Molecular and Cellular Biology at Harvard, will be “studying how to save lives” in medical school at the University of Cincinnati. To contact Nicholas at sea, she will have to number her emails chronologically, so that their order isn’t confused during the occasional bursts of emails he will receive.
The two met online in fall of 2019 while at home in Ohio and went on their first date in December at the Cincinnati Zoo to see its Festival of Lights. Then, the pandemic struck. In a sense, Nicholas said it had “a positive impact for us,” because both the Naval Academy and Harvard sent its students home, “so we got a solid five months, otherwise we wouldn't have had.”
Even later, when Nicholas was overseas with the Naval Academy, Alex would create scavenger hunts for him in the mail, filling envelopes with different colored hints so that he had to piece together.
“There was some sentimental value to each one of them,” Alex adds. “I'd have lyrics from different love songs that we like listening to. So you have to figure out what the categories were when he only got one sheet of paper a day.”
The virus even managed to weasel its way into the couple’s engagement. Once they met, Nicholas says, “I knew after our first date, but it just felt right.” Exactly two years later, he planned to propose at the Cincinnati Zoo at the Festival of Lights. But the day before flying home to Cincinnati, Nicholas tested positive for Covid-19.
Though they planned on getting married, Alex had no idea when to expect the proposal, so when Nicholas called and frantically asked if she could “definitely” go to the Cincinnati Zoo a week later, she responded, bemused, “Yeah, we're good. We can do the date.” Given each of their busy schedules, the wedding is “theoretically” scheduled for November 2023. Until then, numbered emails and love song scavenger hunts will suffice.
When Cindy Gao ’22 and Tyler E. Higgs first met, they went on a series of non-dates. As participants in Boston Summer Mission in summer of 2021 — a program in Dorchester for Christian community service — they were technically forbidden to be romantically involved with one another.
So Cindy and Tyler, who had connected “from the start,” found time, early in the morning and late at night, to be with one another — in parks, a Vietnamese restaurant, on runs — to speak about the “really hard years” they’d endured just before this summer and embark on the “vulnerability and healing” at the heart of their relationship.
Gao took a long, hard-won path to arrive at the program in Dorchester that summer. For much of college, she pursued a path of finance, but after an internship that she “really disliked,” she felt that her former “measures of success” were “meaningless.”
She took a yearlong leave of absence from Harvard and embarked on a spiritual journey, which led her to convert to Christianity. Following this difficult year, she met Tyler at the mission—she thought he was “really cute.”
“We definitely met during probably one of the hardest seasons of my life,” she says. “I was not looking at all for a relationship.”
Tyler, a senior at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology studying computer science, hadn’t expected their relationship to lead to marriage. He grew up in a small town in Illinois, with a population of “about 600 people,” where he says it is more common for couples to transition quickly from dating to marriage. But he “pretty much didn't expect Cindy to want to get married for a while.”
To his surprise, she brought it up. “We weren’t just going to do what was normal because our normals were so different,” she says. “We haven’t known each other for that long, maybe, but you don't have to know someone for a long time to really connect with someone.”
Tyler felt the same, and, in April of 2022, he proposed to Cindy at a park in Dorchester they frequently visited during the first summer of their relationship.
Their wedding will take place at the Boston Public Gardens on May 28, just days after each of them graduate from college. It will be the first wedding Cindy has ever attended. When asked about their plans for the future, career aspirations go unnamed. “We just signed a lease for an apartment near Alewife,” Cindy says. “And I’m getting a puppy.”
Ariann Jones ’23 (neé Sanford) realized he was going to propose when she spotted the box in his pocket. The couple was on a camping trip, and Noah M. Jones ’22 drove them down a dirt road to a lookout he claimed to be curious about. Ariann stepped out of the car and realized it was the same place they had had their first date a year earlier; when she saw the box, she knew.
Ariann had three criteria for the proposal: Noah had to give a “little spiel about why he wanted to marry me,” which he did; she wanted to be alone, which they were; and she could not be wearing glasses, which she was not.
“It was just the two of us in this beautiful mountain range,” Ariann says. “We didn’t even have service. And we used his lanyard to tie his phone into a tree and take timed photos” — Noah’s Visitas lanyard from April 2018, when they first met.
Back then, Noah was an admitted student planning to enroll in Harvard’s Air Force ROTC program and study mechanical engineering; Ariann was a freshman in Air Force ROTC who studied bioengineering.
Both are members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Everyone in ROTC and in his church told Noah he should meet Ariann, and they did, exchanging contact information. But then she went on a mission to Ecuador, so the two only stayed in touch via occasional email.
When she returned at the end of 2019, they started messaging almost daily; the pandemic then helped them reconnect in-person. After Harvard closed its campus to undergraduates in March of 2020, Noah moved to Utah, where he has extended family. At the time Ariann was taking a gap semester after her mission in Las Vegas, her hometown. Only a couple of hours apart by car, they went on multiple camping trips together along with some other friends.
On their first date they watched the sunset from that same lookout, finally able to talk about everything they messaged about for months. “We started having two hammocks, and then it got kind of cold,” Noah recalls. “We ended up sharing.” They officially started dating in June 2020.
A few periods of separation — a trip he took for ROTC training, Ariann visiting family — made them realize “we really miss each other a lot, and this is definitely something we want to make last,” Noah says. They were married eight months after their engagement, on Jan. 8, 2022.
Next year, Noah will be completing his first assignment: to get a master’s degree in robotics at Boston University, allowing him to stay in the area as Ariann finishes her undergraduate degree. After that, he will be deployed in the space force and she will be the unit commander of her Air Force detachment; they hope the military will assign them to the same place.
Concentration, not major; comp, instead of join; teaching fellow, never assistant. Harvard students speak differently. Upon arrival to campus, our tongues adapt, picking up a uniquely Cantabrigian lingo, a dialect of the in-group and the in-group alone. Every minute spent in Annenberg (well, ’Berg) or in line at Pinocchio’s (’Nochs) solidifies the new terminology.
This mildly pretentious lexicon is hardly our institution’s primary imprint on the graduating class. The places we live in hold power; their histories bleed through, making and unmaking us in their image. Like plant stakes, these tales ground us in our physical surroundings, inconspicuously guiding the ways we are able to grow. In America, few such histories reach back further than Harvard’s. This is an institution older than the country itself, a training ground for much of our nation’s elite, a mirror and creator of every stigma, hierarchy, and social leap. At Harvard, our physical surroundings and the attached set of communities and norms shape us in ways we sometimes don’t recognize or perceive.
Long after our commencement ceremonies are over, some of our most recent graduates might still allude offhandedly to “the yard,” or accidentally speak of “comping” a book club in their new, fancy city with the new, fancy job. They will also, however, carry the more subtle marks of the Harvard graduate, the remnants of a brush with Harvard’s history. Our institution’s legacy is, in many ways, theirs too. Our graduates will, for the rest of their lives, look at the world through Crimson-tinted glasses. The long, grassy stretches by the Charles, the maze that is Widener library, even the beloved Radcliffe Quadrangle, for those studying abroad — all have helped mold us more than we know.
But these Cambridge buildings aren’t just backdrops for college nostalgia. Architecture isn’t neutral at Harvard. Bearing witness to this institution and all of its glorious and shameful chapters, our buildings offer grim reminders of days past, fixing in stone once commonplace views. This year brought us yet another example: Westmorly Court’s fireplace, deep within one of the University’s better-known halls and covered up by concerned administrators, featured three distinct, grotesque racial caricatures. The hearth, with its ‘civilized’ and ‘uncivilized’ dichotomy, signals that Harvard’s legacy is one of benefitting from and helping entrench existing hierarchies. For decades, Harvard students who inhabited the residence — including later-president Franklin D. Roosevelt, Class of 1904, who would go on to authorize the internment of Japanese Americans — existed next to the fireplace’s racist depictions of Asian, African and Indigenous minorities. Harvard’s destructive racial legacy undoubtedly influenced its student body.
If our homes shape us, so too do we shape our homes. The now infamous Westmorly fireplace once helped trivialize racist caricatures; in archival footage, our predecessors can be seen kissing by the grotesque pillars, apparently unfazed by their surroundings. Fast forward a few decades and student journalism and uproar alike have paved the path for the chiseling out of the abhorrent sculptures. Unwilling to passively inherit our institution’s legacy, we made it our own.
The lesson from the hearth isn’t that our university is defined exclusively as a home to despicably racist artwork, nor that it’s far enough from its dark past to comfortably conceal it behind hollow panels. Instead, the fireplace shows that our history is very much alive. No chapter can remain unread, no stone unturned: A full biopsy of the systems we create, strengthen, and perpetuate is warranted.
Wrestling with our past so as to better understand our present must mean more than removing its most gruesome indicators and keeping them out of sight. It’s a matter of reckoning with our legacies — with the things we carry and those we leave behind.
Sometimes that reckoning is more explicit — and more expensive — than symbolic statue removals. The University’s report on Harvard and the Legacy of Slavery, with its attached $100 million price tag to implement recommendations, is a good example. The University didn’t decide to wrestle with its role in enslaving over 70 human beings overnight or entirely of its own accord; an early undergraduate-led push to inspect our ties to slavery was crucial in inspiring the report. We are as grateful for the students who spearheaded that effort as we are for the administrators who, in time, decided to champion and expand it. Still, the findings of the report remind us of a devastating and relevant chapter of Harvard’s history. The same campus that prides itself on the birth of countless notable figures is also a cruel burial ground for the until now, largely nameless individuals it exploited.
Harvard is still in possession of Native American artifacts, daguerreotypes of enslaved individuals initially created to promote scientific racism, and many unidentified human remains. The university must proactively right these past wrongs, or watch them fester and cast new shades of shame upon its legacy. More importantly, affected individuals — from the modern incarnation of Native American tribes from which the artifacts originate, to the descendants of those whose bodies are collected as objects for display — deserve justice and peace. They deserve their own legacies.
Harvard’s legacies, of course, aren’t only racial. As the opulent Westmorly Court reminded us, Harvard has long been an institution for and by the upper echelons of the economic elite, a university geared largely toward capital. Our laudable financial aid program has made a small dent in the numbers, offering a ladder to the ivory tower, yet our classes remain disproportionately wealthy. We are reminded not just of the legacy admissions system, which benefits (largely well-off and white) students with familial ties to our institution, but of the legacies that aren’t. Those who, lacking a crimson parent or a niche, expensive sport to highlight in their application, see the Yard’s stately gates close before them. Our legacy of exclusion, present and past.
It is every Harvard affiliate’s responsibility to continue our fight for greater inclusivity. Yet re-shaping our student body to more closely mirror the surrounding society will take decades and inevitably involve forces outside our control — positive ones, like the reforms to school district funding we’ve advocated for, and negative ones, including looming challenges to the affirmative action system that has so radically improved our school’s representativeness.
In the meantime, correcting the legacy of excessive class hierarchies within Harvard itself must remain our top priority. That starts with recognizing the value and dignity of manual labor, which our university has undervalued even in places where it was once central, like dorm crew. This year more than ever, class analysis cannot be separated from a discussion of organized labor. Amid a national resurgence in union power, Harvard’s graduate students and staff embraced the power of collective action. We must recognize the efforts of graduate students who put their jobs on the line and undergraduate course workers who showed solidarity.
Last fall, the Harvard Graduate Student Union fiercely fought for and eventually obtained a better contract. Students sought conditions and pay raises they deserved, creating, through picket lines and signs, physical reminders of the clashes between workers and their employers.
In doing so, they helped make strikes and strike culture an indelible part of the Harvard legacy, a framework for graduating classes to follow or implement. For that, we are immensely grateful.
The efforts of labor organizers demand our support, and the fruits of such organizing are spread far and wide, well beyond what is suggested by class-only readings of our surroundings. Third-party arbitration, which HGSU-UAW pushed so hard for, could have brought much-needed reform to Harvard’s Title IX procedures. The University’s intransigence on this point was not merely a reinforcement of the class hierarchies at our institution. It strengthened gender hierarchies as well, hurting future victims of sexual misconduct at our school.
The hierarchies of class and economic status are thus inseparable from other standing power imbalances at our school, including gender inequity. We see that intersection in the demographic homogeneity of our 66 percent male tenured faculty. We see it in the astonishingly persistent culture of sexual misconduct. We see it, time and time again, in the inadequate nature of the administration’s responses.
Earlier this year, a lawsuit surfaced yet another batch of deeply disturbing allegations of misconduct against a prominent Harvard professor. Had the University’s own recommended policy changes been in place, they may have prevented yet another case of a professor harassing students. Without reform, legacies perpetuate themselves. Conformity in the face of deep rot is not only unproductive, but actively harmful.
The above is no less true when our focus shifts from University decision-making to everyday student life. After a years-long hiatus, our peers have returned to in-person social spaces, where imbalances of power permeate male-dominated social spaces like final clubs. Against this backdrop, the Bee’s new physical space in the Square embodies the potential to steer final club culture (a largely regrettable, if seemingly unmovable fixture of our campus) away from exclusivity, elitism, and gendered violence and toward a safer, more equal footing for women.
Yet with marked increases in the percentage of students that identify as queer on campus in the past few years, we must grapple with the implications of a heavily gendered social culture on non-conforming members of the student body. What, if anything, is the legacy of gender-exclusive spaces for those who reject gender exclusivity or labels outright? And what trail will our queer peers leave at the clubs they join or refuse to join, the ones they shape through their presence or absence alike?
We simply don’t know. Legacies aren’t made in a day; they are not fixed or unmovable. As the new, fireplace-free Westmorly will soon show, the Harvard legacy is an unfinished draft, subject to edits by students and affiliates alike. Future communities will scrutinize our norms, dot our i’s, and overturn our precedents. The graduating classes of 2020-22 have now, more than ever before, a responsibility to leverage their voices to rewrite that draft — or, in failing to do so, to solidify its most egregious errors.
Leveraging our voices means stepping up and leading when we can and should. In our time at Havard, we’ve seen examples of leadership to follow and to flee from in equal measure. The mess of student government showed us the perils of seeking positions for self-advancement. Efforts to replace the Undergraduate Council had their own serious flaws, but they showed that we have the agency to reshape old legacies for better or worse.
Of course, dozens of members of the graduating classes have been UC representatives or Crimson editors or club presidents. A far smaller number will go on to become U.S. Representatives, journalists, or CEOs. Harvard produces an unusual number of leaders, but part of graduating college is realizing that your impact on the world will most likely be less dramatic than your grandest college dreams. Even as we pursue our highest aspirations, we need to think about what good citizenship might look like — not as a future thought leader but as a software engineer, advertising manager, or public defender — as a member of a unionized workplace, perhaps.
These are thoughts for commencement time. When we’re knee deep in problem sets, with some admirable exceptions, we don’t have time to reflect. When we’re busy in the office, college will fade rapidly into nostalgia. It’s awfully hard to see the big picture when your nose is scrunched against a grindstone.
But at this moment of transition, we have time to reckon with our legacies to date and think consciously about what legacies we want to leave. The world changes Harvard, and Harvard changes us. In some small way, we can complete the loop: change Harvard and the world, too.
Now is the time to think about how.
This staff editorial solely represents the majority view of The Crimson Editorial Board. It is the product of discussions at regular Editorial Board meetings. In order to ensure the impartiality of our journalism, Crimson editors who choose to opine and vote at these meetings are not involved in the reporting of articles on similar topics.
Have a suggestion, question, or concern for The Crimson Editorial Board? Click here.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
I imagine that many of you aspire to create meaningful change — whether through activism, public service, innovation in business, scientific advances, or art. No matter how great your ambitions, when one considers all that needs fixing in our world, it can be daunting. And as newly minted graduates, the path forward can be difficult to discern.
So I offer an insight that I hope might inform your successes and buoy you as you navigate inevitable disappointments. The very fact that you are graduating from Harvard means that you have already acquired one of the most powerful tools available to any of us: reason.
By reason, I mean several things. I mean the ability to unearth facts through deep research, to discern the truth through clear-eyed analysis of those facts, and to finally deploy this truth through thoughtful argumentation.
Most of you will recognize this process — of research, analysis, and argumentation — as a cornerstone of your academic life here at Harvard. With these skills — and by devoting the time and care necessary to apply them — you have earned your degree. Your grit, your engagement with facts, and your commitment to reason: these are the things I want you to be proud of. These habits of mind will serve you well throughout life.
We live in an era that tends to reward volume and certainty. Those who speak loudly often convey great passion. Passion is a powerful force: It has driven my commitment to access and opportunity in and beyond higher education. But it is not enough. In addition to passion, you need reason.
Perhaps now more than ever, as we try to make sense of a flood of information bombarding us across countless platforms, we must commit ourselves to the painstaking work of research, of analysis, of argumentation — work that doesn’t necessarily lend itself to clever soundbites, but which is critical to inquiry, and to the pursuit of change.
By training, I am a legal scholar and historian of the civil rights movement. Among the many leaders I admire, and whose lives I see as instructive, are those who did the intellectual work required for social change. Consider, for example, Constance Baker Motley. Do you recognize her name? Perhaps not, but make no mistake: she was the civil rights queen. She began working at the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund in 1945, while still a law student, and she was a crucial figure dismantling Jim Crow laws. She helped litigate Brown v. Board of Education. She fought for Martin Luther King Jr.’s right to march in Birmingham. And in 1966, she achieved an historic first: President Lyndon B. Johnson appointed her to the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York, making her the first Black woman to serve as a federal judge. When Ketanji Brown Jackson ’92 accepted President Biden’s nomination to the Supreme Court, she said, “Today, I proudly stand on Judge Motley’s shoulders,” calling Motley’s life and career “a true inspiration to me as I have pursued this professional path.”
Motley was, first and foremost, a woman who used reason to shape history. And she was not alone. The greatest moments of change in the 20th century were the result of tireless, hard intellectual work. Sometimes that work is thankless, but there are no shortcuts.
As you begin the next chapter in your lives, do not discount the transformative power of your ability to reason. One of the greatest threats to reason is basing our conclusions on insufficient facts, or allowing them to be shaped unduly by our preferences, prejudices, and preconceptions. As W.E.B. Du Bois, another changemaker whom I greatly admire, once wrote: “somebody in each era must make clear the facts with utter disregard to his own wish and desire and belief.”
Rely on reason, and you will not need to shout down your critics. With reason, there is no need to belittle, to attack. There is no need to grandstand.
A commitment to reason and to deep research in the quest for justice motivated me as I chaired the Presidential Initiative on Harvard & the Legacy of Slavery. During nearly three years of doing the work required to prepare our report and recommendations, I encountered skepticism about my commitment to a lengthy and thorough process of research. I believed that our research would have to speak for itself if we hoped to spark meaningful change. I think it does.
The research laid the groundwork for our recommendations, and for the establishment of a legacy of slavery fund that will support redress. Of course, there is no monetary sum that could ever remedy the harms of slavery and its legacies. More must be done.
I also realize that some of you — with reason at your disposal — may disagree with the particulars of the committee’s recommendations. I welcome this kind of engagement, and believe it will strengthen the critical work that lies ahead for us. This is another virtue of reason: it gives us grounds on which to engage, even when we disagree. I hope you will take that lesson with you, too.
Tomiko Brown-Nagin is the Dean of Harvard Radcliffe Institute, Chair of the Presidential Initiative on Harvard & the Legacy of Slavery, the Daniel P.S. Paul Professor of Constitutional Law at Harvard Law School, and a Professor of History at Harvard University.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Congratulations on your graduation! We have been privileged to work alongside you as your instructors and collaborators over the last several years. We have witnessed firsthand your intelligence, perseverance, and integrity, and we are filled with pride at your accomplishments.
During your time at Harvard, and this year especially, the University has been rocked by several public cases of sexual misconduct. We are among the many who have been affected by these abuses. We write to you today to share some lessons we have learned while struggling to navigate these harms.
We have seen how challenging it can be to merely discuss abuses of power, let alone address them. This can be especially difficult when harm is perpetrated by someone with a responsibility for doing good or the power to determine the fates of others — like a religious leader, professor, coach, doctor, or family member.
It can feel like whole worlds ride on these conflicts — and indeed they often do: Whole selves, families, communities, and institutions may have to be reorganized for the truth of such harm to be acknowledged and addressed. Powerful institutions especially fight being remade in this way, because part of what enables them to survive over time is resistance to public truths that would require their transformation, oversight, or even their obsolescence.
But our worlds are not so brittle that they cannot be remade.
And so our first piece of advice for you concerns how to live with an ordinary and painful truth — that we all know and love people who have done harmful things, and we all know and love people who have been harmed.
Throughout our lives, each of us will have times when we are surprised by the depth of our own mistakes and by the cruelty of the people we love. Each of us will also have times when we are surprised by our own bravery and integrity, and by the bravery and integrity of others. We urge you to embrace such revelations, and not to turn away from the complexities and contradictions they may evince. Confronting these truths will give you humility and compassion as you go forward.
We can all cultivate skills of public truth-telling and accountability that can bring our communities into greater safety and knowledge: Practice talking with real and great specificity about the details of life. Be comfortable challenging others and being challenged. Learn to apologize well when you hurt others, and proactively look for ways to enact repair. Find the people who will tell you the truth and help you grow.
Our second piece of advice is this: When you stand at a juncture at which you have the choice to address harm or ignore it, we encourage you to think and act on broader timescales of humanity and history, rather than on timescales of your own success or failure. What we have learned in our time at Harvard is that you will rarely get to choose which struggles you are a part of, or what happens as a result of engaging with them — but you can do your best to observe carefully and respond with courage.
Those of you graduating will have already seen years of active struggle to address injustices perpetuated within and by the institution that is Harvard University. You have seen the first strikes by unionized student workers in Harvard’s history. Your own advocacy, capping off years of concerted organizing, has resulted in Harvard’s divestment from fossil fuels.
Yet Harvard has made no similar commitment regarding its profits from private prisons and prison-serving companies. Harvard has not returned to Tamara Lanier the photos it holds of her enslaved kin Renty and Delia, which are the spoils of theft. Sexual violence remains rampant across our campus. Fifty years after Title IX’s passage sought to protect students from sex discrimination in education, our lawsuit contends that those civil rights — like so many others — remain unfulfilled. We never expected to file a lawsuit during our time in graduate school. But our experiences transformed what our work would have to be.
As you move on to other places and continue to think about the nature of institutions, of influence, and of power, celebrate the transformative work that succeeds. And have the courage to support the work that cannot be successful yet because it is asking for things power and norms will not yet allow. That a change is adamantly resisted by those in power is all the more reason to take notice, to listen carefully, and most of all, to insist on a more fair and just world. As a letter written by our peers states, even when a desired change has not yet come about, “the refusal to give or take scraps is world-making in other ways.”
Remember that your careful everyday work matters, and it will always touch other lives, whether now or in the future world you are building. Remember too that all meaningful work is slow, and you will need plenty of rest, laughter, and shared meals to keep going.
Each of you deserves joy and justice. We can’t wait to see where you find it.
Margaret G. Czerwienski, Lilia M. Kilburn, and Amulya Mandava are graduate students in Harvard’s Anthropology Department and plaintiffs of an ongoing lawsuit against Harvard University.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Boston Mayor Michelle Wu ’07 addressed the Harvard College Class of 2022 at the school’s Class Day ceremony on Wednesday, urging graduates to seek truth in themselves and others to drive change.
The College’s Class Day, which celebrates the accomplishments of graduating seniors, was held virtually for the past two years due to the Covid-19 pandemic. In March 2020, students were sent packing amid the escalating public health crisis, forcing the Class of 2022 to spend more than half their college years under pandemic restrictions.
An alumna of Harvard College and Harvard Law School, Wu is the first woman and person of color to be elected mayor of Boston. Wu studied Economics in Currier House during her undergraduate years.
In her speech, Wu reflected on the various ways the University’s motto — “Veritas” — has permeated her own life, encouraging students to “see what is truly real” by diving headfirst into the challenges they seek to address.
“If you’re trying to solve a problem in the world, understand what it feels like first,” Wu said. “Seek out those closest to the challenge, and those who will be most impacted by the solution. I take the T to work because my own deep truth is that I’m a transit nerd, but also because there is no better way to get expertise in transit policy than to experience the system you’re trying to improve day in and day out.”
In her campaign for mayor of Boston, Wu advocated for a Green New Deal for Boston, paid parental leave, and workers’ rights. At Class Day, Wu emphasized the importance of “speaking truth” in order to address the world’s pressing challenges, including climate change, gun violence, and reproductive rights.
“To tackle the challenges we face today, we need to build trust in the urgency of our challenges by seeking the truth of the experiences of those on the ground, speaking the truth when it’s hard, and building the community to solve it,” Wu said.
Amid “waves of misinformation and disbelief,” Wu said it was important to continue to elevate the truth.
“Tell the truth when it’s hard, and uncomfortable, and complex,” Wu said. “Tell it so that we can build and rebuild the trust that’s needed for our brightest future.”
Wu offered her congratulations and said she was “rooting” for the Class of 2022 as she concluded her address.
“You can do anything,” Wu said. “Choose to make what you do impactful, joyful, and true.”
Following opening remarks from Class Committee First Marshal Menatallah N. “Menat” Bahnasy ’22, Dean of the College Rakesh Khurana urged graduating students to utilize the skills they developed at Harvard to envision a more sustainable future.
Khurana painted a picture of a “hopeful version of 2036” — the year of the University’s 400th anniversary.
“In this 2036, climate change is under control, solar and wind converted into electricity have become the backbone of our energy systems, nuclear war is no longer a looming threat,” he said. “Sometime around 2022, we recognized that humanity’s diversity is its strength, and a source of infinite possibility. We realized that the world’s most important resource is its youth.”
“Right now, this vision of 2036 sounds not just unrealistic, but maybe naive and unattainable,” Khurana added. “I don’t know how we’ll get from here to 2036. But I do know that social change begins with bridge-builders. And I know that you all are ready to step into that role.”
Youmna M. Chamieh ’21-’22 delivered the Ivy Oration, quipping about the Harvard experience and likening the school to a “long-term girlfriend.”
“In the courtship stages, back when nothing was guaranteed, we told Harvard that we ‘loved the way it thinks’ and that it was ‘not like other schools,’” Chamieh said. “And now we’re four years in, and we’re like, ‘You put the toilet seat back up.’”
“Except the toilet seat is just divesting from fossil fuels,” she added.
Following years of advocacy efforts from campus groups, the University announced last September that it would allow its remaining investments in the fossil fuel industry to expire.
In the Harvard Oration, Andrew S. Yun ’22 discussed the importance of kindness amid Harvard’s competitive atmosphere.
“It is only when I chose to be honest about my shortcomings that I realized that amid the fierce competition, Harvard also has deep networks of support and care for those willing to seek them out,” Yun said.
In closing remarks, Class Committee Second Marshal Ruth H. Jaensubhakij ’22 reflected on the ways the Class of 2022 has changed during its untraditional tenure at Harvard.
“After Friday, our paths will diverge — for better or for worse,” Jaensubhakij said. “But right now, for this moment in time, we’re all here together. Every decision we’ve made, every class we’ve taken, every late night, every rehearsal and meeting and shuttle ride and spontaneous conversation, they’ve all led us right here.”
“This is an incredibly unique and special group, and this moment — our graduation from Harvard — is unlike any other,” she added.
Prime Minister of New Zealand Jacinda Ardern is set to address the Class of 2022 Thursday during Commencement exercises.
—Staff writer Isabella B. Cho can be reached at isabella.cho@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @izbcho.
—Staff writer Leah J. Teichholtz can be reached at leah.teichholtz@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @LeahTeichholtz.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
As faculty and officers of Harvard University who oppose racism and colonial violence in all its forms, we stand in solidarity with the Palestinian people in their struggle for freedom and self-determination. Israeli state violence has devastated Palestinian life through a combination of warfare, territorial theft, and violent displacement. Unwavering US financial, military, and political support has fueled the systemic domination and repression of Palestinians. In 2018, Jewish supremacy in Israel was given legal sanction through the Jewish Nation-State Basic Law, which makes the right to national self-determination in Israel unique to the Jewish people and defines Jewish settlement as a national value. Long-standing criticisms of Israeli state violence by Palestinians themselves are now echoed in reports by Human Rights Watch and the Israeli human rights organization B’Tselem that document widespread human rights violations against Palestinians. Amnesty International has noted that “Israel's system of institutionalised segregation and discrimination against Palestinians, as a racial group, in all areas under its control amounts to a system of apartheid.” Most recently, Israel’s former attorney general, Michael Ben-Yair, called his country an “apartheid regime” and urged the international community to recognise this reality and hold Israel accountable.
It is this larger context of escalating ethnonationalist violence that the Harvard College Palestine Solidarity Committee addressed in its Israeli Apartheid Week of events. It is also the context that prompted The Harvard Crimson to publish its April 29 editorial in support of the Boycott, Divestment, and Sanctions (BDS) movement and Palestinian liberation. And it is this larger context that is systematically distorted in the statement penned by a number of Harvard faculty members in opposition to the Crimson editorial.
In their statement, these faculty members repeatedly call for a more “complex” understanding of the situation in Israel/Palestine. But this complexity does not include any acknowledgment of the actual conditions of Palestinian life in Israel, the West Bank, the Gaza Strip, or refugee camps in adjacent countries. The statement makes no mention of the dispossession of Palestinian land by ever-expanding settlements, the siting of educational institutions on settlement land as a means of solidifying the Israeli occupation, the routine incarceration and killing of Palestinian protestors, the eviction of Palestinians and destruction of their homes, and the gunning down of Palestinian journalists. It makes no mention of the fact that Palestinian resistance is criminalized by Israel and the US and that every measure of self-defense by a people without a state or an army against a nuclear power backed by the US is subject to immediate censure. On the contrary, the statement completely obscures the relationship between the Jewish national project and Palestinian subjugation. In demonizing BDS, it also severs its family
resemblance to other instances of boycott, divestment, and sanctions, including the movement against South African apartheid and the measures being adopted against the Russian invasion of Ukraine. In short, the statement sidesteps any effort to understand why BDS — a nonviolent response to the violence of the Israeli state — might have been adopted by Palestinians as a political strategy and why it has increasing support around the world.
Instead, the only violence mentioned is that of antisemitism. The only threat identified is to the Jewish national project. The only vulnerability named is that faced by “Jewish and Zionist students.” In disregarding the everyday violence exercised by Israel on Palestinians, blaming BDS for rising antisemitism, and equating student opposition to Israel’s policies with “anti-Jewish hate speech,” the statement conflates Jewishness with Israel and Zionism and erases the presence of Jewish students and organizations that oppose Zionism and root their support for Palestinian liberation in a moral understanding of Judaism. Antisemitism is indeed real and dire. It is embedded in white supremacy, and many forms of racism have deep ties to antisemitism. However, blaming the movement for Palestinian liberation for rising antisemitism weaponizes a legitimate concern to distract from the racism and violence faced by Palestinians. In effect, the statement reprises a strategy deployed by Israeli and US governments as part of a growing trend to shut down legitimate criticism of an increasingly violent, exclusionary, and discriminatory state.
It is especially troubling that a group of faculty, including former Harvard president Lawrence Summers, has gone to such lengths to criticize the political stances of students in the name of “a respectful and inclusive learning environment.” The irony of leveraging the stark imbalance of power between faculty and students in order to obscure the gross asymmetries in power between Israel and Palestinians seems to be lost on them. So too is the inherent contradiction of censoring criticism of Israel in the name of intellectual exchange. This abuse of power is compounded by their patronizing attitude to the Crimson editors whom they encourage to access resources at Harvard, including the signatories themselves, to “[learn] more deeply about Jewish identity and Israel, the diversity of the Jewish experience, and the multifaceted nature of contemporary antisemitism.” Not only do such comments render Palestinian experiences irrelevant, even illegitimate, they substitute institutional power and credentials for knowledge in order to put students in their place. We strongly oppose such tactics of intimidation and applaud the Crimson editors and the Palestine Solidarity Committee for their moral clarity and fortitude in defending Palestinian rights against consistent efforts to deny them. It is students like these who make our university proud. We stand with them and the Palestinian people in their principled opposition to Israeli apartheid.
Steven Caton is the Khalid Bin Abdullah Bin Abdulrahman Al Saud Professor of Contemporary Arab Studies. Sara Roy is a senior research scholar at Harvard’s Center for Middle Eastern Studies. Ajantha Subramanian is the Mehra Family Professor of South Asian Studies and Chair of the Anthropology Department.
A full list of the 49 signatories to this letter can be found here.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
