News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Eight Harvard affiliates, including five seniors at the College, were named Schwarzman Scholars last month. The prestigious scholarship allows students to study China and its relationship with the rest of the world.
The affiliates selected for the fellowship include current College students Corbin G. Duncan ’22, Emilly Fan ’22, John A. Ferguson ’22, Nicholas D. Maxwell ’22, and M. Seven Richmond ’22. They will be joined by James A. Bedford ’20, Harvard Medical School student William H. Ge, and Kunho Kim ’17.
The scholars will pursue a one-year master’s degree in global affairs on the campus of Tsinghua University in Beijing. The program selected 151 students out of nearly 3,000 initial applicants for its seventh class of scholars, including students from 33 countries and 106 universities.
Stephen A. Schwarzman — a billionaire who co-founded the Blackstone Group, one of the world’s largest private equity firms — established the program in 2016.
Schwarzman Scholars study a core curriculum focused on leadership, China, and global affairs.
Richmond, an Economics concentrator, said he first heard about the fellowship from his mentor Scott D. Kominers ’09, an associate professor at Harvard Business School.
“I didn’t even really know what the Schwarzman was, but after Googling it when he told me about it, I fell in love with the opportunity of the program, and with his help, and the help of my other teachers at Harvard, I applied, and was fortunate enough to get it,” he said.
Ferguson, who will be graduating from the College with a bachelor’s degree in Government and a master’s degree in Regional Studies-East Asia, said he decided to apply for the fellowship because of his interest in U.S.-China relations.
“The Schwarzman scholarship is a really critical intervention at this time in history,” he said. “It’s particularly interesting for diplomacy. I noticed a trend where, as the U.S.–China relationship gets increasingly tense and constrained, it’s forcing a lot of diplomacy into informal channels, networks, and relationships.”
“I think the Schwarzman scholarship is probably the greatest informal network to be created in response to this trend,” he added.
Duncan, a Government concentrator, said it was a “great feeling” to find out he was named a Schwarzman Scholar.
“It felt like a culmination of a lot of the work that I’d done in college and the perfect springboard out of college and into the world,” he said.
Maxwell, who is pursuing a concentration in Social Studies, said he has always had a “pretty deep” interest in China.
“[I’m] very interested in foreign policy, and of course, you can’t talk about foreign policy without talking about China,” he said. “Taking this opportunity to be able to study in China, to be able to get more of the on-the-ground perspective was super appealing to me.”
Maxwell added that he was very attracted to the program in part because of the geographic diversity of the scholars.
Fan, an Environmental Science and Public Policy concentrator, wrote in an email that she decided to apply for the fellowship because it equips scholars with a comprehensive understanding of China’s global role.
“Along with the program’s emphasis on leadership development and hands-on experiences, I hope to continue to explore the U.S.–China energy realm and its associated political, technological, and economic dimensions,” she wrote.
Kim, who graduated from the College with a concentration in Environmental Science and Public Policy, said that he is interested in examining how China’s strategy on cryptocurrencies will differ from that of the United States in the future.
Kim added that he hopes to speak to “government officials and high-ranking people” along the way.
Duncan said that he looks forward to continuing his research on the political economy of development as a Schwarzman Scholar. He added that he hopes to use the opportunity to engage with non-governmental organizations and the corporate sector in Beijing.
“It’s not something I really expected to get or planned my life around getting,” Richmond said. “But now that I’m here, I really just intend to enjoy the time with my peers in my cohort and also the Chinese population, whether that’s playing pickup basketball with people on the street, or going to some cool street shops and trying new foods I’ve never seen before.”
–Staff writer Jorge O. Guerra can be reached at jorge.guerra@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @jorgeoguerra_.
—Staff writer Davin W. Shi can be reached at davin.shi@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Here, The Crimson looks back at 2021 in photos, examining the images of a year that, like the previous one, took place in the shadow of the Covid-19 pandemic.
For the spring 2021 semester, the University expanded the number of students allowed to live on campus. However, many students still resided away from Harvard and instruction remained virtual. On-campus students had to abide by public health policies including regular Covid-19 testing and social distancing.
Businesses in Harvard Square had to take on new public health practices, such as indoor dining restrictions, in order to prevent the spread of Covid. Merchants also had to adapt to having a reduced student population in Cambridge.
In March, activists held a rally in Boston Common against hate crimes that target people of Asian descent, which rose substantially during the pandemic.
During the spring semester, a controversial paper by Harvard Law School professor J. Mark Ramseyer asserting that women forced into sexual slavery by the Imperial Japanese military during World War II were voluntary sex workers provoked widespread condemnation. The Korean American Society of Massachusetts held a protest against the claims in front of Harvard’s Johnston Gate on March 6.
In spring 2021, Covid-19 vaccines became widely available in the United States. Students flocked to mass vaccination sites at venues like the Boston Convention and Exhibition Center to receive shots.
The beginning of the 2021 fall semester, which all Harvard students were invited back to campus for, saw two convocations — one for the Class of 2025 and one for the Class of 2024, who did not experience a traditional in-person convocation as freshmen the previous year.
Ethan Whang ’21-’22, Carmen Enrique ’21, Trevor Bishai ’21-’22, Herkus Gudavicius ’21-’22, and Rheede Erasmus ’22 posed for a photograph at the entrance to their off-campus housing. The number of students living off-campus more than doubled in the fall semester compared to years prior to the pandemic.
Representative Katherine M. Clark (D-Mass.) spoke at a John F. Kennedy Jr. Forum event moderated by Alexander K. Park '23, left, and Alexis A. Elliot '22, right, in September. The IOP returned to hosting in-person events in the fall semester.
On Nov. 1, the Massachusetts Supreme Court heard arguments in a lawsuit brought against Harvard by Tamara K. Lanier, who claims that the University unlawfully possesses and profits from historic photos depicting her enslaved ancestors.
During the fall semester, student performing arts groups — such as the Harvard Undergraduate Drummers — held in-person performances for the first time in over a year.
The Head of the Charles Regatta, a three-day rowing competition, returned in October after being cancelled the previous year because of the Covid-19 pandemic.
Harvard beat Yale, 34-31, in the 137th rendition of The Game, which was held in New Haven, Conn., in November. The Game was cancelled in 2020 due to the pandemic.
In a historic election in November, Michelle Wu ’07 was chosen by voters as the 54th mayor of Boston. She is the first woman of color to be elected to the position.
Harvard’s graduate student union went on strike for three days in late October, marking the union’s second strike in three years. On Nov. 16, the University reached a tentative agreement with the Harvard Graduate Students Union-United Automobile Workers.
