News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard College’s Office of Academic Integrity and Student Conduct will welcome Laura Peña Pantano as its new Associate Dean of Academic Integrity and Student Conduct, Faculty of Arts and Sciences Dean of Student Services Michael P. “Mike” Burke announced in an email Monday.
Pantano previously served as the office’s Assistant Dean of Academic Integrity and Student Conduct and Secretary of the Administrative Board. Pantano, who is succeeding History lecturer Brett Flehinger in the role, will lead the office and oversee the Honor Council and Ad Board, which enforces standards of student conduct and academic rules.
University of North Carolina Wilmington’s Assistant Dean of Students Titus Adeleke will join Harvard as the new Assistant Dean of Academic Integrity and Student Conduct and Secretary of the Ad Board on August 1.
Adeleke’s role will entail managing student conduct reports and academic policy exceptions. He will also lead Ad Board staff.
Pantano wrote in a statement that she looks forward to her role in maintaining integrity among students.
“I am excited for this new role and eager to promote academic excellence within our community at Harvard College,” she wrote. “The entire team is looking forward to continuing our tradition of the highest levels of integrity and support for student success.”
Adeleke wrote in a statement that he is “excited” to join an institution “that attracts students from across the country and around the globe.”
“Harvard has a deep, rich history and I am looking forward to learning and growing while contributing to a supportive, educational, and memorable experience for students,” he wrote. “I can’t wait to don some Crimson clothing and learn all about the many cultural and dining offerings in Cambridge.”
—Staff writer Meimei Xu can be reached at meimei.xu@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @MeimeiXu7.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
