Sections
10. ‘SOS’ (SZA)
After a five-year absence, Dec. 9 marked SZA’s long-awaited return to music with her sophomore project “SOS.” Featuring a whopping 23 tracks, “SOS” is as expansive as it is experimental. Unlike the strictly alt-RnB nature of her critically-acclaimed debut project “Ctrl” — which featured chart-topping classics like “Drew Barrymore,” “The Weekend,” and “Broken Clocks” — “SOS” ambitiously ventures into uncharted territory. From Avril-Lavigne-esque vocals on angst-pop banger “F2F” to haunting melodies throughout “Ghost in the Machine,” an unexpected collaboration with American-indie rock musician Phoebe Bridgers, “SOS” fearlessly flirts with new sounds. But never fear, as the heartbreak performer of our generation, SZA never ventures too far from her roots. Like “Ctrl”, “SOS” is for the people: Overflowing with genuine meditations on toxic relationships, the dangers of infatuation, and feelings of resentment, self-criticism, and regret, “SOS” holds a mirror up to one’s inner psyche and offers a rare unfiltered outlook on what it means to be young and out of love. Paired with SZA’s trademark amorphous vocals, stellar production, and unfiltered lyricism — “You were balls deep, now we’re beefin’” is this writer’s personal favorite — “SOS” and the toxic eras it will inspire in listeners across the globe were inarguably worth the wait. —Anya L. Henry
9. ‘Her Loss’ (Drake & 21 Savage)
Few rap duos can create a project that both feeds into the mainstream and qualifies as rap caviar. Toronto maverick Aubrey Drake Graham and Atlanta prodigy Shéyaa Bin Abraham-Joseph, better known as Drake and 21 Savage, respectively, have accomplished just that. A 16-song album that’s just over an hour long, “Her Loss” had the charts and the clubs in a chokehold — without compromising the quality of the bars in its composition. “Her Loss” might not be the most risky move in Drake’s career, but after the underwhelming experimentation of its 2022 predecessor, “Honestly, Nevermind,” safe is good. It’s cathartic, a long-overdue reunion between longtime collaborators and a celebration of friendship — and it shows. It shows in the seamless transitions between 21’s verses and Drake’s vocals, in Lil Yachty’s signature adlibs, in Metro Boomin’s tempo switch-ups: Everything about “Her Loss” is effortless and classic without losing that X factor that makes it consumable. —Alisa S. Regassa

We reviewed “Her Loss” and gave it 4.5 stars.
8. ‘Dance Fever’ (Florence + The Machine)

​​The week of its release, “Dance Fever” hit top charts across Europe, Australia, and the U.S., reaching number one in the United Kingdom almost immediately. Although the indie rock band Florence + The Machine is no stranger to success, their fifth studio album exemplifies lead singer Florence Welch’s haunting vocals and ethereal sound like no other. The tracks range from classic disco and funk to more modern EDM and pop-infused dance tunes. Based on choreomania, a phenomenon of hysterical dancing chronicled throughout European history, Welch’s songwriting and the album’s range of sound indeed tap into something guttural, captivating, and majestic. The 14 tracks are at times a story about power, exalted and feminine, and at times about turning brutal self-conscious honesty into something beautiful. “Dance Fever” calls out with its gasps and harmonies to all — the lovers, the dream girls, the heartbroken, the wicked, the self-aggrandizing, the longtime fans and the new. —Hannah T. Chew
7. ‘Stick Season’ (Noah Kahan)
Noah Kahan is a must-listen for any New England road trip. From the sweet softness of “Strawberry Wine” to the upbeat melody of its title track, his latest folk-infused pop album “Stick Season” exhibits great musical range. The album’s lyrics capture Kahan’s love-hate relationship with his hometown of Strafford, Vermont, often dismantling the idyllic view of small-town New England. His songs tell poignant stories of lost love, familial tensions, and discontent — and yet, despite such heavy subject matter, the album is a joy to listen to. Heavily reliant on acoustic guitar, “Stick Season” makes listeners feel like they are sitting next to Kahan at a campfire, soaking in the singer-songwriter’s talent. —Nina M. Foster
6. ‘Multitude’ (Stromae)
According to NPR, “Stromae puts on one of the best live shows in the world.” According to us, Stromae’s new and improved “Multitude” tour compounds on the strengths of Stromae’s musicality in his album of the same name. With the larger than life vocalizations on “L’enfer” and the quaint strumming of the cavaquinho (small Portuguese guitar) on “Sante,” come the multi-dimensional visuals and animated characters featured alongside those songs. Having amassed recognition for his DJ-ing skills in songs like “Alors en danse,” Stromae broke language barriers and breached the U.S. mainstream and charted around the world. His latest album “Multitude” showcases his ability to amalgamate many genres and carve out a space that is all his own within the music industry. From the trap-infused “Bonne Journée” to the soaring stadium chant-worthy chorus of “Invaincu,” to the tender harmonies of “Mon Amour,” there is a bit of everything in “Multitude.” —Alisa S. Regassa and Jaden S. Thompson
5. ‘Midnights’ (Taylor Swift) 
“Midnights” by Taylor Swift was more than a simple album drop. With social media Easter eggs and TikToks disclosing track titles posted at midnight leading up to Oct. 21, Swift’s tenth studio album created buzz before, during, and after its release. Breaking records and taking up the Billboard 100’s top 10, the album solidified Swift’s return to pop music and brought a long-sought collaboration with Lana Del Rey. Delving deeper than she’s ever gone before, especially in “Anti-Hero” and “You’re On Your Own Kid,” Swift explores themes of self-reflection and what it means to be human; the love, the insecurities, the trauma, and the joy. Pulling from sleepless nights throughout Swift’s life, Midnights’ glittery texture and heavy use of ’80s synth contrasts with Swift’s occasionally muted vocals to capture the energy and new perspective illuminated in the darkness of the night. The album’s unification of artfully crafted lyrics with energetic instrumentals and several decadent music videos cement Swift as a shining star in the music industry this year. —Anna Moiseieva

We reviewed “Midnights” and gave it 4 stars.
4. ‘Renaissance’ (Beyoncé)
Inspired by the stagnant nature of the pandemic, Beyoncé’s seventh solo album brings energy and creative expression back to life. Beyoncé’s dance music fantasia “Renaissance” is built upon self-expression and an appreciation of the freedom that comes in returning to the clubs. Upon release, Beyoncé stated that she wanted the album to “be free of perfectionism and over-thinking.” In enacting her wishes for the album, she melts together a dance album with a celebration of expression that goes beyond her own personal story. Delving into gospel in “Church Girl,” in lines like “I’ve been up, I’ve been down,” her lyricism serves as a tribute to Beyoncé’s own shortcomings and her remarkable power to overcome those shortcomings — proclaiming that “You won’t break my soul” in the debut single “Break My Soul.” The album’s electrifying sounds and passionate lyricism make it no surprise that all 16 songs on the album charted on the Billboard top 100. Beyoncé extends an invitation to join her in celebration of artistry through popular tracks “Cuff It” and “Plastic on the Sofa,” and fulfills her promise that this album was crafted as one cohesive narrative. “Renaissance,” above all, is a soundscape of liberation and excellence. —Monique I. Vobecky
3. ‘The Forever Story’ (JID)
The up-and-coming days of Atlanta MC JID are long since over. With his third studio album, “The Forever Story,” JID has proved that he is here to stay. It seems that being an accomplished rapper is not enough for the Dreamville signee — he needs to further cement himself as a lyricist. To be sure, “The Forever Story” is bar-heavy, and JID’s verses are not caught lacking for even a minute during the hour-long album that builds on the ambition and temperament of its prequel, “The Never Story.” However, its unique brilliance lies in the vibe J.I.D curates; with his singular raspy timbre over the gritty 808’s that come with producer Kaytranada and Thundercat’s beats, J.I.D has perfected his own distinctive sound. This feat is beyond impressive for a 32-year-old rapper in this industry, and with “The Forever Story,” JID finally racks up the praise he deserves for himself. —Alisa S. Regassa

We reviewed "Money," the fan favorite track from “The Forever Story.”
2. ‘Mr. Morale & the Big Steppers’ (Kendrick Lamar)

The album that saw Kung Fu Kenny come back for the first time since 2017’s “DAMN.” The album that raised the bar on performing in concert. The album that brought that security guard to tears. “Mr. Morale & the Big Steppers” is that album. Kendrick Lamar has long since proved that he is more than a rapper; to his fans, he is nothing less than a hip-hop messiah of our time. But the Compton MC is humble and shuns that deification in “Mr. Morale” — instead, he presents himself as human; at times angry, at times vulnerable, and always real. At a first listen, “Mr. Morale” is so dense it risks being inaccessible. But its beauty lies in that complexity; it evolves and changes just like how Lamar is constantly growing by challenging his perceptions of the world. Lamar has made an album that is first and foremost brutally honest, and that in and of itself makes it a riveting listen. —Alisa S. Regassa
1. ‘Un Verano Sin Ti’ (Bad Bunny)

More than just the album of the summer, “Un Verano Sin Ti” was for many the soundtrack that played throughout the entire year. From songs fit for puro perreo to psychedelic sounds tailored to the end of the night, “Un Verano Sin Ti” has it all. Many may be familiar with the album after hearing songs like “Tití Me Preguntó” or “Tarot” play at parties; others may be fonder of the softer love-sick sounds of “Andrea” and “Otro Atardecer;” another group entirely might find solace in the heartbroken narratives of “Yo No Soy Celoso” and the titular song “Un Verano Sin Ti.” This is Bad Bunny at his best, as more than just a reggaeton artist — in this album, he gives life to a whole range of human emotions, exploring them with an equally impressive array of musical styles. There is a reason that this album has attracted so many listeners, even those that don’t speak Spanish — this year, once again, Bad Bunny has truly earned his place as the most-streamed artist in the world. —Daniel S. de Castro 
Sections
10. ‘The Woman King’ (dir. Gina Prince-Bythewood)
Gina Prince-Bythewood’s historical epic film “The Woman King” reminds us that empathy can be a formidable weapon. Set in the Dahomey Kingdom in the 19th century, the film is not only a thoroughly entertaining blockbuster but also an important entry into the genre that explores the timeless heroism of Black women. Viola Davis delivers a phenomenal performance as General Nanisca, the leader of an all-female group of warriors called the Agojie who fearlessly defend their kingdom against a variety of threats. However, the shadows of slavery and European colonization hang over their community nonetheless. The film’s excellent cast is fierce and dynamic (Thuso Mbedu is a breakout star as new recruit Nawi), and the Agojie's sisterhood remains at the emotional center of the film’s sprawling narrative. Crucially, “The Woman King” engages with a variety of difficult topics, including war, freedom, and empire — all the while thrilling audiences with expertly choreographed action sequences with heavy emotional stakes. Equal parts rousing and reflective, “The Woman King” is a triumphant new action classic. —Jamila R. O’Hara

We reviewed “The Woman King” here.
9. ‘Turning Red’ (dir. Domee Shi)
One of the best animated films of the year, Pixar’s “Turning Red” is an unapologetic portrayal of generational trauma, cultural clashes, and how hard it can be to be a tween girl. Domee Shi’s feature-length directorial debut is visually stunning; scenes are brimming with detail that invoke the tween protagonist’s sense of youth, wonder, and heartache. The story follows thirteen-year-old Chinese-Canadian Mei as she chafes under her controlling mother’s rules, and suddenly discovers that whenever she gets overwhelmed, she turns into a giant red panda. This fantastical metaphor is a powerful vehicle for authentic and meaningful explorations of how difficult it can be to uphold your family legacy, how children can feel misunderstood by their parents, and many of the struggles faced by immigrant families. It’s a feel-good must-watch and an excellent addition to Pixar’s robust catalog of animated features. —Millie Mae Healy

We reviewed “Turning Red” here.
8. ‘X’ and ‘Pearl’ (dir. Ti West)
Director Ti West and actress Mia Goth were a prolific duo in 2022. “X” and “Pearl” constitute two-thirds of West’s A24 slasher trilogy — its third and final installment, “MaXXXine,” will be released sometime in the near future. “X” follows a group of actors who set out to make an adult film at a farm in rural Texas in the 1970s; they navigate professional and personal dynamics whilst trying to conceal their activities from their reclusive hosts. Goth portrays both the film’s protagonist, aspiring actress Maxine Minx, and the elderly Pearl, who resides on the lonely, run-down farm with her husband Howard. “X” is a tension-filled, suspenseful slasher that offers a thought-provoking exploration of youth, desire, beauty, and envy enhanced by unique visuals and Goth’s clever double-casting. “Pearl” returns to the same Texas homestead in 1918, where Pearl (again played by Goth) is a young woman with big ambitions: She dreams of escaping her family’s farm and becoming a movie star, much like the young actors in “X.” Although both are compelling standalone films, “X” and “Pearl” are most interesting when considered collectively: “Pearl” is a clever addendum to its predecessor, re-contextualizing the events of “X” by rendering its setting and antagonist in greater detail. Eventually, the Technicolor world of “Pearl” becomes gruesome as its titular character becomes increasingly desperate, yielding to her darkest impulses. Under all its gore, however, “Pearl” is both a compelling family drama and a fascinating character study that benefits from yet another killer performance from Goth. —Jamila R. O’Hara
7. ‘Tár’ (dir. Todd Field)
Lydia Tár, the virtuoso Berlin Philharmonic conductor responsible for a recent resurgence of interest in Mahler, doesn’t exist — not in real life, at least. Playing her with icy authority in “Tár,” Cate Blanchett commands the screen as a maestro does the stage. Todd Field’s first film in 16 years opens with Tár at the peak of a starry career as she prepares to record Mahler’s monumental Fifth Symphony. Her subsequent fall from grace puts the classical music industry’s pervasive hero worship in the spotlight, showcasing the dangers of mistaking the conductor’s podium for a pedestal. —Clara V. Nguyen
We reviewed “Tár” and admired its sonic and visual excellence here.
6. ‘Aftersun’ (dir. Charlotte Wells)
Scottish director Charlotte Wells’s beautiful and subtle directorial debut “Aftersun” asks what it means to look back at our childhoods through the lens of adulthood. With Paul Mescal and Frankie Corio starring as Calum and Sophie, a young father and his eleven-year-old daughter on a vacation to Instanbul, Wells’s film is a languid, heartwrenching examination of familial relationships. Interspersed with ’90s-era camcorder footage of their vacation, “Aftersun” is both nostalgic and tender in its depiction of Calum and Sophie’s sunny days spent by the poolside, but there is also an underlying sense of sadness that becomes increasingly discernible as the story unfolds. Frankie Corio is endlessly endearing as Sophie and Paul Mescal is impressively dynamic as he portrays a lighthearted father trying to hide his mental health issues from his daughter. As it becomes apparent that the adult Sophie is looking back at the old camcorder footage of their trip as an adult, the audience realizes that this is really a film about the reflective, painful, sweet act of remembering. —Jaden S. Thompson

We reviewed “Aftersun” at the 2022 Cannes Film Festival here.
5. ‘Nope’ (dir. Jordan Peele)
The latest release in director Jordan Peele’s decorated filmography, “Nope,” creatively reimagines the sci-fi and horror genres while criticizing the human need for both control and spectacle. Starring actors Daniel Kaluuya and Keke Palmer, “Nope” merges the generational story of the Haywoods, the horse-training descendants of the first Black actor and animal trainer to be depicted on film, with an extraterrestrial being on the loose against a neo-western backdrop. As Peele’s third consecutive feature to hit number one at the box office, “Nope” is just as clever and unnerving as its predecessors. Balancing comedy with pointed social commentary, “Nope” is a novel must-see for thriller and sci-fi fans alike. —Anya L. Henry
4. ‘All Quiet on the Western Front’ (dir. Edward Berger)
“All Quiet on the Western Front,” an adaptation of Erich Maria Remarque’s 1929 novel of the same name, following ordinary soldiers and set in the trenches of World War One’s Western Front, might seem like a war movie. It is not. Three minutes into the movie, a shell-shocked tentative protagonist, Heinrich, is forced to join an assault on enemy positions. Confused and utterly terrified, he is killed mere yards away from his trenches. When we meet the actual protagonist — reissued Heinrich’s uniform collected from the dead body, cleaned, mended, and still with the previous man’s name — one thing becomes clear: It is a film about war — actual war with none of the propagandistic heroism and glory. Instead, it focuses on the suffering, the deaths brought about by pride and personal ambition of bureaucrats divorced from reality. Berger does not shy away from poignant visuals to drive home the point. The film’s violence is repulsive and at times almost unbearable. But it is never gratuitous, because it ultimately serves the purpose of putting the audience in the same position as the protagonists and showing that, in the words of Remarque, “death is not an adventure to those who stand face to face with it.” —Zachary J. Lech
3. ‘Marcel the Shell With Shoes On’ (dir. Dean Fleischer-Camp)
Those who go into the stop-motion/animation/live action film “Marcel the Shell with Shoes On” with no prior knowledge might not expect to cry at any point during its 90-minute runtime. But this is your warning to have tissues on hand. You won’t necessarily cry purely out of sadness — no, you’ll find yourself thinking, “this adorable one-inch-tall shell is imparting so much profound wisdom about life and relationships that I can’t help but tear up.” Some are already familiar with the character Marcel, the brainchild of former couple Jenny Slate and Dean Fleishercamp, from his YouTube virality. In Slate and Fleischer-Camp’s feature adaptation, Marcel (voiced by Slate) is living in an Airbnb with his grandma Nana Connie (Isabella Rossellini); they’ve recently been separated from the rest of their shell community. Everything changes for them when Dean (Dean Fleischer-Camp), a man going through a breakup, rents the house, notices Marcel, and decides to make an amateur documentary about him, which goes viral. It is impossible not to fall in love with the innocent and endearing Marcel, who is constantly offering pearls of wisdom in his warbling, high-pitched voice. Other times, he succinctly describes universal but ultra-specific human emotions and experiences. Thanks to Slate and Fleisher-Camp’s creative ingenuity, the script is rich and crackling with both warmth and wit. It is not only laugh-out-loud funny, but also an extremely moving meditation on relationships, loss, and the brevity of life. —Jaden S. Thompson
2. ‘Black Panther: Wakanda Forever’ (dir. Ryan Coogler) 
Following a highly influential predecessor, the sequel to “Black Panther'' grapples with reshaping the Marvel hero following Chadwick Boseman’s tragic passing in August 2022 and, in doing so, succeeds on nearly all fronts. Although lengthy, the film is beautifully crafted with a remarkable score that complements each scene. The sequel paves its own legacy through its compelling integration of a captivating villain and a reshaping of familiar faces into novel, empowering roles. Similarly, integral to the film’s appeal is its focus on increasing its representation of the African diaspora. As a highly emotional film focused on loss and grief, “Black Panther: Wakanda Forever” is sure to stir emotions and stick with watchers long after the credits roll. —Monique I. Vobecky

We reviewed “Black Panther: Wakanda Forever” here. 
1. ‘Everything Everywhere All At Once’ (dir. Daniel Kwan and Daniel Scheinert)
“Everything Everywhere All At Once” is a high concept film about family. Without a doubt the best multiverse film to date, the Daniels take advantage of the scope and difficulty of the concept to tell a beautifully simple story about love, acceptance, and the difficulty of being an immigrant in the U.S. It’s witty, charming, and ridiculous in equal measures, balancing tone and form to create an emotional journey that also manages to be hilarious. Michelle Yeoh is captivating and endearing as the selfish and struggling wife and mother Evelyn, who feels beaten-down and underwhelmed with her life since leaving China to come to the U.S. with her husband, Waymond (Ke Huy Quan). The film’s take on carrying on and overcoming generational mistakes is fresh but relatable, anchoring the film as it hops between realities and mediums. The entire main cast is fantastic, but in particular, Stephanie Hsu shines as she masterfully depicts the pain Joy has felt as a product of Evelyn’s parenting, both as her ordinary daughter and as an interdimensional, all-powerful villain. A24’s highest grossing film to date, “Everything Everywhere All At Once” absolutely deserves all of the praise and attention it has been getting. —Millie Mae Healy
Sections
10. “Stranger Things” (Season Four)
By now, the residents of Hawkins, Indiana are no strangers to interdimensional terror — but the penultimate season of Netflix’s sci-fi horror drama manages to breathe new life into the series nonetheless. This year, “Stranger Things” returned from its three-year hiatus with a bang: Consisting of two “volumes” released five weeks apart, Season Four successfully recaptured audiences’ attention while expanding both the breadth and depth of its storytelling (and sending Kate Bush’s 1985 hit “Running Up That Hill,” to the top of the charts for the first time in nearly 40 years.) This time around, the show’s ensemble cast is scattered across the country and the world, catapulting what was once a small-town story into a darker, gorier epic of global proportions. Even still, the season grounds itself in a number of excellent performances and approaches grim themes with insight and sincerity: Concerned with the ghostliness of history, memory, guilt, and trauma, Season Four excavates Hawkins’ past and its characters’ psyches. The introduction of the series’ big bad, Vecna (Jamie Campbell Bower), is more than a long-awaited reveal — the very nature of Vecna’s antagonism lends itself to an examination of grief, mental health, love, and friendship. Unfortunately, some members of the show’s talented cast were left with little to do this season; nevertheless, Season Four remains an entertaining and affecting chapter in Hawkins’ story — and there is certainly much more to explore when the gang face their most dire threat yet in the show’s fifth and final season. —Jamila R. O’Hara

We reviewed Stranger Things Season 4 here.
9.’Euphoria’ (Season Two)
The HBO drama that became a cultural phenomenon in 2019 returned this year, and it did not disappoint. “Euphoria” retained its focus on deep dives into individual characters — one of the features that made its first season so memorable — with clarity and care. “Euphoria” Season Two continued the deep explorations of characters that made its first season so strong, this time turning to villain narratives. Now that the world and main cast have been fully established, Season Two saw characters ruining their relationships, making bad choices, and hitting rock bottom. Once again Zendaya’s work as Rue stunned, but everyone in the main cast pulled their weight, from Hunter Schafer and Colman Domingo to newcomer Dominic Fike. The performances are wonderful, and though the show once again delves into dark and distressing subject matter, for the most part it avoided glorifying their struggles. Though the show has work to do in some areas, its meta-exploration of the nature of memory and performance means that Season Two will not be remembered as a disappointment. —Millie Mae Healy
8. ‘Severance’ (Season One)
It is a rare feat for a television show to reach near perfection in its first season, but that is exactly what Apple TV+’s buzzy new drama “Severance” accomplishes. Boasting one of the most talented casts on television, “Severance” grabs viewers’ attention from the very first episode and nevers loosens its grip, telling the dark and twisted story of employees at a mysterious technology company who agree to have their memories of their personal lives temporarily erased when they are at work and vice versa. Adam Scott stuns in his surprisingly dramatic role, but the real breakout star of Season One is Britt Lower, whose rebellious character Helly catalyzes much of the story’s intrigue. The show also benefits from a highly original visual composition, with the sterile interior of Lumon Industries somehow making green and white bone-chillingly creepy. Simultaneously disturbing, mind-bending, and humorous, “Severance” is like an episode of “Black Mirror” on steroids, and it’s impossible not to become addicted. Be prepared for goats, waffle parties, and the best cliffhanger of the year. —Brady M. Connolly
We reviewed the first season of "Severance" here.
7. ‘Heartstopper’ (Season One)
At a time when the on-screen portrayal of teenagers is dominated by the gritty stories of “Euphoria” and “All American,” “Heartstopper” is a joyous breath of fresh air. Based on Alice Oseman’s graphic novel of the same name, the show follows the budding high school romance between Nick Nelson (Kit Connor) and Charlie Spring (Joe Locke). “Heartstopper” is a masterclass in wholesome storytelling. While Charlie and Nick deal with common tropes of bullying and exploration of sexual identity, the characters are surrounded by supportive families and stong friendships that have been absent from LGBTQ+ stories for far too long. With a diverse cast of supporting characters and just eight 30-minute episodes, “Heartstopper” is a delightful show to binge-watch that leaves viewers smiling from ear to ear. —Jen A. Hughes
6. ‘A League of Their Own’ (Season One)
In a media landscape overrun with reboots and remakes, revivals that feel truly justified are few and far between. “A League of Their Own,”' however, is a reboot that steps up to the plate. Amazon Prime Video’s sports comedy-drama is an adaptation of the 1992 film of the same name. Like its source material, the show provides a fictionalized account of the real-life All-American Girls Professional Baseball League (AAGPBL) during World War II; however, its new set of characters and plotlines make space for stories that were absent from the original film. The show boasts a roster of talented actresses and comedians who form a quirky (and endlessly charming) ensemble; leading the pack are Carson Shaw (Abbi Jacobson), a woman who leaves her small town to pursue her dream of playing professional baseball, and Maxine Chapman (Chanté Adams), a talented Black pitcher who is turned away from AAGPBL tryouts and subsequently struggles to be considered for any baseball team. Although the show takes some liberties with the aesthetics and linguistic trends of the time period, its overarching themes, such as the importance of community, are timeless. In addition to being a captivating sports drama and a successful comedy to boot (Kate Berlant is truly excellent as the Peaches’ most neurotic teammate, Shirley), “A League of their Own” is remarkable for its contributions to the representation of queer women — and LGBTQ+ people more generally — on television: Beyond introducing several groundbreaking individual characters, the space and weight that queerness is given onscreen allows the show to explore a broad spectrum of authentic experiences. Indeed, “A League of their Own” is uncommonly refreshing in the new spin it puts on its source material — and its important point of view hits home. —Jamila R. O’Hara

We reviewed the first season of “A League of Their Own” here.
5. ‘The Dropout’ (Season One)
Hulu’s “The Dropout” is a gripping portrayal of desperation and narcissism. It follows the rise and fall of Elizabeth Holmes, who was recently sentenced to eleven years in prison for fraud, and how she went from a promising student at Stanford, to being named the “youngest self-made woman billionaire” in 2014, to revelations that her company, Theranos, was a lie. Amanda Seyfried's Emmy-winning performance as Holmes is brilliantly subtle, portraying Holmes through different stages of her life with ease. And unlike other celebrity or true crime dramatizations, “The Dropout” successfully humanizes Holmes and former COO of Theranos Ramesh “Sunny” Balwani (Naveen Andrews) without excusing the harm they perpetuated. The show’s subplots showcasing how people were truly harmed by Theranos, and the people who sacrificed to help reveal the truth (Camryn Mi-young Kim and Dylan Minnette’s performances are particularly memorable) result in a measured depiction of arrogance, entitlement, and reckless endangerment in Silicon Valley start-ups. —Millie Mae Healy
We reviewed "The Dropout" here.
4. ‘House of the Dragon’ (Season One)
After the controversial finale of “Game of Thrones,” there were good reasons to approach HBO’s announcement of a prequel with trepidation. But “House of the Dragon” was positively surprising. Set in Westeros 170 years before the action of “Game of Thrones,” the first season follows the events preceding the Dance of the Dragons, a war of succession between Rhaenyra, whom her father chose as heir, and her younger brother Aegon. Although a much slower burn than “Game of Thrones” — and so far offering little of the same suspense and urgency — “House of the Dragon” remains a fictional period drama par excellence. With meticulous precision — and under a thin veneer of fantasy — it builds a rich world, establishes the key players in the conflict to come, and zooms in on captivating palace intrigue. —Zachary J. Lech

We reviewed Season One of “House of the Dragon” here.
3. ‘The Bear’ (Season One) 
“The Bear” is one of the greatest shows ever streamed on Hulu. When Carmen “Carmy” Berzatto leaves the world of fine dining to run his family’s sandwich shop in Chicago, he must navigate a kitchen in desperate need of repair, outstanding debts, and a rowdy staff. Sublime portrayals of haunting grief, anxiety, and the pressures of running a restaurant accompany well-timed comedic moments and beautiful footage of food preparation. Phenomenal acting and cinematography culminate in a captivating series that, at only eight half-hour episodes, can (and should) be easily binged in a day. The first season of this comedy-drama series set high expectations for Season Two, which will be released at some point in 2023. —Nina M. Foster
2. ‘The White Lotus’ (Season Two) 

Why go on a luxury vacation with your dysfunctional family when you can watch one from the comfort of your own home? This is the question at the heart of “The White Lotus,” Mike White’s HBO masterpiece that miraculously improved upon its already stellar form in Season Two. For the latest season, the cast travels to a boutique hotel in Sicily that will make viewers exceedingly jealous as they witness betrayal, hilarity, and heartbreak ensue all in the course of a one-week vacation. The greatest strength of the show lies in its flawless casting, and each actor turns in top-notch performances. Nevertheless, standouts can still be found in Aubrey Plaza, Michael Imperioli, and Meghann Fahy. And while the show introduces itself as a murder mystery, that plotline is secondary to the brilliantly biting satire and multi-layered explorations of modern society that lie at its center. A rare example of appointment viewing in the streaming era, “The White Lotus” wields the amazingly fun power to set social media ablaze with theories, memes, and analysis each and every week. Checking in to this show is no quick task, as viewers will be unable to deny themselves the pleasure of watching Jennifer Coolidge drive a moped or attend the opera, among many other wonderful things. —Brady M. Connolly
1. ‘Abbott Elementary’ (Season One) 
ABC’s comedy series “Abbott Elementary” is the latest mockumentary to take the world of television by storm. Creator, executive producer, writer, and star Quinta Brunson worked with director Randall Einhorn, known for his work on “The Office” and “Parks and Recreation,” to share the comical antics of fictitious teachers and their students at an underfunded elementary school. The series balances clever satire with a meaningful exploration of the relationship between public school teachers and their students. The mockumentary format helps the characters in the series feel real to viewers, making the crazy situations they run into all the more relatable. Many became familiar with Brunson’s work during her stint acting and producing for Buzzfeed Video, and her work on “Abbott Elementary” has proved that she is a force to be reckoned with. But don’t take our word for it: “Abbott Elementary”’s three Emmy awards for Outstanding Casting For A Comedy Series, Outstanding Supporting Actress In A Comedy Series, and Outstanding Writing For A Comedy Series in 2022 speak for themselves. —Chibuike K. Uwakwe

Read our review of the premiere of Season 2 of “Abbott Elementary” here.
Sections
10. The Fall of the 'Wife Guy'
Unfortunately, 2022 marked the downfall of “The Wife Guy” — an archetype referring to celebrity men who make their marital relationships highly visible in public discourse. From the Try Guys Fallout, in which former member and certified “Wife Guy” Ned Fulmer was exposed for cheating on his wife with an employee, to musician Adam Levine’s cringy and inappropriate Instagram DMs behind former Victoria’s Secret model wife Behhati Prinsloo’s back, it’s been a rough year for married men everywhere. —Anya L. Henry
9. Sight and Sound’s “Greatest Films of All Time” Poll Ranks a Female Filmmaker as Number One

Perhaps most college students have never heard of Sight and Sound’s Poll of the “Greatest Films of All Time,” which is published by the British Film Institute's magazine every 10 years. First established in 1952, the prestigious poll asks film industry professionals across the world to rank what they regard as the best films ever made. Since 1992, there have been two separate lists: the Critics’ list and the Directors’ list. The films that make it onto these lists are usually dominated by male filmmakers, but 2022 marked the first time the number one film on the Critics’ list was directed by a woman — Belgian director Chantal Akerman’s “Jeanne Dielman, 23 Quai du Commerce, 1080 Bruxelles.” Known as a distinctly feminist film, “Jeanne Dielman” follows three days in the life of a housewife as she performs domestic tasks and earns money as a sex worker. This year’s poll is a landmark moment as women have been long overlooked within the film industry, among other marginalized communities. If you trace the history of the Sight and Sound Poll, only three other films have topped the Critics’ list: “Citizen Kane,” “Vertigo,” and “The Bicycle Thieves,” with “Citizen Kane” dominating the number one spot most 1338229years. The increased diversity of the Critics’ List and the Directors’ List is reflective of a stronger desire to amplify the stories of marginalized communities. Also on the list were the films “Moonlight,” “Cléo from 5 to 7,” “Black Girl,” “Portrait of a Lady on Fire,” and “Daughters of the Dust,” among other films made by and starring women and people of color. An esteemed poll like this is certainly not the be-all and end-all when it comes to affirming artistic merit, but this year’s list is a reflection of some positive and necessary strides toward equality in the film industry. —Jaden S. Thompson
8. ‘Don't Worry Darling,’ There’s Drama
From the moment rumors of Harry Styles and Olivia Wilde’s on-set romance hit the internet, the production of “Don’t Worry Darling” became a frequent flier on the Hollywood rumor mill. Lowlights from the film’s nightmare press tour include Wilde being served custody papers from her ex-husband, Jason Sudeikis, while presenting the film’s trailer at CinemaCon; Florence Pugh skipping the Venice Film Festival press conference ahead of the film’s premiere; and “spitgate” after a video seemed to show Styles spitting on co-star Chris Pine. While “Don’t Worry Darling” was an utterly forgettable film, the drama surrounding its production will go down in pop culture infamy. —Jen A. Hughes

We wrote about all of the “Don’t Worry Darling” drama from Florence Pugh’s criticism of the film’s marketing to “spitgate.”
7. The Takeover of BeReal
Amid a rising mindfulness around rising screen times, content consumption, and the unhealthy nature of oversharing on the internet, 2022 has seen BeReal solidify itself among social media staples like Instagram and TikTok. Pushing back against the desire to curate your online persona, BeReal’s encouragement of “being real” by taking a photo randomly throughout the day attempts to normalize, and even celebrate, the mundanity of life. An innocent way to keep up with friends and share snippets of your day has grown to the point of halting classes, parties, rehearsals, and meetings for two minutes so people can take their BeReals. The app’s rationed, single daily post of one front-camera photo and one back-camera photo asks little of users. Other users can then add comments and “RealMojis” on their friends’ posts, allowing for great potential for connection. BeReals have become a subtle tool for flexing, with people casually uploading selfies with politicians or asking artists at concerts to take their BeReals. The app’s relaxed tone around adding people and posting has made it a staple, with competitors trying but failing to reach such success with similar features. As we head into 2023, we wonder if this “anti-social media” social media app will lead to a revolution in our relationship with online posting, or become overshadowed by another app doing it better. —Anna Moiseieva
6. Wordle
You love it. Your grandfather loves it. Bill Gates wrote an entire blog post about how much he loves it. I mean really when else has there been a game that transcends boundaries of age, gender, and socioeconomic status? While Wordle falls short of solving world peace, the game was nevertheless a principal part of millions of people's days this year, bringing us closer together over guessing a five-letter word. Wordle is an entire event. First people spend genuine time thinking of the best first guesses that use the most amount of vowels and common consonants in just one word. Audio? Raise? Crane? And while the game requires some strategy, with five chances to guess a 5-letter word, it is almost inevitable that a majority of players will “win.” And maybe that’s the point. Wordle is this dependable, small jolt of positivity in everyone’s days. And if you ever get tired, you can always try Nerdle, Quordle, Worldle, Taylordle, Foodle, or any of the other Wordle-like guessing games that match your niche. Our word for this review? GREAT. Wordle is great. —Sarah M. Rojas
5. Will Smith Slapping Chris Rock

The Oscars have no shortage of drama and entertainment, and this year was no exception. In what became one of the first defining cultural moments of the year, Chris Rock was presenting the award for best documentary when he decided to crack a joke about Jada Pinkett Smith’s bald head — which she shaved due to her alopecia, a condition that causes hair loss — saying: “Can’t wait for G.I. Jane 2.” Moments later, Will Smith stalked on stage and slapped Rock, shouting, “keep my wife’s name out of your f-cking mouth!” The slap, as it came to be known, elicited shocked laughter from an audience who may have just realized the slap was unplanned. Rock appears slightly fazed but rolls with the punches (pun intended), cracking another joke and moving on with the show, [a testament to his professionalism][CUT?]. Afterwards, Will Smith apologized to the Academy and his fellow nominees during his Oscar acceptance speech for his brilliant performance in “King Richard,” a dampening on what should’ve been a triumphant moment for him. Instead, the slap overshadowed the entire show, making it the biggest hit (pun intended) of the night. The Academy was not pleased, calling the altercation “unacceptable,” and Smith later issued a public apology, saying he was “out of line and wrong.” He has since apologized several times. All in all, the “slap heard around the world” raises interesting questions about comedians crossing boundaries, the layers of violence Black women face, repercussions for violence involving celebrities, and award show etiquette. —Arielle C. Frommer
4. Elon Musk Buys Twitter
On Oct. 27, billionaire Elon Musk’s months-long ordeal to buy and then try to get out of buying Twitter culminated in Musk taking ownership of the social media platform for $44 billion dollars — something that tech experts have called “one of the most overpaid tech acquisitions in history.” He immediately proceeded to fire a large number of staff across Twitter’s ranks, including the chief executive and chief financial officer, as well as key content moderation staff. Musk took to poking fun at his critics and making and reversing massive platform-altering decisions on apparent whims, while Twitter, which millions of people rely on to stay up to date with current events and conversations (including thousands of journalists), quickly approached the verge of becoming unusable. And in an increasingly unpredictable turn of events, Musk is now searching for a new CEO to replace him following the results of a Twitter poll. The fate of Twitter remains uncertain. In the meantime, you can find me trying and failing to understand Mastodon, Post, and the countless other social media networks that are vying to fill the vacuum left by Musk’s Twitter. —Sofia Andrade
3. FIFA World Cup Qatar 2022
Since Nov. 20, it seems the whole world has stopped whatever they are doing to watch the 2022 FIFA World Cup in Qatar. At Harvard alone, it is not unusual to see flocks of students crowded around a TV to watch soccer’s brightest stars play on the world’s biggest stage. Play at the World Cup has been fantastic, with underdogs Croatia and Morocco reaching the semifinals, the latter being the first African nation ever to do so. Of course, the event isn’t without its serious controversies. The deaths of thousands of migrant workers in preparation for the tournament and the host country Qatar’s hostility towards members of the BGLTQ+ community have cast a shadow on the tournament and the joy that it has brought so many viewers, whether they be dedicated fans or new enough to still be confused by the offside rule. As the final kicks off on Dec. 18, though, one thing is for certain: The entire world will be watching, for better or for worse. —Daniel S. de Castro
2. Soup on a Van Gogh
“What is worth more, art or life?” That’s what 21-year-old climate activist Phoebe Plummer asked when, on Oct. 14, she and other ‘Just Stop Oil’ activists threw canned tomato soup onto Vincent van Gogh’s “Sunflowers” at London’s National Gallery and glued themselves to the wall of the museum. Just Stop Oil has made a name for itself as an activist movement using disruptive tactics to fight against the fossil fuel industry and its role in the climate crisis. Though the famed “Sunflowers” painting was unharmed — it was protected by glass — the action was internationally polarizing, with some believing it only served to alienate others from the climate movement. A member of the British Conservative Party called it “attention-seeking.” But the action accomplished its goals nonetheless: to raise awareness of Just Stop Oil’s mission, and to call into question the priorities of a society that expresses more outrage at the potential destruction of a painting of sunflowers than at the destruction of the planet that houses it. —Sofia Andrade
1. The Death of the Queen

Through her 70-year reign, Queen Elizabeth II has touched the hearts of fans across generations, as evidenced by the 4.1 billion people who watched her state funeral earlier this year. As the longest reigning monarch in British history, Queen Elizabeth will be remembered by some as a cultural icon who stood as Britain’s figurehead through enormous times of change from the Cold War to COVID-19. She will be cherished by royalist fans for her love of her pets, particularly her horses and many corgis. As a queen of the British empire, though, her legacy isn’t all rosy. Her death in September sparked prolonged conversation about her role in Britain’s harmful legacy of colonization and oppression. Others chose to focus on her unique position as a female ruler and possible role model during a century marked by changes in tradition. Whatever one saw her as, though, her cultural significance cannot be ignored. The Queen is succeeded by her eldest son Prince Charles and buried in George VI Memorial Chapel alongside her father, mother, and sister. —Allison S. Park
