News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Talk of tuition rebates for virtual learning recalls the very earliest days of the pandemic, when we were less acclimated to the obvious inadequacy of Zoom semesters. Thanks to the plodding pace of the legal system, though, the issue remains unsettled. Just last week, a federal judge allowed parts of a lawsuit seeking partial tuition reimbursement from Harvard to go forward. Whatever its legal obligations, we can’t help but think Harvard’s charging full tuition was unfair to many of its students.
The class-action lawsuit, filed in May 2020 by students across the University, was initially dismissed by the Massachusetts District Court in October of that year. In partially reversing that decision, Judge Kelley limited the scope of the suit to students at the Law School, the Graduate School of Education, and the School of Public Health during the spring 2020 semester.
As students who have experienced immense disruption in our educational lives over the past two years, we deeply empathize with the plaintiffs. We acknowledge that the University made a difficult, but sound, decision in shifting to remote learning when there was little available information about Covid-19. However, that does not detract from the fact that virtual and in-person learning are fundamentally unequal experiences.
Students come into Harvard excited for the “deeply transformative experience” that the University promises to provide, and this transformation can hardly be achieved through a computer screen. A crucial part of the value Harvard provides is the opportunity for students to learn who we are and how we want to spend the rest of our lives. To pretend that losing some of that value does not cheapen the degree is to adopt the profoundly cynical view that Harvard’s value comes purely through the credential it provides.
To be sure, students knowingly signed up for virtual school, at least after Spring 2020. But not all students have the financial means to take gap years during their time at Harvard. Undergraduates who take out federal loans or rely on various scholarships are often precluded from taking a gap year in order to avoid loans coming due prematurely or scholarships withdrawing financial support. Graduate and professional students are often even more constrained by financial necessity. As a matter of fairness, it seems to follow that all students from across the University who could not choose to avoid a virtual semester ought to have received some sort of tuition reduction.
Of course, good policy, let alone good law, does not always align precisely with total fairness. If the University is compelled to refund a substantial portion of tuition from the past two years, it may well push universities across the country to discount safety considerations in future, analogous situations.
From the perspective of law or policy, it’s not clear what our courts or legislatures should compel Harvard to do. But we hope that decision-makers recognize the unfairness imposed on the students least privileged with the ability to freely choose between virtual semesters and alternatives.
This staff editorial solely represents the majority view of The Crimson Editorial Board. It is the product of discussions at regular Editorial Board meetings. In order to ensure the impartiality of our journalism, Crimson editors who choose to opine and vote at these meetings are not involved in the reporting of articles on similar topics.
Have a suggestion, question, or concern for The Crimson Editorial Board? Click here.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The news of Russia invading Ukraine has shaken Harvard’s campus: immediately following the news break, students outpoured support on social media and protest plans quickly formed. Soon after, University President Lawrence S. Bacow publicly declared the University’s support for the Ukrainian government and announced that the Ukrainian flag would be flown above the John Harvard statue. However, as a Middle Eastern student, I couldn’t help but draw parallels between Harvard's different reactions for wars initiated by the American government in the Middle East and those in white European countries.
Moments after I gazed at the news of Ukraine on the TV screen, I couldn't help but remember similar footage that came out of my own country of Afghanistan earlier last year. Afghanistan was entrenched in over 20 years of conflict with the American government, resulting in the collapse of the Afghan institution, the death of over 241,000 people, and the displacement of nearly six million Afghans. The invasion came to an end last year when President Joe Biden withdrew all troops from the country, leaving the Taliban to overtake control and sparking a massive humanitarian crisis that is expected to kill millions in the coming months. In response to the Taliban’s takeover, the Biden administration froze the assets of Afghan citizens  and sanctioned the country, causing an economic collapse and the death of even more Afghans. Though, unlike Ukraine, the Afghan people and students did not receive any statements of support from Harvard’s president, and no flag was waved on campus. Instead, Harvard ignored the conflict and signaled that the institution will only take a stand when it concerns white victims.
Similarly, Harvard's student body, which has historically been disproportionately wealthy and white, also ignored the conflict. While there were many petitions signed by students and different on-campus organizations imploring the University to support Ukrainian, Russian, and Belarusian students, Middle Eastern students suffering from similar tragedies were once again left out of any support beyond their own cultural organizations. I believe the racist rhetoric perpetuated by the American media — which alludes inhumanity to one group and humanity to the other — is to blame for much of the dialogue around campus. Though, still, I couldn’t help but wonder why the conflicts in nonwhite countries seem too foreign and far removed to my classmates, yet the Ukrainian war is rightfully deserving of support. The answer was loud and clear: one is white, and the other is not. Such clear bias and racism among the student body here at Harvard not only shows the daily struggles Harvard’s students of color face, but also reflects the institution’s historically racist campus.
The support the Ukrainian people received is not only important but required. However, Middle Eastern students like myself, who have family back home and are victims of war, have every right to call out the institution they attend and their fellow peers on their racist bias. Many of us went through similar tragedies in life and had to flee our countries, yet Middle Eastern students did not receive nearly as much public support as white refugees from Harvard and its community.
If Harvard’s goal is truly teaching future world leaders in a diverse living environment it needs to ensure that it supports all of its students equally regardless of their skin color or religion. For years, Harvard has fostered a community that not only supports subtle and outright racism but also helps it thrive. Harvard and its student body need to acknowledge their racist biases and Harvard needs to invest in communities that its actions have long oppressed. While the support for the crisis in Ukraine should be applauded, the crisis around the world in non-white countries should not be ignored either.
Muqtader Omari ’25 is a first-year College student in Wigglesworth Hall.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
It’s been a little over a week since the 2022 Academy Awards, and while I did not watch the ceremony, I did watch the red carpet coverage.
I love red carpets; I always enjoy seeing who the classicists, the innovators, and of course, the fashion victims will be each year. In addition to being an interactive runway, the red carpet is also a venue for celebrities to make political statements. This year, a number of stars sported blue #WithRefugees ribbons in solidarity with the victims of the Ukrainian invasion. In addition to overt political messaging, some attendees made subtle political statements through the designers they chose to wear. While big-name brands like Gucci, Louis Vuitton, and Valentino dominated the red carpet, a few nominees appeared in clothes from lesser-known designers of color.
After the racial reckoning the Motion Picture Academy of Arts and Sciences faced due to the inequities in its nomination process, there has been a growing awareness of racial issues in media and celebrity culture at large. Despite a newfound consciousness of the necessity of prioritizing diversity, equity, and inclusion in all realms, there is still work to be done. At the 2018 American Music Awards, actress Tracee Ellis Ross chose to wear clothes designed solely by Black fashion designers, in order to raise the profile of Black-owned brands and to highlight the marginalization and erasure of Black designers in the fashion industry.
At this year’s Academy Awards, a small minority of nominees appeared in outfits produced by Black designers. When I was brainstorming this piece, I was planning to write specifically about the black clothes made by Black designers on the Oscars red carpet. However, I was shocked by the relative absence of Black-owned brands from the scene. After sifting through six digests of red carpet looks, I was able to identify only seven (out of more than 100) attendees whose looks were produced by Black designers. While representation of Black celebrities at awards shows has improved substantially, it is essential to prioritize increasing representation of people of color in surrounding industries as well: fashion, beauty, styling, journalism, and more.
Will Packer, producer of this year’s Oscars, appeared on the red carpet with his wife, actress Heather Packer. He wore a gold tuxedo jacket with black accents by Hideoki Bespoke, while she wore a Jovana Louis emerald green strapless dress with an oversized bow adorning the back. Hideoki Bespoke’s founder Diedrick Thomas specializes in custom tailoring, and has designed looks for T.I., Gucci Mane, and Steve Harvey, among others. In his role as producer, Packer hired the show’s first all-Black production team and partnered with Black-owned brands for many elements of the ceremony. He says the decision to attend the event wearing clothes by Black designers was intentional, as he hopes to increase exposure for Black brands.
In 2019, costume designer Ruth E. Carter (best known for her work on Black Panther) became the first Black designer to win an Academy Award for Best Costume Design. Carter attended the event in a sculptural ensemble by Jovana Louis, which featured a black and white mermaid gown, and a white jacket with hyper-modern circular sleeves. The brand, founded by Haitian-born fashion designer Jovana Louis Benoit, creates high-quality ready-to-wear couture garments that are intended to fit women with curves. Actress Niecy Nash and her wife, singer Jessica Betts, both appeared in outfits by luxury athleisure brand Richfresh. Actor David Oyelowo wore a yellow and black printed suit by the Los Angeles-based African-inspired fashion brand Kutula.
I both love and study fashion, but sadly, I can only name a few Black fashion designers. While racial diversity of models in the fashion industry has improved substantially over the last decade, there is still a disappointing lack of representation of Black designers and brands. In 2021, Pyer Moss’ Kerby Jean-Raymond became the first Black American designer to be admitted to the Chambre Syndicale de la Haute Couture, the Parisian governing body of the haute couture industry. Only 4 percent of the members of the Council of Fashion Designers, the primary trade association for fashion designers in the U.S., are Black.  The organization is currently working to improve diversity in the fashion industry through an in-house employment placement program that is intended to place Black talent in the fashion industry, as well as through educational programs that center equity and inclusion.
Fashion is the way we express parts of our identities to the world. Our garments reflect our cultural backgrounds, ethnic origins, gender identities, and generally, our approaches to navigating our environments. Improving diversity in the fashion industry means creating more every single person to find a way to express their unique stories and lives through the garments that are available to them.
Red carpets are inspiring to me, because in their extravagance, they have the potential to be an especially open forum for self-expression. Events like the Oscars, the Grammys, and the Met Gala are opportunities for visibility for so many people who feel represented by the celebrities and artists who attend them. As Jonathan Michael Square, scholar of fashion and visual culture in the African Diaspora explains in his fashion and justice course, clothing is a way for marginalized people to understand their place in the world and gain access, visibility, and power. Uplifting and supporting fashion designers of color means creating more opportunities for all marginalized people to utilize clothing to define their place in the world.
Onyx E. Ewa ’24 is an Art, Film, and Visual Studies concentrator in Winthrop House. Their column “All Black Everything” appears on alternate Thursdays.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Westmorly Court, the stately brick building on Bow St., had all the trappings of the most lavish dormitory in Adams House. With its dark oak paneling and diamond-leaded window panes, it was so luxurious that when Franklin D. Roosevelt, Class of 1904, called the building home, his housing costs were nearly double the price of tuition.
Though the interior has faded slightly with age, traces of Westmorly’s former opulence remain. When I pull open the curved doors to A entryway, I step into a red-carpeted lobby fit for a small metropolitan hotel. To my immediate right stands a gargantuan granite fireplace. It spans the entire wall from floor to ceiling, with a hearth deep enough to walk into and two pillars, thick as tree trunks, supporting its sides. Before the days of central heating, you could hurry in on a cold winter evening, take a fireside seat, and warm up before heading upstairs to bed.
But if you take more than a cursory glance, it becomes clear that something is off about this fireplace. The octagonal pillars are faux and oversized, too new and too bulky. They’re not solid stone but rather panels painted light gray, a slightly different shade than the granite behind them. Someone has tried to make them look as though they belong but didn’t quite succeed. I knock on one of the pillars. It’s hollow. What’s behind there?
After nearly a year of research and reporting, I would come to learn that what’s behind the panels are in fact the two original stone pillars, each adorned with three gargoyle-esque sculptures. The six figures crouch at the top of the pillars, impishly posed as if they’re holding up the mantel on their backs. But these aren’t your standard-fare Gothic grotesques — they’re racist caricatures. Little men with their proportions twisted and exaggerated, a heavy-handed rendering of “civilized” and “uncivilized” races. And they’ve been covered up.
***
Those panels weren’t always there.
In her senior year of college, Cory A. Ransom ’19 lived in Westmorly Court, and her route home would take her through the A-entryway lobby. She normally whisked right past the fireplace on her way to her room. But one day, as she lingered in the lobby to chat with a few friends, her eyes caught the sculptures, then in full view.
“I happened to look up, and I saw the — I guess it’s a very poor depiction of the African man, the savage,” Ransom recalls. “I remember taking pictures of it being like: ‘this is insane. It is insane.’”
Next to “the savage” was a figure ostensibly meant to represent an amalgamation of Indigenous cultures, wearing a large, feathered headdress and a ring in its protruding nose. Together, the trio of figures on the left pillar depicted an African, Indigenous, and Asian figure holding a club, a ball, and a stick respectively, as if they were participating in sport or war. In contrast, the right-hand pillar depicted figures with European features participating in learned activities; a monkish figure held an open book.
Ransom was taken aback. “I’ve walked by it a million times before,” she says, “never even noticing that there’s this blatantly racist image of how the people who built it saw me and saw my people.”
A handful of other Adams House residents had noticed the sculptures, too. Amelia Y. Goldberg ’19 took photos of the fireplace in October 2018 and brought up the issue with the Adams House faculty deans at the time, John G. “Sean” Palfrey ’67 and Judith S. “Judy” Palfrey ’67, who both retired in 2021. Goldberg says the deans told her they knew about the fireplace, and it was “on their radar” to address.
By the time Westmorly residents returned from winter break in 2019, construction around the fireplace had begun. Two massive, hollow pillars — colored as if to mimic the granite, with architectural flourishes made to look like they belonged — were built to surround the sculptures.
Carmella Verrastro ’19, who lived in Westmorly that year, says that when she returned from winter break, “they had just plastered these weird columns over the statues.”
“I was like, wow, they’re really going to cover it up like that and not say anything about it?” she says.
Three years later, they still haven’t. Since spring 2019, the figures on the fireplace have been hidden behind semi-permanent walls, out of sight and out of mind. Harvard College and Adams House administrators have never formally, publicly acknowledged these racist sculptures, nor the fact that they were boarded up.
Administrators say it wasn’t the right time to draw students’ attention to the fireplace without a clear process in place to subsequently handle it; they were awaiting further guidance from several different committees across the University tasked with examining visual culture issues.
Nearly all of those committees have since completed their work, and all of their reports have recommended holding transparent conversations to confront the uglier aspects of Harvard’s past. But in the case of the racist sculptures, such conversations have yet to take place as administrators continue to dawdle. They seem committed to avoiding the subject instead, stonewalling curious students as well as my own reporting efforts.
This literal and figurative cover-up has garnered criticism from recent Adams alumni who want Harvard to practice the transparency it preaches — the right time to talk about the fireplace in Westmorly Court, these former residents say, is right now.
“It was a surreal experience that something this grotesque was in the building I lived in,” Ransom says, reflecting on the sculptures. “The reminder that Harvard was never built for people like me to be there. It’s honestly really hard to find words.”
The entryway where the fireplace is located was built in 1902, four years after Westmorly Court first opened. Michael D. Weishan ’86, who maintains the historic Westmorly suite where FDR once lived, wrote that “Westmorly Hall of 1902 was newly built to house the newly rich.” Before Harvard established its house system, Westmorly was a private dormitory where only well-to-do students could afford to live.
The dorm was designed by the architectural firm Warren & Wetmore as an early project in their burgeoning partnership. The pair would go on to build even more palatial commissions, like Grand Central Station and the New York Yacht Club.
Crimson articles written in the dorm’s heyday — and even those published after Harvard purchased the building in 1920 — lauded its grandiose decor.
“Adams House is all things to all men,” a 1933 Crimson article read. “To the aesthete it is a gold-plated reconstruction of the glories that were Venice with a touch of Florentine, Aztec, Neo-Platonic, and Colonial influence.”
A St. Louis Post-Dispatch article from 1937 described Westmorly as having all the “Pompeiian extravagance” of a social club: a private swimming pool, “exclusive squash courts,” liveried servants who attended to students’ electric push-bell calls or pressed their garments. It was a way of dormitory life that was distinctly white, male, and upper-class.
Decades later, Ransom says she was still “feeling the weight of being a Black woman at Harvard.” Race was “at the forefront” of her mind amid the affirmative action admissions trial in her senior year, and that burden, combined with the racist sculptures “hidden in plain sight” as she returned to her room each day, left her exhausted.
Though they had all brought up their concerns about the fireplace to their deans, neither Ransom nor Verrastro nor Goldberg ever got a follow-up. But unbeknownst to them, Adams administrators had been privately deliberating about the fireplace since at least 2017, as a result of students’ complaints over the years. The faculty deans were working alongside the House Renewal Advisory Committee (HRAC), which dealt with issues related to the forthcoming Westmorly renovations, to figure out what to do with the fireplace.
Dean of Administration and Finance Sheila C. Thimba, the College’s liaison to this committee, was the only administrator willing to tell me on-record what the sculptures appear to depict. Thimba says the fireplace issue kept being raised by students within Adams House, and the Palfreys sought to address it toward the end of their tenure as faculty deans.
“They were saying they haven’t done anything about it, but they feel not great about never having done anything,” Thimba says. “We covered the fireplace as a temporary way of dealing with the issue.”
According to a 2019 email correspondence between administrators I obtained, house renewal architect Nathaniel F. R. Rogers ’05 was tasked with going to Columbia University, which holds many of Warren & Wetmore’s papers, to research the architects and their fireplace. He came up with little information on what the artist intended the figures to represent, according to the email. (Rogers and his firm, Beyer Blinder Belle, which is handling the ongoing renovation of Adams House, declined to comment, directing my inquiries back to a College spokesperson.)
“We were able to find some information, but not as much information as we would have liked,” former Faculty of Arts and Sciences Assistant Dean Merle Bicknell, who sat on the HRAC, tells me in an interview. In one of the emails between administrators, Bicknell expressed her reluctance to engage students before understanding more of the fireplace’s history.
I didn’t have any more luck — I enlisted a Columbia journalism student to visit the archive, and they confirmed it held only scant references to Westmorly Court. At other archives both at Harvard and around Boston, I couldn’t locate substantive information on the fireplace.
Regardless of the artist’s specific intentions, though, the sculptures are steeped in the context of the Gilded Age’s exclusive social values and are undeniably problematic by today’s standards.
“There were numerous such sculptures at other colleges and institutions in the era … that were intended to mark groups that needed civilization and elevation to full western civilization status,” George E. Thomas, who leads the Critical Conservation program at the Graduate School of Design, wrote in an email after reviewing photos of the fireplace sculptures.
Thimba says the HRAC and the Palfreys consulted Harvard faculty, art historians, and Adams House affiliates. Ultimately, she says, Adams affiliates decided that the figures should be removed.
“The house leadership team felt strongly that the figures in question were incompatible with the house’s longstanding ethos of inclusivity,” former Adams Resident Dean Adam Muri-Rosenthal wrote in an email. “Plans were put in place for the [figures’] removal.”
But according to Bicknell, the fireplace could not be carted off so easily, as its stone is structural to the building. A full removal would have to wait until Westmorly went under the knife in phase three of the Adams House renewal process. (With Randolph Hall renovations underway, Adams is still in phase two, after delays due to Covid-19.)
When asked about the long-term removal of the whole fireplace, Thimba says, “It’s been decided that it will need to be decided.”
For the meantime, the house renewal architects and the HRAC presented the Palfreys with a few alternatives. The particular blocks containing the sculptures could be sent to a museum and replaced with plain granite. The fireplace could be left as-is but contextualized with some sort of plaque nearby. It could also be obscured from view.
Opening up discussion on the fireplace was not something the committee was keen on, for fear of vandalism and subsequent disciplinary action, Thimba says. She was reminded of the 2016 case of a Yale employee who was fired for smashing a stained glass window that depicted enslaved people.
“This was on our minds, that the more attention brought to this and the more conversation is happening about there not being action around some of these issues, the more likely we would have an [Administrative] Board case come out of this where somebody has destroyed property and you’re in this ugly moment,” she says.
Keeping the fireplace intact and contextualizing the figures with a plaque or description was also not something Thimba felt was appropriate. After all, the architects didn’t have much archival material to reference, and a plaque would only attract more eyes to the fireplace.
“What would make it make sense to keep it and then drive additional attention to something that we were thinking, as a group, we would rather not draw attention to?” Thimba asks, rhetorically. “Well, if there’s a contingent of folks who walk by it and never notice it, we certainly don’t want them to notice it now, right?”
So the Palfreys decided to board up the fireplace pillars. According to Thimba, this was intended as a stopgap measure until they received more information on which to base a discussion. At the time, a number of committees were springing up around the University to address, at least in part, the problematic artifacts of Harvard history.
In an emailed statement, Judy Palfrey wrote that “we did not hold house wide meetings because we understood there were college-wide committees forming to look at all such objects and learn their provenance and meanings.” She added: “We felt that this process would be inclusive and would provide the kind of teachable material that we did not possess at the time.”
“Doing nothing is not really an option,” Thimba says, recollecting the decision-making process at the time. “We need to do something, but we can’t do something permanent yet … So let’s cover it and hope that by the time we need to make that permanent decision, the various committees and various panels that were supposed to speak to these questions would have given us some guidance about how to think about problematic art.”
But when that guidance did come, it seemed to indicate that covering up problematic imagery without public discussion — as the deans had already done in boarding up the fireplace pillars — might do more harm than good.
Judy Palfrey wrote in an emailed statement that at the time she and her husband decided to cover up the fireplace pillars, they were waiting for recommendations from three different committees: the Presidential Task Force on Inclusion and Belonging, the Working Group on Symbols and Spaces of Engagement, and the HRAC. Aaron M. Goldman, a spokesperson for the Dean of Students Office, wrote that Thimba was waiting for the same groups’ recommendations.
The Presidential Task Force on Inclusion and Belonging primarily set University-wide diversity and inclusion goals, rather than specific guidelines on campus art like the fireplace sculptures. Its final report only broadly recommended that the University’s public art should display “values of excellence, inclusion, and openness as well as [convey] how those aspirations both grow from but also transcend our history.”
Then came the College-specific Working Group on Symbols and Spaces of Engagement, which analyzed how such “symbols and spaces” affect the undergraduate learning environment. Its report concluded that artwork representing “‘exclusivist’ elements of Harvard’s past” are often found in spaces that students frequent, such as their residence halls. The report quoted one student who said, “It’s one thing to encounter these images in public spaces, and quite another to have to live with them in our own spaces.”
The chair of the working group, professor Ali S. Asani ’77, says that although the fireplace was not a focus of the group’s discussions, it came up as an example of a symbol that can cause harm, and working group members were divided on potential solutions.
The working group solicited students’ opinions on whether offensive symbols should be removed or contextualized in place. “There was a strong sense among students that the argument for retaining offensive symbols and artwork in residential spaces must be especially compelling to justify doing so,” their report concluded. “Many students feel that they should not have to live with seeing such artwork daily in a space that is supposed to be their home and sanctuary.”
Still, Asani says he believes that the Westmorly fireplace sculptures shouldn’t be removed outright.
“Works of art like that — they’re part of Harvard history,” Asani says. “You can’t erase the history; you need to acknowledge it.” He would like to see the offensive fireplace juxtaposed with a “counterpoint,” such as an audio tour that highlights the diversity of people who lived in the dorm.
Asani’s report further identified a lack of a clear process for making decisions about house art and the visual culture of “the most trafficked spaces on campus” more generally. And when it comes to altering these heavily-populated spaces, the report says, “change cannot happen without transparency and a clear understanding of what is possible.”
Shortly after, Faculty of Arts and Sciences Dean Claudine Gay announced an FAS-wide group that could formalize such a process — the Task Force on Visual Culture and Signage. The initiative aimed to determine not only which symbols ought to be displayed on campus but also how these decisions ought to be made.
This group was not cited by Judy Palfrey as one that would guide the ultimate fate of the Westmorly fireplace. However, Asani says the task force was in part a successor to his College-specific working group; Thimba, the HRAC liaison who dealt with the fireplace, was a task force member; and the task force’s chair, Dean of Arts and Humanities Robin Kelsey, confirms that the fireplace came up “in passing in a particular discussion” as an individual case to “help us think through the issues.”
“Many people expressed their concern about the values [the fireplace] represented. No conclusions for next steps were drawn,” wrote task force member Dan Byers, who is the director of the Carpenter Center for the Visual Arts.
In an interview, Kelsey stresses the importance of holding open discussions before making decisions on pieces of art like the fireplace. “We’re going to have situations where some members of our community are going to want to keep the visual culture the way it is, some will want to contextualize it, some will want to replace it,” he says. “And it’s these conversations that are going to be essential for the community to have.”
The task force recommended following a standardized (if slightly generic) process: identifying stakeholders, holding discussions, and bringing in experts. It emphasized that this process should be transparent, and students should play an active role.
“We learned that what concerns our community is less the institution’s past than its willingness to share honest and inclusive accounts of it,” the report read.
Finally, Judy Palfrey told me they were waiting on a report from the HRAC to make long-term decisions regarding the fireplace — as did Thimba, who leads the HRAC. I asked Goldman, the Dean of Students Office spokesperson, to clarify what this report is or will be, to which he replied: “The House Renewal Advisory Committe[e] works closely with the House Renewal Executive Committee on various items related to each of the House Renewal projects.” He added that “there is not a publicly available report” from the HRAC.
But the reports that are publicly available, as well as the committee members who contributed to them, echo a similar sentiment — problematic art on campus ought to be discussed out in the open, and student voices in particular are essential in the decision-making process.
In the case of the Westmorly fireplace, however, these bureaucratic recommendations have failed to translate into action.
The Presidential Task Force had published its final report in early 2018, before the fireplace encasings even went up after the fall 2018 semester; Asani’s working group finished its work in early 2020; and Kelsey’s task force finalized its report in December 2021. In other words, report after report over the years has recommended transparent discussions about Harvard’s symbols and spaces in order to foster a more inclusive, historically conscious campus environment. Open acknowledgement of visual culture issues, they say, is a crucial first step. Yet Adams administrators and the HRAC remain unwilling to call public attention to the racist sculptures even today.
“I don’t feel comfortable opening up this question without knowing how we are going to work on it,” Thimba says.
When I ask her if she has any photos of the uncovered fireplace, Thimba says yes, but she won’t let me see them: “I’d rather not.”
At the end of our interview, she nudges me to “cast a wider net” on campus issues of race. There are many other things at Harvard I could be looking into instead, she suggests.
***
This wasn’t the only discouragement I faced as I tried to piece together the story of the Westmorly fireplace. None of the administrators I asked were willing to share sketches and photographs of the fireplace in their possession; despite my best efforts, I still don’t have clear photos of the “civilized” European figures on the right-hand pillar, only a verbal description from Thimba.
According to the email correspondence between administrators I obtained, Rogers — the house renewal architect — found an original sketch of the fireplace stored in the Harvard Planning Office archives, known as the Property Information Research Center. At PIRC, I requested to view a sketch of the A-entryway east lobby wall, where the fireplace stands. The request was denied.
“I forwarded your request to the building owner and they have decided to not release the materials,” a PIRC archivist wrote to me in an email.
Through my reporting, though, I obtained an architectural sketch of the fireplace with the exact same description as the one I requested from PIRC. I was surprised (and a bit disappointed) to find that the sculptures in the sketch were barely visible, much less racist — a drawing so innocuous overall that it hardly seemed worthwhile to keep from me.
When I initially asked the Palfreys about their role in handling the fireplace, Judy Palfrey did not respond, and Sean Palfrey declined to comment.
“That is a complex and sensitive issue that had our input early on but is now being handled at a Harvard Admin level,” Sean Palfrey wrote in an email. I asked him to clarify his involvement. In a follow-up, he wrote, “the whole thing is uncomfortable and we’re no longer directly involved, so I’d rather not comment.”
In an interview about the visual culture task force he led, Kelsey said he remembered little from the brief discussions the group had about the Westmorly fireplace in particular. When Kelsey was pressed further about the racist sculptures, FAS spokesperson Rachael Dane said she would cut the discussion short if the line of questioning continued.
When I followed up via email to ask when the FAS began assembling the visual culture task force Kelsey led, Dane declined to answer further questions for the story.
With the exception of Thimba, all current Dean of Students Office administrators and all current Adams House administrators I contacted have either not responded to or declined my interview requests. All members of the House Renewal Advisory Committee except Thimba and Bicknell, who is now retired, either declined to comment or did not respond to my inquiries. Associate Dean for Inclusion and Belonging Alta Mauro and Associate Dean of Students Lauren E. Brandt declined to comment. Current Adams House faculty deans Salmaan A. Keshavjee and Mercedes C. Becerra ’91 did not respond to a request for comment. Adams House Building Manager Jorge P. Teixeira and House Administrator Matthew Burke declined to comment. And none of the Adams House race relations tutors whom I reached out to — including one who lives in the suite immediately next to the racist fireplace — responded to inquiries for this piece.
Thimba says that the decision to board up the fireplace sculptures was in part motivated by a desire to protect Adams residents.
“I fear that drawing a lot of attention to this particular thing is going to actually silence the people who actually have to live with it,” she says.
But “no matter the intention, covering up a harmful symbol, whether in the public square or in a dormitory, without acknowledgement, public process, or dialogue often leads to further confusion,” wrote Paul M. Farber, whom I consulted about the handling of the fireplace. He is the director of Monument Lab, a Philadelphia-based studio that examines the history and impact of public art.
Asked if they could recall anything about the Westmorly A-entryway fireplace, dozens of former Adams residents from 2019 or earlier couldn’t remember a fireplace at all. The few who did confirmed, unsurprisingly, that there was no public acknowledgement or discussion surrounding it.
Verrastro remembers her frustration with the silence that resulted from this lack of attention.
“I was so mad because they didn’t acknowledge it. They didn’t put a statement out or anything,” she says. “We kept pictures of the statue[s] because we were like, ‘no one is ever going to believe us.’”
Because she took a gap semester, Verrastro stayed for the fall term after her senior spring. By then, what little talk there was about the fireplace, which had primarily taken place among Westmorly A-entryway seniors, had all but evaporated.
“We need to have these conversations,” she says. “As a person of color, there’s a lot of things at [this] institution that remind you that it wasn’t made for you … so it was hard when they didn’t recognize that.”
Farber, the director of the Monument Lab, wrote that without timely acknowledgement of “a wound” such as this one, the onus of discussion often ends up burdening students like Verrastro: “the efforts to narrate and counter such harmful and toxic depictions fall back on those who are most impacted and raise the concerns in the first place.”
Ransom says she still has mixed feelings about how the fireplace was handled.
“It felt like slapping a Band-Aid on it. Like it was an issue they didn’t want to have to touch,” she says. “I’m happy they did the bare minimum in covering it, but the damage was already done. I knew it’s under there.”
To Ransom, the renovations are an opportunity to uproot the racism that is quite literally structural to Harvard.
“We just have to keep covering things because it’s built in,” she says. “To undo it you’ll have to break down the entire thing. Deconstruct it, kind of like what they’re going to do when they remodel Westmorly.”
House renewal discussions on Westmorly Court will likely resume by December, with the hope of breaking ground on renovations in June 2023. The fate of the fireplace is anyone’s guess — from my interview with Thimba, it was unclear what either the HRAC or Adams House’s new faculty deans, Keshavjee and Becerra, plan to do with it. Thimba says she has yet to have a thorough briefing with the new deans about the issue.
***
Each time I walk past the Westmorly fireplace, I pause to let my gaze linger. I imagine myself seeing past the panels, straight through to the figures on the other side.
When you’ve stared at the structure for as long as I have, you start to notice the little details: the decorative swirls on the cast-iron shield over the firebox; the stone floor streaked and smudged by years of footsteps and soot; the inner panel of the left pillar that’s cracked ever so slightly ajar, practically daring you to move it and take a peek.
And one more thing. On the wall above the mantel, directly above the racist sculptures and the fake pillars that were built to conceal them, hangs the Harvard crest — a giant red shield inscribed with the word “VERITAS.”
— Magazine writer Simon J. Levien can be reached at simon.levien@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @simonjlevien.
— Felicia He and Sophia S. Liang contributed reporting.
Sections
“I have never looked back,” Kenneth Gloss says as he talks about working at his family’s beloved Brattle Book Shop – one of America’s oldest and largest used bookstores — full of rare and antique books on West St. in Boston.
Gloss’s father acquired the business in 1949, and Gloss himself took it over in the early 1970s. Since then, the business has grown to ​​an extensive collection stretching across three floors and an outside lot, and he has had to adapt to dramatic changes in the bookselling world.
Gloss’s parents bought the already-established Brattle Book Shop, located on Brattle Street at the time, in 1949. Over the years they moved to several different locations, primarily as a result of urban renewal. They relocated to West St. in 1969, but in 1980, a fire burned the entire building down.
“We wanted to keep going, but we basically had almost no insurance,” Gloss says. After finding a place a couple of stores from their original location on West St., they slowly rebuilt themselves. “People either donated or sold us books. The mayor of Boston, Kevin H. White at the time, came down with a carload of books.”
Gloss started working at the Brattle Book Shop when he was in third grade, fueled by his father’s love of books. He went to houses with his father to purchase books for the store, helped him carry them back, and cleaned up at the bookstore. “I think my father just wanted me there,” he says.
However, Gloss had not imagined that his life would follow this trajectory. He studied chemistry during his time as an undergraduate at the University of Massachusetts Amherst. He was on his way to get his doctoral degree at the University of Wisconsin when his father fell ill, and Gloss had to take a year off before graduate school.
“That year off now has been almost 50 years,” he says.
But Gloss has never regretted his change of career. The bookstore and the work he has to do for it is a source of constant excitement for him. He describes the experience of going to estates to buy books as being “... like Jim Hopkins on Treasure Island everyday, not knowing who you’re gonna meet, what you’re gonna see, the people, the places, the characters.” He states that he has “hundreds and hundreds of stories” as a result of these visits and watching customers in the bookstore. Sometimes these are new customers, but there are also customers who return again and again: “We had one customer who calls in sick when he’s not going to come in!”
Beyond enjoying his relationships with customers, Gloss recognizes that “it’s a business, and you’ve got to do the business part of it.” This aspect constitutes more of a focus for him than it did for his father, whom Gloss describes as less “orderly” and “organized” than he is. Still, his father did teach him the importance of owning their own property as opposed to renting a space. He cites freedom from unstable rent prices as “one of the reasons that [the Brattle Book Shop] can be here” today.
Rent is not the only aspect to have changed since Gloss’s father began running the business. With the rise of retailers like Amazon — which controls at least 50 percent of the American market for print books — small bookstores today certainly face a more difficult task of attracting customers than they used to. In the face of these changes, Gloss adopts a pragmatic approach. He understands that the presence of so much information freely available online is “fabulous for the world” and argues that as a bookshop owner “you just have to adjust.”
Gloss himself has adjusted with fervor. Finding novel ways to bring attention to the bookstore, building on his father’s approach, is another reason Gloss believes the bookshop has been able to last so long. He has recorded over 100 episodes for his podcast, brattlecast, appeared on PBS’s Antiques Roadshow for the last 20 years, and frequently lectures and does radio interviews. Moreover, the Brattle Book Shop’s outside lot is now, Gloss states, “one of the most Instagrammable sites in Boston.”
Gloss credits this publicity strategy with his ability to gain increased access to highly valuable texts. People “have to know of us to call us,” he says.
He describes one time when he went to do a book appraisal north of Austin, Texas in a “little ranch house, nothing great”. On the kitchen table was Jack Kerouac’s actual manuscript of On the Road. He’s also held Isaac Newton’s Principia Mathematica with Newton’s original marginal notes
Yet it turns out that Gloss’s “most precious book” is a normal, non-rare copy of The Night Before Christmas. “It is the copy that I have read to my daughters every Christmas Eve since they were born,” he says. “I now read the same copy to my grandchildren.”
Sections
On the fourth floor of Lamont Library, large windows light up the sleek offices and conference rooms of the Harvard English Department’s creative writing space. Inside, you can find books written by the College’s faculty strewn across the shelves and students meeting with their professors to discuss their short stories or creative theses. The space is built to inspire.
But who gets access to this space?
In 2012, The Crimson reported that many students expressed dissatisfaction with the exclusivity of the creative writing program at Harvard. Admission to any of the workshops hinges on an application,which must include a cover letter, writing supplement, and short response about experience with previous critical literature courses. At the time, the English department offered 13 creative writing courses with a cap of 12 students each. In 2018, that number rose to 20 workshops, which similarly took the form of small seminar-style courses. But the demand for academic creative writing opportunities rose, too. The English department chair at the time, Nicholas J. Watson, explained that the department had received an enormous amount of interest in 2018: a total of 800 applications from 500 individual students.
In 2019, The Crimson’s Editorial Board questioned the exclusivity of creative writing, considering the program’s then 60 percent acceptance rate.
“We believe that creative writing-based classes that emphasize a student's originality of thought, rather than their ability to learn and mimic an established academic style, are invaluable,” the Editorial Board wrote, also referencing the value of creative writing in revitalizing the humanities. “The English Department should continue making positive adjustments to the creative writing program to ensure that its benefits are available to all.”
This spring, the Department is offering 18 creative writing workshops in total, and students’ interest in the creative writing program has grown even more, says Sam W. Marks, a senior lecturer on playwriting.
“There’s something about the program that is exciting, because of its intimate nature,” he says. “We definitely want to preserve that while also increasing accessibility, and that’s the conversation that we're going to keep having.” He pointed out that the Department is in the early stages of developing initiatives to make creative writing within reach for more students.
But in the meantime, those who choose to pursue creative writing outside of the classroom may still confront selectivity. Student writing organizations such as The Advocate and The Lampoon all have required “comps,” or semester-long educational or evaluative processes, which are highly competitive.
An organization called the Harvard Creative Writing Collective, founded in the summer of 2021, works to combat the exclusivity of creative writing at Harvard. The group’s mission statement declares a dedication to “creating a radically inclusive community of writers on campus.”
The organization’s President and founder, Brammy Rajakumar ’23, shared that the organization was born out of her desire to expand access to creative writing, especially beyond English concentrators. Rajakumar herself is a joint concentrator in Chemistry and English, showcasing how a creative field can inform work in any discipline.
Rajakumar seeks to ensure that the HCWC’s openness will allow anyone with any level of interest in creative writing to pursue that field. “We are always focused on lowering the barrier to engaging with creative writing and making the writing world more flexible and feasible,” she says.
HCWC hosts weekly teas and poetry readings, as well as events with guest speakers who work at the intersection of writing and other fields. “We just want to create a space where people could just drop by and say ‘hey,’” Rajakumar says. There is no pressure to prepare prior to an event and no experience needed to try your hand at an open mic event or share your writing with the group.
All of these initiatives — which include a folder for people to share and comment on work, for those who would prefer not to do so in-person — aim to foster a sense of community among writers. “It's also all about the connection, the people you know, and people who know people who you know,” Rajakumar says. For her, meeting other writers and sharing opportunities is an essential aspect of creative writing.
Service is also a key element of the HCWC’s mission. The group recently worked in conjunction with StoryWish, a student organization that empowers “chronically ill children to dream big and write their own storybooks,” and the Phillips Brooks House Association Mission Hill Afterschool program. Together, they taught elementary school children how to develop storylines, identify the parts of a story, and even try their hand at their own, according to Rajakumar. This workshop aims to help students “develop their own voice and ideas and be creative, especially if they might not be otherwise exposed to creative writing programs,” Rajakumar wrote in a follow-up email statement.
Between the English Department’s efforts to expand access to creative writing courses, and the founding of student organizations like the HCWC, the future looks bright for a culture of inclusivity within the creative writing world at Harvard.
— Magazine writer Michal Goldstein can be reached at michal.goldstein@thecrimson.com.
— Magazine writer Jem K. Williams can be reached at jem.williams@thecrimson.com. 
Sections
Russia’s invasion of Ukraine last month was met with a swift response on Harvard’s campus, with rallies, petitions, and statements of support.
However, the tide of Ukrainian solidarity on campus has left some students and faculty disappointed with the lack of public response at the school to other similarly devastating wars and crises that occur in non-predominantly white and Christian countries. Some students and faculty say the more vocal response at Harvard to the war in Ukraine reflects a racial double standard.
Just four days after the invasion, Harvard University President Lawrence S. Bacow wrote, “Today the Ukrainian flag flies over Harvard Yard. Harvard University stands with the people of Ukraine.”
In response to the University’s tweet announcing its hanging of the flag, Joelle M. Abi-Rached, lecturer on the History of Science, wrote in a reply, “Great. But I wish @Harvard also stood so publicly and swiftly with all oppressed people of this world: Kashmir, Iraq, Yemen, Palestine and esp. Syria that was destroyed by the same war machinery now deployed in Ukraine.”
By not consistently taking a stance on other global conflicts, Abi-Rached says, Harvard sends a message to victims of conflicts in predominantly non-white populations that “their lives do not matter” and are “not equally valued, they are unworthy of the same concern, the same outcry, the same respect.”
Growing up in Lebanon, Abi-Rached had to flee her home on multiple occasions amid violent conflicts.
“I would personally have appreciated more ethical consistency [from Harvard] and not feel as a second-rate or lesser human being because I don’t come from a country at the doors of Europe where people are blond, blue-eyed,” she says.
Abi-Rached urges others to point out the University’s inconsistent stances on international conflicts.
“I think it behooves us to criticize and to speak out and be vocal when there is a double standard,” she says.
After several conversations with Abi-Rached, vice president of the Harvard Islamic Society, Sameer M. Khan ’24 penned a statement on behalf of the organization in support of Ukraine.
After stating the Society’s solidarity with the Ukrainian people, the statement reads, “As a Muslim community, though, we know too intimately that Ukraine is not the sole face of these ills — of colonialism, of ethnic violence, and of militarization.”
“Our Black and Brown bodies are too infrequently offered the spotlight in moments of crisis and catastrophe,” the statement continues.
“Ultimately, to condemn occupation and militarization in Ukraine requires us and all those committed to preserving human rights to condemn occupation and militarization everywhere: in Kashmir, Tigray, Palestine, Yemen, Iraq, Afghanistan, the United States, and far beyond,” Khan wrote.
Khan, who is from Kashmir, a region he describes as also facing “militarization, occupation, and colonialism,” highlights that the purpose of the statement was not to detract from the Ukraine invasion, but instead, was intended to “hold space for Ukraine and…care for Ukraine while also configuring to uplift communities — like the people of Kashmir, the people of Tigray, Syria, Palestine, and beyond — that continue to face colonialism, but don’t always have the luxury of watching and having the world stop for them.”
“Our attention should be distributed equally and unselectively,” he adds.
Afghan student Muqtader Omari ’25 says Harvard’s response reflects a “clear bias.”
After the Taliban took control of Afghanistan on Aug. 15, 2021, Omari had to leave his home country and move to campus early for his freshman year. While Harvard was accommodating in terms of providing him with housing and an earlier move-in date, he says it was still “a disappointment to know that they could have done so much more but chose not to, until the Ukrainian situation.”
“If Harvard had the capacity to do this much, why did they choose to stay silent in conflicts in non-white and non-Christian countries?” he adds.
Harvard spokesperson Jason A. Newton declined to comment on these criticisms.
Despite Omari’s frustration with the University’s muted public response to other global conflicts to the extent that it has with Ukraine, he notes that he feels most disappointed by the reactions of his fellow students.
“This crisis portrayed the worst in Harvard students,” Omari says. He says he asked students about why they chose to publicly support Ukraine now when they did not support the people of Afghanistan just months ago, and he received responses filled with “racist rhetoric about how one felt ‘closer to home.’”
According to Omari, students he talked to overlooked the reality that both wars had devastating consequences, instead emphasizing minor differences between them. Omari sees the only difference as the color of the victims’ skin — which “just basically highlights the racism that’s going on in our campus,” he says.
Omari says he was saddened by “seeing Harvard’s student body — who acts so socially liberal — to just completely be so racist and disregard one conflict and then publicly support another.”
Omari emphasizes that he does not take issue with the University or its students responding to the war in Ukraine, but he does take issue with the double standard created by not publicly supporting its Afghan students and other non-white victims of war and conflict.
Echoing Omari’s sentiments, Ukrainian student Nika O. Rudenko ’24 calls the University’s lack of response to other conflicts “immoral.”
“I’m 100 percent confident that Harvard should have done whatever they’re doing right now for Ukraine to any other country,” she says.
Rudenko believes activism on behalf of Ukrainian students is not just geared towards securing greater support and resources from Harvard for them.
“Right now, we are trying to establish a precedent so that not only Ukrainians or any person who is affected by the current war receive the necessary support within the University, but also [so] every other student who is going to be affected by any conflict in the future will have the same support system provided to them,” Rudenko says.
— Ciana J. King contributed reporting.
Sections
Of all of Harvard’s 12 undergraduate houses, Cabot is the only one with green space open to the public — no gates, no fences, no nothing. Every day when I bike back to the Quad, the lawn is teeming with Cambridge residents enjoying said green space, playing with their toddlers or training puppies.
So thank God Cabot house administrators sent us an email last semester reminding us that the Quad Lawn is technically private property and that “if [Cambridge residents] are becoming a disruption” we are welcome to “call HUPD.”
Rightfully, I have been deputized by Cabot to keep these annoying Cambridge yuppies off my fucking yard with the full force of Harvard’s multimillion-dollar private police force.
Many readers may be headed to the internet now, preparing to tweet, “What about equity? Isn’t it cruel to use a private police force to keep the public out of an open green space?” To which I say, “Do you have any idea how loud a kid’s birthday party is? Why would I tolerate that noise when I could just call the cops?”
Allow me to further my case for using the HUPD to turn the Quad Lawn into a suburban police state. The first counterargument I am sure I need to address is the racial dimension of using a private police force to keep people off the Quad lawn. But just because countless people of color have had the police called on them for enjoying public spaces in the past doesn’t mean that could possibly happen here! I don’t even see color when I call the cops on the people on the quad lawn, mostly because it’s only white people anyway. We don't need to worry about any so-called “Karens” here — Harvard is better than that. I don’t even see color when I call the cops on the people on the quad lawn, mostly because it's only white people anyway.
Let me recount the numerous instances when I have felt the residents of Cambridge have become a disruption to me during my time in the Quad. By the time I am finished I am sure you will agree that calling the cops is the only reasonable remedy.
Last semester, I walked out of my building to see a middle-aged white woman with a golf club chipping golf balls on the grassy hill at the north end of the Quad Lawn. Can you imagine how threatened I felt? What if she had used that club to attack me? I’m sure you would agree that I had no choice but to call HUPD and request to have her forcibly removed.
And imagine my surprise when I saw another middle-aged white woman cross-country skiing across the lawn after the snow storm in late January. Perhaps in the Nordic Circle they don’t quite understand the concept of private property, but I immediately clutched my pearls, that’s how appalled I was at her behavior. I’m sure you would agree that I had no choice but to call HUPD and request to have her forcibly removed
On one of the first nice days this semester, the sun was out and the temperatures were pushing into the 70s. Although it was beautiful, it also led to an influx of seedy characters loitering all over the Quad. A gang of shirtless, young, white men were doing “parkour” all over my building’s doorstep. I watched them spend a good 10 minutes chasing each other like hooligans, laughing and practicing their little tricks, until I finally had enough. I’m sure you would agree that I had no choice but to call HUPD and request to have them forcibly removed.
Does it give me pleasure to use state violence to keep the public off of Harvard property? No, of course not. Will that stop me from doing my civic duty to protect other Quad residents? No, of course not.
I will continue to call the police — on young white couples playing ultimate Frisbee, on children’s birthday parties, on people walking their dogs. I am committed to doing whatever it takes to protect the Harvard community from these disruptive, sinister characters.
— Magazine writer Harrison R. T. Ward can be reached at harrison.ward@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @HarrisonRTWard.
Sections
In high school, Haley L. Benbow ’23 started collecting change off the ground, averaging $0.51 a day. After 4 years, she’d amassed enough cash to buy an Amtrak ticket for a coast to coast ride — a ticket she used to travel home to California in March 2020, when students were sent home due to Covid-19. The train ride across the U.S. was only the first of many adventures she’d undertake — solo.
Traveling alone can sound intimidating to women who haven’t tried it. Many are taught, as Benbow says she was, to have their guard up in unfamiliar settings. As part of Women’s Week 2022, the Harvard Women’s Center hosted a seminar on solo international travel beneath Memorial Church. Lisa J. van der Sluijs ’22, an experienced solo backpacker, presented with fellow international student Celina Hollmichel ’22 on their experiences traveling alone.
To some audience members’ surprise, Van der Sluijs and Hollmichel could recall no instances of feeling physically unsafe during their travels, but they shared safety tips including reading travel guides ahead of time and sharing one’s itinerary with a trusted individual. Though lacking in experience of some regions of the world and unable to speak to the experiences of women of color, both women emphasized the kindness of strangers in all the areas they’d visited. Depending on your racial identity and that of the country you’re traveling to, Hollmichel mentioned, you may stand out, and in some cultures, people might remark on your differences. But her and van der Sluijs’s presentation stressed that good judgment and a little local language knowledge can go a long way toward keeping you safe. More than anything else, the women wanted to encourage others like them to overcome lack of confidence as an initial obstacle.
Now boasting an impressive resume of trips around Europe and the Middle East, van der Sluijs’s spark for adventure was ignited during her childhood in the Netherlands, thanks to two venturesome parents who enjoyed exploring Europe from their RV. For her, solo backpacking is not only a way to see new places, but also an opportunity to rejuvenate from school and work. “Even though I love to be around people, I also enjoy being by myself sometimes, and I find those moments to be very reflective,” she says. For her, taking pictures of herself in the places she visits is one of the main challenges of traveling solo.
Before embarking on her first solo trip, Srividya S. Maganti ’23 did feel a sense of intimidation. “I really struggle with uncertainty and just going alone and seeing what happens, because I struggle with fear in various contexts,” she says.
Over spring break, Maganti traveled alone to Portugal and stayed in hostels in Lisbon and Porto. “I thought it could be a very challenging opportunity, but rewarding if it worked out well,” she says. At her first hostel, she stayed in a female-only dorm, where many of the people she met were also young female solo travelers. As a woman, she felt she couldn’t “just find the cheapest place and roll with it, like a guy could,” but with some research beforehand she was able to feel safe throughout the duration of her trip. Now, looking back, she says of her trip: “I think it opened the world up for me.”
Many women find college to be an ideal time to give solo travel a try, thanks to its relative freedom from familial and professional obligations. If your objective in going abroad is academic, Harvard may even pay for it. Over the summer of 2021, Hollmichel embarked on her first solo trip after receiving a last-minute go-ahead to conduct thesis research in South Korea. As a Government and East Asian Studies concentrator, Hollmichel was inspired to visit Korea after a sophomore tutorial project on the trafficking of North Korean women. To acclimate herself to her new surroundings, she took up a daily ritual: every morning she would visit the convenience store near her Airbnb in Seoul to buy a strawberry milk. “I was a good target for any potential serial killers,” she says with a laugh. Each evening, she’d return to the store for a grape juice. Though her ritual produced the same conversations over and over again, she says the repetition was helpful as she got used to small talk and varying pronunciations.
Hollmichel’s fluency was prepared by enough strawberry-milk interactions to handle the situation when a man approached her and asked if he could walk her home. The man’s dogged insistence that she share her social media or phone number with him made her uneasy. As a woman alone in a foreign country, Hollmichel knew to take common-sense precautions to not let him know where she was staying or reveal that she didn’t know people in the area. The incident ended there, in the beverage aisle, and there was no other time during her six-week stay in Korea that Hollmichel felt uncomfortable in a way related to her gender.
After her spare-change-financed-cross-continental train ride, Benbow spent her pandemic year in Hawaii on a Buddhist community farm. “There was literally no planning whatsoever; I went on Craigslist of all places, and I found a place to live,” she says. After finding a room to rent that afternoon, she booked a one-way ticket to Hawaii. “A few weeks later, I was on my way. I moved with a backpack and ended up staying the whole year.” Coming back to campus, she missed the sense of freedom she felt in Hawaii. “I was like, ‘I’m not getting any younger, I need to go travel!’” So late one night right before spring break, Benbow looked up the cheapest flights to Europe and, like Maganti, bought a ticket to Portugal.
Benbow says she is drawn to solo travel because she’s totally free to follow her whims: “If you want to go back to your hotel and take a nap, you go back and take a nap.” She and the other students I talked to appreciate the connections they were able to make with people they met abroad, connections that might not have happened had they traveled in a group. “Solo traveling has taught me to assume the best intentions in other people, and to view other people as helpful, rather than something to be feared,” Benbow says.
All the women I spoke with agree that after gaining some confidence around travel, women can enjoy exploring foreign places alone as much as anyone. Van der Sluijs suggested gradually progressing to extended solo trips, perhaps spending a weekend alone in a new city first or visiting countries with a friend the first time around. The more women who start to travel alone, the easier it will be for others to follow. “I’d recommend for anyone to travel alone,” she says. “You learn so much about yourself and the world. That is such an invaluable experience.”
Sections
If you walk into Lamont Library on Friday from 10 a.m. to noon or on Saturday from 1 p.m. to 3 p.m., chances are you’ll find me at the front desk, folding and placing hold slips into requested items, loaning books or media equipment to patrons, routing books to other libraries, answering people’s questions, or simply spinning in the office chair.
Most people view my job as menial labor, one where I can “get paid for studying.” And they’re not entirely wrong. Although I do all of the tasks mentioned above — and sometimes more — during every shift, I almost always have time to get some of my own work done, in part because my shifts tend to be quieter hours.
But having time for myself isn’t necessarily my favorite part of working at Lamont. I love the job itself: the menial labor, the simplicity of the tasks, the smallness and apparent insignificance of my work.
I have a hard time slowing down. Although I’ve been trying to improve, my mind constantly runs through the list of work I have to do, and most days, I rush from one thing to the next. Gym, classes, section, meetings, work, dinner, shower, more meetings, more work, and then crash — or some variation of this routine. I build in breaks for myself, but most of the time, I’m still thinking about everything I have yet to do, one hour, one day, one week, one month from now.
But all that changes when I’m at work, when I find myself sucked into the quiet little world behind the front desk. I wait for printers to wake up and churn out hold slips. I organize books on a cart. I wish patrons a good day. My mind stops buzzing for a change.
During my shift, I’m no longer stressing over getting straight As or completing extracurricular work for different clubs. I fade into the background and become a fly on the wall – a helpful one who will lend people books and tell them where the bathroom is. I’m reminded of the quiet beauty and joy of doing small things for people that make their lives even marginally easier. I’m delighted to play a tiny role, no matter how fleeting, in the busy lives of strangers. I get to help them along the journey from point A to point B — from obtaining a camcorder to filming their project, from finding a single reference to working on their thesis, from wanting something to do over the weekend to checking out some DVDs or books.
Late one morning last November, a slightly breathless student strode up to the desk and asked if I knew how to print documents. Brimming with nervous energy, she explained that she needed a hard copy of her speech — which she hadn’t been able to memorize due to a concussion — for a class starting in half an hour. Together, we made our way down to the Media Lab. We waited several minutes for the computers to wake up. She anxiously clicked the keyboard and hovered over the printer before finally dashing out of the library with papers in hand, thanking me profusely as she left.
All I had done was help her print something she needed; yet in tha fleeting moment, I had been united with someone whose name I didn’t even know, striving for the same goal. We’d held our breath and released it together when the printer whirred and sputtered, and then parted ways just like that. An inexplicable mixture of awe and gratitude washed over me, a feeling of being blessed by something simultaneously beautiful and small, like a rosebud just poking its head out after winter. How lucky I was to have experienced that connection, its beauty defined by its intensity, smallness, and transience. I couldn’t help but wonder: What would have happened if our paths hadn’t crossed? If she had met a desk worker who didn’t go downstairs to help her, how much more anxious would she have felt? How much more — even if only fleetingly — alone?
But really, none of those hypotheticals mattered. What mattered now was that I’d been there, I’d helped her, and now she was in class with her speech in hand. It hit me then, a comforting realization that tethered me to reality, to simple, daily life: When I can interact with people in these big small ways, why should I stress myself out trying to always be bigger and do more? And vice versa: If I’m striving to be bigger and do more, why does that mean I should forget the value of these big small things? Although I ultimately still want to accomplish what I can with my fullest potential, life isn’t only about doing big things all the time. And perhaps those who regularly commit themselves to helping people in these smaller ways are those who have already found the joy and meaning in their work that I am only just discovering.
Between exams and papers, presentations and meetings, applications and interviews, I’ll sit back in my office chair, organize books, and say my you’re-welcomes and have-a-good-days. I’ll delight in the little things, not because they matter most, but because they matter more than I often remember they do.

— Magazine writer Kaitlyn Tsai can be reached at kaitlyn.tsai@thecrimson.com.
Sections
Since 2019, influencers have graced the halls of the Hype House, a Los Angeles hotspot for aspiring content creators. Although the house’s bathroom serves as an iconic backdrop for some of the world’s most popular Tik Tok videos, the current residents are unlikely to film themselves dancing there. The team at Nya Labs is busy tapping into the influencer space in a different way — by developing a platform that allows fans to purchase Non-Fungible Tokens from their favorite content creators.
Nya Labs was founded by two MIT students, Kevin Jiang and Sam Mitchell, who have both always been interested in technology and entrepreneurship. Jiang, for instance, has been involved with numerous start-ups and businesses, from the Collegiate Series of Poker, an online poker league for college students, to Oda Studio, a photo editing and management company.
Last November, Jiang and Mitchell founded Nya Labs to explore NFT business opportunities with social media stars. Jiang explains that he followed programmer and author Paul Graham’s framework for brainstorming start-up ideas: “Live in the future, then build what’s missing.” In this case, Jiang and Mitchell saw an opening in the world of content creation.
Jiang says that we can think of NFTs as tokens. “The core essence of tokens is that you can own some kind of programmable asset, whether that’s a currency, a piece of land, a JPEG, or a building,” he says. Through a lot of complex computations, it is possible to claim something on the internet as yours and yours alone. Anyone who looks at it will know, and that ownership and scarcity creates value. Most people recognize NFTs solely as JPEGs, or online images, but the technology can extend to anything that exists digitally. A fan of a certain creator can own an online token which represents their connection to the creator, like membership to a club.
To capitalize on the promise of this technology, creators need to understand how NFTs are made, which is a high barrier to entry. As Jiang explains, “Creators shouldn’t need to know how to set up wallets to make NFT drops. What they should know is how to utilize NFTs to build a better community, to build a better audience, to better monetize your audience.”
This is where Nya Labs steps in to create an accessible “marketplace” that connects buyers and sellers, handling the technical side of NFT collections for creators.
However, as is often the case in new, growing, and untapped marketplaces, the incredible hype surrounding NFTs has built similar opportunities for misuse. While increased connectivity is enticing, this new financial dimension to creator-fan relationships creates conditions rife for exploitation. “Rug pulls” are a common scam in which creators of an NFT collection or cryptocurrency discontinue a project and disappear with the investments. In many cases, enticing new projects are advertised by popular content creators, only for millions of dollars to disappear in seconds. In 2021, NFT rug pulls accounted for nearly $3 billion dollars in losses, 38 percent of all cryptocurrency scams.
Because the industry relies largely on a select group with the know-how to navigate the technically complex world of NFTs and crypto, Nya Labs is focused on abstracting the technical concerns away and making the promise of NFTs accessible to a broader audience.
But Nya Labs isn’t just selling the tech: they are selling the possibilities it unlocks. “You don’t see Google advertising PageRank to people,” Jiang explains, referring to the algorithm Google uses to determine how to rank websites in its search results. Instead, Jiang continues, Google capitalizes on a tangible function:the ability to search for anything and find results in seconds. Similarly, Nya Labs isn’t selling NFTs themselves, per se, but rather opening up a new marketplace in the realm of content creation.
The philosophy of imagining the future and building “what’s missing” might be a good way to build a million-dollar startup, but it is unclear if this philosophy builds the best future. This uncertainty is particularly salient when it comes to NFTs — blockchain technologies have come under fire for the outsized environmental impact that results from the complex computation required. Plus, is it really the end of the world if the future lacks a marketplace to invest your money into a David Dobrik NFT?
At the same time, many notable technologies have adopted the “build first, ask questions later” approach. Several branches of mathematics were considered useless, until the advent of the computer, for example. In British mathematician G.H. Hardy's famous essay, A Mathematician’s Apology, he argued that math has value regardless of its potential applications.
As Jiang puts it: “We know that NFTs are pretty big, so we’re just kind of building towards that.” Much like Hardy’s defense of pure mathematics, Nya Labs’ work is a building block — it just remains to be seen what future the final construction will create.

— Magazine writer William S. Hahn can be reached at william.hahn@thecrimson.com.
Sections
At Make & Mend, a retail storefront located in Somerville, heaps and heaps of gently used craft supplies — from vintage fabrics to colored pencils to embroidery floss — are primed for a second life.
Local artist Emily S. Tirella founded Make & Mend in 2017, inspired by her encounters with waste at the Massachusetts College of Art and Design. “I was spending a ridiculous amount of money on materials that could be reused year after year,” she remembers. Instead of purchasing supplies every year, she began saving her used supplies.
Tirella’s idea for Make & Mend was inspired by a similar secondhand craft store in Ohio, which she stumbled across on Instagram. She soon realized her store could solve two problems: meet the need for inexpensive art supplies, as well as reduce the amount of used materials that are tossed in good condition. After that day, the supplies she collected each semester became part of an inventory.
Now, the store’s supply consists of much more than just Tirella’s own donations — it receives donations of craft supplies from artists across the country. Make & Mend hopes to do for the arts world what thrifting has done for fashion; like many other second hand stores popping up across the country, it aims to promote accessibility and sustainability.
Tirella explains that many people who donate see it as a relief. When crafters buy fresh art supplies, she says, they are often new and shiny in a way that can feel intimidating. Many crafters have a tendency to leave brand-new supplies unused, stocked away for the perfect opportunity that never seems to come. Donating their supplies to a store like Make & Mend, Tirella says, alleviates “that guilt of l purchasing creative materials and never using them, or throwing away something that's perfectly good. It gives you a place to feel good about that.” “Free your burden of creativity past and donate them to us!” reads the Make & Mend website.
On top of that, Tirella says, instead of sending their beloved sewing kits and paint brushes off to a landfill, people enjoy being able to contribute to something greater than themselves: a sustainable and innovative community, a movement. The secondhand supplies are resold for about 50 percent off, making them accessible to an entirely new demographic who may never have been able to pursue creative hobbies with high-quality tools and materials.
Make & Mend began with a few pop-up events in Boston in early 2018 and has grown steadily since then. Tirella opened her first brick and mortar store at Somerville’s Bow Market in May of 2018. It took time to grow a community of donors and shoppers alike, but by 2020, Make & Mend was beginning to outgrow its 160-square-foot space. Throughout the pandemic, Tirella and her team bounced around, finding a home in Joy Street Studios and then a warehouse. Because it was unsafe to host in-person shopping or events during this time, Tirella leaned into the shop’s online presence. Now, as Make & Mend enters its fifth year of business, it’s relaunching in-person shopping again at a new space in Somerville.
It’s not by way of luck that Make & Mend has managed to grow even throughout the pandemic. Tirella’s success is built on a larger movement of people who are increasingly conscious about the ethics of their consumption — a movement that’s especially active in Cambridge. At the same time that Tirella opened in Bow Market in 2018, the City of Cambridge expanded its composting program to include over 25,000 households. The year before, bfresh opened a location in Somerville to provide bulk and package-free groceries. A year later, Cleenland opened up in Central Square as “a low-waste, no shame store” that sells refillable personal and home care supplies.
But at Make & Mend, Tirella promotes accessibility and sustainability at the same time. “Everyone can see a benefit in what we do if they have a crafty mindset,” she says. “There's so much waste that goes into creating art supplies in general, so if you can get something that's already in the supply stream, it just makes it feel so much better.” With every second life granted to the inventory at Make & Mend, a new artist is given a chance to make something of their own.
— Magazine writer Francesca J. Barr can be reached at francesca.barr@thecrimson.com.
Sections
Logan R. Ury ’10 knows her book probably doesn’t appeal to undergrads. For spirited young 20-somethings who likely think of our romantic lives as boundless and bountiful, a book titled “How to Not Die Alone” might seem like a purchase reserved for years down the road — and only as a last resort. Even then, reading it would probably feel like an admission of failure. None of us want to think of ourselves as the kind of people who would need “the surprising science that will help you find love,” as the book’s subtitle advertises, in order to actually find love.
But while Ury admits that the book is geared toward an older audience, she believes that college students shouldn’t use their youth as an excuse to defer the creation of good dating practices. Most of her clients have “years of bad patterns that they’re trying to break,” she says. “It's better to develop healthy patterns now than have to break them in the future.”
In fact, Ury herself used to approach the dating landscape as a self-dubbed “maximizer.” She always believed that one day, she would find someone who magically embodied the best qualities of each person she’d already dated — a hope that no romantic prospect could possibly fulfill. There was this one guy she’d kissed while dancing in the desert at Burning Man; their connection felt spontaneous, fun, exciting. After he left her crying outside of a San Francisco club, she remained hung up on him in spite of — or perhaps because of — the anxiety that he induced.
It wasn’t until the now-dating coach hired her own dating coach that she began to see through her maximizing tendencies and discover “who was hiding in plain sight,” she says. Ury didn’t know it then, but in doing so, she was harnessing the power of what may seem like the most unromantic thing in the world: science.
Ury and her now-husband Scott only had one interaction during their time at Harvard. They grabbed lunch in the Adams dining hall for distinctly platonic reasons: Ury’s boyfriend at the time was taking a math class with him. Ury and Scott didn’t interact again until seven years later, when, removed from the Harvard bubble but immersed in the equally bubble-esque world of Silicon Valley, Scott approached Ury at a Google shuttle stop.
“‘Didn’t you go to Harvard? And you were dating so-and-so,’” she says, recalling their first post-college conversation. “And then we were friends. And then a year later, we started dating.”
Acquaintances reconnecting years later and becoming friends, friends turning into lovers — Ury’s story might sound like a perfectly conventional love story. But that doesn’t mean that the spark was immediate. In fact, Ury initially wrote Scott off entirely. She had been judging him against her strict checklist of “dateable” traits — he didn’t like tropical vacations, for example — instead of focusing on how he made her feel, as her new dating coach advised her to do.
When she adjusted her dating mentality to follow this seemingly simple instruction, everything changed.
“I realized those initial surface-level preferences were distractions. I loved how I felt around him, even if he shuddered at the idea of staying up all night and partying in the desert,” Ury writes in “How To Not Die Alone.” She later recognized that her coach’s advice was “not just smart — it was backed by mounds of research.” This counterintuitive revelation — that the road to love can be paved with scientific rationality — is the foundation of Ury’s book, as well as her career more broadly.
Ury’s interest in the intersections of love, sexuality, and science began in a Harvard sociology class, where she wrote a paper about her peers’ porn-watching habits and their effect on in-person sexual tendencies. Post-graduation, after a stint in what she terms Google’s “porn pod” — the team that helps porn and sex toy companies promote their products via Google ads — Ury switched to the company’s “irrational lab,” or behavioral science team.
While working there, “I was single, I was on dating apps, and I was struggling. And I saw that the people around me were struggling,” Ury says. In response, she spearheaded a speaker series called “Talks at Google: Modern Romance,” where a revolving door of dating experts came to educate her and her co-workers. “I was like, ‘There’s something here. People need advice on dating. People are stuck. It’s really hard to figure out this new world of modern dating.’”
Ever since, perfecting the application of decision-making science to relationships — and translating that science into usable tools for the average person — has become the goal of Ury’s professional endeavors. She currently works as a one-on-one dating coach, teaches a dating boot camp called “Date Smarter,” and directs the relationship science department at Hinge. The bluntness of her book’s title reflects the direct, unsentimental nature of its advice; based in behavioral science research, it offers psychological explanations for bad dating habits and frameworks with which to develop new ones. All of the hats that Ury wears are united by the understanding of a relationship “as a series of decisions,” she explains. She believes in the idea of dating “like a scientist,” which she says means “ to have hypotheses, test them, see what happens, and then iterate.”
Amidst a landscape of media representation that valorizes irrational love — the notion that love prevails in spite of pragmatism and because of passion — Ury’s “date like a scientist” model decidedly opposes conventional wisdom. Ury even points to this supposed wisdom as a catalyst for unhealthy relationships. One of her book’s chapters is even called “F**ck the Spark,” debunking the myth that instant chemistry equates to “the one” and makes a relationship viable.
She says she sees too many clients whose understanding of love is, “When I like someone and they pull away and I convince them to be with me.” Characterized by cycles of fraughtness and resolution, relationships where you feel as though you’re fighting a battle often combine the devastating lows with blissful, intense, spark-filled highs. But instead of feeding the addiction to the chase, Ury wants to “encourage people to go after someone where I choose you, and you choose me.”
Of course, as undergrads, we might not approach dating through the lens of choosing a life partner. Choices we make now can feel impermanent and inconsequential; our approaches might be oriented around fun and self-discovery — and fairly so. Still, much of Ury’s advice applies to the issues that arise in seemingly low-stakes college situationships, too.
I asked Ury about a classic conundrum that my friends and I often debate: if you’re casually seeing someone and they’re not treating you with the minimum respect of a friend, should you be the aloof “chill girl” to maintain a favorable position in the power dynamic, or should you put your emotional cards on the table? According to Ury, chillers lose.
“I think this idea of being the ‘cool girl’ or the ‘chill girl’ is not a good strategy. It’s usually a euphemism for saying, ‘I am not going to advocate for myself and ask for what I want,’” she advises.
Ultimately, Ury thinks that transitioning from hookup culture to serious dating isn’t as easy as flipping a mental switch. “Dating is a cumulative experience where the patterns that you develop now are going to stick with you for a long time,” she says, speaking directly to college students. “You should actually start thinking from the beginning from now about, ‘How can I invest my dating skills? How can I invest in my communication skills?’ Because if you do that, you'll really be ahead of the game and you won’t be calling me when you’re 30. Break those bad habits.”
— Magazine writer Elyse D. Pham can be reached at elyse.pham@thecrimson.com.
Sections
According to Harvard Curling Club President Kris B. King ’24, it’s tradition to bump fists with the opposing team and exchange an enthusiastic “good curling!” before the start of every match. Just as integral to the athletic component of the sport, King says, is the camaraderie, commonly referred to as the “spirit of curling.” This spirit pervaded the wood-paneled walls of Broomstones Curling Club in Wayland, Mass., last Sunday, where Harvard Curling hosted its last Learn-to-Curl event of the year after wrapping up a successful season.
Two years ago, facing pandemic cancellations and a host of graduating seniors, the future of the Curling Club looked grim. 2020 saw many curling clubs shut down, and the president of Harvard Curling at the time told King that their goal was just “to keep the club alive.” Under King’s leadership, however, the club has not only survived the pandemic but emerged from it stronger. A few weeks ago, at the first College Curling National Championship since 2019, the team finished fourth — a program record.
Curious to learn the secret behind the Curling Club’s national success, the two of us decided to head to Broomstones — located on the aptly named Curling Lane — with a smattering of Harvard students from across the College and the graduate schools whose reasons for attending ranged from devoted fandom to passing interest. Tali Wong ’25, for instance, made the decision to come out with some members of the Canadian Club after changing the channel to Olympic curling at a Super Bowl watch party.
After putting on bright orange rubber shoe coverings called “grippers,” which keep rookies from slipping on the ice, we split into small groups and head out onto a large rink to practice the basics. First we lunge out onto the ice, using our body weight to push the smooth, 40-pound stones down the rink — a move called the “delivery.” Next, armed with small brooms, we learn to frantically sweep the ice in front of the sliding stones, activating muscles we didn’t know we had.
Soon the room is filled with the low rumbling of deliveries and the over-the-top cries of veteran curlers directing our sweeping: “Yes! Hardline… yes, WHOA,” at which point we lift our brooms. The absurdity of the activity is matched only by the team’s genuine passion for teaching us how to play.
Finally, we’re ready to face off. Within our groups, we choose roles — lead, second, vice, and skip — and assume our spots on the ice, preparing for the first launch.
Now comes the strategy. Curling, we learn, is a lot like bowling, except more complicated, played in teams, and on ice. Suddenly the aiming, delivering, and sweeping become part of an intricate calculus for how to disrupt the other team’s maneuvers and move our stones to the bullseye at the other end of the ice. The jovial atmosphere simmers into a focused hush.
Still, despite the competition inherent to the sport, veteran curlers say it always remains friendly. “There’s such a culture of being honest and nice to the people you curl against,” says Matt Pick, a third-year at Harvard Law School. Fraternizing with the enemy is the norm in curling, and Pick has always relished it.
Originally from Edmonton in Alberta, Canada, Pick curled throughout middle and high school and joined Harvard Curling last year. His experience isn’t very common; many other team members, including the president, didn’t start curling until college. The team’s openness, King says, distinguishes it from Harvard’s other varsity and club sports.
“I don’t think a lot of sports can say that they compete at a national level and you can walk on with absolutely no experience,” King says.
King also touts the club’s commitment to inclusion. The team boasts a no-questions-asked financial aid policy, provides equipment for its members, and does not divide its members based on gender.
“I’m queer and trans and autistic,” they say. “And it’s really important to me that folks who don’t fit into societal or curling norms can still play. Historically, especially at Harvard, curling has been a very queer-friendly sport.”
In the spirit of curling, we head into the Broomstone lounge after our matches for one final tradition: “broomstacking,” where opposing teams come together at a table and share drinks. In our version, we eat cake.
At this point, King takes a moment to toast the team’s triumph at nationals and recognize the graduating team members. A graduating player hands the nationals team homemade wooden medals. King gives send-off speeches so warm they leave us teary-eyed. Learn-to-Curl comes to a bittersweet close.
But luckily, all it takes is one session to be eligible to compete with the team — so maybe you’ll find us out on the rink at Harvard Curling’s next match on Friday, testing our new skills against MIT.
Sections
“This is one of my favorite paintings,” says Olivia M. Tai ’21-22, pointing to a giant canvas roughly the size of a 70-inch flat-screen TV, which I’m helping her haul back to her room.
The winds of Cambridge on a February afternoon are seldom friendly — and even less so when you are carrying a giant wood frame wrapped in canvas (in other words, a sail). Olivia and I face a treacherous journey to Lowell House, up a narrow stairwell, and through the door to her cozy (read: small) common room. We tuck the painting into the corner, suspend it precariously on top of a couch, and sit down to begin the interview.
“I ask this question to people a lot, actually,” she says, after I ask how her friends would describe her.
“I’m playful and silly, and sometimes a bit childlike — but not necessarily childish. But in other moments, like, more thoughtful or wise or mature.”
A good reporter isn’t supposed to take an interviewee’s answer to this question at face value, but in Olivia’s case, I’m tempted. She sits cross-legged on her couch, framed by a pastel blue Totoro plushie and a framed diagram that reads “how to shove your opinion up your rectum.” But talking to her feels, in many ways, like talking to an older sister, or to a Buddhist monk who happens to have reached enlightenment in the Lowell dining hall.
“I took two fall gap semesters,” she says. “The first one happened in fall 2019, and the second one happened in fall 2020 — so I had a pre- and post-pandemic gap.”
I asked Olivia what led her to take her first gap semester.
“Especially during my freshman year, I was feeling … a bit disjointed, and a little bit lost. I felt like I wasn’t in the right spaces, or I didn’t have the right goals, or just something wasn’t aligned to make me feel like I was my best self,” she says.
Consequently, she spent a lot of her sophomore year asking questions — big questions: “How can I self-actualize more? What is that thing I want to rally around? Do I have the capacity for depth?”
Heavy stuff.
“I just felt like a really interesting way to answer those questions could be taking time off from school.”
Olivia describes the rest of her gap semester, which she spent living at home in the Bay Area exploring different things and, in her words, “creating my own curriculum.” And as she did, I came to realize that Harvard is a place with very few Olivias.
“I think it’s a core facet of Harvard students to follow paths that have very clear steps to achievement, to a kind of external validation,” she says. “Whereas a lot of the uncertainty around trying to take time off — the effort and uncomfortable feelings you have to sit with if you were to actually pursue that idea — people [look at it and say] it’s just too much.”
I will refrain from expounding upon Olivia’s argument here because Lord knows how many Crimson articles and op-eds have been written about how Harvard students hate uncertainty and taking risks and love to maximize optionality and safety nets.
I will say, though, that Olivia makes a pretty convincing case for why gap years are the antidote to this Harvard student hamartia. ( I use “gap year” and “leave of absence” and “taking time off” interchangeably — “gap year” does not refer specifically to taking time off before freshman year.) She’s someone who got hit with the Harvard sophomore slump (emotional and social listlessness combined with panic about the fast-approaching realities of post-grad life — an early indicator of McKinsey Fever, HLS Syndrome, or Goldman Sachs Disease) and was thoughtful and deliberate enough to do something about it — to take some time away from Harvard to reflect and reevaluate. It’s a hard choice, one that makes Olivia such a rare breed of Harvard student.
But of course, the pandemic changed everything.
“I’m from Maine.”
This is the first thing that Elijah B. McGill ’23-24 says when I ask him to introduce himself.
“I’m definitely like that person who’s known for where they’re from,” he explains.
The 2020-2021 school year saw the most significant increase in leaves of absence in Harvard College’s history, with nearly 20 percent of the entire undergraduate population opting to take time off. Eli is one of the 20 percent.
“I ended up talking to three or four professors that I trusted over the summer, and every single one of them was like, ‘If it was my own child, I would definitely tell them to take a gap year,’” he says.
It’s not too hard to see why the percentage quadrupled (from 5 percent in a normal year) to 20 percent. Harvard is a place that prides itself on outside-the-classroom activities: the vibrant and plentiful extracurricular scene, the opportunities to meet famous people, study abroad, touch really old books, the late-night pset sessions, and even-later-night common room conversations.
The problem is, the old “most of the learning at Harvard happens outside the classroom” adage doesn’t really work when all that’s left is the classroom — and a virtual one, at that. Zoom school was, to put it lightly, not great. Hence, the 20 percent — four times as many than in a normal year.
“I worked for the census bureau and just went around talking to people and knocking on doors,” Eli says, describing his gap year experience. He “ended up working for an NGO doing grant-writing,” but also “worked for my congressman during the spring, and last summer worked as a park ranger out west.”
Eli’s gap year was eventful, to say the least: cleaning bathrooms in Hell’s Canyon, the nearly 8,000-foot deep canyon that forms the border between Idaho and Oregon, getting stuck on the New Jersey turnpike for five hours, running into a bear while solo backpacking in the Redwoods.
“I was off-grid, too, where I was based,” he says, “so I read so many books. I hadn’t read that many books since I was in like the eighth grade probably. I think I went through 50 books.”
What he learned from his year off was, to some extent, exactly what you’d expect.
“On the most basic level, time away gives you time to reflect — to decide what you value and what you want to spend your time on,” Eli says. “I definitely came back being very convinced I wanted to do Environmental Science and Public Policy and ecology stuff — which was a thought before my gap year, but was certainly solidified on my gap year.”
John F. Griffin ’25, who spent his gap year hiking the Appalachian Trail, feels similarly.
“I had time to calm down and relax,” John says. “Taking the gap year made me realize that there isn’t this tunnel or ladder of Harvard that I have to go through.”
Obviously, not all 1,500 students who took time off spent their days hiking forest trails and whitewater rafting.
David A. Paffenholz ’22, who took the entire 2020-2021 school year off, spent his year interning for Snapchat — at first remotely from his home in Germany, and then in France with a friend, and then in Spain with his girlfriend.
“I think there were two factors that led to me taking a gap year: one being that a sizable portion of my friends were taking a gap year,” he says. “Another being I was fortunate enough to have the opportunity to extend my internship.”
I ask David why he chose to gap.
“[Snapchat] offered to keep me on for the entire year,” he says. “If I hadn’t been offered to continue at my job, I think I most likely wouldn’t have taken the gap year.”
I’d hazard a guess that spending a year working a 9-to-5 at Snapchat provides less opportunity for reflection than living in the woods without internet or cell phone reception. That isn’t, however, to discount the value of David’s time off.
“From a friendship perspective, it definitely had a big impact. Being physically far from most of my friends made it [require] much more conscious effort to actually stay in touch,” he says. “Also, I’ve been focusing much more on classes that I was actually really passionate about rather than the ones that I thought, you know, would look good on my resume.”
And so, to summarize the past 1,400 or so words of this piece: taking time off is, generally, a good thing.
Yes, it’s a hard decision to make, one that requires some deprogramming of the addiction to ladder-climbing that got us into Harvard in the first place — but for those who choose to take the leap, it’s an invaluable opportunity to reflect and reevaluate.
But what about those who are never given the choice in the first place?
Rabsa R. Sikder ’24 is described by her friends as a happy, friendly person — to which she responds, “I don’t quite know that that’s true.” Evidently, she’s humble, too.
“I’m a recent immigrant. I moved to the U.S. in 2016,” Rabsa says. “My parents, as recent immigrants, are limited as to what kind of jobs they can do.” For Rabsa, this fact greatly influenced how she viewed the possibility of taking a gap year.
“Sometimes I feel like ‘Oh, I should take a gap year,’ but at the same time, I don’t know how that would impact my parents — one more year of supporting me,” she says. “I don’t want to burden my parents even more.”
Among the 80 percent of students who remained enrolled through the 2020-2021 school year, there’s no shortage of people who simply lacked a desire to take time off: people who didn’t mind Zoom school, people who wanted to finish concentration requirements as soon as possible, people who didn’t want to give up extracurricular opportunities, people who preferred the number 22 to 23 — the list goes on.
David A. Andrade ’24, for example, speaks about how “the ability to just roll out of bed, go to class, and then scroll to office hours — I appreciated that I was able to maximize my efficiency of time.”
But scattered amongst that 80 percent who remained enrolled is a significant number of students who possessed the desire but lacked the means — who wanted to take time off but couldn’t. And sure, the barrier could be a number of things: visa restrictions, strict parents, health problems. But over the course of my reporting, one reason loomed above the others: money.
“I personally know quite a few people who took a gap semester and just hung out in Korea and Israel and New York,” says Alyssa, a first-generation, low income student who prefers to remain anonymous. “And good for them, but not everyone can live that life.”
“If I was rich, I would 100 percent take a gap,” she adds.
And this is, to some extent, common sense: Rich people often have the means to do things that poor people can’t — gap years included.
But when I say “money,” I mean more than just bearing the immediate cost of the gap year, more than the dollars and cents that it takes to afford a cabin in New Hampshire or a round trip flight to Seoul. I’m talking about money as a lens through which FGLI students experience Harvard, an experience that I think Alyssa puts best: “When you come from a lower socioeconomic status, not being financially stable is an undertone for everything.” “Coming from a first-generation, low income household, my parents didn’t really understand the idea of taking a gap year,” says Ryan D. Morillo ’23, a joint concentrator in English and Theater, Dance, & Media who remained enrolled for the 2020-2021 school year.
“A lot of my parents’ mindset is that you finish college in order to go to graduate school or to graduate and start making money.”
This doesn’t feel like a particularly hot take for most students across the country. You go to college to get a degree to get a job. And sure, it can incidentally be a very enriching and fun time — but ultimately, there are student loans that need to be repaid.
Very few students, in the grand scheme of things, have the luxury of the Harvard Experience — attending college to experience “intellectual, social, and personal transformation,” as this university advertises on its website. And within Harvard, FGLI students often find themselves estranged from this lofty ideal.
“Coming from a FGLI background, you view education as something you cherish in a way where it helps you obtain your goals,” Ryan says. “You see it as more of a transitory period, rather than something you need to enjoy in the moment.”
It’s not hard to see how this pressure to view college as a means to an end rather than an end in itself makes it hard to justify a gap semester or year.
“For first-gen families, there’s that connotation that you gotta get there, you gotta get stuff done, you gotta constantly work to succeed, and you can’t take time off because that’s just showing that you’re lazy,” James L. Walkingstick ’21-’23 says.
I want to be clear in what I’m saying here. It’s not that FGLI parents tell their kids, “no you can’t take a gap year because it’s a waste of time and reflection is bad and we hate you.” It’s that the condition of coming from a FGLI or immigrant background — the precarity, the struggle, the sense of duty to uplift your family — makes it difficult to choose to take a gap year. It creates barriers of mental guilt in addition to barriers of financial access, which, in many ways, are even more difficult to overcome.
And so FGLI students, as a result, are robbed of the opportunity for growth that could come with taking time off.
I hesitate to use the word “robbed” here because it implies the existence of a robber which I’m not sure exists. If there was one, I suppose it might be “income inequality” or “immigrant precarity.” Some might also say that the robber is Harvard — but as much as I like to villainize Harvard, I’m not sure that it’s justified in this case.
Harvard’s commitment to full, need-based financial aid is already huge. Beyond increasing it even further to the point of actually paying students to attend, there’s not too much that Harvard could do to alleviate the impact of this financial burden on FGLI students. And so we are left with, in many ways, a tragedy without a villain.
There is another element to this tragedy, one that I think is unique enough to devote a section to: the stipend.
In July 2020, when the College announced that it would only invite back freshmen and select upperclassmen for the fall 2020 semester, it also announced a “Covid-19 Remote Room and Board” stipend for students on financial aid. Essentially, if you remained enrolled and opted not to move back to campus, you would receive up to $5,000 based on your level of financial need.
I am not one to take Harvard’s financial aid program for granted. It is, indeed, one of the most progressive and generous in the world, and I, myself, am immensely grateful to be a beneficiary of full financial aid.
However, the stipend was, in many ways, a Trojan horse.
The experience of being a FGLI student at Harvard is one of making choices — frequent and difficult ones. On a spare Friday night, choosing between going to a party or helping your parents renew their Medicaid application. When sophomore year comes along, choosing between a concentration you care about or one that will ensure that stable post-grad job. As spring break approaches, choosing between a trip to Puerto Rico with your blockmates or staying on campus for the week to save money.
And then, of course, there’s the choice between taking time off or remaining enrolled. That decision, as I have framed it so far, is one that pits the personal enrichment that comes from taking time off against the fulfillment of familial obligations that comes from remaining enrolled.
In creating this stipend, Harvard tipped the scales towards the latter.
“I was really quick to say ‘I’m not taking a gap’ once I heard about the $5,000,” says Vincent Pan ’22, a senior studying Statistics and Theater, Dance, & Media. “Obviously we were still in the pandemic, and my parents needed the money.”
Many of the other FGLI students I interviewed cited a similar reaction — that regardless of how on the fence they were about gapping prior to the announcement, the stipend solidified their decision to remain enrolled.
“[The stipend] was such a huge confirming factor that I didn’t even doubt what I was going to do,” Ryan says. “I didn’t have the space to waste that money that Harvard was giving me.”
Again, I am tempted to name Harvard as the villain. For Harvard to not have offered the stipend at all, one could argue, might have increased the percentage of FGLI students who would have a transformative gap year experience. But then again, doing so also would have deprived many families of that financial stipend during a particularly difficult time. And so we are left, again, with a tragedy without a villain.
But yet, I can’t help but think about Rabsa, who says that her “ main motivation for staying enrolled was the [$5,000 grants Harvard sent] to students who stayed home.” I think about her spending the first year of her Harvard experience — an experience overwhelmingly billed as transformative — in her childhood bedroom.
And then I think about the other members of the class of 2024 — the freshmen of the Covid-19 semester — who came to campus, for whom the stipend wasn’t an enticing enough incentive to stay home. Who, despite the restrictions and regulations, were able to meet each other in person, make friends, and have at least some semblance of a normal freshman year of college.
And I can’t help but think that somewhere along the way, something went wrong.
I conducted one final interview for this piece, with Juan Guzman ’22.
“I was born and raised in Lawrence, Massachusetts. My family is from the Dominican Republic,” Juan says. “I don’t really mess around with a lot of people, so I’m really just like a floater. Yeah.”
We’re talking over Zoom. I’m in my common room. He is in what I’m almost certain — based on the palm fronds and water fountain — is Currier d-hall.
We talk briefly about his decision to remain enrolled throughout the 2020-2021 school year.
“I couldn’t go off-campus because there was no space for me at home, like I didn’t have a bedroom at home,” he says. “I didn’t have the money to go anywhere or do anything.”
Much has been written about what we — we as humans, we as 20-something year-olds, we as Harvard students — lost as a result of this pandemic. In some ways it seems trite to linger on this point.
But I do think it’s important to think about what those who were unable to take time off lost as a result of this pandemic year: Juan, for example, who began the pandemic as a sophomore and returned to an in-person Harvard as a senior.
“In the Square, there’s a bunch of different restaurants, right?” he says. “I’m a little bit of a foodie … but I can’t afford to go to restaurants every day or every week. Throughout the year, I could try out a handful of restaurants — compared to someone with a higher economic status, who could maybe do that in a month or two.”
But, he adds,“given enough time, I could try them all. And that’s the point — time is an equalizer on campus. Poor people can have the same experiences as rich people, over time.”
I find this a really poignant metaphor. I mean, that’s the point of this whole Harvard thing, right? Bringing together people of different socioeconomic backgrounds and giving them as level a playing field as possible? Sure, it’s not perfect — it will never be perfect — but that doesn’t mean we don’t try. It’s why, for example, house sorting is random, why someone can’t just buy their way into Lowell.
In a sense, the most nefarious thing about this part of the pandemic was that by putting gap years back on the table, it reintroduced time as a variable: a variable that could be stretched or conserved if you had the means to do so.
And for those who didn’t?
“I just know that I have so little time left,” Juan says. “And I feel like I didn’t have a good sophomore or junior year college experience at all.”
Even after coming back to campus for his senior year, the effects of the pandemic year lingered.
“My friends who took time off, they have enough time to make friends; it’s actually worth it for them to do activities and try new things on campus because they have so much more time left,” he says.
Again, I don’t mean to belabor the point of how much we lost due to the pandemic, nor am I under the delusion that Harvard students had it the worst over the course of this past year.
But I will say that, over these past two semesters, it seems like the primary focus has been on a return to normalcy — a focus on re-establishing club cultures, on reviving social traditions, on restoring the “normal” Harvard experience. And in our rush to move past this pandemic, there’s been little recognition for all that we’ve lost, for those students — most often, from FGLI backgrounds — who struggled the most during this past year and didn’t have access to an alternative.
“I know that I would have preferred to really experience college, especially being the first generation in my family [to do so],” Juan says. “My college experience is the one that’s representative for my family.”
We only have four years here. Eight semesters; a hundred or so weeks. And there’s so much to do. People who took gap years talk about how time off allowed them to make the most of their time here; it’s a shame that not everyone has that privilege.
Sections
First-years, sophomores, and juniors will experience spring on Harvard’s campus for the first time this semester. New England’s flowers come into full bloom, the concrete jungle aesthetic yields to green grass, and undergraduates emerge from midterm-induced stupors to actually enjoy the landscape.
Though Harvard’s humans are making their springtime debut, for campus fauna, it’s not their first cotillion. To the squirrels, turkeys, and geese that make their homes here, we are mere guests for four years.
FM set out to honor our gracious hosts by investigating their history and capturing their daily life. While doing so, we uncovered some pretty neat stuff.
In 2011, a (now defunct) student project aimed to collate an archive of Harvard Squirrels over the centuries, and in 2013, the Huffington Post declared Harvard one of America’s “most squirrel obsessed colleges.”
But the squirrel’s prominence in Harvard’s culture has figured since at least the Great Depression.
On January 11, 1938, student Bernard D. Shea ’41 innocently held out unpopped popcorn to an interloping squirrel. Instead of eating the popcorn, though, the squirrel took a bite of his index finger.
By 1941, squirrels had switched from menacing pests to saviors in The Crimson’s annals, when it reported that a “chivalrous squirrel” protected “three damsels in distress” from an overactive laundry salesman.
Since then, squirrels have definitely stirred up campus controversy: One Crimson headline from 1996 provocatively asked, “Are Squirrels a First-Year’s Friend? Or Are They Only Glorified Rats?”
Friend or foe, today it seems almost impossible to walk around the Yard without encountering one of these tall-tailed tree huggers.
We asked Jason W. MacKay, a landscape services supervisor at Harvard, if he had any insight into squirrels’ iconic status. Although he could not say for sure, MacKay did point out their ubiquity across campus. According to MacKay, Harvard Yard has enough mature oak trees to support a large resident squirrel population. “They produce an abundance of acorns that it’d be hard to not be attracted to Harvard Yard,” he says.
Science historian Etienne S. Benson adds some context to MacKay’s intuition in a December 2013 article for the Journal of American History. According to Benson’s article, squirrels did not have the conditions for growth in the northeast until the 1870s, with the rise of the urban parks movement spearheaded by Frederick Law Olmsted.
Indeed, squirrels did not become ubiquitous until the early 20th century, when public land around Cambridge, where squirrels ran the risk of getting shot, gave way to private land, where homeowners often fed squirrels they found on their property. In turn, this shift led squirrels to migrate from their natural habitats around Mount Auburn Cemetery to the manicured urban habitat around Harvard Yard.
Whatever their origin, Harvard squirrels have now made their way into popular culture: In a 2001 episode of the cult TV series “Gilmore Girls,” Rory Gilmore and her mother, Lorelai, visit Harvard and bring back photos — including one of a “Harvard squirrel … sitting on a Harvard rock.” Family matron Emily Gilmore replies, “Good grief.”
“Doesn’t he look smart?” asks Lorelai. “He looks dirty,” says Emily.
Unfortunately, we only found Harvard squirrels sitting on Harvard grass, not Harvard squirrels sitting on Harvard rocks. But at least they weren’t dirty.
As temperatures rise above freezing and the sun sets at a reasonable hour, one Canada Goose is exchanged for another. All along the Charles River, these birds announce their homecoming with honking fanfare. Their reputation precedes them, as any picnicker knows.
Unlike the beloved squirrel, these migratory birds don’t have the best image. In fact, because Canada geese frequent residential and suburban areas and because their fecal matter poses public health concerns, the Massachusetts Division of Fisheries and Wildlife provides residents with a number of tips for warding them off.
In a list of the most effective strategies to deter unwanted geese, they mention using “decoys” that resemble a “full bodied swan or coyote.” It is of utmost importance, they point out, that these decoys are moved “periodically”; otherwise, they warn, “the geese will realize the decoys aren’t real.”
One Boston-area company named Geese Police uses a “proprietary system of harassment” with “trained border collies” to reduce the goose population by at least 90 percent.
Canada geese are severely overpopulated in the Boston area. North America has seen their population explode from about a million in 1970 to over five million in 2012. Along with that growth comes a shift in the ratio of migratory to nonmigratory geese: though the latter group made up only 20 percent of all Canada geese in 1970, they soared to 68 percent in 2012.
Before the 1930s, the geese were characterized by their seasonal migration patterns and rarely nested in Cambridge. But now, Cambridge, like many other American cities, hosts more resident geese as they opt for the warmth of urban environments.
Unless you plan to walk barefoot along the Charles, they do not pose much of a threat. For now, it seems that the Canada geese are here to stay, so we might as well appreciate their beauty.
To first-year students living in the Yard, opening the door in the morning to find a turkey perched on the steps is not an uncommon phenomenon. An intriguing sight for tourists visiting campus, the birds have now become an icon.
Despite their ubiquity, the turkeys have not always had a place on Harvard’s campus.
Intense deforestation and overhunting that began in the 1600s deprived wild turkeys of their habitat and food sources. By the mid-1800s, they were dangerously close to extinction, a status which lasted for about a century before conservation efforts were successful. In the 1970s, 37 wild turkeys brought from New York’s Adirondacks began the revival of the species in Massachusetts, according to the National Audubon Society.
Over the next few decades, they expanded their territory from the Berkshires, where they were first released, to the Cambridge area, reclaiming an ancestral home. While the forest of Massachusetts housed their predecessors, the urban environment took in today’s turkeys.
As with most city-dwellers, they unabashedly disregard basic traffic rules. According to a Thanksgiving-themed New York Times article about turkeys on college campuses, Harvard’s Environmental Public Health Officer Richard Pollack points out that “turkeys regularly held up traffic in the streets around campus and have been known to peck at the hubcaps of cars.”
Harvard’s turkeys have grown accustomed to the steady stream of people into and out of their home — comfortable enough to lay their eggs amidst a heavily trafficked college campus. During a month of brooding that begins around April, wild turkey hens look after about a dozen eggs. As spring advances, a number of poults will take their first steps (hopefully not into oncoming traffic).
After long days of jaywalking, the wild turkeys use their limited flight ability to reach the treetops, where they rest. Late-night strolls around the Yard reveal shadowy figures silhouetted among the branches.
In addition to the turkeys, squirrels, and geese that have made Harvard Yard their happy home, there’s a whole host of other species that one Harvard professor hopes will make a return.
Joyce E. Chaplin, a professor of Early American History, has taught a class called “Rewilding Harvard” for two years now. Its main goal? To return Harvard to precolonial biodiversity levels, one planter at a time.
“Where does Harvard come from? Where does it fit into a longer story of claiming land, often by taking it away from the traditional rightful inhabitants and owners, and developing that land of resources in more intense ways in line with capitalism?” Chaplin asks. “What is lost in those processes? What can be put back?”
Rewilding Harvard’s first planter in front of the Harvard Museum of Natural Science contained multiple native plants, including New England asters and showy goldenrods. This year, students will tackle a site at the Harvard Business School.
Meanwhile, students will continue to sashay out into the Yard to enjoy the springtime climate. As Chaplin reminds us, the Yard is a consciously designed space — parklike, but not a park. Indeed, its current plants and animals must be “able to exist in a curated, non-original environment,” she says.
But that won’t stop us from enjoying the Yard, the squirrels and the turkeys and the Canada geese notwithstanding. MacKay appreciates students “hearing nature” even through the 1 Bus’s incessant call for passengers to Nubian Station and the Red Line’s low rumble.
When the (in)famous lawn chairs come out, MacKay hopes that faculty, students, and visitors will sit in the Yard and take a breather. It’s worth sitting down “even for just a moment,” MacKay says, and “forget that you’re in the middle of the city.”
— Magazine writer Sammy Duggasani can be reached at sammy.duggasani@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @sammyduggasani.
—Magazine writer Kendrick N. Foster can be reached at kendrick.foster@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @kenning_f.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Twenty-five Harvard College juniors learned of their induction into the Alpha Iota Chapter of Phi Beta Kappa, the nation’s oldest academic honor society, through an email from the Office of Undergraduate Education on March 28.
Three times during the academic year, Harvard’s chapter — led by Physics professor Howard M. Georgi ’68 — elects new members. Traditionally, 24 juniors are chosen in the spring, 48 seniors in the fall, and approximately 96 seniors leading up to commencement.
Rather than the usual 24 students, however, this year’s “Junior 24” consists of 25 students. Logan S. McCarty ’96, the Harvard PBK chapter secretary, wrote in an email that “there were a few students who had been left off of [the] original list of eligible candidates due to a clerical error.” In accordance with chapter bylaws, election committees held a second election with remaining students to select the 25th member of the “Junior 24.”
Induction into PBK requires students to “possess a record [of] outstanding scholarly achievement,” according to the chapter website.
In March, Harvard’s chapter notified juniors of their nomination and invited them to apply. Nominees submitted transcripts, letters of recommendation, and personal essays.
McCarty wrote in an email that election committees “look for students who exhibit academic breadth across the liberal arts and sciences, as well as ambition and depth within their concentrations.”
He added that this year’s applicant pool “had a relatively large number of students with joint concentrations, including some unusual combinations.”
Henry A. Cerbone ’23, a special concentrator in Ontology of Autonomous Systems, said Harvard had allowed him to blend five fields of study for his degree: computer science, philosophy, mathematics, robotics, and biology.
“I think that the proper home for this kind of study or academic field, so to speak, is at Harvard, where I think people are wonderfully cross- and interdisciplinary,” he said.
Brammy Rajakumar ’23, a Chemistry and English joint concentrator, said she was “honored” to be inducted.
“I found out — then immediately had to go take a midterm,” Rajakumar said. “I was like, 'oh, I don’t have to take this midterm anymore!'”
Sterling M. Bland ’23, a joint concentrator in Sociology and African and African American Studies, said that he was “excited, but at the same time, a little apprehensive.”
“[PBK is] one of those things that I think it’s a great honor to be a part of, but I also don’t want it to consume my identity or place extra pressure on me to perform [in] some kind of way because now I have a title,” he said.
Bland, a Crimson Editorial editor, added that he hopes to be a “good representative” for his concentration.
“Sociology has this reputation of being a concentration for people who aren’t particularly hardworking in school,” he said. “I’m glad they picked me because I study sociology, and I work really hard in school.”
Nishmi H. Abeyweera ’23, an Economics concentrator, was in a dining hall when she received the congratulatory email.
“It was extremely validating to be recognized in this way,” she said. “I have made a lot of sacrifices for academics and for intellectual pursuits, and my family [has] as well.”
Abeyweera also said that she had the opportunity to meet other members of the “Junior 24” in an induction ceremony held in the Winthrop Junior Common Room on Tuesday.
“To talk with them about things that they were interested in, [to] see how passionate they were about their areas of interest, was very inspiring,” she said.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Janai S. Nelson, the president of the NAACP Legal Defense Fund, discussed the judicial system’s role in fighting racial inequality at a forum hosted Wednesday by the Harvard Institute of Politics and the Institutional Antiracism and Accountability Project.
Khalil G. Muhammad, director of the Institutional Antiracism and Accountability Project and Kennedy School professor moderated the event, which was part of a series called Reckoning With the Past, Rebuilding the Future.
Nelson said she expects Supreme Court nominee Ketanji Brown Jackson ’92 — the first Black woman ever nominated to the bench — to be confirmed later this week.
Three Republican senators — Susan M. Collins (R-Maine), Lisa A. Murkowski (R-Alaska), and Mitt Romney (R-Utah) — have said that they plan to support Jackson’s nomination. If all 50 Senate Democrats vote to confirm her, she will have well over the majority of senators required.
“I would like to think that her influence, based on our review of her record, and her sensibilities and her lived experiences may help the court,” Nelson said.
Nelson spoke about voting rights in the United States, saying that restrictive voting bills passed around the country are working to limit the political power of Black and other minority voters.
“We already have seen in some of the primaries that the voter suppression legislation that’s been passed — that we knew would really make it more difficult for people to vote — is, in fact, making it more difficult,” Nelson said.
She said, though, that the NAACP Legal Defense Fund has had some success beating some laws in court. She pointed to a Florida bill, SB90, that was struck down by a federal judge last month.
She said voting bills passed in many red states — some of which ban volunteers from handing out free food and water — disproportionately affect people of color.
“We know that there are certain communities — such as Black communities — that wind up waiting [in] line at a disproportionately longer rate than others,” she said. “One way to keep people there is to hydrate them and to allow them to have a few free snacks.”
Nelson said the NAACP has sought to address voter suppression on a state-by-state basis due to a lack of action from Congress.
“We have to redouble our efforts because, unfortunately, we don’t have federal legislation that will protect the right to vote,” she said. “Now we are forced into this piece-by-piece, state-by-state whack-a-mole strategy.”
She added that “we have not given up on federal legislation,” calling for Congress to pass the John R. Lewis Voting Rights Act.
In an interview prior to the event, Muhammad said education can be a solution to racial inequality.
“We actually have to re-educate ourselves on why we have such inequality and racial inequality in the first place,” he said. “That includes children, adults, native-born Americans, and new residents of this country.”
Nelson called on young people to get involved in social justice activism.
“We need people who are interested in social justice now as much as ever,” she said in an interview after the event.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
UPDATED: April 7, 2022 at 2:03 p.m.
Applications to Harvard Medical School fell back to near pre-pandemic levels this year after a sharp increase last cycle.
HMS accepted 199 students to its MD program in the 2021-22 application cycle — 2.9 percent of the 6,914 people who applied. Applications to the school's MD program fell by around 14 percent, or 1,088, compared to last year but remained slightly higher than prior to the pandemic.
HMS Admissions Dean Robert J. Mayer said the 2020-2021 cycle represented an anomaly at HMS due to the pandemic.
“Because of the pandemic, people who had planned to do something between college and medical school — gap years, if you will — found that they couldn’t do it, and they opted to apply directly to medical school,” he said.
“I wouldn’t make much of the decline,” Mayer said. “Everything was flat except for last year.”
Overall, the number of applications to all three of Harvard’s health care schools — HMS, the Harvard School of Dental Medicine, and the Harvard School of Public Health — have increased since the start of the pandemic two years ago, according to data provided by the schools.
The Harvard Dental School accepted 35 of the 993 people who applied after it saw a slight drop in the number of applicants compared to last cycle.
Just over 2,900 people applied to the School of Public Health this cycle, sustaining the upward trend of the past two years. HSPH did not provide the number of accepted students.
Overall, applications to HSPH are up by more than 50 percent compared to the 2019-2020 pre-pandemic cycle. This year, the school saw an increase of around 7 percent compared to last cycle.
Kerri L. Noonan, the director of admissions at HSPH, said an optional survey of applicants to the school showed that the pandemic had an outsized impact on career choices for students interested in public health.
“I think it’s just driven more people to look towards public health for a career,” Noonan said of Covid-19.
Due to the pandemic, the School of Public Health did not require applicants to submit the GRE. Noonan said the survey of applicants showed that more than 45 percent of respondents indicated the test-optional policy influenced their decision to apply.
She said the school will decide by June whether it will mandate the standardized test again going forward.
The Harvard Dental School allowed for virtual applicant interviews this cycle — an “applicant-centered approach,” according to Sarah Troy-Petrakos, the school’s director of admissions.
“Interviewees who opted for a face-to-face interview were grateful to have the option to see the campus in person, and applicants who interviewed virtually were appreciative of the time and cost savings resulting from not having to travel to their interview,” Troy-Petrakos wrote in a statement.
She added that the school expects to offer a mix of virtual and in-person interviews moving forward.
Noonan added that the Chan School plans to utilize virtual recruitment in the future after it did so successfully this year.
“I think we’re able to reach so many more people through virtual recruitment,” she said. “I’ll connect with prospective students in Indonesia and then in the afternoon, I’ll connect with students in California. So it’s just been an amazing experience to be able to do this all virtually, and to see the number of people who really are participating in the virtual events.”
—Staff writer Paul E. Alexis can be reached at paul.alexis@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Harvard Undergraduate Teacher Education Program, which provided College students with teaching credentials prior to graduation, was recently ended as part of an effort to direct students interested in teaching to the Graduate School of Education’s new Teaching and Teacher Leadership master’s program.
UTEP is the second undergraduate education program to be ended in recent years after the Harvard Teacher Fellows was rolled over into TTL last October.
The UTEP allowed “Harvard undergraduates to earn certification as a secondary teacher during their time at the College,” according to an archived version of its website.
Students completed the program — consisting of both classwork and fieldwork — across two semesters, often during their junior or senior year. Participants took four academic courses and clocked a minimum of 460 hours in the field over the two semesters.
“When HGSE redesigned its master’s program, one of the key goals was to advance the training and engagement of aspiring educators, while building on the lessons and all of the success of earlier teacher preparation programs, including UTEP,” HGSE spokesperson Bari E. Walsh wrote in an email. “Now, all of HGSE’s teacher preparation efforts are wrapped into the new Teaching and Teacher Leadership master’s program.”
Former UTEP student teacher Karolina M. Dos Santos ’14 said the program was difficult, but also valuable for her career.
“It was very challenging, both academically and being able to meet the expectations of the student teaching, but it was so helpful to me in thinking about a career, in getting out of the Harvard bubble, in thinking about next steps,” she said.
Orin M. Gutlerner, the associate director of UTEP from 2003-2008, also described the challenges created by the program’s intensity.
“A fundamental challenge was that UTEP was, in many ways, seen as an add-on program,” he said. “It was not an actual concentration, it satisfied very few concentration requirements in spite of the incredible demands and rigor of the program, and it was really all we could do to barely meet state licensure requirements and offer UTEP and still be able to attract even five or ten Harvard College students a year.”
Meaghan E. Townsend ’21, a frequent advocate for pathways to education at the College, said she was disappointed by the cancellations of HTF and UTEP during the pandemic.
“It was disheartening, over the course of the pandemic — at a time when the University and so many schools were talking a big game about just how important education was, and what an educational crisis we were in — to now, as you've seen in coming to me, both of those programs are no longer there,” she said.
Obtaining a teaching license, which Townsend described as a “clunky bureaucratic system,” is now available to Harvard College students through HGSE’s TTL master’s program.
Garrett M. Rolph ’22, a peer advisor for the secondary field in educational studies, said the removal of HTF and UTEP have negative effects on the pathways for students interested in the teaching profession.
“Now, it doesn't even make that much sense to come to Harvard if you want to go into education,” he said. “It is harder for you to become a teacher at Harvard than it is at any other state school, at any other school that has some kind of a pathway to licensure, which Harvard has kind of eliminated now at the college level.”
Gutlerner said it is important to encourage prospective teachers at the College, reminiscing on meeting students who aspired to join the profession even from the start of their freshman year.
“I think there’s a non-trivial number of students at Harvard — I imagine the same is true today — who do come to the College already with those kinds of intentions,” he said. “If those intentions are nurtured, and their desire to become great at this profession is nurtured over time, those are people who could literally change lives.”
—Staff writer Paton D. Roberts can be reached at paton.roberts@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter at @paton_dr.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
William F. Lee ’72 and Seth P. Waxman ’73 were college students when Harvard’s admissions process evolved to consider race as a factor, becoming a model that was subsequently copied nationwide.
“It was really in the very early days of Harvard's race-conscious admissions policy,” Waxman said.
Over 50 years later, Harvard’s race-conscious admissions practices are in jeopardy as a lawsuit alleging discrimination against Asian-American applicants heads to the Supreme Court in the fall. The court agreed to hear the case filed against Harvard by anti-affirmative action group Students for Fair Admissions alongside a similar lawsuit against the University of North Carolina.
Waxman will defend Harvard before the Supreme Court as the University’s lead counsel. Lee — who serves as the senior fellow of the Harvard Corporation, the school’s highest governing body — served as lead counsel during the case’s trial phase.
Attorneys Felicia H. Ellsworth and Danielle Conley joined the defense team during the early phases of the trial. Conley has since left the legal team to serve as Associate White House Counsel, replaced by Debo Adegbile. The team of four works with approximately a dozen other lawyers on the case.
Waxman and Lee have maintained deep ties to Harvard since matriculating as freshmen. Both joined the University’s second-highest governing body, the Board of Overseers, with Waxman serving as the board’s president from 2010-2011. Lee later assumed his post of senior fellow of the Corporation.
Lee traces his support of race-conscious admissions to his parents, who immigrated to the United States from China in 1948.
“They came to the country with $25 to their name,” Lee said. “They really believed in America and American education.”
“My dad was right — that education is key to creating equality in any society, but particularly in America — that opening up a Harvard education and other educations to broad demographic groups is critically important,” he added.
Waxman recalled feeling “overwhelmed” upon arriving at Harvard for the first time, noting the “depth and quality of learning” the diverse student body offers.
“When I got to Harvard, this just seemed like an impossibly wonderful gift,” he said.
To prepare for the SFFA v. Harvard case, Lee said he is leaning on his 46 years of experience as an attorney, throughout which he has tried approximately 200 cases. He added that preparing to present a case requires the effort of every member of the legal team.
“Seth gets to argue before the Supreme Court, but it will be the end result of work done by a whole series of people, and it’s collective experience that I think allows us to make a good presentation,” he said.
SFFA first sued Harvard in 2014, arguing that the College's admissions processes violate the Civil Rights Act of 1964, which bans institutions that receive federal funds from discriminating “on the grounds of race, color, or national origin.” Two lower courts ruled in favor of the school before justices agreed to take up the case in January.
Waxman reiterated his commitment to defending the College’s admissions practices, recalling when Robert W. Iuliano ’83, then General Counsel at Harvard, first asked him to represent the school.
“I said, ‘I will gladly represent you however long this takes, and I'm going to win this case or die trying,’” Waxman said.
Waxman also stressed the importance of the Harvard case for the future of affirmative action in higher education.
“I've had many, many consequential cases both in private practice and when I've represented the United States [as Solicitor General],” Waxman said. “But I would say in terms of importance and gravity, this is the first among equals.”
—Staff writer Rahem D. Hamid can be reached at rahem.hamid@thecrimson.com.
—Staff writer Nia L. Orakwue can be reached at nia.orakwue@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
As his first year as Pusey Minister in the Memorial Church nears its close, Matthew Ichihashi Potts — who also serves as the Plummer Professor of Christian Morals at Harvard Divinity School — reflected on his time as minister in an interview with The Crimson last week.
Potts discussed his deep commitment to inclusivity at Memorial Church and the steps he has taken to this end, citing the Love United Black Fellowship, which he recently helped launch.
According to Potts, the program is designed to make a space for “the Black church tradition and the religious experiences and expressions of folks from an African American religious tradition.”
Potts shared how his own multi-faith background — as a Christian minister with Buddhist roots on his mother’s side — has informed his approach to fostering dialogue among students and Memorial Church members with diverse backgrounds.
“Everyone wants to ask questions like, ‘What does goodness look like? What does justice look like? How do we care for each other? What's the right way to care for each other?’” Potts said. “And those kinds of conversations are just so much more fruitful and interesting when within a more capacious kind of space of dialogue.”
Potts also expressed his gratitude for the transition back to in-person services, noting that due to pandemic-related restrictions on gathering sizes and other factors, this semester has come with unique challenges.
“Our community felt really great at the beginning, because we were back in the space and back together,” Potts said. “But also it meant that a lot of routines and habits and things needed to be rebuilt.”
“What we do here is gather people, so when there are rules and restrictions around gathering, it just makes that work more challenging,” he said. “I think also more meaningful when we're able to do it — but just more challenging.”
In his capacity as minister, Potts has helped launch two in-person programs this semester with the goal of welcoming students to Memorial Church and extending opportunities through which they can get to know him personally.
The first initiative, “After School Snack,” invites students to meet Potts and his family over some served refreshments. The more recently launched Wednesday Evening Communion offers students the chance to attend Mass and get milkshakes.
Potts said his enthusiasm for working with students extends back ten years prior to his time as a Ph.D. student at the Divinity School, when he also took on the role as a proctor for a first-year dorm. Reflecting back on that experience, the minister said he was thrilled to return to Harvard Yard to assume his new role at Memorial Church — especially given the opportunity to reconnect with students.
“That kind of relationship isn't something I've had since I was a proctor, and that's really fun,” he said.
For Potts, continuing to make Memorial Church a home for many is his ultimate goal.
“We just have lots of different spaces so folks — whatever their religious identity, whatever they're looking for — they feel like there's a way in, and they feel like they have a home here someplace in one of our programs at the church.”

—Rohan Rajeev can be reached at rohan.rajeev@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
When two Harvard College freshmen — Avi Schiffmann ’25 and Marco Burstein ’25 — launched the UkraineTakeShelter website last month, their goal was to help Ukrainian refugees find safe haven as quickly as possible.
“Every single day that we didn’t have this website up, there were more people that could be not finding housing,” said Schiffmann, a web developer who previously created a popular Covid-19 tracking site. “We just really wanted to help as soon as possible.”
As war rages in Ukraine, Schiffman and Burstein’s website allows refugees fleeing the country to match with potential hosts in Europe for short-term and long-term stays.
The site quickly gained traction and garnered national media attention. Within a week, more than 4,000 people had offered up their homes to refugees through the website. According to a tweet from Schiffmann, the platform had over 1 million active users two weeks after the launch.
But soon after the platform’s debut, concerns over a lack of security measures — such as host and user verification and tracking — circulated online. Some experts criticized the website as a platform that could expose vulnerable refugees to human trafficking.
Bruce Schneier, an adjunct lecturer in public policy at Harvard Kennedy School, said the website’s concept had significant oversights.
“It assumed basically goodwill on the part of everybody, and it’s sad because it’s a project that was done purely out of goodwill,” he said.
Schneier said the website and its shortcomings serve as “a lesson in the limits of tech solutionism.”
“They didn’t really understand the complexity of what they were doing,” Schneier said. “There were things that were subtle and important that they didn’t realize.”
Schiffmann wrote in an email on Wednesday that he and Burstein thoroughly “considered both the social and technical aspects” of developing the website.
In an interview last month, Schiffmann said he was aware of the website’s flaws when it first launched, citing speed as his primary concern during the development process. Since then, he said he has been working to improve the platform’s safety measures and has added an identity verification process for hosts that includes criminal and terrorist background checks, among other modifications.
Nathaniel A. Raymond, a lecturer of global affairs at Yale University who worked as a consultant for the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees agency, said he was primarily concerned that unsupervised minors would use the website.
“This function of connecting people to temporary housing when they are exiting a conflict zone is something that should not be done rapidly, lightly, and in an improvised way,” Raymond said. “It should be done in coordination with the lawful international authorities and the lawful national authorities to ensure that we don't have even one kid go missing.”
“That's why I'm being so hard here — one kid who ends up with a trafficker is too many,” Raymond added.
Burstein said in an interview last month that he and Schiffman originally did not include identity verification for website users to avoid requiring refugees to disclose personal information.
“We have heard from numerous aid organizations and numerous cybersecurity experts that it would be extremely detrimental to require refugees to upload personal information about themselves when they're trying to flee a dangerous situation,” he said.
However, in response to concerns about minors using the platform, the creators later implemented identity verification for the refugees, Schiffmann wrote in the statement on Wednesday.
Raymond also raised concerns about whether the platform is placing an undue burden on Eastern European authorities facilitating their own relief measures.
“How does it integrate with those efforts that are being done by sovereign governments, which are the main point of contact for international aid agencies?” Raymond asked.
Burstein said in the interview last month that he and Schiffmann are constantly incorporating feedback from professional agencies and critics.
“We're always listening to what aid organizations, and what people on the ground are telling us, and that's what's informing our strategy,” Burstein said.
Burstein said the ultimate goal of the platform is to be a tool for aid organizations.
“Our main goal is to get this into the hands of and working with — and we currently are working with — those larger organizations that are doing a lot of the work on the ground,” Burstein said.
—Staff writer Omar Abdel Haq can be reached at omar.abdelhaq@thecrimson.com.
—Staff writer Ashley R. Masci can be reached at ashley.masci@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Department of Defense awarded its Multidisciplinary University Research Initiative prize to a team of researchers led by Harvard School of Engineering and Applied Sciences professor Katia Bertoldi for the team’s work studying origami structures.
Twenty-eight research teams across the country received the 2022 MURI award, splitting a total of $195 million in grants. Bertoldi’s team — which won $6.25 million — includes three other SEAS faculty members: Biologically Inspired Engineering professor Jennifer A. Lewis, Applied Mathematics professor L. “Maha” Mahadevan, and Engineering and Applied Sciences professor Robert J. Wood. University of Pennsylvania professor Eleni Katifori and Georgia Institute of Technology professor David Zeb Rocklin also serve on the team.
Rocklin said the process of forming the team and deciding on a research focus was “very interactive.”
“You start to say, ‘okay, well, we have all these talented people. How can we get together and how can we tell an exciting story about how we can really advance the state of the art?’” Rocklin said.
“For us, with the people we had and what we worked on before it was really clear that multi-stable origami was going to be the underlying theme,” he added.
The team’s work focuses on using origami and kirigami-inspired structures that can shift between several different shapes. Understanding how these structures transition between different states and what functions can be achieved in each form provides useful insight for a large range of projects, from robots to solar panels.
Engineers and physicists have been considering the numerous applications of the Japanese art forms for the past decade, Bertoldi explained. But the funding is a major step for the team’s own efforts to study origami.
“This grant gives us an opportunity to explore its integrity so we can really study mathematical principles [behind Origami],” she said.
Bertoldi noted the potential to use structures inspired by origami and kirigami for packaging.
“So, for example, if you want to protect a given object and then you have a crash, how do you direct the energy along specific paths to protect an object like that?” she said.
“We are looking at these different needs and we are trying to design structures that are optimized for a given function,” Bertoldi added.
The MURI award aims to foster the development of technologies that could aid the Department of Defense, per the award’s website. But Rocklin said this is not the main focus of the team’s research.
“It’s going to be something of potential use to the military, but it’s not focused on a particular application,” he said. “It’s about addressing fundamental science questions.”
Rocklin said he finds the exploration of mathematical and scientific principles to be the most interesting part of the project.
“The fundamental science questions of how can we actually take these structures and create new shapes and program spatial complexity into them in ways that nobody's done before — that's personally what I find to be the most exciting thing,” he said.
Looking to the future of the team, Rocklin explained that the end goals of its research project have yet to be determined.
“We have ideas for things that nobody has done before, and we have things we’ll try and we have backup plans if those don't work, and we have a number of different avenues,” he said. “So I don't know exactly where it will be in five years.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The ceasing of bitterly cold days and snowfall signals the time for rowers at Harvard to take to the Charles River and commence the spring season. This marks the first time Harvard Rowing has competed in spring waters since 2019.
This past weekend brought the chance for Crimson rowers to welcome their Ivy League counterparts to the river and travel along the East Coast for competition against traditional rivals.
RADCLIFFE LIGHTWEIGHT ROWING
The No. 4 Radcliffe lightweight rowing team competed for the Class of 1999 and Class of 2004 Cups at Lake Carnegie, N.J., with traditional rivals Princeton and Georgetown, winning two out of four races in the regatta.
The Black and White started its new season with quadruple wins over the No. 5 Hoyas in all four races: the varsity eight, varsity four, novice four, and pairs, securing the Class of 2004 Cup.
The Radcliffe rowers ultimately succumbed to the No. 1 Tigers for the Class of 1999 Cup. Princeton outpaced Harvard by 5.2 seconds in the varsity eights and by 8.8 seconds in the pairs, which was enough to let the Tigers retain the Cup in their home waters.
The Crimson did manage to push past the top-ranked crew team in both the varsity four and novice four races, posting a mere 4.5-second win in the varsity race.
This weekend, Radcliffe lightweight rowing will compete in a two-day regatta at the Knecht Cup on the Cooper River in New Jersey.
RADCLIFFE HEAVYWEIGHT ROWING
The Radcliffe heavyweights greeted Ivy foe No. 4 Brown on the Charles River, opening their first home competition of the spring. It also marked the team’s first spring appearance since the 2019 NCAA Championships in Indianapolis, Ind. The Harvard varsity eight boat was unable to keep up with that of Brown, as the Bears outpaced the Black and White by 23.4 seconds.
The Crimson sought to redeem its fate in the second varsity eight race, but fell to its Ivy competitor. Both Brown boats passed Harvard’s, with the Crimson’s furious late-race rally eventually falling 3.8 seconds short.
In the varsity fours, the Radcliffe 2V4 boat beat the Bears’ second boat by seven seconds, but fell to the first boat, leading long-running rival Brown to claim victory in Crimson waters.
Next up for the heavyweights is a regatta at Fish Creek in Saratoga Springs, N.Y., where it will face Princeton, Cornell, Bucknell, and Syracuse. The Black and White will face Princeton, Cornell, and Bucknell in the morning session and finish with a clash against the Orange in the afternoon.
MEN’S LIGHTWEIGHT ROWING
Harvard men’s lightweight rowing sent out eleven boats to the National Collegiate Lightweight Invitational in Overpeck Park, N.J. against ten collegiate rowing programs. The regatta featured Ancient Eight rivals Columbia and Penn, as well as Cambridge neighbor MIT.
The competition marked the spring contest for the first time in nearly three years for the Harvard lightweights. It also gave them the chance to compete against teams they had never raced before.
The only win of the day for the Crimson was in the 3V boat, where the team pushed a 5.8 second victory past the Georgetown Hoyas.
The Crimson battled all the way to the line in the men’s 1V varsity eight boat, but ultimately allowed Penn to scurry past Harvard by a little over a half of a second.
Next on the docket for the lightweights will be the Biglin Bowl with Dartmouth and MIT, which the Crimson will host on the Charles River during Easter weekend.
MEN’S HEAVYWEIGHT ROWING
The Harvard heavyweights hosted the Big Red in a dual on the Charles River this past weekend, picking up victory in all four races. The results broke with a historic trend; Cornell is the only Ivy League team with a winning record all time against the Crimson.
In the first race of the day, the first Harvard 4V boat led Cornell by 30 seconds, with the second trailing by 20.3 seconds. The heavyweights secured leads against the Big Red in both the 3v and 2V races as well, by 28.4-second and 11-second margins, respectively.
The closest Cornell came to beating the Crimson was in the 1V boat race, when the Big Red came up short by 4.2 seconds.
The Crimson heavyweights will compete next for the Stein Cup against Brown in Providence, R.I., on Apr. 9.
Correction: April 8, 2022
A previous version of this article incorrectly stated the Harvard men’s lightweight 1V varsity eight boat finished behind Princeton. In fact, the boat finished behind the University of Pennsylvania.
A previous version of this article incorrectly stated the teams the Harvard men’s lightweight crew team was competing against for the first time.
— Staff writer Mairead Baker can be reached at mairead.baker@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @baker_mairead.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard’s sailing team earned strong finishes in each of their three team-races this weekend, taking home fourth place at the interconference Marchiando Team Race, fifth place at the Dellenbaugh Trophy (NEISA Women's Team Race Championship), and 13th place in the BU Trophy Fleet Race.
The Crimson began their weekend with the Dellenbaugh Trophy Team Race, finishing with a 5-4 record in the 10-team race in Providence, R.I. They tied Brown University for fourth place on their home turf and then advanced to the second round, improving to a 5-2 record and moving up to second place behind Boston College.
In the third and final round, the Crimson stumbled to a record of 1-4, leaving them in fifth place at the regatta’s close. A dominant Boston College outfit took home the Dellenbaugh trophy, securing its spot at the Women's Team Race National Championship in San Diego, California on April 23-24. The rest of the field – including Harvard – will wait to see if they qualify for the championship.
Back home on the Charles River Basin, the co-ed team delivered a composed performance amid difficult circumstances at the interconference Marchiando Team Race, picking up ten wins and only five losses in the 16-team round robin hosted by MIT.
“At MIT, conditions were a little bit tricky, the wind was shifting a lot,” said junior Eric Hansen, who competed in the co-ed regatta. Hansen sailed with fellow Junior’s Ariel Wang and Tyler Masuyama in separate boats over the day.
”It was also the first time the three of us raced together,” added Hansen in reference to the trifecta of Hansen and Wang, sophomore Lachlan McGranahan and junior Cassia Lee, and senior Henry Burns and junior Chris Wang.
Hansen gave high praise to the duo of Burns and Wang, whose boat stood out over the course of the regatta.
“Henry has a ton of experience, he’s the only senior on the team at the moment, so we’re really looking to him for leadership,” Hansen said. “Chris is a super athletic guy, coming in as a walk-on, he’s become a huge part of our team and he’s having his best season so far.”
“We feel good, we have a lot of injuries on the team right now…we're still not 100% about who's going to be starting next weekend.”
Harvard will now prepare for the NEISA co-ed championship race, which they host on April 9-10.
—Staff writer Brahm Erdmann can be reached at brahm.erdmann@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The last time that the Harvard baseball team stepped on to O’Donnell Field to play a game of consequence was May 18, 2019 in a 3-1 win against Columbia. That changed this past Saturday, when the Crimson returned to its home stomping grounds for a resounding 17-7 win against Brown. That game kicked off a three-game weekend series against the Bears in which Harvard took the second game of the series 7-1 before falling in the matinee by a score of 7-5.
“We’re headed in the right direction,” said sophomore outfielder Ben Rounds. “That was the first regular season home game for three classes, so it was really good to just get out there and get a couple W’s.”
The Crimson (13-10, 5-1 Ivy League) tallied the series win over Brown (6-14, 2-4 Ivy League) after starting the season on an 18-game road trip that included stints in Florida, California, Texas, and New York. By taking two of three, Harvard won its second series in a row, after sweeping Cornell decisively the previous weekend. In between the Cornell and Brown series, the Crimson dropped a game against Holy Cross 11-5 in Worcester last Tuesday, March 29.
Against the Bears, the team was propelled by strong hitting up and down the line-up but especially from the top of the order, led by first-year second baseman George Cooper, Rounds, sophomore outfielder Chris Snopek, and junior first baseman Logan Bravo. Junior starting pitchers Tim Williamson and Adam Stone picked up the wins in the first two games of the series, while first-year righty Sean Matson took the loss in the final game of the series.
Playing in its first home game in 1,049 days, the Crimson lineup looked right at home from the outset of the first game on Saturday, posting an 11-run inning in the bottom of the first which all but put the game out of reach for the Bears.
Rounds, hitting in the two-spot, acted as the spark plug in that monumental inning with a double to left field that was followed by four consecutive hits by Snopek, Bravo, sophomore shortstop Jake Berger, and sophomore third baseman Will Jacobsen. By the end of the frame, Cooper and Snopek had each driven in two runs with RBI triples and the Crimson had forced Brown’s starting pitcher Bobby Olson out of the game after just two-thirds of an inning.
“A couple guys got us started and we just started feeding off the energy,” Rounds said, reflecting on the masterclass in momentum hitting during the first inning “Everyone was excited to be there and then just kept piling off the momentum that we had.” The outfielder also gave credit to the parents and classmates who populated the stands for motivating the team over the weekend.
The Bears managed to scavenge two runs across Williamson’s five innings, one of which scored on a strikeout and passed ball allowed by junior catcher Zach Brown. The right-hander left the game after the top of the fifth having allowed two runs, one earned, and striking out nine. His strong start represented a bounceback from his last outing against Cornell, in which he allowed five earned runs across four and a third innings.
The Crimson tacked on an additional run in both the second and third innings, after which both teams cooled down and pitched a scoreless fourth and fifth. In the sixth, the Bears managed to score four runs against junior relief pitcher Ian Buckner on the strength of three hits, a pair of walks, a hit-by-pitch, and a throwing error by Berger.
Harvard added three insurance runs in the top of the eighth, with Rounds, Bravo, and Jacobsen all continuing their hot hitting on the day. First-year righty and Massachusetts native Tanner Smith earned the save, his first of the year, with three scoreless innings to end the game for the Crimson.
In the second game of the Saturday doubleheader, the Crimson got off to a slower start offensively, posting just one run on three hits through the first five innings of the game against Brown starter Tobey McDonough. That run came on an RBI single by first-year designated hitter Peter Levin that drove in Berger, who reached base on an infield single and throwing error.
The team’s sluggish start at the plate was excused because starter Adam Stone twirled a gem, allowing just two hits and one run over six innings, striking out six batters in the process. Finally, in the bottom of the sixth inning, Harvard drove McDonough out of the game with a familiar pattern of hitting from the top of the lineup: Rounds singled to start the inning and was driven home by a double to right-center from Bravo, who then scored on an RBI single by Berger.
With the momentum on its side, the Crimson added another run in the seventh and three more runs in the eighth, which were charged to McDonough and Bears’ relief pitcher Paxton Meyers. Having trailed for virtually the entire game, Brown was unable to muster any offense off of sophomore relief pitcher Chris Clark, who earned the save with three innings of two-hit ball.
The final game of the series, which kicked off at mid-morning on Sunday, was a tight contest that ultimately went Brown’s way behind a five-run seventh inning from the Bears. For the third straight contest, Harvard received a strong starting pitching effort, this time from senior right-handed starter Jaren Zinn, who missed his sophomore season in 2019 and therefore saw his first home action since spring 2018.
Zinn managed to keep the Bears lineup mostly quiet through the first six frames, allowing one run to score on a double-steal in the second and another on an RBI double from the Bears’ third baseman, Charles Crawford, in the fourth. On the offensive side, Harvard benefitted early from two defensive miscues by the Bears, scoring on a wild pitch in the second and then a throwing error by the right fielder in the third.
The game began to unravel for the Crimson in the top of the seventh, with Sean Matson on the mound. Two singles and a walk to begin the frame created a bases-loaded, one-out situation for Brown designated hitter Ray Suss, who delivered by singling to left, driving in two. The next two batters, first baseman Ryan Marra and center fielder Deri Morphew, doubled and singled, respectively, giving Brown a 7-2 lead before Matson was able to escape the inning with a clutch strikeout.
The Crimson mounted a valiant comeback attempt in the bottom of the inning, sparked by Rounds, Bravo, and Berger, but the effort was snuffed out when Berger was thrown out attempting to advance to third on a two-out single by Jacobsen. Down 7-5 at the end of the seventh, Harvard wouldn’t score another run for the rest of the game off of Brown relief pitcher Jack Seppings.
Even with the disappointing end to the series, Harvard’s hitters had an impressive three-game showing to build off of their offensively strong road trip. Rounds hit 8-14 over the three games, while Snopek was 6-11, Bravo was 6-13, and Berger was 6-12. Bravo extended his hitting streak to 12 games, while Berger and Rounds extended their streak of games where they reached base safely to 18 and 14, respectively. All have had hot starts to the season and will look to continue their success this weekend at home against Penn (17-8, 4-2 Ivy League), the top team right now in the conference.
“I think that it’s going to be a challenge, but we’re excited to compete against them, to play against that type of competition and just see how we stack up,” Rounds said, looking ahead to the Penn series. The first game of the series will kick off this Saturday, April 9 at 11:30am at O’Donnell.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
We’ve all been there: your morning coffee is wearing off, you’ve finished all your classes but still have a lot more to do and all you really want to do is sleep. So, what are you going to do to get through the rest of the day? Obviously a nap is the move — follow the chart, and we’ll tell you just how to do it.
