News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Warning: Major spoilers ahead for Season Four of "Orange Is the New Black," Season One of "The L Word," and “San Junipero” of "Black Mirror."
Diversity in media is critical for young people. It helps shape how they perceive themselves and others.
Moreover, media representation holds a unique position regarding sexual orientation and gender identity: while most young people have close relationships with other people who have the same racial, ethnic, or religious identity in their families or communities, it is less common for BGLTQ youth to personally know other people in their families or communities who openly have the same sexuality or gender identity. Because of this, characters in television, books, movies, and other media play a huge role in understanding BGLTQ identity and culture.
While I was growing up, the vast majority of BGLTQ characters were white and male. Every character with overlapping marginalized identities, then, carried significant weight. As a Black queer woman, I would like to thank the Black BGLTQ female and femme television characters who I watched growing up and continue to love today. I write this piece as an homage to these fictional characters, as celebration and critique, and as an opportunity for reflection on past television representation to consider what to maintain and what to improve in present and future television representation.
Poussey Washington (portrayed by Samira Wiley) from “Orange is the New Black” (2013-2019) is a compassionate, lighthearted inmate. When I watched the fourth season of the show, I was in the ninth grade and in the process of coming out as queer. I was happy to see a Black woman who was out as gay, loved by her friends, and in a healthy relationship — a relationship like one that I hoped to have someday, even though I had not before seen it between two women of color. My heart crushed when Poussey was murdered by a correctional officer at the end of the season. I grew to identify with this character, only to watch her die at the hands of a reckless white man, a harsh reminder of a sad reality always present in my mind as a Black woman. While I understand that the writers wanted to send a message about Black Lives Matter, I still wish they did not dispose of my beloved Poussey just to make a point. There is power in Black joy, too. Poussey, thank you for being there for me as a 15-year-old on my way out of the closet.
I adore Jennifer Beals’s Bette Porter from “The L Word” (2004-2009) for her ambition, determination, confidence, and assertiveness. She sometimes discussed her intersectional Black and lesbian identity, a rare topic for television of its time. When I first streamed “The L Word,” I was nearing the end of high school and had grown comfortable with being openly queer but struggled to envision a future for myself because I had not seen it for anyone else like me. Bette, a self-assured Black lesbian character with a successful, exciting career and a daughter, was the one to demonstrate that future. In middle school, when I was figuring out my identity, I watched Lena Adams Foster (portrayed by Sherri Saum) of “The Fosters” (2013-2018) raise kids and have a career, but she was somewhat in the background, while Bette was in the center. Bette, thank you for allowing me to construct my own when-I-grow-up dreams.
In “San Junipero” (2016), the fourth episode of Season Three of “Black Mirror,” Kelly (portrayed by Gugu Mbatha-Raw), an outgoing, fun-loving, presumably bisexual young woman, falls in love with Yorkie (portrayed by Mackenzie Davis), a quiet, bookish young woman. Midway through the episode, the audience learns that Kelly and Yorkie are not young; they are elderly women undergoing an experience similar to a kind of virtual reality nostalgia therapy. As a kid in high school, I was touched and inspired to see an elderly Black woman in a romantic relationship with another woman, and I realized how rare it is to find BGLTQ characters older than their thirties. I began to imagine myself growing old while living a pleasant and authentic life. Moreover, the show does not focus on Kelly’s and Yorkie’s races, gender, or sexualities; it focuses on their relationship’s beauty, challenges, and vulnerability, thus rejecting the potential notion that it could be considered unusual. Kelly, thank you for normalizing the possibilities of happiness as an elderly Black queer woman.
As a child, I was obsessed with Uniqua, the pink spotted character portrayed by LaShawn Tináh Jefferies on “The Backyardigans” (2004-2013). Unlike the other characters (a kangaroo, a penguin, a moose, and a hippo), Uniqua is her own species. And compared to Tasha, the other girl character, Uniqua is more of a tomboy. She is arguably a BGLTQ-coded character, and I always sensed that her identity was unique. Uniqua was inspiring to me; I appreciated her inability to fit a mold and her confidence in herself. Also, she was portrayed by Black actors (speaking voice and singing voices). As a child, I was surprised that she and Tyrone, the moose, were both portrayed by Black actors, because I could not recall examples of more than one Black person in a non-familial setting, such as a friend group or classroom. Uniqua showed me that there is no need to limit the amount of space Black people fill. I identified with Uniqua from a young age, even though our shared identities were coded and implied. Hopefully in the future, children’s characters will display intersectional marginalized identities in more explicit ways. Uniqua, thank you for being the first character to whom I truly connected.
Going forward, I want even more representation of Black BGLTQ women. I want to see not only young characters, but also middle-aged and elderly ones; not only characters who exist to send a message about injustice, but also characters who exist to be themselves; and not only BGLTQ-coded children’s characters, but also characters who are canonically BGLTQ. All of the characters I mentioned (except Uniqua) were in mixed-race relationships, but I also want to see relationships between Black women. They were also mostly in mature-rated series — I cannot remember any Black BGLTQ women from teen-oriented series, not even “Degrassi: The Next Generation” (2001-2015) or “Glee” (2009-2015). Additionally, I want to see more transgender, non-binary, and gender nonconforming characters, which were glaringly absent from this piece. Today, the situation has vastly improved from when I was growing up — but there is still more to be done for positive, diverse, nuanced representation. I want to see more Black BGLTQ women’s stories. They were critical to my youth, so I know they will continue to matter for generations to come.
​​This piece is part of The Crimson’s 2022 Pride Month special issue.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
I remember lying on the linoleum floor of my dorm room, pen in hand, thinking of what to write in my Class of 2024 Journal, gifted to us by the administration to help document our first few months on campus, the Fall of 2020.
There was of course the excitement of living alone for the first time, in a new city, with new people. The awkwardness of having to microwave my cold meals in my roommate’s microwave. The courtyard conversations about Black Lives Matter and the Ruth Bader Ginsburg memorial at Harvard Law School. Mourning the death of reason, of kindness, of empathy. The slow, naive realization that power meant what those with power could get away with. And despite my deep sigh of tepid relief on November 7th, 2020, an unbearable self-awareness of my absence of efficacy lingered.
I’ve been feeling this way again recently.
From talk show segments to New York Times columns, the alarm — no, fear — surrounding the rising number of people, particularly young people, who identify as BGLTQ has somehow spread everywhere. I can’t help thinking: “this is not going to end well,” because history is rather unkind to groups of “scared” people who frequently talk about the extinction of a majority group (in this case straight people) they belong to.
There is a troubling history of this country of civil rights battles being won and then quickly undermined and rolled back.
The most notable example of this phenomenon is of course what followed reconstruction. In the aftermath of the Civil War, three reconstruction amendments were passed and the American army maintained a presence in the South to enforce the newfound rights that formerly enslaved people had won. This period was far from enshrining complete equality but it did see the election of this country’s first Black senators and governors, positions that wouldn’t be filled by Black people for nearly a century after.
Despite the progress that came about from this period, or perhaps because of the progress, the anti-slavery Republican party, agreed to withdraw the remaining federal troops out of the South in the Compromise of 1877 in exchange for the victory of Republican Rutherford B. Hayes in the 1876 Presidential election and 100 years of racialized terror in the form of Jim Crow ensued.
The 1960s and 70s employment discrimination based on gender was outlawed, the birth control pill was released, abortion and contraception were legalized, Title IX was passed and women entered universities en masse. These two decades of progress were followed by the Reagan Revolution and the rise of the so-called “moral majority” that celebrated traditional gender roles and decried the advancement of civil rights.
My fear is that the same thing is happening in the civil rights movement for the BGLTQ rights movement. In the 2000s and the 2010s, intercourse between people of the same sex was legalized; Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell was repealed; and marriage equality became the law of the land.
This belief that being queer is somehow a social contagion that must be stopped is not new but feels more dangerous than before because we, not just queer people, as a society are at risk of losing the social freedom that has enabled non-straight and non-cisgender to exist openly and honestly.
This newly materialized wave of homophobia and transphobia is currently being felt by public school students and their teachers. Florida’s “Don’t Say Gay” law is only one of the most notable examples of a law intended to make schools less safe and inclusive for BGLTQ students. A horrifying bill passed by the Ohio House of Representatives would allow for “genital inspections” of student-athletes suspected of being transgender.
The 20s can be the 60s or it can be the 80s. It can be a time when we push to make this country one where queer people are not simply tolerated but valued as a celebrated part of society. This transition to a more humane community will require us to think about gender not as something that restricts behavior but as a lens to experience the world.
Despite this onslaught of institutional bigotry, more people than ever before are identifying as gay, bisexual, and transgender and Harvard is no outlier. According to The Crimson’s annual survey of each year’s entering class, Harvard seems to mirror, and perhaps embody this national coming out as a record 28.9 percent of Harvard’s class of 2025 identify with a sexuality other than heterosexual. Yet, The Crimson’s survey also pours cold water on the notion that the rise in queer identification is the product of young people trying to be trendy or cool. While these students decided to share their sexual orientation anonymously with The Crimson, the majority, 60.5 percent of them, have not yet “come out.” We clearly have more to do to make Harvard a place where everyone has the freedom to find themselves in meaningful ways without fear of discrimination.
The longer I’ve been here, the more I’ve realized that Harvard is a microcosm of the enormous potential but also the incredible failings of our world.
From when I first arrived at a Harvard of quarantining in place and forbidden social interactions to now, my perception of college has not been one of the freedom and flexibility I imagined but of deep communal and self-regulation. The feeling that even sliding an inch on the scale of social acceptability is an unacceptable risk for so many who have come so far is palpable.
On the surface, it might appear as though Harvard has gone as far as it can go in terms of combating discrimination based on gender or sexual orientation. Massachusetts has some of the world’s strictest human rights laws protecting queer people, and Harvard enforces all of them. In terms of institutional policy, I believe Harvard actually represents the top tier of colleges in terms of its treatment of queer students. The problem lies more with the students themselves.
My hope is that this concentration of homophobia and transphobia will inspire a resistance that gains even more salience. Universities have a chance to be the outlier in a culture deciding to become more bigoted and restricted.
From scientific to social progress, institutions of higher learning have long represented change in America. They are where some of the world’s most outgoing, engaged, thoughtful people all get together in one place and talk about ideas. Education is a liberalizing experience because it allows us to think in new ways and imagine the world differently. Yet, unfortunately, many universities — Harvard among them — have a long way to go in their effort to extend this feeling of freedom and liberty to all their students.
Harvard is still a heavily gendered and racialized campus. Sexuality and gender are not the same thing, but they are entirely interrelated — and the systems that oppress women on this campus also oppress and suppress queer men and non-binary people. One’s gender determines which organizations they can and cannot be a member of, and the specter of race looms large on all aspects of social life here. Furthermore, in the same survey, that percentage of BGLTQ students, also found that more than three-quarters of female and non-binary entering students worried about sexual assault on Harvard’s campus.
When we speak of bigotry and oppression we are fundamentally talking about power, who has it, and who does not. Harvard is an institution with unrivaled proximity, and perhaps, celebration of power. Harvard students might make their school a more open and liberalizing experience by critically analyzing how enforced gendered expectations create and systemically deny people power and agency.
It is because of this remarkable concentration of access and opportunity that gives what happens at Harvard outsized weight in the rest of the world. The way students learn to treat their peers at Harvard will have ramifications we can only imagine. But fortunately, we have the power to do something about it.
Gordon J. Ebanks ’24, a Crimson Editorial Comp Director, is a Social Studies concentrator in Kirkland House.
This piece is part of The Crimson’s 2022 Pride Month special issue.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
From the single-family homes and parks of West Roxbury to the seaside attractions of the downtown Waterfront, rainbow flags bespeckle Boston like flowers in the spring. Across the city, residents have been partaking in a mosaic of light-hearted activities — educational exhibits, music performances, drag shows, and dance parties. The one thing you won’t see this Pride month? An official parade.
Within the whirlwind of jubilant festivities exists a complicated story of protest and discord. After years of mounting controversy around excessive commercialization and its lack of racial and transgender inclusion, the Boston Pride organization dissolved last year — bringing an end to one of the oldest gay rights nonprofits in the United States and the parade it had been organizing for the past 50 years.
In 2015, a group of BGLTQ activists of color held a sit-in in the middle of Boston Pride’s parade for 11 minutes to call attention to the 11 transgender people murdered in the country that year. They also demanded that the organization diversify its leadership and include lower-income areas in its parade route. In 2018, protestors staged a similar sit-in criticizing the police presence at Boston Pride events, as well as the organization’s involvement with corporations that funded political candidates with anti-BGLTQ stances.
Boston Pride received backlash in June 2020 after it removed references to Black Lives Matter in a revised press statement following the murders of George Floyd and Breonna Taylor. Over 80 percent of its volunteer workforce quit in protest.
The controversy reached a boiling point in December 2020, when dozens of BGLTQ groups boycotted the organization and called for its board to resign, among other demands.
Val C. Bee — a co-founder of Boston Black Pride, a subcommittee within Boston Pride dedicated to serving the needs of queer people of color — says she felt the Boston Pride board of directors had their heads “stuck in the sand” when it came to the concerns of BGLTQ organizers of different identities.
“A lot of the conversations were really around not feeling heard, seen, respected, valued. We were individuals who were doing so much of the work on the ground yet had to beg for dollars to do so — had to beg from our board members,” she says.
“It became apparent that no matter what Boston Black Pride was doing, Latinx Pride was doing, Trans Resistance folks were doing under the umbrella of Boston Pride, Boston Pride had its own agenda,” she adds. “It had nothing to do with representing the community members that were part of that LGBTQ umbrella.”
Despite hiring diversity consulting firm Dorrington & Saunders and creating a transformation advisory committee to address the backlash over these concerns, Boston Pride and its all-white board of directors disbanded in July 2021, inciting a mix of reactions. They wrote in a statement the decision was made to allow others to “emerge from the community to lead the Pride movement in Boston.”
Casey A. Dooley, another co-founder of Boston Black Pride and its former chair, says that the dissolution was “not in the best interest of the community.” Dooley — who is also a founding board member of Trans Resistance, an organization that had joined the boycott — says that instead, Boston Pride should have transferred the funds and resources of the old organization to a new board.
“The community didn’t want them to just go home and take everything with them,” she says. “It would have been better for the community [to have] a transition of a more diverse, representative board that they could have facilitated, and they chose not to.”
Kelsey Grunstra, the Communications and Fundraising Manager of the Massachusetts Transgender Political Coalition — another organization that had joined the boycott — calls Boston Pride’s decision to dissolve rather than transition its leadership “disappointing.”
“We’re not really sad to see Boston Pride go,” she says. “But at the same time, it does feel like a loss for our community to not have something happen and also to not have that 50-year-old infrastructure — this organization that has been doing this for such a long time — given over to people that deserve to be running that.”
The Boston Pride board of directors did not respond to requests for comment.
Joan Ilacqua, the Executive Director of the History Project, says the look, character, and purpose of Pride has always been contested.
“These kind of tensions have always been there because the queer community is not a monolith,” Ilacqua says. “There are different people within the community working toward different goals and really reacting to what’s happening.”
The History Project is one of the nation’s largest independent BGLTQ archives. Last year, the project announced it would support the boycott of Boston Pride.
Pride dates back to the 1970s, according to Ilacqua. The parades emerged as homages to the 1969 Stonewall Inn riots, in which patrons of the gay bar in New York City fought back against violent police raids and harassment. The riots, also known as the Stonewall Uprising, fueled the gay liberation movement and the 20th century fight for BGLTQ rights in the United States and around the world.
Following a year of teach-ins, Boston held its first Pride parade in 1970, which Ilacqua describes as “totally political.” Around 200 marchers read a list of demands at various places in the city that did not support BGLTQ people, such as the Boston Police headquarters, the Massachusetts State House, and the Cathedral Church of St. Paul.
Since then, the parade has transitioned through a number of organizations and organizers, facing debates over who should be allowed to march — Drag queens? Businesses? Politicians? — how political or celebratory it should be, and what the route should look like. Pride and the political message it carried often changed with pivotal moments in BGLTQ history, such as the 1980s AIDS epidemic and the early 2000s struggle for marriage equality.
Ilacqua says engaging with BGLTQ history can help queer individuals have a “cultural communal experience” and allows them to learn from activists of decades past.
“When you come out, it’s not like someone gives you a book,” Ilacqua says. “No one gives you a guide. No one tells you where to find community. And you kind of need to find your roots in that way.”
Grunstra, the communications and fundraising director of the Massachusetts Transgender Political Coalition, says the history of activism surrounding Pride “was lost in a big way” with “larger Pride organizations like Boston Pride.”
“The first Pride was a riot,” Grunstra says. “It’s acknowledging the activism behind what Pride has become. And I think that’s the kind of thing that we don’t want to lose sight of again.”
For example, Grunstra says Boston Pride never made a meaningful effort to include transgender and nonbinary people.
“For trans folks it became obvious that our community was not the priority,” Gunstra says. “And we were just kind of being included just because of the nature of the event — not actually because anyone wanted us there.”
She adds that Boston Pride’s dissolution was “very indicative” of the unequal power dynamics between the organization’s leadership and queer and transgender people of color.
Kurtlan Massarsky, Director of Development and Marketing for the decades-old, youth-centered social support organization Boston Alliance of Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual and Transgender Youth, echoes the need for BGLTQ organizations to carry the torch of activism.
“I think it’s a requirement that organizations, BAGLY of course included, are being proactive in not just their conversations around but in their actions towards better equity, better diversity, better approaches, and opposing structural oppressions,” Massarsky says.
Hamel, a BGLTQ activist in Boston who only goes by their last name, says they would have preferred if Boston Pride had worked toward inclusion instead of dissolving.
“Rather than throw out the history and the work and the organization that Pride represented, I would have preferred that they chose to hand the reins back to the community and to allow the community to go through a process to determine how Pride should look in the future,” they say.
In the wake of Boston Pride’s dissolution, the city is seeing more alternative public Pride events that aim to be inclusive, responsive to local demands, and true to the activist roots of Pride.
The Boston Dyke March, an event that centers anti-capitalist, intersectional gender liberation, drew hundreds of demonstrators for its 25th annual march on June 10. Unlike Boston Pride, the organization is composed of a flat committee structure of all volunteers. Hamel, a committee member for the March, says the members don’t proceed on decisions unless they have full consensus on them.
“We provide an alternative vision of what an event can look like,” Hamel says. “We don’t accept corporate donations. We raise most of our money through donations, fundraisers, our tabling.”
Hamel says the Dyke March, formed as an alternative to Boston Pride, pushes back on “rainbow capitalism,” the commodification of queer identity and culture during Pride month.
“We firmly believe that the Dyke March in some way represents a piece of what Pride should be,” Hamel says. “We don’t think that Pride should be shilling for rainbow capitalism. We believe Pride should be for and about community.”
In addition to the Dyke March, other Pride events included Boston Pop-Up Pride, the Trans Resistance March, and the Trans Pride celebration hosted by the Transgender Emergency Fund of Massachusetts, a support organization for low-income and unhoused transgender individuals.
Massarsky says the dissolution of the original Boston Pride organization reflects the evolving priorities and values of Boston’s queer community.
“It’s important to take the long view,” he says. “There have actually been a number of iterations of Boston Pride, and the dissolution of Boston Pride was just that really — the end of one era.”
As for the future of Pride in Boston, BGLTQ activists and organizers say that it’s a colorful haze. Nonetheless, they agree that going forward, Pride must prioritize equity and inclusion.
“I have no idea what’s next for Boston as far as Boston Pride,” Massarsky says. “I do think it will be creative. I think it will be engaging. I think at times it will be messy. And I think if the majority of people are approaching these discussions with open hearts and open minds, we’ll see some really great things in the future.”
— Staff writer Ryan H. Doan-Nguyen can be reached at ryan.nguyen@thecrimson.com.
This piece is part of The Crimson’s 2022 Pride Month special issue.
Sections
“Can I ask you a question?” my mother inquired, peering at me across her at-home work station.
“Sure,” I replied, moving closer to her.
“Why do you feel the need to display your sexual orientation like that?” She gestured at my t-shirt — a cheesy redesign of the Best Buy logo with the words “Best Bi” over a bisexual flag. I rolled my eyes. What a stupid question. Why not?
My mother has come a long way since I first came out to her — or, more accurately, was outed to her. In my sophomore year of high school, I’d gotten in trouble for some reason I can’t recall. Whatever it was, it warranted my mother rummaging through my phone. Usually, I would have had the forethought to clear out anything unsavory before she checked it, but that day caught me by surprise.
It also happened to be the day I had asked the girl I liked out on a date — to no success — and the texts I had sent to my friend about the situation were still sitting at the top of my messages.
“Why would you ask out a girl?” Another stupid question. I might have been in the closet, but I was never exactly subtle. Unless you consider taking a girl as my date to the eighth grade dance “subtle.”
Unfortunately, my brashness was no match for my mother’s superpower of denial. So with a simple, “it’s just a phase,” she brushed me off. But I just couldn’t accept that. So every opportunity I got, I tried to bring it back up. It took two whole years of my not-so-passive aggression for her to finally address the situation again. I’m talking about putting on the episode of “What Would You Do?” where a kid comes out to his friends as bisexual just to show her all the bystanders defending him. I just wanted her to say something, anything — to acknowledge that she heard me and knew.
Finally, in my senior year of high school, she did. She sat me down and we finally told my dad. He took it surprisingly well for a man who once told me that the worst thing Obama ever did was legalize gay marriage — he said the “lifestyle” wasn’t for him, but he didn’t care what others chose for themselves. For the record, he still flinches when two gay people kiss on TV. So he’s not perfect, but he’s a work in progress.
As for my mom, she agreed to support me, even if she couldn’t understand me.
Though coming out to my mom was definitely my hardest experience, it was by no means my only. I first learned bisexuality was even an option in seventh grade. Before that point, I’d firmly believed that if I liked men, then that was all; any feelings I had for women could be chalked up to admiration. I vividly remember a conversation I had with a friend about how we were definitely straight, but that didn’t prevent us from acknowledging when a girl was pretty. We’re both bi now.
Even if I had known it deep down, it was going to take more than that to erase years of Sunday school lessons. If I had known, I would have hated myself.
That was the year I met the first openly bisexual girl I had ever encountered. We lived in the same neighborhood in our small, Bible-belt town, rode the same bus home, and eventually ended up in the same friend group – sitting at the back and chatting the entire way home each day. One day, she looked me in my eyes and asked me point-blank what my sexuality was. She was the first person to ever not assume I was straight, and I could no longer say with certainty that I was. So maybe I knew, or maybe I was just trying to impress her. But I said I was bisexual, coming out for the first time.
Luckily for me, the label fit. Knowing that I was allowed to be something other than straight allowed me to view all my “friend crushes” in a new light and figure out with certainty that I wasn’t. Sure, sometimes I’ve had the occasional crisis of “Am I actually straight but just don’t want to accept it because the types of boys I see in my immediate vicinity make me lose faith in all of them?” Sometimes I like to follow this crisis up with an “Am I a lesbian?” or an “Am I actually pansexual?” But I keep coming back to the same label each time, so I’m pretty sure of it now — mostly.
In the six or seven years since I started identifying as bisexual, I’ve come out more times than I can count. I grew up receiving reactions ranging from jaws dropping to desks scooting away. Almost as bad as the outright homophobes were the people who told me that I was okay because I wasn’t “flagrantly” gay. Even though I’d been figuring myself out for years, gaining confidence in who I was with each step, I found myself modifying how much I showed it outwardly depending on the people around me. What helped me through were the rare occasions, such as when I met my best friend, when I encountered an excited smile and the support of a “so am I!”
Since coming to college, I’ve sat at tables and reached points in a conversation where an explanatory “I’m bi, by the way” was necessary, and I’ve learned not to tense up and leave a pause — like I’m carrying an anvil ready to crush an unsuspecting accomplice with five little words. I’ve gone on a date with a guy where I had to do the same. Hardly anyone reacts at all. To the people around me now, it’s just another characteristic that makes up who I am, like my nose makes up part of my face. Being bi isn’t something that I have to do quietly.
I’m not timid anymore because I’ve seen the potential. I’ve seen people be loud and unapologetic about who they are like I never saw in my hometown. I don’t want to wind up my rainbow keychain as I walk down the street to avoid looks. I don’t want to fold the huge bi flag I bought into a drawer. I just want to proudly flaunt pride shirts with all the awful puns I can dream of on them.
It feels like my confidence just came out of the closet — trailing seven years behind my sexuality. Being bi isn’t only something I am, it’s something I love being. Just a couple months ago, my grandmother remarked to me over the phone about my cousin’s wedding, “You know he’s not marrying a woman, right?” I retorted, “You know I’m bi, right?” The woman started praying. Yet, instead of crying like I did all those years ago when my mom reacted badly, I started laughing.
I do care what my grandmother thinks — just not about my sexuality. What I cared about at that moment was showing her that her reaction wouldn’t faze me. My sexuality wasn’t going to be dependent on someone else’s acceptance. She must have sensed that too because, despite a remark about how “It’s everyone nowadays,” she eventually calmed down.
And while I’m grateful she accepted me, I didn’t need it.
— Magazine writer Jem K. Williams can be reached at jem.williams@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @jemkwilliams.
This piece is part of The Crimson’s 2022 Pride Month special issue.
Sections
At the beginning of this blessed Pride Month, the Uber-owned food delivery app Postmates announced its 2022 Pride campaign, “The Bottom-Friendly Menu.” The company, which is one the defendants in an ongoing collusion case and which, in 2019, removed a minimum-wage guarantee for its drivers, teamed up with someone named Dr. Evan Goldstein from some place called Bespoke Surgical to “bring you a menu of bottom-friendly foods, backed by science.” (In case I’m talking to a bunch of breeders, “bottom” refers to the receptive partner in anal sex — a position which is, yes, prone to pooey messes.) According to Postmates and Goldstein, what you eat in the 24 hours before bottoming can help prevent such messes. The trick, they claim, is to avoid dairy and insoluble fibers, which don’t dissolve in water and “could cause a traffic jam in your system, making a mess of your evening.” Insoluble fibers include whole grains, wheat bran, cauliflower, potatoes, legumes, and more. They recommend sticking to soluble fibers: white rice, citrus, peas, nuts, and fish, “which makes sushi a great bottom-friendly option,” they helpfully share. This is an insanely restrictive diet, so much so that people in Los Angeles and New York, inexplicably the only two places the Bottom Friendly Menu is offered, have taken to Twitter, posting screenshots of the menu. The only thing listed on it is coffee.
“The Bottom-Friendly Menu” was announced in a stop-motion video posted to Postmates’s Instagram and Twitter accounts. The video is entitled “Eat With Pride.” In it, a voiceover asks, “What are you eating this Pride?” as peaches wearing jockstraps and an eggplant wearing a leather harness hang out at the beach under a sun made from an orange round. “Well, if you’re a top, it seems like you can eat whatever you want,” the video says as the leather-fetishist eggplant feasts on a taco. “But, if you’re a bottom, you’re expected to starve?” The peaches, one with a strangely placed piercing on his butt which is also his face, gather around a bowl of melting ice cubes, the gay man’s ancestral cuisine, which bottoms, I guess, eat for breakfast, lunch, and dinner.
Then, the good word of The Bottom-Friendly Menu comes to save the day. While the voiceover discusses insoluble fibers, one of the jockstrap-clad peaches buries its snout in a can of beans. “Hold up, are you fully just diving into those beans?” the voiceover reprimands the hungry little homo. The peach, its jockstrap now soiled with bean juice, looks up at the voiceover, who I guess is God, and scurries away, ashamed.
The video makes it clear that the corollary of the slogan “Eat With Pride!” is “Eat with Shame!” Eating with shame, here, means being a poo-filled fatty. (This blithe, brutal, bitchy attitude won’t be surprising to you if you’ve ever met a gay man.) The campaign happily weds two of the more toxic, entrenched aspects of gay culture: disordered eating and the power dynamics that have long shamed bottoms (who occupy the feminine, receptive role) and worshipped tops (the masculine, penetrative role). Postmates’s Pride Month campaign is, to be absolutely clear about it, completely fucked in the head — and the fact that it came to fruition in the first place makes me wonder if we are too.
There are plenty of critiques of Pride circulating online and in the editorial world. The fact that corporations, which are by and large run by straight people, use Pride Month as a marketing tactic is, obviously, ripe for criticism. And yet, despite the ubiquity of Pride-marketing criticism, people (at least those working in the online gay editorial world) have been pretty oblivious to how obviously deranged the Postmates advertisement is. In fact, they’ve been laudatory about the campaign. Almost every article I’ve read has lavished praise on Postmates for allowing a team of BGLTQ employees in their office to conceptualize the project, according to the company. (The campaign, to be fair, does stand out in comparison to the insanely sanitized, desexualized “gay-people-are-just-like-everyone-else” campaigns that have dominated Pride marketing for the past few years and which, presumably, have been imagined up by straight people.)
In an online article about The Bottom Friendly Menu for Out Magazine, the writer Bernardo Sim calls the ad campaign “a fun initiative.” (As a rule, I don’t trust anyone who writes online articles.) Queerty, a magazine whose slogan is “free of an agenda (except the gay one),” praised Postmates for its “ingenuity” and ability “to stand out” “among Rainbow-emblazoned Pride Month campaign.” Sim summarized the simple stance of the gay editorial world in the opening of his article: “Postmates said ‘bottom rights!’” The right to what, exactly?
The only real heat the campaign has received is that it’s not their original idea. According to TikToker Alex Hall, who founded the company The Bottom’s Digest, which creates bottom-friendly recipes, Postmates ripped off the idea behind his company. “Queer people are always out here doing the work,” Hall said in an Instagram story “and these corporations just swoop in…and then take all the credit.” The internet sided with Hall. Input Magazine released an article entitled “Postmates’ bottoming menu might be cool if it didn’t rip off a queer content creator,” as if the only bad thing about the whole premise of restricting your food intake for the sake of bottoming were that it’s unoriginal.
The praise Postmates received for allowing its BGLTQ employees to take the lead and the criticism it received for being a copycat are based on the same belief: The single most important thing about an idea is not what it is but who it came from. Something is good for the gay community on the one condition that it is by the gay community. This belief is also at the heart of the usual maelstrom of criticism against Pride marketing, which is bad not because marketing is an amoral force driven only by money, but because the marketing and the people behind it are not quite gay enough.
It is precisely this that has allowed “The Bottom Friendly Menu” to go largely uncriticized. Whether through stealing the idea or empowering its queer employees to come up with it, Postmates has pioneered a Pride campaign that is, in one way or another, coming from gay people. The commercial thematizes this, insinuating an insider status within the queer community. The use of vernacular that is used between gay people like “top and bottom;” iconography like leather harnesses and jockstraps, which are usually seen only within the closed walls of the gay club; the quick glimpse of the pink triangle, first used in Nazi concentration camps to distinguish gay men and later reclaimed by AIDS activists; the fact that the video is narrated by the famous and “funny” Instagay Rob Anderson, a handsome, hirsute man whose humor, as far as I can tell, mainly consists of him dancing around shirtless — all of this ushers the viewer to the reassuring conclusion that Postmates is working from within the gay community.
And, in a way, it is. It’s been well-documented that body fascism, derision for bodies that are not perfectly fit and fat-free, is high in the gay male community and that, as a result, many gay men go to extreme lengths to attain an unattainable standard: excessive working out, orthorexia, steroids, starvation. The Postmates campaign not only capitalizes on this communal insecurity but idealizes it, depicting it in some cutesy paradise where pesky, human queers have been replaced by animated fruits and vegetables.
What’s most remarkable and disturbing and perhaps trendsetting about the Postmates advertisement is that it takes as a natural fact the idea that there’s a line in the sand between tops and bottoms. Top and bottom, here, don’t refer to sexual positions, but entire personhoods. Tops eat this and bottoms eat that; tops do this and bottoms do that; tops are this and bottoms are that.
You aren’t a bottom because you inhabit a sexual position in the bedroom; instead, you are a bottom because, baby, you were born this way.
Beyond being a bald-faced social construct, the identities of “top” and “bottom” are a flaccid approximation of the misogynistic roles that have forever subjugated the woman to the man in a relationship. Like women, bottoms should be subservient and dutiful and disciplined, eating in just the right way so that they can have sex with tops, who, like all men, are something to structure your entire life around, even your diet. The Postmates “Bottom-Friendly Menu” has taken the supposed identity of “bottom” one step further. By inventing a product specifically for bottoms, Postmates has turned “bottom” not into an identity category, but into a consumer category — and what could be more legitimizing than that?
What I mean to say is that, even if Postmates has capitalized on these problems this blessed Pride Month, these problems existed long before. The funny thing is that Postmates was just responding to its critics: It created a Pride campaign that, because it was led by gay employees, speaks to gay people on our own terms. What it got wrong is thinking that we like those terms, that we absentmindedly embrace them rather than critically contend with them — that gay people unconditionally love the reflection of ourselves, rather than obsessively scrutinize it. If you were to show me a reflection of my own butthole, however clean, I’d probably just want to look away.
— Former Associate Magazine Editor Paul G. Sullivan can be reached at paul.sullivan@thecrimson.com.
This piece is part of The Crimson’s 2022 Pride Month special issue.
Sections
After her first year at Harvard Law School, Deborah A. Batts ’69 considered leaving. It wasn’t because she found the coursework too demanding, or because she was intimidated by the Socratic method of teaching.
Rather, she’d come to the Law School in 1969, following the start of the Vietnam War and the assassinations of Martin Luther King Jr. and Robert F. Kennedy ’48, with the hope of using law to fight for social justice. She found the curriculum too theoretical and instead wished she could learn about the law’s practical applications. The classes themselves she found unengaging — at least compared to her undergraduate courses at Radcliffe College, Harvard’s college for women at the time. Batts began to wonder why she was even attending law school.
But her friends saw things differently. Even if HLS wasn’t exactly what Batts had hoped for, she could still use the law as a force for good in the future. So she stayed.
Her decision paid off.
In 1994, Batts became a federal judge of the Southern District of New York. Before becoming a judge, she was the first Black professor at Fordham School of Law, where she taught property law and the law’s effects on non-traditional families.
During her time on the bench, Batts’s decisions were wide-ranging and influential. In the decade-long Central Park Five civil case, in which five Black and Latino men who were wrongfully convicted of assault and rape sued the City of New York for malicious prosecution, racial discrimination, and emotional distress, Batts denied the City’s motion to dismiss the lawsuit; the City eventually settled for $41 million. Batts also held the Environmental Protection Agency accountable for failing to clean up toxic dust in the city’s air following the terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001. Later in her career, she helped people leaving incarceration to start new lives and stay out of prison through the district’s Reentry through Intensive Supervision and Employment Court program.
Batts — who unexpectedly died in February 2020 at age 72 due to complications from knee surgery — had an extraordinary legal career by any standard. But she also accomplished an important national first. With her confirmation to the federal bench in 1994, she became the first openly gay federal judge in the United States.
***
Before knowing Batts as a federal judge, or even the first openly gay federal judge, I knew her as my neighbor. We lived in the same New York City building, she in the apartment directly below mine. I’d occasionally run into Batts and her wife Gwen L. Zornberg in the elevator. Batts would give me a quiet hello and a smile before ducking out at her floor. I was always in awe of Batts’s judgeship. When I was little, my parents joked that if I made too much noise stomping on our floor, I could get into serious legal trouble with the judge downstairs. There was a small, irrational part of me that believed it.
But for all my admiration, I never knew Batts was the first openly gay federal judge until after her passing. How could I have lived right above her for 11 years without even knowing?
When I go to interview Zornberg, Batts’s wife, I don’t set up a Zoom call or meet her in an office at work. I simply walk a flight downstairs and knock. Zornberg opens the door and welcomes me.
In the apartment, I can feel Batts’s presence. There is a wooden cabinet with a glass door, behind which sits a delicately stitched needlepoint, proclaiming “BE MERRY AND GAY.” Sitting next to it is a porcelain plate with a baby photo of Batts and her identical twin sister Diane on front. On the windowsill is a collection of Batts’s glass awards, one with a quote from her engraved on the front.
Zornberg tells me about a note she received from Batts’s Radcliffe classmate after Batts’s passing. “Debbie had this beaming smile, which was much needed at Radcliffe,” the note read.
The note reminds me of something I’d read in a Crimson article written 54 years ago, when Batts served as the first president of the Radcliffe Student Union.
“A story is going around about the president of RUS,” the article begins. “She visited the dentist’s, where he told her, ‘My God, girl, you’ve got to stop smiling so much — your teeth are beginning to buckle!’” The article then claims that at one point, “the RUS didn’t have much it could depend on besides the diplomatic smiles of Deborah A. Batts ’69, its new president.”
The RUS was created to give students a greater say in decisions that affected their lives at the school. “We didn’t really feel as though we had an anchor, or a place, or a voice,” says Helen B. Cohen ’69, Batts’s friend. “It was as though we’d been stuck on to Harvard.” Through the RUS, Batts explained in a 2007 oral history interview with the Black history organization The HistoryMakers, “We wanted to be heard.”
As a leader, Batts was never “daunted by this general misogyny, exclusion, elitism of the University, which was the prevalent culture,” says Ann V. Bastian ’70, who served on the RUS with Batts. As president, Batts attempted to negotiate with administrators to allow student representatives to sit on the College Council, Radcliffe’s highest governing body.
Bastian remembers Batts as an always positive, “warm, funny, public person.”
“I remember thinking, this place pisses me off,” Bastian recalls with a laugh. “Why isn’t [Debbie] more pissed off?”
***
During President George H.W. Bush’s administration, Batts received a call from Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan (D-N.Y.), her former law professor. He asked if she’d ever considered being a federal judge. “She thought it was a prank by other faculty members at Fordham,” Zornberg says.
But an application showed up in the mail the next day, and with Moynihan’s encouragement, she filled it out. She presented herself with complete honesty. Her decision to be open about her sexuality, Zornberg says, was “so Deborah A. Batts, because Debbie was all about the truth.”
After many rounds of interviews, the first Bush administration said that Batts’s “view of what a federal judge should be was not their view of what a federal judge should be,” Batts explained in a 2000 episode of the BGLTQ TV show “In The Life.” But a few years later, President Bill Clinton nominated Batts to the federal bench.
Batts’s confirmation sailed through the Senate with a voice vote. She was confirmed during Gay Pride Week. “It was such a huge deal,” Zornberg says.
Although Batts recognized the importance of the milestone, she explained she “did not want to be known as the gay judge” in a 1994 American Bar Association Journal article. “I’m a mother,” she said. “I’m an African American. I’m a lesbian. I’m a former professor. If people assume any one of these aspects is going to predominate, it would create a problem.”
Perhaps, I realized, this was why I’d never known about Batts’s pioneer status. And, in a way, it seemed that that was what she may have wanted.
“It was like hiring Jackie Robinson, putting him on the field and no one saying anything about it,” said appellate court judge Stephen R. Reinhardt in the 1994 article.
In some circles, though, Batts’s milestone created a splash. “Harvard Law students were writing about this like the equivalent of Sappho — no one could believe that this could happen,” Zornberg says, laughing.
California State Senator Scott D. Wiener, who was the chair of HLS’s BGLTQ students association when Batts was confirmed, says her confirmation was “a very loud message to young people, to law students, to young attorneys.”
“There’s a future,” he says. “The sky’s the limit.”
The Law School’s BGLTQ association commissioned a portrait of Batts, painted by Simmie Knox and unveiled in 2001. Knox’s other works include portraits of Thurgood Marshall and Ruth Bader Ginsburg. Batts’s portrait now hangs in the Law School in Pound Hall. It was the Law School’s first portrait of an openly gay person, sixth of a woman, and seventh of a Black person.
“I am so touched and amazed that anyone would do this,” said Batts when the portrait was unveiled. “In fact, I am as embarrassed as I am pleased.”
Before I leave, Zornberg shows me another portrait of Batts hanging in her living room. In the drawing, a cartoon Batts presides over the courtroom, while Looney Tunes characters bounce around the room. Batts loved Wile E. Coyote, Zornberg explains. “Wile Ethelbert Coyote never got tired — he was always inventing something new,” Zornberg says. “She liked that model of just persevering no matter what.”
— Magazine writer Sage S. Lattman can be reached at sage.lattman@thecrimson.com.
This piece is part of The Crimson’s 2022 Pride Month special issue.
Sections
It is past noon, and the sun rays shine through the sixth floor windows of the Lowry Medical Office building in Longwood, where Jamie — whose name has been replaced to protect their identity — is sitting in a sparse exam room. Across from them is Harvard Medical School associate professor Michael S. Irwig, an endocrinologist at Medical School teaching hospital Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center where he serves as the Director of Transgender Medicine. Jamie is anxious to explain the changes they’ve experienced in the months since their last visit — they’d been having online conversations with other transgender people and experimenting with a more masculine wardrobe, which helped reaffirm their identity as a non-binary person.
Irwig prods deeper: “Going to the support group — has this helped clarify anything for you?”
Jamie traces the history of these feelings.
“Your first period, what was that like?” Irwig asks. “What about breast development?” “What features do you want from the testosterone?”
Like Jamie, most of Irwig’s patients come in for the management of their gender dysphoria. Irwig reviews their bloodwork and medications, conducts a physical exam, and asks questions about their identities to see if starting or changing their dose of testosterone or estrogen would be appropriate.
In all respects, Irwig seems like a pretty ordinary physician. He wears loose khakis and a button-down shirt and tie. His white coat hangs on a hook by his door; there is nothing in the pockets except for a plastic model of a thyroid. His gaze shifts between the patient and his computer as he keys notes into the electronic record matter-of-factly.
Irwig is also one of the leading experts on transgender healthcare and hormone replacement therapy as an experienced clinician and researcher. At BIDMC, he leads a team across multiple specialties — dermatology, gynecology, plastic surgery, primary care, speech and voice therapy, and urology — dedicated to helping transgender and gender non-conforming patients access care before, during, and after their medical transitions.
Gender-affirming care combines a range of social, psychological, and medical specialties to help a patient live in a way that aligns with their gender identity. For now, it is a small world: most of the male transgender patients who came in to see Irwig that day had their “top” surgery performed by the same surgeon in Boston. Throughout his career, Irwig has pushed for hospital-wide and nationwide initiatives to educate more clinicians on gender-affirming care.
Before Irwig joined BIDMC in 2020, the hospital did not have a group dedicated to gender-affirming care, so he had to start “from scratch,” he says.
“There wasn’t a program, but there were these individuals doing this work,” Irwig explains. He pulled them together to form a collaborative team and opened the BIDMC’s Gender-Affirming Services in February 2020, a framework that allowed him to recruit other practitioners. “Once we had this program, that then took us to new heights.”
The BIDMC Gender-Affirming Services department is just one of many gender-affirming healthcare programs that have opened at Harvard’s affiliate hospitals within the past few years. The Transgender Health Program at Massachusetts General Hospital launched in July 2018, while the Gender Multispecialty Service at Boston Children’s Hospital has existed since 2007. They each combine a range of medical specialties and social services to serve gender-diverse individuals while advocating for increased clinical education and research in transgender medicine.
For Robert H. Goldstein, medical director of the MGH Transgender Health Program and a Medical School faculty member, gender-affirming care requires more than just clinical acumen; it represents systemic respect for transgender people.
“What we provide, and what I’m asked to do as the director, is much bigger than just a stand-alone clinic,” he says. “The program really does take the responsibility to make sure that the entire experience for a patient — from the moment they show up at the front door of the hospital to the moment they drive away or get on the subway to leave — is gender-affirming.”
To put these ideas into practice, MGH changed its signage on single-stall bathrooms into gender-neutral restrooms, he says. Many practitioners there started pinning rainbow and trans pride flags to their ID badge to signal awareness and understanding, according to Goldstein.
“We did a lot of things that may seem small when I describe them, but have an outsized impact on the community and their ability to walk in the door,” Goldstein says.
In the fall of 2020, BIDMC changed its electronic health record to include a space for a patient’s pronouns and preferred name. If there’s a mismatch between the sex the patient was assigned at birth and their gender identity, a rainbow flag pops up in the corner of the screen to remind the practitioner.
This kind of institutional support for such initiatives is new, Irwig says. He recalls that during his fellowship at the University of Washington in the early 2000s, the endocrine clinic he worked at had a no-entry rule for transgender patients seeking to medically transition. Only after moving to Baltimore in 2005 could he start seeing transgender individuals, and by the time he was asked to join BIDMC, he had treated around 200 such patients and had garnered a reputation.
“I was lucky in the sense that there weren’t a lot of endocrinologists doing this, so I got to fill a niche,” Irwig says.
There’s still a lack of for gender-affirming care in the clinical canon; Irwig says he hears this from the medical students, residents, and fellows who rotate through his clinic. “They all tell me that they want more of this, and they need more of this, that they don’t feel like they’re getting adequate training,” he says. “I know that they’re yearning for it.”
For now, care of transgender and gender-diverse people is confined to a small circle of physicians in these programs and clinics.
“It is somewhat of a specialty to be able to have these conversations with individuals, to understand how to prescribe hormones and how to adjust hormones, to talk to people about transition, whether it be social, medical, or surgical,” Goldstein says.
Even in Massachusetts, where politics doesn’t impede transgender medical care as much as in other states, “at this point in time, to become trained in this work, you have to seek it out,” says Ariel S. Frey-Vogel ’99, a pediatric primary care doctor at the MGH Transgender Health Program.
Frey-Vogel decided to join the program after hearing a presentation given by a transgender activist at the hospital about the 2018 state referendum on gender-neutral bathrooms in public accommodations. “She talked to us about why we need to advocate for that bill, but also, really, the lack of comprehensive health care for trans folks at Mass General,” Frey-Vogel recalls.
Joining the program without structural guidance meant self-studying and shadowing colleagues like Goldstein.
“I went to conferences, I did a lot of reading, and really immersed myself in the medicine so that I could understand what the guidelines were, what the standards of care were,” she says. “I really felt like this was a patient population that needed to feel affirmed and supported in our environment — and that with my background in primary care and forming relationships and developing trust with patients, I felt like I could play a role.”
Frey-Vogel believes the cultural shift in medicine begins with physicians like herself. “My goal for care for gender-diverse people, eventually, is for everyone to be competent in this and for centers to not need to exist. I truly believe that this work can be done by primary care doctors if they are given the time and support,” she says.
There’s a large gap between that goal and the current reality, according to Irwig’s research. At a 2015 regional endocrinology conference, Irwig administered an anonymous survey to 80 attendees. Only 20 percent of physicians reported they were “very” comfortable discussing gender identity and sexual orientation with their patients. Only 41 percent said they felt “very” or “somewhat” competent to provide transgender care.
“If [patients] sense that you're dancing around a question and that you’re not comfortable saying the word ‘transgender’ or asking them about their sexual orientation, they may not then reveal stuff, they may not want to be open,” Irwig says. “In society, certain things are viewed as private, like your religion and your politics and your sexual orientation, ... whereas for the doctor-patient relationship, you really do need to know them when you’re providing care to gender-diverse people.”
The demand for gender-affirming care in the United States is growing. There are over 1.6 million transgender people in the U.S. in the most recent analysis by UCLA, up from 1.4 million in 2017. As Goldstein puts it, “It is more than the number of natural redheads in this country. So if you’re a provider, and you’ve seen someone with red hair, you’ve probably also seen someone who’s transgender.”
Irwig hopes that more physicians will provide gender-affirming services so that his patients don’t have to drive far “to seek out the expert endocrinologist at an academic medical center,” he says. Instead, they can consult their primary care doctor where they live.
Grassroots movements in Boston have been working toward the same goal for decades. There was a time when one of the only places that Boston’s BGLTQ patients could turn to was a small, community-based clinic off Massachusetts Ave. Established in 1971, Fenway Health became known for diagnosing the first HIV/AIDS patient in New England and for its seminal research and advocacy in HIV/AIDS. In 1995, two providers at the clinic began managing a few transgender patients — 11 in 1997, when they started keeping records. By now, Fenway Health has seen over 5,000.
Steph R. deNormand works at Fenway Health as the manager of the Trans Health Program, which helps patients navigate and access gender-affirming services and implements initiatives to improve quality of care.
“We now take an organizational approach to being an affirming space,” they say. This includes staff-wide training and continued physician education on transgender health issues. Fenway has helped to establish transgender health programs in Boston and internationally.
Together, Fenway and Harvard’s affiliate research hospitals have positioned Boston to be a leader in transgender health.
This work runs contradictory to a national conservative movement to limit gender-affirming care, especially for transgender youth. In February, Texas Governor Greg Abbott restricted access to gender-affirming medical care for minors — including puberty-blocking hormones — and classified such care as child abuse, calling on the state’s Department of Family and Protective Services to investigate reports of physicians and parents seeking out gender-affirming care for children. Missouri proposed a similar law, and it is one of 15 states where gender-affirming care for youth is at risk. A report from UCLA predicts that these measures will jeopordize the care of more than 58,000 transgender and gender-noncomfoming youth in America.
Goldstein sees a responsibility for research in Boston to be artillery in the political battle to preserve transgender care in states where it’s under attack.
“​​We have to do the research to show that outcomes are better — we save lives when we provide gender-affirming care,” he says. “We need to actually prove it with data so that we have a way to push back on these laws and these regulations that are really driven by stigma and discrimination.”
Long-term effects of hormone replacement therapy are one pertinent research area, as it has dominated the political battle around gender-affirming care. But Goldstein points to other questions that are still unresolved: “How frequently should you come into the primary care office as you’re transitioning medically? At what age should you be having surgery to make sure that that surgery has the lowest risk of complications? What should we be doing for folks in terms of cancer screenings? And how do we intervene on some of the mental health concerns that are present in the community?”
Now that BIDMC’s electronic record includes patients gender identity and sex assigned at birth, researchers can differentiate between cisgender and transgender patients to create two groups that can be compared to each other and studied for health trends over time. Irwig says that there’s been a worldwide push to bring more evidence-based practice into the field.
The shift is apparent in the new “Standards of Care” guidelines for transgender medicine that the World Professional Association for Transgender Health is set to release this summer, the eighth version since the organization was founded in 1979. Irwig, who contributed to the rewrite of the hormone and eunuch (self-castration) chapters, says another big change is an emphasis on informed consent for all procedures and therapies. Rather than gatekeeping procedures and therapies by requiring supplementary letters or psychotherapy, the revised guidelines advocate for patients to weigh the risks versus benefits of any option presented during their medical transition with the guidance of their provider.
This is why Irwig takes a holistic approach in his clinic, accounting for a patient’s needs and health to find the best course of treatment. When one patient confessed they had a phobia of needles, Irwig sent their hormone prescription as a gel patch instead of the injectable liquid.
“On the whole, gender-affirming hormones definitely help a lot more people and really improves their quality of life,” he says. “Sometimes, the benefits outweigh the risks, so everything just needs to be individualized.”
It’s still unclear how the revised Standards of Care will change the political landscape in the fight to ensure gender-affirming healthcare for transgender and gender-diverse adults and youth; perhaps the successes will happen slowly, over months and years, as they do every week, patient by patient, in Irwig’s clinic.
Jamie, sitting restless in the exam room chair, is finishing up their second appointment with Irwig and is optimistic about their path forward. The testosterone prescription Irwig has typed up will help them feel confident and reaffirmed in their gender identity, they say, “so I’m me, basically.”
— Magazine writer Dina R. Zeldin can be reached at dina.zeldin@thecrimson.com.
This piece is part of The Crimson’s 2022 Pride Month special issue.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
In 2022, the number of states banning transgender athletes from school sports doubled.
This year alone, nine states passed legislation banning transgender youth athletes from competing on sports teams that correspond with their gender identity. As of June 2022, there are 18 states around the country with such laws.
Many legislators in those statehouses pointed to Lia C. Thomas — who became the first trans athlete to win a Division I National Collegiate Athletic Association in March — as justification for passing anti-transgender laws preventing young people from competing in athletics.
Some lawmakers and conservative pundits claimed Thomas, who competed with the University of Pennsylvania’s women’s swimming team, possessed an unfair advantage over her NCAA Division I opponents because she is transgender.
Some current and former Division I athletes at Harvard, however, criticized the legislation being passed around the country and said it does not target athletes competing in elite-level sports.
Schuyler M. Bailar ’19, who made headlines competing at Harvard as the first openly trans NCAA Division I swimmer, said that most of the legislation is “focusing on children” and centering around sports in K-12 schools.
“We’re not talking about the NCAA, we’re not talking about college athletics, we’re not talking about elite-level sports,” Bailar added. “You’re definitely not talking about the Olympics or professional level sports.”
Bailar said this distinction is critical to understand because it means the legislation “doesn’t directly impact” someone like him from being able to compete in sports.
“We’re talking about Sally playing volleyball with her friends in eighth grade,” he said. “We’re talking about Johnny who wants to kick a soccer ball around with his friends in fourth grade.”
South Dakota, Iowa, Utah, Oklahoma, Arizona, Kentucky, South Carolina, Indiana, and Louisiana passed legislation in 2022 effectively banning transgender youth from competing on school sports teams. The state laws are far more overreaching than the guidelines for transgender athletes competing in the NCAA and the Olympics, which do not presume trans athletes have an advantage over their cisgender competitors and require evidence to prove otherwise.
But in June 2022, FINA — the international governing body for swimming — introduced new rules that effectively ban transgender women from competing in women’s swimming competitions. FINA’s new regulations, which establish some of the most severe restrictions in international sports on the participation of transgender athletes, were criticized by BGLTQ rights advocates.
“FINA’s new eligibility criteria for transgender athletes and athletes with intersex variations is deeply discriminatory, harmful, unscientific and not in line with the 2021 International Olympic Committee framework on Fairness, Inclusion and Non-Discrimination on the Basis of Gender Identity and Sex Variations,” Anne Lieberman, director of policy and programs at Athlete Ally, wrote in a statement.
Bailar said in a June 19 TikTok that the new FINA rules are “not about preserving fairness.”
“It’s about trying to exclude trans people and it continues the policing of women’s bodies in sports,” Bailar said.
According to McKenzie E. Forbes ’23, who competes on Harvard’s women’s basketball team, lawmakers are passing these bills in the name of protecting athletes without consulting the athletes themselves.
“Even though I don’t think that anyone who’s not trans should even have an opinion on the matter, I do think that athletes are weaponized to work in favor of passing these bills that are very much transphobic,” Forbes said.
According to a 2022 survey from the Trevor Project, a suicide prevention organization for BGLTQ young people, 83 percent of transgender and nonbinary youth are “worried” about legislation passed around the country banning kids from competing on sports teams that correspond with their gender identity.
Forbes said she believes transgender youth should decide for themselves what team they want to compete on.
“I think that trans athletes should be allowed to play in the sport with the gender that they identify with,” Forbes added. “Point blank, period.”
Michael Y. Cheng ’22, who competed withfor Harvard’s men’s lightweight rowing team, said that the laws being passed around the country have less to do with the actual athletics and more to do with the state’s politics.
“It depends on what part of the country you’re in,” Cheng said. “That seems to be a lot of the reason why you see these bills succeed in some states but not others.”
Forbes said “there’s more that can be done” by Ivy League athletes to support their transgender peers — both in the league and in general.
“Cisgender athletes need to speak out and stand up,” Forbes said.
“Even amongst us there’s differing opinions,” she added. “But I think those of us who believe in trans rights [must] speak up and use our platform and advocate for that.”
Bailar said he believes the national discourse about trans athletes “needs to shift to prioritize facts.”
“There’s a lot of people that are misinformed about trans people that just don’t know any better,” Bailar added.
— Staff writer Miles J. Herszenhorn can be reached at miles.herszenhorn@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @MHerszenhorn.
This piece is part of The Crimson’s 2022 Pride Month special issue.


Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
