News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Hollywood Hills are probably not what comes to mind upon hearing the word “Iscariot.” But that’s exactly where “ISCARIOT” — an unconventional spin on the biblical narrative of Jesus Christ and Judas Iscariot premiering Dec. 1 at the Agassiz Theater — takes its audience.
“‘ISCARIOT’ is a heretical gaysian love story — gaysian being a portmanteau of gay and Asian,” said Sophie H. Kim ’24, the show’s executive producer and the author of the book.
The musical, conceptualized by Kim in fall of 2021 and partially inspired by a meme on Tumblr, reimagines Judas Iscariot as a queer Asian American high school senior who falls in love with Jesus, betrays him, and learns to take control of his own narrative.
“Jesus and Judas are high school seniors at a fancy high school in Hollywood. They are both kind of outsiders in the preppy club of the Disciples. They team up to win prom king and then shenanigans ensue. There’s a betrayal. There’s a crucifixion,” Kim said.
“It is just a show about a boy finding himself, losing himself, and then finding himself again in the process,” said Maddie Sebastian, a Berklee College of Music student playing Judas Iscariot.
“It's pretty much ‘Wicked’ meets ‘High School Musical’ and ‘Jesus Christ Superstar,’” Kim added.
The comparison should not come as a surprise. Although a student production, “ISCARIOT” has a cast and production team of almost 50, which includes a slew of Berklee College of Music collaborators, and a fully original score accompanied by a ten-person orchestra.
“We have a standard rock band plus strings pit, so we have a keyboard, two drum sets, bass guitar, plus a violin, viola, cello. Something that's not very standard is that you have a trumpet and an oboe, which is very exciting,” said sound designer Devin Wong.
“ISCARIOT”’s commitment to an entertaining plot and quality music-making is somewhat misleading. Although at first glance, the show — set in Hollywood and following high schoolers — might seem like little more than a mashup of Broadway mainstays, the show aims to deliver much more than an enjoyable performance. As the production team emphasizes, there’s much more to the story: It’s as much, if not more, about self-worth, representation, and Asian American identity as it is about Jesus and Judas.
“I was very excited to join because of the message that it was sending: How an Asian-American character can be in the spotlight and take a hold of their own story, which isn't usually seen in regular pop culture,” said co-music director Jennifer G. Arakaki ’26.
Choreographer Adrienne L. Chan ’25 shares the sentiment about the show’s appeal and message. “One of the main messages is about what it means to be the main character or take that space up as a person of color or even even just being Asian-American,” she said.
“ISCARIOT,” Chan said, “has been a really good lesson about reclaiming the space I deserve and also recognizing my own individuality and not allowing the prophecy of the awkward, middle space that Asian-Americans always take up. Not letting that be my destiny.”
As Kim reiterated, neither these themes nor explorations of queer Asian American identity are prominent in popular culture — “certainly,” as said “not on Broadway or regionally or anything, and in very few theater productions” — which makes the show all the more meaningful.
Importantly, although the show uses the Biblical narrative as its canvas, and proudly labels itself as heretical, “it is not heretical,” as Sebastian said
“The message of the show is not that religion sucks, or that God isn't real, or Jesus isn't real. We're not saying any of that. It is merely just a retelling of a work of literary merit,” she added.
Kim concurred, noting the universality of the story of Jesus Christ and Judas Iscariot. “I think that the thing about the story is that … whether you're religious or not, there is something about that narrative of the savior and pariah dichotomy that speaks to almost everyone,” Kim said.
“Even if you're not sure how you might feel about the show or its messaging, you should come to see what I think is a universal story,” she added.
And if you’re already sold, come for the original music and an uplifting narrative of self-worth.
—Staff writer Zachary J. Lech can be reached at zachary.lech@thecrimson.com
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Adelaide Herrmann does not have the name recognition of Harry Houdini. But at the turn of the 19th and 20th century, dubbed the “Queen of Magic,” she was the star. Now, almost a century since her death, the story of her and those around her is being brought to life in a rock musical of the same name, running Dec. 1 through Dec. 3 at the Loeb Ex.
The discovery of Herrmann’s long-lost memoir and its publication in 2011 shed a new light on the figure and her complicated relationship with her niece-slash-assistant Adele. And, crucially, it inspired Veronica F. Leahy ’23, Andrew G. Van Camp ’23, and Samuel F. Dvorak ’23 to produce an original musical. The result was “Queen of Magic,” a rock musical with an original book by Van Camp, and a score by Leahy.
The two-year-long development process was anything but easy, however. Although the title — “Queen of Magic” — might be suggesting an homage to Adelaide Herrmann, the show ultimately ended up focusing as much, if not more, on Adele.
“My life for two years was figuring out every beat of this story,” Leahy said. “And literally after we thought we had it in August, we scrapped the whole thing.
“As we kept workshopping it over the summer … we found that the story was really more about Adelaide's niece, Adele, and that's what resulted in this final version,” Van Camp said.
The change came out of a desire to ensure that “Queen of Magic” does not become a simple “great man” story, solely focused on Adelaide’s career and her rise to fame.
“We couldn't just tell Adelaide’s story because that's actually falling into a lot of the same traps that the stories we're trying to challenge or nuance are like,” Leahy said.
“It's critiquing, almost, this narrative of great men, of looking at history through the lens of great individuals,” said Vander O. B. Ritchie ’26, who plays Harry Houdini.
As a result, the story pays less attention to the career, and more to the interpersonal relationships, conflicts, and sacrifices that both women made.
“This story is about relationships, fundamentally,” Ritchie said. “It's a show less about trying to tell the story of a great character — instead it's a show about trying to tell the story of these really interesting and really complex, and really difficult relationships.”
The focus on the personal side of the two protagonists gives the musical a chance to go beyond representation. “‘Queen of Magic,’ for me, perfectly captures the story of the quote-unquote girlboss … it is difficult for women to succeed in so many industries,” said director Eleanor M. Powell '25. “And women who do end up succeeding in these industries, often we deify and we also detest. I think that ‘Queen of Magic’ demonstrates forcefully that in order to be a woman who succeeds, there are certain sacrifices that you simply have to make if you live in a patriarchal society.
Few shows succeed at sharing an important message and remaining enjoyable. But, as Ritchie said, the complexity that they bring to the musical might make for its most appealing part. “These characters feel real and they feel like they each have perspectives and ideas that are maybe not entirely valid, but you can see where they're coming from. It really just makes the world feel alive and perfectly encapsulates a lot of the issues that it's trying to deal with in a really realistic way,” he said. “There are moments in the show that are heartbreaking and heart-wrenching. There are moments that are really goofy and really fun.”
“It's just so fun being able to explore this character [of Adelaide] and exploring her wittiness, her darkness, her lightheartedness, her humor, her connection to her niece, kind of her toxicity as well, and really being able to acknowledge that at the same time,” said Cybèle Fasquelle ’25, playing Adelaide Herrmann.
The exploration of the already engrossing story is made all the more interesting by the music and songs that accompany it. Leahy, who is behind the música aspect of the show, has her background in jazz music, which heavily influenced the show’s score.
“The one thing I'm particularly excited about is to bring this groove-based score that I think is catchy and fun and makes people enjoy the show, but at the same time also bringing in improvisatory moments,” Leahy said.
The show’s intimate venue and the visceral themes it explores made some of the cast members cry. Now, the team hopes that the audience will be moved and brought “outside of the comfort zone.”
—Staff writer Zachary J. Lech can be reached at zachary.lech@thecrimson.com
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Last week, protests opposing both strict zero-Covid policies and the rule of Xi Jinping erupted in China, providing another opportunity for Americans to once again consider the complex relationship between Beijing and Washington. Perhaps, some may hope, this is finally the moment: At last, America can act to support protestors and topple our great authoritarian opponent.
While such a pattern of thought may be tempting to westerners, cutting ties with China in this fraught moment to gamble on regime change ignores geopolitical realities and undermines our collective future. In his landmark article in Foreign Affairs Magazine, Samuel P. Huntington predicted future conflict between China and the United States. Watching the two superpowers edge ever closer to conflict feels not unlike watching a meteoric, eon-altering car crash in slow motion — the two massive hegemons speeding directly at one another with the fate of the world hanging in the balance. To say that the conflict, if it comes to pass, will define our generation is an understatement of biblical proportions.
Beset by (well-founded) allegations of human rights abuses, zero-Covid woes, the authoritarian rise of Xi Jinping (just beginning an unprecedented third term), and fierce protests, China draws derision and hysterics from the West. Americans are increasingly pessimistic about the state of U.S.-China relations. According to the Pew Research Center, roughly nine in 10 adults consider China a competitor or enemy. This sentiment is not just an abstract political consideration — amid right-wing vitriol about the alleged Chinese fabrication of the “Wuhan virus,” incidents of anti-Asian hate crime rose a staggering 339 percent in a single year.
Such a grim assessment of China will not lead the United States anywhere. Where the Soviet Union was frail and weak, China is prosperous and strong. Married with wide-ranging use of modern technology, the authoritarian structure of the Chinese government results in a highly digitized, efficient society. A nice example of this phenomenon is the Chinese app WeChat, a Tencent-owned service that combines features ranging from mobile payments to social media to video games. Nearly all activity is subject to oversight by the Chinese Communist Party. This hyper-centralized system sounds foreign and unreasonable to American ears but is simply a fact of life for Chinese citizens.
And rest assured that the current regime in China is here to stay — the state will handle the recent wave of protests, against the hopes of many westerners. This authoritarian machine has dealt with instability in the past, including in Hong Kong, where China passed stricter security measures in response to 2020 unrest against a controversial extradition bill, and Beijing, where China survived the seismic waves of the Tiananmen Square Massacre. The security arm of the CCP has already swung into action, and while the instability may remain in the short term, there is no reason to believe this will be the ultimate downfall of centralized rule.
In the face of domestic instability and challenges from China abroad, America has lost its position as the sole hegemon on the world stage. Many view that as lamentable, a change we must try desperately to stave off. I disagree. It’s time Americans stop throwing pity parties and give up on trying to regain bygone dominance. Instead, we should chart a new course of bilateral cooperation between the U.S. and China, one founded on cultural exchange and the free flow of information.
Education has an essential role to play in that effort. In order to forge a multinational future, multinational education is required — many Chinese students study in the U.S., for example (tellingly, this figure has also been dropping). A marker of the deep distrust between our two nations is the closure of language exchange programs in China, including Harvard’s own move to relocate the Beijing Academy to Taipei. In fairness, both nations have engaged in the language education warfare — China has opened hundreds of controversial “Confucius Institutes” abroad, which some have taken as a ploy to disseminate propaganda and further political ends.
Just as both parties have played a part in the deterioration of the U.S.-China relationship, both parties must affirmatively pursue engagement to rebuild it. There is clearly appetite at Harvard for such cooperation. Consider the mission statements of the Harvard College China Forum, which “is dedicated to creating constructive dialogue on the challenges, trends, and issues affecting China,” or the Harvard Undergraduate Association for U.S.-China Relations, which is “committed to bridging the gap between the United States and China.” Also reflective of Harvard’s unique capacity to help solve the U.S.-China question is its preponderance of East Asian Studies concentrators: At the College, Harvard grants the highest number of East Asian Studies degrees in the country.
In line with these sentiments, a strong first step toward great cooperation would be the re-institution of the Beijing Academy. Engaging with China first requires understanding China, and students should at least be given the option to study in the mainland. Harvard’s study abroad programs should be a model of cooperation and should thus make efforts to engage with China, not shy away from the mainland altogether in favor of a more “politically correct” approach. In particular, Harvard should build ties with Peking University, a school often considered the “Harvard of China.”
Amid broader political uncertainty, closer ties between our institution and China have the opportunity to set a shining example of cooperation and trust. We should avoid the trap of politically-popular China-hawk rhetoric and instead act in line with the interests of the world and the opinions of our students. Harvard must act as a champion of international cooperation. Such a rethink would benefit our students, our nations, and the global community for decades to come. If humanity wants to escape from the impending wreckage, someone must decide to slam the brakes.
Max A. Palys ’26, a Crimson Editorial comper, lives in Matthews Hall.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Peter Der Manuelian ’81 is the Barabara Bell Professor of Egyptology and teaches in both the Anthropology department and the Department of Near Eastern Languages and Civilizations. He serves as the director of the Harvard Museum of the Ancient Near East. This interview has been edited for length and clarity.
FM: My first question is about how you came to study what you’re studying now: was it that you had an interest in archaeology and then you settled on studying Egypt’s as a region, or were you interested in Egypt first, then you came to study it through archaeology?
PDM: I think, for me, it’s been all Egypt all the time. I grew up locally, and it was ancient Egypt in fourth grade history class. I tell people that I never grew up. Most people love ancient Egypt as a kid, and they move on to something else, but I found it fascinating.
FM: How do you think studying the ancient past has value today?
PDM: So many of the trends that we see now, you can almost form a direct line into earlier cultures — as empires rise and fall, as people are treated well or mistreated. I think there’s an awful lot to be learned. In fact, just in most recent history, when I see some of the disturbing trends in our society today, and I think even 30, 50, 100 years ago, the same problems were playing out. And it boggles my mind that people haven’t taken a lesson from that. So extrapolate that all the way back to, say, the ancient Near East, and you see how empires have risen and fallen and different groups have dominated other groups in the past. Some states have come together and worked together and achieved great things, and others have disappeared through forces of climate change or invasion or economic disintegration or top-heavy economic institutions.
FM: As an Egyptologist, how do you feel about representations of Egypt in popular American culture? I’m thinking “Indiana Jones,” “Tomb Raider,” “The Mummy.”
PDM: It’s always important to distinguish between Egyptology, which is the academic study of ancient Egyptian civilization, and Egyptomania, which is the popular reception of ancient Egypt. They’re often two very different things. I find them both fascinating, and there can be academic study of both or just enjoyment of both. I’m not such a stickler going into a movie like “Indiana Jones” or “The Mummy” where I’m pointing out every single flaw or chronological anomaly or something like that. But there are some issues that get sensitive, especially now, about how different ethnic groups are portrayed. We could always do a better job in Hollywood of reimagining some of these ancient cultures.
FM: What do you think is the biggest misconception that people who don’t study Egypt have about such an ancient society?
PDM: I’d say one — which is kind of a nasty one, when you think about it — is that aliens must have built the pyramids. That really comes across as kind of a racist comment, because what you’re saying is people from that part of the world could not have been so advanced or skilled to obtain such a monumental achievement. So that’s something worth debunking. There are lots of rumors out there in popular culture that aren’t true, such as Napoleon’s men shot the nose off the Sphinx as target practice.
Hieroglyphs is really a language. People will look at these pictures, and because they recognize them as images, part of your brain has trouble thinking that these are letters and it’s a real grammar. But it is. There’s nouns and adjectives and participles all buried within those hieroglyphic signs — masculine and feminine and things like that. It’s a real grammar and so fascinating to study and to translate.
FM: You’ve written about famous Egyptologists who have come before you. What do you think the discipline should take from their example, and what do you think has become more outdated? 
PDM: Well, after about 15 years, I just finished a biography of my predecessor. George Reisner was a Harvard professor and a Museum of Fine Arts Boston curator but mainly an archaeologist, and he lived in Egypt and he dug in Egypt and the Sudan for most of his life. He lived at a place called Harvard Camp, which was just a collection of mud brick huts behind the pyramids, and he only came back here to teach about three or four semesters his whole life. He was a founding father of modern scientific archaeological methods for the time. So basically working from about 1899 until 1942, when he died at the pyramids. He also — it’s not quite kosher to say anymore, but — a product of his time, so he bore some of the colonialist and racist attitudes of his time. And I think because he was so meticulous in his archaeological documentation, it’s easier for us to separate now what we would like to think is archaeological fact from some of his interpretations that don’t make sense. We’re really seeing through his biased lens, so we need to set aside what doesn’t make sense anymore, and we need to acknowledge the contributions — the positive contributions — that he made.
I’ll add that while some of his interpretations are not acceptable today, he was pretty progressive in a lot of other ways. And that means his Egyptian staff: delegating so many of the skilled positions to them, training them in archaeological photography, keeping Arabic expedition diary accounts, paying the man organizing the labor, making big, important decisions. He was looking out for them, even against some of the Cairo elites, which was not an attitude that a lot of Western expedition directors were taking at the time.
FM: One of your big interests is combining archeology with 3D visualization. How did you identify a need for that sort of combination? 
PDM: Well, that goes back to the early ’80s, when I saw my first Mac computer, and I instantly thought, there’s going to be hieroglyphs on the screen one day. There was a little app called MacPaint that let you do bitmap pixel drawings, and things took off from there. I look at ancient Egypt as such an iconographic and visual culture that the application of computer graphics and visual interfaces and graphical approaches just made perfect sense to me — combining the old and the new. I think it can be a tremendous teaching tool now, and the digital humanities can enhance reconstructions of archaeological sites that can make teaching more informative, more educational, and hopefully more fun as well. So there’s almost no limit to the different types of technology you can apply to even an ancient civilization.
FM: Are there other types of technology you’ve worked with in addition to 3D modeling? 
PDM: That’s the main one. Another is we need to play with big amounts of data these days. That’s why we created the Giza Project many years ago. Its job is to scan, type, database, and intelligently crosslink all this material together. So you can be hunting for a particular statue or an object in a museum collection or temple or tomb architecture at Giza that you’re interested in, and all the relevant stuff comes together. That then goes on the internet, so it’s available to the world community. From there, we move on to 3D virtual tours with Matterport cameras and BLK scanning and things like that. And then there’s Metashape to do all kinds of 3D models of actual statues and objects, able to rotate them and see them from all angles. Integrating all that stuff is a kind of digital repatriation in a way, and we can recreate the fine spots of these things and put them back virtually where they were found. And that’s a huge plus for the archaeological process.
FM: How do you feel students’ experiences change when you introduce these types of technologies in the classroom?
PDM: We have a classroom called the Visualization Lab. It’s part of Earth and Planetary Sciences. It’s a big curving screen, with 3D glasses and all kinds of 3D projector equipment. That’s a chance for people to experience Egypt on a screen with the real estate that I think does ancient Egypt justice. There’s nothing like hovering over the pyramids on a screen that big and zooming into an area you’re interested in or putting on 3D glasses and being able to enter a reconstruction of an Egyptian tomb and see the fresh colors on the walls beautifully reconstructed — based on real archaeological data too. So this is, I hope, a horizon-expanding kind of experience for students beyond just a static image on a PowerPoint slide.
FM: How do you feel the use of technology can make archaeology more accessible?
PDM: Very often when you’re at a site today, monuments are sanded over or reburied or just exist in foundations of stone or mud brick. It’s very difficult, if you’re not a specialist, to visualize what you’re looking at. So I fantasize about the day where anyone can go to a site, pull up the phone, aim it at a lump of mud, and in augmented reality or VR that lump of mud turns into a five-foot-high wall from 80 years ago or 3000 years ago and shows a beautiful, important inscription. There are ways I think that we can reanimate or reimagine these sites based, hopefully, on sound archaeological data and reconstruct some of these buildings and put everything back in context. That’s a huge plus for your average visitor.
FM: How much creative liberty do you feel like you can take without compromising archaeological accuracy?
PDM: Great question. There are different forms of scholarly publication and educational information. And a journal article is different from, say, a reconstruction of a temple on a website. I think the most important thing is if you can flag it: what you know, what you don’t know. A good example of that is the three pyramids at Giza: for the Great Pyramid, the temple at the end of its causeway is buried and unknown underneath the modern town. So how do you reconstruct a temple that you can’t excavate, and you don’t know the foundations and all of that? Well, you look for contemporary temples from the Old Kingdom from the fourth dynasty or fifth dynasty and try to conjecture as best you can. So in our models, we’ve built that temple, but we have to admit that it’s pure speculation at this point.
FM: How does collaboration play a role in this process? Who are the people that are working on a virtual tour or virtual model?
PDM: Egyptologists used to handle their field by themselves. Now we look to interdisciplinary collaborations, so evermore to anthropology and archaeological sciences, digital technologies, computer graphics experts, website coders. It all has to come together. You need the scholarly inputs to understand the culture, read the language, understand the archaeology and the architecture. But then you’ve got to communicate effectively with technologists to build these things. To give you a good example, we did a nice teaching tool reconstruction of Harvard Camp. That’s the dighouse headquarters that George Reisner had at the pyramids. And we had some fantastically talented people working on this, but at one point, I saw the buildings had electric light bulbs sticking out of the walls. You would absolutely assume why not, right? Except there was no electricity up at Harvard Camp, and no running water either. So we had to remove those light bulbs. A good example of the specialists working with the technologists and trying to get it right as best we can.
FM: Right now, a lot of your work focuses on the Giza necropolis. What are the research questions you’re currently interested in exploring?
PDM: Well, trying to understand Giza is always a fascination for me. And that’s not just how the pyramids were built, for example, but really how the whole necropolis — the cemetery — developed, because you can find on the decorated tomb walls of these tombs of the elites every frozen moment there is of ancient Egyptian civilization. If you want to know about gender, you can see males and females represented on the walls. If you want to know about ritual, if you want to study hieroglyphic grammar, craftsmanship scenes, agriculture, economy, costume, it’s all there.
Another is the interplay of hieroglyphs, the Egyptian language, with monuments and how things are laid out. This comes from an interest I have in graphic design. For many years, I’ve designed and produced academic publications as well and got tremendous pleasure out of the layout process and the sizing of the images and where to put things and the use of typography. So I’ve always wondered about the ancient artists and how they make their decisions. Where to end this line of hieroglyphs and begin the next line? Do I break the word or do I not? In Egyptian, you can spell the same word many different ways with a lot of extra signs, so when you’re stuck, and you don’t have enough space, you can abbreviate your spellings, and when you need more space, you can add a lot of filler material as well. So who makes those decisions? We only see the finished product, where everything looks symmetrical and beautifully laid out and obvious and easy. But a lot of thought has to go into that production process. And I’m interested in sort of climbing into the ancient minds, to the extent that one can, and thinking about the design principles too.
FM: You’re the director of the Harvard Museum of the Ancient Near East. What are your current goals in that position?
PDM: We’re not in the Metropolitan Museum of Art or the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston — our collections are not that large — but I think we can enhance them with these types of technological approaches. So VR and AR are various ways to animate static relief sculptures, wall fragments on the walls of our galleries. And we have a combination of reproductions and antiquities, because they both tell sides of the same story. So for example, out on our second floor, we have a resin cast of the famous dream stela of King Thutmose IV. The original ancient one is still between the front legs of the Sphinx at Giza, and it tells the story of how a king who lived 1,000 years after the pyramids took a nap in the shadow of the pyramids as a young prince. The Sphinx appeared to him in a dream and said, “If you’ll dig me out, I’ll make you Pharaoh.” It’s  a great text. We have the reproduction of the stela, and by aiming your phone at it, you can get a line-by-line English translation. You can be standing right between the front paws of the Sphinx and look around in 360 degrees or call up an augmented reality image of the Sphinx, and even move a time slider and look at it at different points in time. We think these enhance the collection, hopefully excite the visitor, and are educational as well. And we have a combination of all kinds of objects from all kinds of cultures, not just Egyptian — that happens to be my specialty. We’ll be bringing more and more of them as time goes by.
FM: What would you say to museum visitors who don’t really want to see a reproduction of an ancient artifact because it’s “not the real thing”?
PDM: With a judicious blend of old and new, you can tell some pretty rich stories. I’ll give an example of that: we just acquired something that will go on view in a couple of weeks. It’s a reproduction throne of Tutankhamun. The original was founded in 1922 among the five or six thousand objects in his tomb. It’s in the Cairo Museum. But in 1929, an American traveler commissioned from a very talented furniture maker in Cairo two reproductions of this throne, not in gold this time but in teak wood with mother of pearl and ivory inlays. And it is spectacular. It’s an example of Egyptology and Egyptomania at the same time. It’s historically very important because it has the name of Tutankhamun on the inscriptions on it, and in various forms, which has to do with a big religious revolution at the time. So this is the kind of thing that, although a reproduction, can open the window wide to all kinds of issues about understanding ancient Egypt, reception of ancient Egypt, and even some ancient history as well. We’re pretty excited about that piece.
FM: How do you think the responsibilities or the role of museums have changed in the past 50 or 60 years?
PDM: Some people look at museums as storehouses of knowledge. Others might look at them as entertainment palaces. And maybe there’s a happy medium in the middle there. Museums are under tremendous pressure, right? They’re competing for entertainment time and dollars: should I go to the Red Sox game, or should I go to the Museum of Fine Arts? Should I come to the HMANE, or should I go somewhere else? So those are very logical and understandable pressures. I think the key is to try to bring the education and the delight in these objects, to make things clear, to reinterpret them.
Anthropological collections are facing scrutiny: what should be repatriated to original groups and what shouldn’t? I think it’s tough to say it’s a black or white issue, and everything should go back or everything should stay put. I think it needs sensitive investigation, care, and listening on both sides. At our museum, we’re not facing most of those controversies because of the nature of our material, but museums are working very hard to do a better job of that, to reach different and better audiences, to explain and interpret their material better. And also to blend different types of objects and collections and exciting new ways as well. In the old days, it was all chronological, and this culture goes over there and that culture goes over here. There’s some synergies to be created by mixing and matching, and I think that’s pretty exciting.
— Associate Magazine Editor Tess C. Kelley can be reached at tess.kelley@thecrimson.com.
News
Harvard Affiliates Protest Book Bans, Laws Against Critical Race Theory
News
Jane Kim Appointed Interim Dean of Harvard School of Public Health
News
New Hampshire Man Arrested for Planting Fake Bomb on Harvard Campus in Bitcoin Extortion Attempt
News
Jeffrey Epstein Met With Harvard Professor Martin Nowak and Noam Chomsky in 2015 in Harvard Office
News
Woman Injured by Falling Equipment at Harvard Square T Station
After a seven-month search that enlisted the help of an advisory committee, an outside executive search firm, and nominations from alumni, the Harvard Alumni Association has landed on a new executive director: its deputy executive director.
Sarah C. Karmon, who has served as deputy executive director of the HAA since 2018, will take over as the organization’s permanent leader in January, the University announced Thursday. She will be the first woman to hold the post.
Karmon will succeed Philip W. Lovejoy, who is set to step down from the association’s top post at the end of the calendar year after eight years in the role. As executive director, she will oversee a staff of 40 employees managing alumni events, including reunions and Harvard Club events, for over 40,000 University alumni.
As HAA deputy executive director, Karmon developed hybrid programming during the Covid-19 pandemic and “played a leading role” in the joint Commencement ceremony for the Classes of 2020 and 2021 last May.
Karmon first joined the HAA as its senior director of University-wide affairs in 2016. Before Harvard, Karmon served as special assistant to the presidential search committee that selected University President Lawrence S. Bacow, the chief of staff to University Provost Alan M. Garber ’76, and deputy director of development strategy.
Bacow praised Karmon’s “commitment to Harvard” and “hallmark collegiality.”
“Sarah has been a terrific leader in a time of challenge and change. She has brought together our alumni and created important connections across all parts of the University,” he said.
The search for the HAA executive director enlisted the help of Isaacson, Miller — a prominent executive search firm. The HAA Board of Directors voted to approve Karmon’s appointment hours before the University’s official announcement.
—Staff writer Cara J. Chang can be reached at cara.chang@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @CaraChang20.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
A Harvard Law School professor is asking the federal judge who presided over the high-profile 2018 Harvard admissions trial to release currently-sealed transcripts of courtroom discussions from the proceedings.
In a court filing last month, professor Jeannie Suk Gersen, a constitutional law scholar, asked Massachusetts District Court Judge Allison D. Burroughs to unseal transcripts of sidebar discussions — private conversations between lawyers and the judge — from the trial.
Burroughs ruled in favor of Harvard following the three-week trial, rejecting arguments brought by the anti-affirmative action group Students for Fair Admissions that the College’s race-conscious admissions program violates federal law by discriminating against Asian American applicants.
A federal appeals court upheld Burroughs’s decision in 2020 before SFFA appealed the case to the Supreme Court. Justices heard oral arguments in October, and a decision is expected in the spring or summer of 2023.
Gersen wrote in a Nov. 11 letter that she wants the documents unsealed “for purposes of knowledge, transparency, and reporting about a case of great public importance.”
“There was no jury, it was a bench trial, so the existence of so many sidebars that the public couldn’t have any access to — it’s definitely something that raises an eyebrow,” Gersen said in an interview Wednesday. “I wondered why that had occurred, and it wasn’t really clear from looking at the record as to why every single sidebar had been sealed.”
Gersen said releasing the sidebars from the trial is unlikely to have an impact on any court ruling on the case, given that it has been four years since the trial took place.
Harvard’s lawyer in the case, Seth P. Waxman ’73, wrote in a Nov. 15 letter to Burroughs that the University opposes Gersen’s motion since the sidebar discussions “contain confidential information, including information designated by both Harvard and SFFA under the Protective Order entered in this case,” as well as “other personal and confidential information that should remain sealed.”
In a letter, SFFA rejected Harvard’s argument that the sidebars should stay under full seal, but said information about specific applicants should remain redacted.
“The examples Harvard relies upon do not contain ‘confidential’ information. One example involves information that Harvard itself asserted was so publicly available at the time that anyone casually investigating the subject would know,” SFFA lawyer Patrick Strawbridge wrote. “Because any sealing must be narrowly tailored, the handful of examples Harvard cites cannot justify sealing every sidebar discussion.”
The New York Times and The New Yorker magazine both filed letters in support of Gersen’s request to unseal the sidebars. (Gersen is a New Yorker contributor who has reported on the affirmative action case for the outlet since 2017.)
Burroughs will hold a private hearing on Dec. 9 to discuss the materials under seal.
Gersen said she expects the judge to rule in favor of her request based on a Nov. 21 court hearing on the issue.
“I think that was clear at the hearing — that there would be some unsealing, but that [Burroughs] understood that the parties may disagree about some portions of the sidebar transcript,” Gersen said.
—Staff writer Rahem D. Hamid can be reached at rahem.hamid@thecrimson.com.
—Staff writer Nia L. Orakwue can be reached at nia.orakwue@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
On Sunday afternoons, a handful of students gather around a table in Harvard’s Smith Campus Center, resembling a casual club meeting or study group.
To an outside observer, it would not be obvious that this group is actually Harvard’s student government, that these students are managing a budget of more than half a million dollars, or that the young organization sits atop the rubble of a 40-year-old institution demolished just last year.
The Harvard Undergraduate Association’s style stands in stark contrast to its predecessor, the Harvard Undergraduate Council, where weekly meetings featured rigid procedure, contentious arguments, premature exits, and accusations of discrimination in its final year. Last March, Harvard undergraduates voted overwhelmingly to dissolve the UC and replace it with the HUA.
Before the historic referendum, HUA proponents branded the proposed structure as highly collaborative, efficient, and transparent. They promised a revamp of club grant funding and promised the government, with few elected positions, would see increased student involvement from passionate volunteers.
It would be everything the UC wasn’t, they said.
With the HUA’s inaugural semester drawing to a close, students are split on whether the new government is more of the same, or the start of a new chapter in Harvard’s historically acrimonious student government.
If the HUA had a single priority in its inaugural semester, it was to shift the culture of student government, which for years has been associated with Harvard’s most politically ambitious.
Sasjha I. Mayfield ’25, who helped draft the HUA’s constitution, said this goal was front of mind from the Association’s very inception.
“I think what we were envisioning when we were creating the constitution was less of a student government focused on politicking and more of a student government focused on advocacy work and tangible solutions to student problems,” Mayfield said.
Mayfield, who now serves as the HUA’s representative on Harvard’s Committee for Undergraduate Education, theorized that some of the UC’s conflict came from a desire for credit, and the HUA’s structure works “as long as people don’t get caught up in wanting titles and recognition.”
“Any work that I do on the HUA is going to be attributed to the Academic Team, and I’m totally fine with that,” Mayfield said.
One immediate change the HUA brought was the introduction of a co-presidency.
Inaugural HUA Co-Presidents LyLena D. Estabine ’24 and Travis Allen Johnson ’24 even originally vowed to change the name of their executive positions to reflect their rejection of title-chasing — a move endorsed by Michael Y. Cheng ’22, the former UC president who led the effort to dissolve the body.
But they never did. This week Estabine and Johnson said they decided not to pursue the name change in order to clearly designate their position to outside groups.
“It helps for people to know who they’re talking to,” Estabine said. “If you say ‘the Co-Coordinator of Harvard,’ they’re going to be like, ‘I don’t really understand what that is.’”
Still, Estabine and Johnson maintain they have made strides toward improving the culture of Harvard student government.
“I think LyLena and I have worked really hard to ensure that the climate and culture of the HUA is one that’s collaborative and cooperative and not cutthroat,” Johnson said. “A lot of times on the UC, we saw a lot of arguments break out during the middle of meetings.”
With multiple HUA executives having previously served on the UC, some students remain skeptical that the HUA presents a drastic departure from the Council’s antics.
“I haven’t even really noticed the difference between the UC or the HUA,” Claire Yoo ’23 said. “It’s just a different name for the same student body government.”
Indeed, the HUA’s first semester has not been completely free from controversy.
In September, the HUA drew criticism from Harvard Primus — a campus group for first-generation, low-income students — which alleged that HUA leaders rejected its efforts to establish a diversity, equity, and inclusion team.
A Primus Instagram post claimed the Association “voted against a Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Team” over the summer “after a Primus representative reached out to HUA Co-Presidents and Officers.”
HUA leaders deemed the post “misinformation” but said they would evaluate the need for a dedicated DEI team, which would require a campus-wide referendum to alter the HUA’s constitution.
It wouldn’t matter, however. Just days later, the HUA’s first referendum was voided following a procedural misunderstanding with the Dean of Students Office. Estabine and Johnson labeled the incident as an example of “growing pains” within the organization.
In an interview this week, Estabine and Johnson reaffirmed their commitment to DEI issues, saying they would include a question regarding the creation of a DEI team on their spring referendum.
The episode drew student criticism, as did a subsequent scrutiny of Estabine’s affiliation with a campus Christian organization, Harvard College Faith and Action. Estabine said the criticism has at times negatively affected her mental health.
“It just seems that no matter what you do, people seem to legitimately hate you as a person,” Estabine said. “Not even what you’re doing — they hate you.”
As the HUA nears a transition of power — no officer may hold the same position twice — it is too early to tell if the body has implemented lasting cultural change.
In the UC’s early years, the now-defunct student government operated in a similar manner to the HUA, addressing tangible student concerns without much fanfare.
Cheng, now a Rhodes Scholar at Oxford, believes avoiding future conflict within the body will require electing reasonable leaders who aren’t “stirring up controversies and drama.”
“I think when you have establishment, wannabe politicians running student government at Harvard, because it’s at Harvard, they’re going to take it way too seriously,” he said.
Before the dissolution of the UC, proponents of the HUA marketed it to students as an opportunity to revitalize a slow and convoluted club funding process, a point of frequent criticism toward the UC.
This semester, the HUA successfully advocated for a $550,000 annual budget — a 10 percent increase from the UC’s allocation the previous year.
The HUA has also sought to implement a series of recommendations yielded by an independent audit of its predecessor’s finances, which was launched last January amid accusations of mismanagement and tax fraud.
Some student club leaders have lauded the HUA for its efficiency in disbursing club grants, which are provided on a monthly and semesterly basis.
Rebecca J. Kay ’23 said the HUA’s revamped funding guidelines allowed her campus organization to use its funds “a little bit more flexibly.”
HUA Finance Officer Alexander J. Zurovec ’25 said equity was a major priority when designing the Association’s fiscal policy.
“One thing I really tried to do too was just level out the playing field, in terms of hopefully trying to make it a bit more equitable across the board for all students [organizations],” Zurovec said.
Even with a larger total club funding budget, some students have reported surprise at scant allocations when compared to past years.
Christopher J. Kwon ’22, co-president of the Harvard Taekwondo Club, said his club has received less funding under the HUA, creating a financial burden for students.
“[Our funding] is a fifth of what we had before, and the expenses have stayed generally the same,” Kwon said.
Zurovec said the HUA has had to divide its budget among more clubs than the UC did, attributing the uptick in grant requests to the ease of applying.
The HUA has also funded a variety of new and returning initiatives, including campaigns and grant packages intended to boost campus accessibility and inclusion.
Estabine said while the UC used to rely on public statements, she and Johnson have sought to take direct action on campus issues.
“It used to be that if [the UC] saw something they didn’t like, maybe you write a statement and you just kind of email it into the void,” Estabine said. “Now, we ask, ‘What can we actually do?’”
Noah A. Harris ’22, a former UC president who opposed the effort to dissolve the body, said that although he does not “intimately keep up” with the HUA’s activities, he has admired the organization’s accomplishments in its first year.
“I’ve seen how the projects that they’ve done have been very substantial and very helpful to the student body so far,” he said.
The HUA’s vow to revive a historically unmoved student body got off to a rocky start when only 1,849 students voted in its first officer election — just months after nearly 4,000 undergraduates turned out in droves to dissolve the UC.
The HUA’s leadership structure hinges on passionate student volunteers, a rare commodity among a generally apathetic constituency.
While the UC featured 54 elected dorm and house representatives, the HUA currently only elects nine officers via a College-wide popular vote, a change that opponents argued would concentrate power among fewer individual students.
The rest of its members are student volunteers. Any College student who attends a weekly general meeting is eligible to vote on legislation.
By the HUA’s reasoning, this system allows for students who are not interested in a long-term position to help with temporary projects. In practice, meeting attendance remains sparse. Weekly general meetings rarely see significantly more than a dozen voting members turn out.
Harris says he fears that without the same raw numbers as the UC, more responsibility has fallen upon HUA executives.
“I think, overall, the structure does make it more difficult on the leadership — it makes it a harder job to do,” Harris said. “It just means that the leadership will have to work harder.”
Ivor K. Zimmerman ’23, a former UC representative, agreed.
“I think they’ve done a decent job — a pretty good job,” said Zimmerman, who opposed the HUA’s formation. “But I think I get the sense that they’re doing a lot of the lifting.”
Estabine and Johnson agreed their roles are, indeed, very hands-on but dismissed concerns that the Association’s success relies too heavily on the labor of its leaders.
“What reduces my worry is the fact that we’re not the only officers,” Johnson said. “There are seven other — and hopefully, in the future, more — officers who are duly elected and can lead projects if necessary,” Johnson said.
Still, Johnson underscored the need to better involve the student body, particularly freshmen.
“It really makes me so disappointed when I talk to first-year students and they say, ‘I didn’t know I could participate in the HUA,’” Johnson said.
Of the HUA’s nine current officers, four were elected as social freshmen.
Estabine lauded the new electoral system as more accessible for freshmen to run for office.
“What we saw in the past few years was the people who were able to run successful campaigns were the ones with large Instagram followings,” Estabine said. “When you run at the beginning of your freshman year, you don’t really know these people.”
Under the current system, general elections take place during the third week of the spring semester.
According to Zimmerman, the Association’s lower profile has shielded it from student scrutiny.
“I think people’s perception of [the HUA] is probably slightly more favorable,” Zimmerman said. “I think people just think of it less in general, and I think a big part of that is just that there’s fewer people in it.”
Zurovec largely agreed with Zimmerman’s characterization, saying the new government tried to avoid forcing its campus presence “down people’s throats.”
“What I’ve heard from other people is people saying that they don’t really care about [the HUA],” Zurovec said. “In terms of the people who do care about it, it’s about club funding.”
—Staff writer Mert Geyiktepe can be reached at mert.geyiktepe@thecrimson.com.
—Staff writer J. Sellers Hill can be reached at sellers.hill@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @SellersHill.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Cara J. Chang ’24 will lead The Harvard Crimson into its sesquicentennial as the president of the newspaper’s 150th Guard, the organization announced last week.
Chang, a History concentrator from New York, currently covers Harvard’s central administration as a reporter for The Crimson’s News Board and serves as a staff photographer. She also co-runs the paper’s social media accounts, oversees its newsletters team, and serves on its Audience Engagement Team.
As a reporter, Chang has covered University President Lawrence S. Bacow and the search for his successor. In April, she broke a story revealing that Harvard holds in its museum collections the human remains of at least 19 individuals who were likely enslaved and almost 7,000 Native Americans after she obtained a draft of a University report that has since been publicly released by the school.
A resident of Leverett House, Chang will begin her term on Jan. 1, 2023.
“The 150th Guard represents the best of what The Crimson is,” Crimson President Raquel Coronell Uribe ’22-’23 said in a statement. “They are incredibly qualified and well positioned to tackle the challenges The Crimson will face this coming year which will mark its 150th anniversary. The decisions these leaders will make will be crucial to keeping the old sheet flying, as we like to say around here, and upholding The Crimson for the next 150 years.”
Reporter Brandon L. Kingdollar ’24 will lead The Crimson’s coverage as its next managing editor, directing its daily news coverage and overseeing its magazine, arts, and sports sections, as well as its blog. He will oversee the production of its newly-redesigned weekly print paper in its first full year.
Kingdollar, a Government concentrator from Lake Village, Indiana, currently covers police accountability, reporting on the Harvard University Police Department and its efforts to reform under a new chief. In December 2021, Kingdollar served on a team of reporters covering the trial of professor Charles M. Lieber, who was convicted by a federal jury of lying to government authorities about his ties to China.
A Winthrop House resident, Kingdollar also co-runs The Crimson’s social media accounts alongside Chang and serves on its Audience Engagement Team. During his stint as a junior reporter, he covered the News Board’s government relations beat, chronicling state politics and the rise of Boston Mayor Michelle Wu ’07.
Leverett House resident Cynthia V. Lu ’24 will serve as The Crimson’s next business manager, overseeing the newspaper’s finances and business affairs. An Applied Mathematics concentrator from Belmont, Massachusetts, Lu previously served as the Business Board’s marketing manager, overseeing its sponsored content and piloting the use of new analytics platforms.
Previously, Lu co-led an effort to launch a “Four Years in Review” product that was sold to families of graduating Harvard College seniors. She has also served on a team tasked with analyzing and improving The Crimson’s print distribution strategy.
“The new guard’s spirit for innovation, holding power to account, and maintaining the independence of our institution — the core principles which underlie everything we do — will serve them well as they make the building their own,” Coronell Uribe said. “I cannot wait to see where the next President, Managing Editor, and Business Manager take the organization in 2023.”
Founded in 1873, The Crimson is the student newspaper of Harvard University. The Crimson selects its leaders through an election process called the Turkey Shoot, in which all outgoing members of the masthead are invited to participate. A candidate for a senior leadership position must receive at least 75 percent of the vote to be elected.
Joining Chang, Kingdollar, and Lu on the masthead are:
News
Leah J. Teichholtz ’24, Associate Managing Editor
Meimei Xu ’24, Associate Managing Editor
Business
Derek S. Chang ’24, Associate Business Manager
Editorial
Eleanor V. Wikstrom ’24, Editorial Chair
Christina M. Xiao ’24, Editorial Chair
Diversity & Inclusivity
Gordon J. Ebanks ’24, D&I Chair
Hailey E. Krasnikov ’25, D&I Chair
Arts
Anya L. Henry ’24, Arts Chair
Alisa S. Regassa ’24, Arts Chair
Blog
Tina Chen ’24, Blog Chair
Hana Rehman ’25, Blog Chair
Design
Sophia Salamanca ’24, Design Chair
Sami E. Turner ’25, Design Chair
Magazine
Io Y. Gilman ’25, Magazine Chair
Amber H. Levis ’25, Magazine Chair
Multimedia
Julian J. Giordano ’25, Multimedia Chair
Joey Huang ’24, Multimedia Chair
Sports
Mairead B. Baker ’24, Sports Chair
Aaron B. Shuchman ’25, Sports Chair
Technology
Kevin Luo ’24, Technology Chair
Justin Y. Ye ’24, Technology Chair
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
The Earthshot Prize, founded by Prince William and The Royal Foundation in 2020, was inspired by the 1961 Moonshot initiative, which worked to send an American to the Moon within a decade. Earthshot similarly aims to spark and incentivize urgent optimism, innovation, and action to help repair the planet.
On Thursday, the prince and princess of Wales toured Piers Park in East Boston with Mayor Michelle Wu and Rev. Mariama White-Hammond, the city’s chief of environment, energy, and open space.
At Piers Park, the royals had a first-hand look at the climate challenges facing Boston Harbor. Massachusetts recently broke ground on Piers Park II, which will establish more greenspace along the East Boston waterfront with key resiliency features to help protect the area from flooding and rising sea levels.
The princess has focused her work on promoting the physical, emotional, and cognitive development of children around the
globe. As part of the trip, she will visit the Harvard University Center on the Developing Child, which aims to drive science-based innovation to aid children facing adversity. The Center works with policy, research, and philanthropy leaders to improve children’s learning capacity, health, and social mobility.
The Harvard Center on the Developing Child works in collaboration with The Royal Foundation Centre for Early Childhood, which the princess established in 2021 to drive awareness and provide support to underserved children around the globe.
The Royal Foundation Centre for Early Childhood — a dedicated unit within the princess and prince’s philanthropic organization — promotes and commissions research to address challenges faced by children under the age of five. The Centre also leads campaigns to raise awareness about the important role early years play in shaping a child’s future.
Sections
So you pretended to be shocked earlier this week when you saw your Spotify Wrapped. It's ok. Relatable. But that was so last week. Today, you can pretend to be shocked at Flyby's Harvard Wrapped from this past year — featuring all of your favorite campus artists and vibes.
